



Download Request: Select Items: 1000 - 1399
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:38:26
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday

Britain - Report warns of terrorist attacks on reactors

LENGTH: 240 words


Green campaigners published a leaked report yesterday which warned that new
nuclear reactors could be vulnerable to a "September 11-style" terrorist attack.

One independent expert said that the document, concerning the type of facility
most likely to be built in Britain if Prime Minister Tony Blair gets his way,
showed an "almost total lack of preparation" for such a scenario.

Dr John Large said that deliberately flying a commercial airliner into such a
nuclear reactor would cause "total calamity with the release of large amounts of
radioactivity."

The 2003 report, by a senior official from French power firm EDF, said that the
European pressurised water reactor was designed to resist being hit by a
crashing military jet.

It claimed that this meant that it would also be safe from an airliner's engines
and also suggested that it would be hard to fly such a plane at a low enough
angle.

But Dr Large, who was asked to study the document by Greenpeace, said that it
was based on a series of "false assumptions" about the impact of a much larger
plane, terrorist flying skills, the speed at which aviation fuel burns up and
the possibility of an explosion.

Greenpeace nuclear campaigner Jean McSorley pointed out that "the secrecy of the
nuclear industry has been shown time and again to hide pure incompetence.

"This time, it's being used to hide the fact that it's impossible to make
nuclear power and materials safe from terrorist attack."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday

Kyrgyz border attack linked to Andijon "terrorist plan"

LENGTH: 310 words


Text of report by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS

Tashkent, 21 May: The Islamic Movement of Turkestan (formerly Islamic Movement
of Uzbekistan) was preparing a series of terrorist acts timed to coincide with
the first anniversary of anti-government riots in the [eastern] Uzbek town of
Andijon, the director of the Regional Antiterrorism Structure (RATS) of the
Shanghai Cooperation Organization, Vyacheslav Qosimov, told an ITAR-TASS
correspondent today during a conversation.

"An investigation into the militant attack on 12 May on border guards and
customs officers in Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan showed that terrorists had
far-reaching plans. They had stockpiled a large amount of aluminium powder and
other substances in order to prepare and use hand-made bombs. Seventeen assault
rifles, a machine gun, a sniper rifle and bullets were seized from the
terrorists. The riots and the sortie by the terrorists occurred on one and the
same date [the night from 12 to 13 May], and such concurrences never happen by
accident.

"This proves once again that the Andijon events were planned by international
terrorist organizations, which also include the Islamic Movement of Turkestan
(IMT). With the new battle, they wanted to remind [the rest of the world] about
themselves, to boldly and cynically challenge the authorities and to show their
power. But they were eliminated during a special operation."

Qosimov noted the cruelty of IMT militants who killed innocent owners of
vehicles in order to seize them for use as transport on Kyrgyz roads. At the
same time, the director of the RATS believes that the law-enforcement bodies of
Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan demonstrated increased professionalism and accurate
coordination. "This ensured the quick elimination of the terrorists," Vyacheslav
Qosimov said.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1359 gmt 21 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday

Britain - Amnesty attacks anti-terror laws

BYLINE: Louise Nousratpour

LENGTH: 394 words


Amnesty International accused the government of "serious human rights
violations" yesterday as it zeroed in on Prime Minister Tony Blair's regime
under the updated anti-terror laws.

In the British section of its annual report, the charity condemned the new
Terrorism Act, which doubled the maximum time that police can detain terror
suspects without charge from 14 to 28 days, for its "sweeping and vague"
provisions.

It warned that the system of "control orders," which impose a loose form of
house arrest, was "tantamount to the executive 'charging', 'trying' and
'sentencing' a person" without a fair trial.

"The government continued to erode fundamental human rights, the rule of law and
independence of the judiciary, including by persisting with attempts to
undermine the ban on torture at home and abroad and by enacting and seeking to
enact legislation inconsistent with domestic and international human rights
law," the report went on.

The hard-hitting document, which will make uneasy reading for the Blair
government, expressed particular concern about the impact of "counter-terror"
measures on Britain's Muslims.

Amnesty secretary general Irene Khan accused ministers of "persecuting" men
"labelled" terrorist suspects without a trial.

"Terrorism by armed groups is inexcusable and unacceptable. The perpetrators
must be brought to justice, but through fair trial, not torture or secret
detention," she said.

"Sadly, the increasing brutality of such incidents throughout the world last
year is a further bitter reminder that the 'war on terror' is failing and will
continue to fail until human rights and human security are given precedence over
narrow national security interests."

Respect MP George Galloway welcomed the report, but he suspected that it will be
ignored by Prime Minister Tony Blair "just like all the other times when the
public has called for human rights laws to be upheld and respected."

He branded this government "the most reactionary in living memory" and called
for the "absolute repeal of the anti-terror laws and the restoration of our
hard-won human rights."

Stop the War Coalition spokesman Andrew Burgin agreed that the welcomed report
will not shake Mr Blair into abandoning his mission to erode our civil
liberities.

"This is why we need to mobilise the broadest possible movement to stop the
government in its tracks," he urged.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 25, 2006

Eight held in anti-terror raids over attack plot

BYLINE: WILLIAM TINNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 399 words



HIGHLIGHT: RAIDS: Officers outside a house in Whalley Range, Manchester.
Picture: Phil Noble/Reuters


EIGHT people were being held last night following an anti-terrorist operation
across England which targeted people suspected of plotting attacks in Iraq.

More than 500 police officers, MI5, and personnel from the Immigration Service
were involved in dawn raids at 19 addresses in Manchester, Liverpool,
Middlesbrough, Bolton, Birmingham and London.

Three people were held under the Terrorism Act and five under the home
secretary's powers to deport individuals whose presence in the UK is "not
conducive to the public good for reasons of national security".

Two other people arrested were released without charge. The majority of those
held were said to be Libyans.

It is understood that Tahir Nasuf, 44, who worked for the Sanabel Relief Agency,
which was accused by the US of being a front for the Libyan Islamic Fighting
Group (LIFG) - an organisation allegedly linked to al Qaeda - was among those
detained.

The agency, which claims to raise money to relieve the suffering of Muslims, had
its assets frozen by the United Nations in February.

Mr Nasuf denied he was a member of the LIFG when the initial allegations were
made by the US authorities.

The Libyan-born suspect moved to Manchester in 1993 and is married with four
children. Police stood guard yesterday outside his home in Manchester.

The agency's Birmingham office was also searched during yesterday's raids, which
were led by Greater Manchester Police's anti-terrorism unit.

The force said the operation was targeted at individuals suspected of
"facilitating terrorism abroad", including fundraising. Although it did not
specify where the operation is, it is said to be focused on terrorist activity
in Iraq.

Michael Todd, chief constable of Greater Manchester Police, said there was no
threat of an attack on the UK.

The raid comes almost three weeks after a man charged with offences under the
Terrorism Act made a second appearance at a special court sitting in Scotland.

Mohammed Atif Siddique, 20, who was arrested in Alva, Clackmannanshire, on April
13, attended a sheriff court hearing at Polmont young offenders' institution on
May 5 where he is currently being held.

He was committed for trial for allegedly committing offences under Section
58(1b) of the Act.

The legislation relates to the possession of documents or records containing
information "likely to be useful" to a person preparing an act of terrorism.
Bail was refused.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                               5 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              May 26, 2006 Friday

Security plans for Labour conference found in hotel: Newspaper gets dossier on
terror attack scenarios: Discovery in public area prompts police review

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 432 words


Police are to conduct an urgent security review after a dossier dealing with
arrangements for protecting Tony Blair and the cabinet from terrorist attacks at
Labour's autumn conference was leaked to a regional newspaper. Officials reacted
quickly after journalists handed Greater Manchester police a folder on the
"attack scenarios" discussed by a multi agency security group ahead of the party
event at the G-Mex centre in Manchester in September. Among eventualities
considered were car bombs, mortar attacks, rocket propelled grenades and suicide
bombers.

The dossier had other details, such as rooms best suited for protecting the most
important delegates and a map of a "sterile area" to be created for the
conference.

Police confirm that the documents belonged to a member of the Midland hotel in
Manchester. Journalists from the North West Enquirer say the dossier was found
in a public area of the hotel, which is adjacent to the G-Mex centre. However
Mike Magrane, the hotel's general manager, told the Guardian they had yet to be
convinced that the folder had been merely left unattended. "We can't rule out
theft. If items are simply left in the hotel we would expect whoever finds them
to hand them in to reception."

Bob Waterhouse, the Enquirer's editor, said the story was written by Matthew
George, the paper's Westminster lobby correspondent. "Matthew told us nothing
more than he received it from someone who found it in a public area. He was
given it by someone that he trusts and the word is that it was found in a public
space."

Mr Waterhouse said the incident should serve as a warning to those responsible
for security. "If anything comes out of this it will be that this kind of
committee operates more tightly than before. If those papers had got out,
someone might have been able to use them. Manchester has been working hard to
stage these kinds of events so one would have thought that those involved would
be on their mettle."

Police said the folder was handed in yesterday morning. "This is a major
security operation involving many agencies and a great deal of planning, and
information sharing is inevitably involved."

He said that information was "risk assessed" and the documents in the folder
were of a level thought safe to share with partners. He added: "There is no
intelligence to suggest that this event is a specific target for terrorists." As
the city had been targeted in the past, he said, it was only right to "have
contingency plans to deal with all manner of eventualities".

A Labour party spokesman said it was policy not to comment on security issues.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday

Parking rage terror as the Blue Meanies come under attack

BYLINE: GRAHAM GRANT

SECTION: ED SC1 04; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 657 words


THEY range from bizarre acts of humiliation to verbal abuse and physical
attacks.

But for many of Scotland's traffic wardens, it seems such torment is all in a
day's work.

Hundreds of wardens are being confronted by angry motorists amid a nationwide
surge in the number of parking tickets issued.

Now a breakdown of parking rage demonstrates the daily barrage of abuse endured
by wardens.

Among the cases recorded by parking chiefs are some truly outlandish incidents,
including a warden grabbed by the testicles by a member of the public 'who would
not let go'.

One parking attendant informed his bosses he believed he had been shot at with a
crossbow, while another attendant was struck by an elderly lady and another had
a bucket of dirty water poured over his head.

The official breakdown was compiled from incidents logged by wardens in
Edinburgh, home to Scotland's most ticketed street and where the wardens are
branded Blue Meanies.

Other figures obtained by the Scottish Daily Mail show hundreds of wardens are
also abused in Glasgow, prompting concern among parking bosses.

Since 2003, there have been 364 incidents in Edinburgh in which wardens came to
grief.

The number has risen from 91 in 2003-04 to 130 in 2005-06, an increase of nearly
43 per cent.

About a third of the incidents since 2003 involved physical attacks while the
same proportion resulted in police attending the scene.

The figures follow statistics showing drivers in Scotland were issued with
513,716 tickets last year alone, costing motorists more than Pounds 14million.
Almost half were issued in Edinburgh, where drivers paid out Pounds 7.1million.

Motorists in the capital are hit with penalties in George Street more than
anywhere else north of the Border, with 20,185 tickets handed out there in
2005-06, at a cost to drivers of Pounds 605,550.

In another Edinburgh case, a warden was hit by a golf ball, while others have
been punched or had their scooters knocked over by motorists as they drove away
from the scene.

One warden was knocked over by a vehicle leaving a parking bay. In another
incident, eggs were thrown at the attendant, while another warden was threatened
with a broken bottle.

One motorist drove towards a parking attendant at speed after being issued with
a ticket. Others have been threatened with knives or shot at with airguns while
one was attacked with a shovel.

Wardens have also fallen foul of furious motorists who inflict injury using
their car doors, while some have unleashed their dogs on attendants.

In one case, several parking attendants were threatened by a crazed motorist who
slashed the tyres of the removal truck which was towing his vehicle away.

Edinburgh City Council transport spokesman Andrew Burns said last night: 'There
is no excuse for abuse against parking attendants, who are just trying to do a
job fairly and impartially in often stressful conditions.

'They play a crucial role in keeping our city moving smoothly, protecting
reserved spaces for residents and people with disabilities, and making sure
streets are safe from obstruction.' Officials at Glasgow City Council said that
over the past five years 425 verbal abuse incidents have been reported and 19
physical assaults. A council spokesman added: 'We take this matter very
seriously and provide training to deal with this issue.' Neil Greig, head of
policy with the AA Motoring Trust in Scotland, said there was 'no independent
evidence' showing the rise in fines has improved traffic management or traffic
flow.

He added: 'Perhaps this wouldn't be such a big problem if wardens gave more
information about where to find on-street parking, rather than simply handing
out fines.' Tony Vickers, of the Association of British Drivers, said: 'The
intention of parking enforcement was to address inconsiderate parking causing
congestion. But it has become a revenue-raising device from which local
authorities derive a considerable income.' g.grant@dailymail.co.uk END

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TICKET TO TROUBLE: TRAFFIC WARDENS ENDURE A DAILY BARRAGE OF ABUSE FROM
DRIVERS WHO FEEL THEY ARE BEING UNFAIRLY TARGETED IN CITY STREETS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             May 27, 2006, Saturday
                              North Wales Edition

UNITED TO THE END;
They died in the 9/11 terror attacks... now director Paul Greengrass tells their
story

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 565 words


IT looks set to be one of the most talked about and controversial films of the
year and will instantly put British-born director Paul Greengrass under the
spotlight. United 93 is the first dramatised movie adaptation of the 9/11
terrorist attacks and, not surprisingly, the 50-year-old has already prepared
himself for the inevitable question: is it too soon to make a film about the
deeply harrowing events of September 11, 2001?

"At what point is it OK to put a painful time on the screen? I think it's when
the families say 'yes', which they did," he says.

More than 100 family members and friends of the 40 people who lost their lives
on the flight gave the go-ahead for the film to be made, and it's their stories
which the director hopes might determine what really happened on the doomed
aircraft.

The plane was the fourth to be hijacked by Al Qaeda terrorists on the morning of
9/11, and the only one not to reach its intended destination - either the White
House or Capitol Building.

"These 40 ordinary people on Flight 93 had 30 minutes to confront the reality of
the way that we're living now. They were the first people to inhabit the post
9/11 world," says Greengrass.

"At a time when the rest of us were watching television, dumbstruck, these
people onboard that airplane could see exactly what they were dealing with. They
were faced with a dreadful choice: do we sit here and do nothing and hope for
the best, or do we do something about it?"

He also refutes any notion that the movie is merely gratuitous, arguing: "It's
an extremely important subject which affects many people's lives. There's a big
responsibility to be mature and not cause offence. This was a small film, it's
not a blockbuster filled with movie stars."

Though the events of that day happened live on TV with millions of people around
the world watching the horror unfold, the director believes the film world also
has an important role in trying to make some sense of the tragedy.

"There are lots of ways to find meaning in the events of 9/11. I believe that
sometimes, if you look clearly and unflinchingly at a single event, you can find
in its shape something much larger than the event itself - the DNA of our
times."

Best known for directing the Matt Damon blockbuster The Bourne Supremacy,
Greengrass also has an award-winning background in socially aware films, such as
Bloody Sunday, about terrorism in Northern Ireland. It was this track record
which helped the Surrey-born writer/director undertake the painstaking research
needed for United 93.

"You can't just do it with actors. You need to get the cross fertilisation
between actor and professional people, so you gather together a group of actors,
the families, real pilots, real stewardesses, real military."

In order to make the film as realistic as possible, it was shot on a
decommissioned Boeing 757, which was transported to Pinewood studios where it
was reassembled and mounted on gimbals that could simulate an airplane flight.

Also, the actors playing the hijackers were deliberately segregated from the
rest of the cast until filming started for "a deliberate build up of tension".

And yet, despite his painstaking research and commitment to trying to unravel
the truth about Flight 93, he admits that ultimately none of it can erase the
painful reality: that a group of people fought for their lives in the most
unimaginably horrific way.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: United 93 opens on Friday June 2' United 93 is the first dramatised
version of the harrowing events of September 11 2001. British director Paul
Greengrass on set (below)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Post Magazine

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday

Terrorism cover - The threat of uncertainty.;
Despite terrorist attacks like those on 11 September 2001 or 7 July 2005, less
'spectacular' acts are now more likely. Jane Bernstein asks whether insurers and
businesses doing enough to respond to the changing threat.

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1936  words

DATELINE: UK


The nature of terrorism in the UK has changed dramatically since the era of IRA
attacks, meaning the threat of suicide bomb attacks needs to be addressed with a
new set of risk management measures. So, how can businesses adapt in order to
minimise risk and what can the insurance industry do to respond to terrorism?

Aon recently observed that while the threat of terrorism worldwide is not
diminishing, its nature is changing. Paul Bassett, executive director of Aon's
crisis management division, says the war on global terrorism has severely
impacted the capabilities of large groups to mount another 11-September-style
attack. However, it has also led to the development of smaller terrorist groups,
which are more likely to go for softer targets.

Is it correct to assume that the war on terror has reduced the chance of a
'spectacular' attack, leaving businesses at greater risk?

Ben Garston, chair of the Lloyd's Market Association's terrorism business panel,
explains: "It depends on what you mean by spectacular. If you are talking about
something on the scale of the World Trade Center, then what many underwriters
foresee as more likely is low-tech suicide attacks on bars, restaurants, clubs
and transport systems. Equipping someone to carry out that kind of attack is
cheap, the technology is relatively straightforward and security is usually
minimal."

If terrorists are under pressure from sustained anti-terror campaigns, then it
makes sense for them to turn to softer targets with less stringent risk
management procedures. However, predicting an attack is not straightforward, and
terrorists will have other priorities in addition to maximising resources.

As Iain Donald, head of risk consultancy and intelligence at AKE Group,
explains: "Limited resources mean terrorists will go for maximum impact for
minimum effort but, above and beyond that, there is the knowledge that they will
get maximum impact through attacks on people because they know this has the
biggest psychological effect."

Mr Donald adds that environments where large amounts of people congregate
together will always be attractive targets for terrorists.

There is widespread agreement that the transport system remains a target. John
Hagger, associate director of the risk management placement practice at Marsh,
adds: "Inner city business and tourist centres are most exposed. This would
encompass not only small to medium-sized enterprises and retail businesses but
also many other offices that could be caught up in the mire of nearby targets or
denial of access issues with key transportation terminals."

Are companies preparing adequately for the threat of a terrorist attack? John
Windsor, who has worked on terrorism policies for the Association of Insurance
and Risk Managers, comments: "Companies that have robust business continuity
plans in place - and most large firms do - will have incorporated terrorist
threats into their arrangements. In fact, the response to last year's attacks on
the London underground was a good demonstration of effective business continuity
planning in action. Of course, risk managers review their plans all the time but
there's nothing to suggest the need for a fundamental rethink."

However, many companies have been set up to respond to an IRA-style attack -
where there is a warning - and they must now be equally prepared for attacks
where there is no prior warning.

Standard practice

Mr Windsor emphasises that companies should plan for a wide range of
circumstances: "Terrorist threats come in many forms, and standard practice
requires companies to plan for the full range of possible scenarios, not just an
attack where a warning is given."

Andrew Keefe, casualty broker with Marsh, points to some of the difficulties
inherent in trying to assess terrorism risks: "Whereas companies can use various
risk modelling techniques to assess their potential exposure to natural
catastrophe risks, the modelling capability for terrorism is in its infancy."

Mr Keefe adds that companies such as food retailers already have robust risk
management strategies in place for dealing with malicious product tamper
threats, and these strategies have been adapted for terrorist threats.

There is some agreement that companies operating within larger cities or
business centres are more prepared in terms of risk management measures than
others. However, there is also a concern amongst insurers that small businesses
are failing to protect themselves adequately.

Neil Mercier, property insurance manager at Axa, comments: "For small
businesses, it is often not something that is high up on their agenda."

Graham Heale, underwriting director for commercial property at Royal and Sun
Alliance, agrees: "They are organisations that are pulled in many different
directions, and they should be looking for some degree of support from their
insurers around how to build a business continuity plan, for example."

Mr Bassett observes that approaches to terrorism threats vary, with some
companies prepared and others simply paying lip-service to a threat they do not
necessarily believe applies to them.

He highlights problems with multi-tenancy buildings: "One problem that arises is
with multi-tenancy buildings because you have differences of opinion as to what
the correct measures should be. You may well have certain tenants that are happy
to carry out evacuation exercises, and you may well have tenants that believe
the business interruption is too great."

With wide variations in risk management across the UK and from sector to sector,
it is difficult to assess how far insurers can have an influence over clients in
terms of advising on risk management measures.

Mr Garston observes: "In practice, there's a limited amount of influence we can
have, particularly if a client thinks that it's unlikely they are going to be
attacked. Terrorism cover is often a grudge purchase because the people who own
the property don't usually believe they are going to be attacked and, as
terrorism is a low-frequency, high-severity peril, they are in most cases right.
So trying to get them to spend more money on specialist evacuation procedures is
hard."

In addition, it is important to consider that terrorism is just one of the
dangers businesses must plan for. Mr Windsor says: "It's important for risk
managers to stay ahead of any developments that may affect companies but we need
to maintain a sense of proportion - terrorism is just one of the many risks
faced. A company is more likely to be affected by a factory fire or the loss of
a supplier than by a terrorist incident."

Security measures

Risk management measures are vital but it is impossible to be certain that they
will prevent an attack. "The problem is that if people are looking to carry out
these sorts of attacks, then they will invariably do so and unarmed security
will not be able to stop them," adds Mr Garston.

It is, therefore, vital that, in addition to pre-eventing risk management
measures, businesses ensure that post-event strategies such as evacuation
procedures and business continuity planning are in place.

Martin Singleton, technical manager for property at Norwich Union, agrees: "The
events of 7 July in London showed the need for policyholders to have a full
range of business interruption extensions. Many businesses suffered losses even
though their property was not damaged as a result of the incidents. In
particular, policyholders should consider such extensions as 'denial of access',
'loss of attraction' and 'police action', and discuss them with their insurance
broker."

Do insurers have tools that are sufficient to underwrite these risks? Mark
Harrison, managing director of ISL, observes: "There are tools available but
they are more to help manage the portfolios and identify where you've got high
concentrations. What you can do is understand the potential damage of a bombing,
and then look at what would be the maximum loss that could be expected from a
certain size bomb in a certain area."

Mr Heale adds: "The unpredictability of terrorism in terms of what might occur
and the extent of damage or personal injury that it might cause makes it a
unique risk. It is on the border of what is an insurable risk, and that is why
we establish pooling arrangements and government-backed schemes to help us
manage that risk for UK PLC and for business generally."

Liability cover

One area that may cause confusion for some insureds is the question of liability
cover for employees and visitors in the event of an attack. Peter Adlington,
commercial property reinsurance manager at Allianz Cornhill Commercial,
explains: "Public and employer's liability policies respond to claims from
visitors or employees respectively, provided legal liability can be established
against the insured. Most EL and PL policies in the market provide a maximum
limit of £5m for claims arising from terrorist acts."

Mr Bassett observes there is a lack of evidence from court cases to state
whether employers have been found liable either for their employees or for third
parties on their premises following a terrorist attack. "Therefore, the most
prudent thing for an insured to do is to ask for clarification from the casualty
carrier," he advises.

There is no doubt that terrorist attacks on UK companies have changed since the
days of the IRA bombings. It is vital that businesses and insurers are aware of
those changes, and that they can respond accordingly.

Mr Singleton concludes: "In the past, the UK mainly faced IRA bombing campaigns
largely aimed at economic targets, whereas today we have the threat of suicide
bombers and possibly acts involving chemical, biological and nuclear materials.
The targets are chosen for maximum effect not economic value, and this is what
makes these acts so unpredictable."

SECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT

The international terrorist threat, exemplified by Al Qaeda and affiliated
groups, has a stated desire to achieve disturbance through attacks on Western
economies. This has placed businesses on the frontline of the war on terror.
Recent attacks have targeted London Transport in 2005, HSBC in Istanbul in 2003,
and the businesses located in the World Trade Center in the 11 September attacks
of 2001. The realistic prospect of further attacks against London and other
large urban centres targeting businesses cannot be ignored.

Although small to medium-sized enterprises are unlikely to be a primary target
for terrorists, the effects of collateral damage and business interruption could
be disproportionately debilitating.

The start process for any risk mitigation strategy is intelligence in order to
identify specific risks, along with an accurate as possible assessment of the
threat and the likelihood of an event happening. Secondly, an intelligence
assessment will identify the criticality of various parts of the company. Those
most critical to a company's successful operation will obviously require greater
consideration. Most importantly, it ensures that time and money spent on risk
management is channelled appropriately and effectively.

Intelligence is also essential in the monitoring of threat levels to ensure
plans and procedures remain valid. Security measures required after identifying
risks and the criticality of aspects of the business can then be put in place.

However, it is vital that in so doing a company avoids easy answers and, equally
as damaging, consideration of only tangible solutions. Often one of the more
effective solutions can be training staff. Properly trained staff are better
able to control the environment around them, even if the situation rapidly
worsens.

Source: AKE Group.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright 2006 Timothy Benn Publishing Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 2, 2006 Friday

Three killed in "terrorist" attack at Syrian state TV building - report

LENGTH: 90 words


Doha Al-Jazeera Satellite Channel Television in Arabic at 0537 gmt on 2 June
carries the following "breaking news" as a screen caption:

"Damascus announces the arrest of a terrorist group consisting of 10 persons who
stormed the premise of Syrian Television."

At 0542 gmt, Al-Jazeera TV carries a second "breaking news" screen caption:

"Syrian Interior Ministry: Two assailants and a guard in the Syrian TV premise
are killed and three others arrested in the attack."

Further as warranted.

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 0537 gmt 2 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 2, 2006 Friday

"Terrorists" planned to attack Syrian radio, TV - agency

LENGTH: 102 words


Text of report in English by Egyptian news agency MENA

Damascus, 2 June: A source at Syria's Interior Ministry said Friday [2 June]
that Syrian security forces clashed with terrorist elements in Al-Amiyan area.

The elements planned to attack the Syrian TV and Radio complex in central
Damascus.

Four assailants were killed and four others detained, said the source, noting
that two terrorists were injured in the clashes.

Also, a security man was killed and two others injured during the gunfight, the
source added.

Investigations into the case were under way.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0752 gmt 2 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                              June 2, 2006, Friday

Scots rescue services 'not prepared for terror attack'

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Scotland; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 459 words


SCOTLAND'S rescue services need an overhaul to cope with the possibility of a
major terrorist attack, the country's chief fire officer said yesterday.

A report from Jeff Ord found significant work was needed to bring Scotland's
response up to the level of the London Fire Brigade. Cathy Jamieson, Scotland's
Justice Minister, responded by ordering a review of the country's ability to
react to simultaneous attacks.

The report calls for a single strategic-level fire and rescue service for
Scotland while retaining local identity and accountability. It recommends that
the current eight fire control rooms be replaced without delay by three regional
control rooms. Radios, it adds, should be capable of operating across the
emergency services - and there should be more exercises in dealing with
simultaneous terrorist attacks.

Mr Ord, who said "decisive political and professional leadership at the highest
level" was required, will lead the review announced by Ms Jamieson. It will be
carried out by Executive justice department officials and will examine the
readiness of the emergency services to deal with simultaneous major events from
terrorist attacks to extreme weather conditions. They will hear the opinions of
police, fire and ambulance officers and local authorities, and will tour
Scotland.

Ministers will take a decision on the way forward next summer.

Mr Ord's report, and another report by Mr Ord on fire control rooms, were
published "to stimulate discussions", the Executive said.

Ms Jamieson said: "Scotland, along with the rest of the UK, faces a range of
potential risks. These range from extreme weather events to pandemic flu. In
addition, the London bombings of July 2005 were a terrible reminder of the
threat of terrorism."

She went on: "Nobody can doubt the fantastic, brave and committed frontline
staff who put their lives on the line to protect our communities. But we need to
ensure that they are backed by excellent equipment, procedures and organisation.
We need to be sure we are supporting them not hindering them with bureaucratic
hurdles."

Mr Ord's report studies the ability of Scotland's fire and rescue services to
cope with simultaneous terrorist attacks such as those on July 7 in London.

It says: "Significant work and investment is required in the infrastructure of
the service to ensure that Scotland's response to simultaneous terrorist attacks
is equal to that of London Fire Brigade. Failures or delays in addressing a
number of vital areas will cause the operational 'front end' of Scotland's fire
and rescue services to be less effective and lead to a restricted performance.
This will frustrate the best efforts of staff at the operational 'front end' and
potentially place them and the public at greater risk."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             June 3, 2006 Saturday

Fears of chemical or biological attack triggered terror raid: Man shot as 250
police swoop on London home: Two men arrested after MI5 surveillance operation

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd, Hugh Muir and Sandra Laville

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 587 words


The raid on an east London house in which police shot a man yesterday was
carried out because intelligence suggested that a viable chemical or biological
weapon could be inside, according to counter-terrorism sources.

More than 250 officers swooped on the house in the early hours, after a
two-month surveillance operation led by MI5. Security sources say the timing of
the raid was dictated by fears that an attack on a British target using an
unconventional weapon could be staged soon. The shot man and a man believed to
be his brother were arrested under the Terrorism Act.

Anti-terrorism police in protective suits were combing the house in Forest Gate
for evidence of chemical or biological material to establish whether the
intelligence gathered by the security services was correct. The Health
Protection Agency said the risk to the public from harmful substances was
considered to be "very low".

Up to 11 people, all believed to have Bengali backgrounds, were inside the house
when it was raided, and a 23-year-old man was shot by police during a scuffle on
the stairs. He was hit in the shoulder by a single shot and police quickly
announced his injuries were not life threatening, mindful of the damage to
community relations that rumours could inflict. He is not believed to have had a
gun.

The shot man was in hospital last night, under armed police guard. Police
arrested him and a 20-year-old man who is believed to be his brother. According
to information from the electoral roll, land registry and birth certificates,
Abul Kahar 23, and his younger brother Abul Koyair, 20, lived at the house.

Eyewitnesses claimed that after the shooting the injured man was carried from
the house over the arm of a police officer and placed on the ground, where his
wound was bandaged. Neighbours said he was barely conscious and tried to stand
but could not support his weight.

The shooting is to be investigated by the Independent Police Complaints
Commission, which is already examining another shooting as part of an
anti-terrorism operation. In that case last July police shot dead the wrong man
after mistaking him for a terrorist. Yesterday officers began a search of the
house which could take days. Plans to evacuate residents were scaled back;
police would only publicly say intelligence suggested there might be hazardous
materials in the house.

Deputy assistant commissioner Peter Clarke, head of the anti-terrorist branch of
the Metropolitan police, said: "This operation was planned in response to
specific intelligence. As always, our overriding concern is for the safety of
the public. Because of the very specific nature of the intelligence, we planned
an operation that was designed to mitigate any threat to the public either from
firearms or from hazardous substances."

Dimple Hirani, a 21-year-old student, said she knew both brothers. "They were
into all of the normal fashions but after 9/11, he (the older brother)
distinctly seemed to get more religious and grew his beard. A lot of boys wear
traditional dress and there is nothing wrong with that but I noticed the
change."

Emerging from prayers, one young man said the brothers had a considerable local
reputation. "They were the sort of people who would stop fights and try to avoid
violence."

Nimesh Patel, 14, said he was awoken by the 4am raid: "I saw all these police
outside and then they went into the house. They were wearing gas masks. They
smashed the glass to get in. They brought one man out and you could see he had
been shot in the shoulder."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                             June 3, 2006 Saturday

Balloons to aid victims of terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 253 words


Scores of people have backed the release of hundreds of balloons to mark the
anniversary of the death of a teenager killed in a terrorist attack.

Hinckley couple, Peter and Julie Fulham, spent a day selling tickets for the
balloon race on July 23, the first anniversary of the death of their son,
Matthew, 17, who died in a suicide bombing in  Sharm el Sheikh, Egypt.

The  Fulhams have set up a fund to help provide financial help for people
affected by terrorism acts abroad.

They said the Government had not given any compensation to relatives of the
Egyptian bombing victims, or similar attacks in places such as Bali and Turkey.

They said the families were innocent victims of terrorism and deserved
compassion and support.

Their campaign is called Trombones - The Relatives Of Murdered Britons Overseas
Needing Emergency Support - as Matthew played the trombone in the John Cleveland
College band and orchestra.

This week, shoppers at Asda, in Hinckley, supported their efforts by buying  £1
tickets which will be attached to balloons when they are let off. Children at
the store were given balloons free. Mr Fulham said  financially there were many
difficulties facing families in the same position. "This is a way of getting
something positive out of Matty's death," he said.

"He always liked to help people whenever he could. We want the Government to
give the families  financial help  immediately."

Anyone interested in supporting the campaign, buying a balloon, or finding out
more should log on to:

www.matthewfulham.org

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 3, 2006 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

SNATCHED;
SPEEDBOAT GANG SEIZE 6 BRIT WORKERS IN 2AM TERROR ATTACK ON OIL RIG

BYLINE: BY MARK DOWDNEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 281 words


SIX British oil workers were kidnapped by an armed gang from their drilling rig
off the coast of southern Nigeria yesterday.

Up to 30 gunmen stormed aboard the platform firing their weapons after arriving
in four speedboats.

From 84 workers on the platform the rebels selected eight - six Britons, an
American and a Canadian - to take with them following their 2am raid.

Operated by Aberdeen-based firm Dolphin Drilling, the Bulford Dolphin rig is
owned by Norwegian firm Fred Olsen Energy and was 40 miles off Warri, a city on
Nigeria's south coast.

It seemed certain last night that a ransom was being demanded for the hostages,
who have not been named.

Fred Olsen Energy said in a statement: "Contact is established with the abducted
personnel. The group holding them is seeking negotiations. Relatives have been
contacted and informed."

Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo was said by his spokeswoman, Remi Oyo, to
be directly involved in working with police to free the men. The kidnappers were
believed to be from Bayelsa, a region near to the rig.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office said: "We are in touch with both the
Nigerian authorities and the men's company and making urgent efforts."

Nigeria is Africa's leading oil exporter but kidnappings of foreigners are
frequent. Rigs have been moved further offshore to try to protect crews. Rebels
who want local control of oil revenues have also blown up pipelines.

Oil worker Nigel Watson-Clark, 50, of Saltford, near Bath, was held for 19 days
by rebels in January. He said of the kidnapped workers: "I can imagine what they
are going through."

Oil prices rose on London and New York markets after news of the kidnap.

mark.dowdney@mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAIDED: Bulford Dolphin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 3, 2006 Saturday
                                 Scots Edition

SNATCHED;
SPEEDBOAT GANG SEIZE 6 BRIT WORKERS IN 2AM TERROR ATTACK ON OIL RIG

BYLINE: BY MAGGIE BARRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 283 words


SIX British oil workers were kidnapped by an armed gang from their drilling rig
off the coast of southern Nigeria yesterday.

The gang of up to 30 gunmen roared out to the rig operated by Aberdeen based
Dolphin Drilling in four high speed boats at 2am yesterday.

In what appears to have been a well planned operation, they selected eight men
from the 84 workers on the rig - an American, a Canadian and six Brits - and
forced them into boats. It is not yet known how many of the Britons are from
Scotland.

The Bulford Dolphin rig is owned by Norwegian firm Fred Olsen Energy and was 40
miles off Warri, a city on Nigeria's south coast.

It seemed certain last night that a ransom was being demanded for the hostages,
who have not been named.

Fred Olsen Energy said in a statement: "Contact is established with the abducted
personnel. The group holding them is seeking negotiations. Relatives have been
contacted and informed."

Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo was said by his spokeswoman, Remi Oyo, to
be directly involved in working with police to free the men.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office said: "We are in touch with both the
Nigerian authorities and the men's company and making urgent efforts."

Nigeria is Africa's leading oil exporter but kidnappings of foreigners are
frequent. Rigs have been moved further offshore to try to protect crews. Rebels
who want local control of oil revenues have also blown up pipelines.

Oil worker Nigel Watson-Clark, 50, of Saltford, near Bath, was held for 19 days
by rebels in January. He said of the kidnapped workers: "I can imagine what they
are going through."

Oil prices rose on London and New York markets after news of the kidnap.

reporters@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAIDED: Bulford Dolphin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 4, 2006 Sunday

Turkey: "Terrorist" involved in attack on Council of State judge arrested

LENGTH: 73 words


Text of report by Turkish TRT 2 television on 3 June

Ayhan Parlak, who was detained in connection with the attack at the Council of
State, was arrested. On the other hand, the treatment of Alparslan Arslan, the
perpetrator of the attack is continuing. Arslan was taken into hospital
yesterday after his health deteriorated because he refused to eat at the Sincan
F-type prison.

Source: TRT 2 television, Ankara, in Turkish 0000 gmt 3 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                  June 4, 2006

Mobile phone collapse made 7 July terror attacks worse

BYLINE: Mark Townsend and Cordelia O'Neill

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 359 words


GRAVE FAILURES in the rescue operation that followed the 7 July bombings will be
revealed tomorrow in the official assessment of the capital's response to last
year's suicide attacks.

Of most concern were 'severe shortcomings' in communication systems in the
immediate aftermath of the attacks, according to the findings of a five-month
inquiry by the London Assembly.

Among these were the collapse of the mobile phone network, leaving millions
baffled over the extent of the attacks, and a breakdown in radio communications
which meant hospitals had no idea where ambulances were dropping off patients.

The report recommends that text messages be sent to mobile phone users following
an attack to say where an incident had taken place and which areas to avoid.

Mobile phone companies can send text messages to handsets without dialling
individual phone numbers. Cell broadcast technology operates outside
conventional mobile networks and is not affected by network congestion.

David Sutton of mobile phone company O2 told the assembly committee: 'Cell
broadcast allows exactly that facility whereby you can target phones within the
range of base sites to send a message, "stay out of the area" or "stay
indoors".'

The 'automated mobile alert service' is one of many recommendations made by the
assembly's review committee. In addition, the assembly's report stresses the
importance of ensuring that mobile phone and radio networks be kept fully
operational after an attack to allow people to check on friends and relatives.

After the bombings, police decided to suspend one mobile phone network, to allow
key people to keep using the system. More than a million calls were blocked and
ambulance crews were unable to speak to their 'gold control'.

Fifty-two people were killed and more than 700 injured when Sidique Khan, Hasib
Hussain, Shehzad Tanweer and Jermaine Lindsay detonated bombs on three tube
trains and a bus.

Other recommendations support the introduction of a new radio network on the
underground to replace the 'antiquated' system that failed after the attacks.
Emergency services responding to the incidents on the tube were forced to rely
on runners.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sunday Herald

                                  June 4, 2006

Muslims' anger grows at police anti-terror raid;
LONDON: ATTACK FEAR;
Intelligence on 'chemical device' that led to swoop came from just a single
source

BYLINE: By James Cusick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 770 words



HIGHLIGHT: Police dressed in protective clothing stand at the cordonedoff
entrance to Lansdown Road in London's Forest Gate. Photograph: Kirsty
Wigglesworth/AP


THE 'intelligence' that led to the massive police raid, a shooting and the
arrest of two brothers allegedly involved in a plot to manufacture and explode a
chemical device, is believed to have come from a single source.

The intelligence - thought to have come from a local man who told police he had
seen a "device" at the raided house in Lansdown Road, Forest Gate in London -
had been gathered during, not before, a lengthy surveillance on the house where
the detained men lived.

Regardless of the fragility of the police's information, it is said to have
triggered the decision to end the surveillance - which might have lasted months
- and raid the house.

Local Muslims are angry at alleged police heavy-handedness in Friday's pre-dawn
raid which involved more than 250 officers. Abdul Kahar Alam, 23, was shot in
the shoulder by an armed officer. His wound not life-threatening, he was taken
to the Royal London Hospital for treatment where he remains.

His solicitor, Kate Roxburghe, denied there had been any struggle. She said her
client was "woken by screams in the middle of the night, and went down stairs in
his pyjamas. A police officer came upstairs and shot him in the chest. There was
no advanced warning, nothing, no order to freeze. He said he was lucky to alive.
He did not know the men in his home were police. " A bedside video link was set
up at the hospital yesterday to allow Abdul Kahar to take part in the London
court hearing which extended the questioning and detention period of the
brothers under the Terrorism Act 2000 until Wednesday, when another application
could be made for a further 14-day extension.

Abdul Koyar Alam, three years younger than his hospitalised brother, was being
held at the high-security Paddington Green police station.

Many of the local Muslim community believe the police's information came from a
local informant who befriended and visited the two men as part of a wider police
investigation into a number of Bangladeshi and Pakistani men in north London.

Both brothers are British citizens with Bangladeshi origins.

Leaflets circulating in the neighbourhood of the shooting yesterday announced a
meeting this week to discuss the events, which are being investigated by the
Independent Police Complaints Commission. Headed "The Forest Gate Shooting" and
produced by the local Respect Party branch, it says the community is 'shocked'
at the growing identification of Muslims with terror, saying they were being
made scapegoats for failed government policy in Afghanistan, Iraq and Iran.
Former Guantanamo detainee Moazzam Begg will address the meeting.

For legal reasons, with questioning of the two held men being extended, police
have refused to discuss why the house was under surveillance and what sparked
the urgent raid on the property.

Scotland Yard is anxious that the tension and anxiety the raid is creating among
Muslims in London is kept under control. A police source described the climate
as "potentially volatile and we hope patience triumphs over anything that's done
in anger until our investigation is fully complete".

The house at Forest Gate has been shrouded in protective plastic as forensic
teams pick the home apart for potential evidence but according to the solicitor
of one of the brothers "nothing of evidential use" has so far been found.

Rumours persist - with no official confirmation - of a search for a 'suicide'
vest that could have been used to explode a homemade biochemical device in a
crowded train or pub. The police search, involving specialists from the
government's chemical warfare research unit at Porton Down, will almost
certainly focus on finding traces of any toxic chemicals intended for such a
device and for traces of explosives that could have propelled a lethal chemical
cocktail over an enclosed space.

Family members, thought to be the brothers' parents, yesterday denied any
involvement in terrorism activity.

Asad Rehman, chairman of a local community group, acting for the family, said
they wanted to make it clear they were "completely innocent and in no way
involved in any terrorist activity".

Their statement said they were in "deep shock and anger" over the raid.

He said the family occupied a house which adjoined the home where their sons
lived but insisted the two homes were "totally separate", though they were
inter-connected. The family did not want to be officially named.

Under the Terrorism Act 2000, police can hold a suspect for up to 14 days but
must apply to a magistrate to extend detention after 48 hours.

Investigating officers at Forest Gate said the house could be examined
brick-by-brick if necessary.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNHER


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              19 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              June 4, 2006 Sunday

Terror cell 'was planning nerve gas attack on capital'

BYLINE: ANDREW ALDERSON, SEAN RAYMENT AND PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 519 words


TERRORISTS were planning a chemical attack in London similar to the outrage on
the Tokyo underground, according to police and the security services.

MI5 operatives suspect that al-Qaeda sympathisers in-tended to produce a nerve
agent - probably sarin - and release it in a confined space, such as a tube
carriage, to maximise the number of casualties.

The sarin attack on three railway lines in the Japanese capital killed 12 people
and injured more than 5,000 in March 1995. It was the world's first major
chemical attack and used sarin, a nerve agent which attacks the respiratory
system.

Security sources suspect that a new atrocity was planned on or close to the
anniversary of the July 7 attacks on London, when four terrorists killed
themselves and 52 others, and injured more than 700 people. This would have
provided a rallying call to al-Qaeda sympathisers to carry on their "jihad'' -
or holy war - against the West.

Officers were last night continuing to question two men after a raid on a house
in Forest Gate, east London. The men arrested are brothers: Mohammed Abdul
Kahar, 23, and Abul Koyair, 20. Both deny any offences.

The elder brother was shot in the shoulder during a police raid at 4am on
Friday. He was later arrested under the Terrorism Act after being treated for
the gunshot wound in the Royal London Hospital, where he is still recovering.

Senior police sources said they were searching for an "improvised device rather
than a sophisticated weapon'' capable of releasing chemicals. The Sunday
Telegraph

has learnt that intelligence obtained by MI5 suggested that terrorists were
trying to acquire material via the internet which could be used to develop a
nerve gas capable of killing and injuring thousands of people.

Security sources say that the terrorist threat facing Britain has developed into
a "covert conspiracy'' involving hundreds of men and women living ordinary lives
in the nation's suburbs. They form an estimated 1,200 strong "army'' of
terrorists believed to be involved in at least 20 major terrorist plots.

Scotland Yard and MI5 sources were playing down reports in the media yesterday
that they were looking for a "chemical vest'', which could be used by a suicide
bomber. The wearer would suffer a long and painful death.

Detectives believe it is more likely that sarin or an alternative nerve agent
would be released from a canister or flask.

Forensic experts are expected to spend several days at the house of the British
born Muslims, who live with their parents.

A team from Porton Down in Wiltshire, the Government research establishment that
specialises in chemical and biological agents, is looking for evidence of a
so-called "viable weapon'' or traces of it.

Police were granted warrants of further detention for the two brothers following
a hearing at Bow Street Magistrates Court yesterday afternoon.

The warrants allow them to be detained and questioned until Wednesday.

The raid on the Victorian terraced house involved more than 300 officers and was
the largest anti-terrorist operation of the year.

It followed weeks of surveillance based on "specific'' intelligence.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              June 5, 2006, Monday
                            South City Final Edition

Report slams July 7 failings;
TERROR ATTACK: Call for changes to emergencies response

BYLINE: Neville Dean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 325 words


A SERIES of major failings in the emergency services' response to the July 7
terror attacks were exposed by a damning official report today.

Communications within and between the emergency services failed on the day,
thousands of survivors were left to fend for themselves and there was a lack of
basic medical supplies, the report found.

The London Assembly's July 7 review committee said it was "unacceptable" that
the emergency services were still unable to communicate by radio when
underground.

There was also an over-reliance on the mobile phone network, it said.

The committee found that the most striking failure was the lack of planning to
care for people who survived or were traumatised by the bombings.

The report revealed that as many as 6,000 people were likely to have been
severely psychologically affected by the explosions but that the majority were
still not known to the authorities or part of any support network.

This was "completely unacceptable", the report said.

The committee said London's emergency plans for the aftermath of a major
incident must be changed to address the failings.

Richard Barnes, who chaired the committee, said today: "There is no doubt that
lives were saved by individual acts of incredible bravery and courage by members
of the emergency services, other passengers and members of the public.

"London's emergency plans have been tested, practised and refined, but on July 7
it was clear that they ignored the needs of many individuals caught up in the
attacks.

"They focused on incidents but not individuals, and processes rather than
people. It is vital that these plans are reviewed and updated to address this
major issue.

"In November we will be asking the authorities for progress work on the
recommendations we have made and want to see some significant changes.

If not, we will certainly be asking why."

The report revealed that radios used by most blue-light emergency services still
did not work underground.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 5, 2006 Monday
                                 First Edition

Emergency services 'were not ready' for 7 July attacks;
TERROR ARRESTS

BYLINE: By Colin Brown Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 560 words


Failures in the preparations by the emergency services to cope with the London
Tube and bus bombings will be criticised in a report today.

The review by members of the Greater London Assembly found there was a lack of
stretchers, poor planning to evacuate the injured, and inadequate communications
that prevented the emergency services being able to communicate to controllers.

Paramedics at the scene of the Edgware Road explosion had to use a nearby Marks
& Spencer store for bandages after their first-aid supplies ran out.

One victim of the King's Cross explosion said it took two hours for ambulances
to arrive at Russell Square Tube station.

"There were no ambulances. There were no doctors," Rachel North, 34, an account
director told the review committee set up to learn the lessons from the
disaster.

Paul Dadge, a former fireman who helped the masked Davinia Turrell to safety,
told the hearing: "What struck me was the complete inadequacy of medical
supplies and ambulances. We were using first-aid kits from Marks & Spencer
because we'd run out of bandages.

"That just shouldn't be allowed to happen. There were nine ambulances for about
1,000 casualties and at one point there were two paramedics for 150 patients."

The report by a committee chaired by Richard Barnes, a Conservative member of
the GLA, will praise the rescuers for their courage and heroism, but call for an
immediate improvement in the emergency preparations to cope with another
terrorist attack on the capital.

Some of the recommendations made after the 1987 King's Cross fire were never
implemented and the main focus will be on the need to improve radio
communications to enable police and rescuers to speak to each other in another
emergency.

Ambulance drivers were unable to talk to their control rooms after the mobile
telephone network was paralysed, it is thought to prevent terrorists triggering
more bombs. The lack of co-ordination caused by the network breakdown led to the
injured being taken to overcrowded accident and emergency units while other
hospitals were underused.

The report may also increase the pressure on the Government to appoint a
cabinet-level minister for homeland security, which the Prime Minister has so
far resisted.

Patrick Mercer, the Conservative spokesman for homeland security, said he was
still concerned at the lack of urgency in preparations for another emergency on
the Tube network.

He found that improvised stretchers - carrying sheets - were on most Underground
trains, but they were not marked in carriages and there were no written
instructions available for the public on how to cope with a major emergency. "I
found the level of complacency absolutely shocking," he said.

Meanwhile, Jonathan Baume, the head of the First Division Association of civil
servants, accused ministers of seeking to shift the blame for failures at the
Home Office on to their Whitehall staff.

He said the criticism of civil servants was "unfair, divisive and damaging to
the work of every government department". Mr Baume added: "The Labour Government
is in some difficulty as poll ratings fall and the Conservative Party is
revitalised. Some recent criticism of the civil service looks like an
ill-disguised attempt by some politicians and commentators to make excuses.

"These tactics are especially cowardly, because civil servants are not allowed
to fight back."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                              June 5, 2006, Monday
                                 First Edition

20 YOBS IN TERROR ATTACK ON BEACH;
Youths with stones in socks run amok in the sunshine

BYLINE: JANE WOODHEAD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 441 words


A VIOLENT gang brought terror to a Merseyside beach at the weekend.

Around 20 yobs armed with socks filled with rocks and sand attacked people
trying to enjoy the sunshine in Formby.

Trains through the area were stopped to prevent the youths escaping as police
tried to round them up.

A total of 11 youths, the eldest aged 16, were arrested for offences including
assault, affray and theft. All have received police bail pending further
inquiries.

Dozens of Merseyside police officers, the force helicopter and nature reserve
wardens were called as the gang went on the rampage through the sand dunes and
nearby nature reserve on Saturday afternoon.

Around 20 people are understood to have already come forward to tell police how
they were targeted although no-one was seriously injured.

A police spokesman said: "We received a call from the wardens that a group of
youths were approaching members of the public and assaulting them. They had
socks containing stones.

"In order to detain the offenders, officers operated over a large area and
Merseyrail halted trains."

Services on the Southport line stopped at around 5pm. The cancellations lasted
for around 15 minutes after which services resumed but with no trains stopping
at Freshfield. Services returned to normal around 5.50pm.

A spokesman for Formby Nature Reserve added: "The National Trust alerted
Merseyside police over reports of an incident on Formby beach.

"It is understood the police are now making further inquiries and several men
were detained.

"The trust always puts the safety of the public as its highest priority and will
not hesitate to call the police again should a similar incident occur."

The attacks started at around 4.30pm in Victoria Road.

Anyone with information is urged to contact Merseyside police on 0151-709 6010
or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

Meanwhile, Tony Blair was promising a fresh crackdown on yobs today.

He was warning local councils they face funding cuts unless they set out plans
to tackle anti-social behaviour in a bid to end a postcode lottery.

The Prime Minister was chairing a high-profile Cabinet meeting on his "respect"
agenda.

Mr Blair launched his Respect action plan in January, promising it would
"restore the liberty of the law-abiding citizen" by cracking down on yob
culture. Today's meeting was designed to review the effectiveness of efforts so
far.

One initiative under discussion is the move to force every council to have a
formal "local area agreement" in place by April setting out its strategy to
combat anti-social behaviour.

New laws to ensure unruly children can be dealt with at a young age will also be
on the agenda.

Comment-Page 10.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK TARGET: Formby beach Picture: COLIN LANE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              June 5, 2006 Monday

World - Canadian police foil terror attack

LENGTH: 106 words


Canadian police foiled a home-grown terrorist attack at the weekend by arresting
17 suspects who had obtained three tons of explosive ingredient ammonium
nitrate.

About 400 regional police and federal agents participated in the arrests.

Police arrested 12 adult suspects and five who were under 18 on terrorism
charges, including plotting attacks with explosives on Canadian targets.

The suspects were either citizens or residents of Canada and had trained
together.

Canadian spy agency CSIS assistant director of operations Luc Portelance said
that the suspects "appeared to have become adherents of a violent ideology
inspired by al-Qaida."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              June 6, 2006 Tuesday

It is up to all of us to stop terrorist attacks;
READERS' VIEWS

SECTION: A 04; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1036 words


ANDREW Gilligan's opinion piece (5 June) is, on the whole, the first sensible
piece I have read on the Government and police failure to think intelligently
about terrorism.

I live in Forest Gate, on one of the two streets that remain cordoned off
following last week's raids. For 15 years, I have also been involved in the
community organisation that helps with the housing and medical needs of the
now-terrified family who were neighbours of the arrested men, and whose own home
was raided.

They wonder just how "specific" the intelligence was that led to the raid, if it
means one of them can be clubbed over the head with a machine gun.

Lurid stories about a "chemical-bomb factory" sit uneasily with the fact that
local residents were not evacuated from the surrounding streets.

Why was it deemed necessary to declare an "air-exclusion zone" over east London,
unless to add a little extra drama? And if the intelligence was of sufficient
quality, why were 250 police officers involved in the raid?

After the 7 July bombings, Londoners were united in disgust and anger.

Gilligan is right to identify the way the Government has frittered away this
unity, and fostered distrust.

Where I think he is slightly wrong is focusing on greater cooperation between
the police and the "Muslim" community, when Muslims I know already feel they are
being singled out. It would be far more productive for the Government to state
that those who plan mass murder are criminals, and it is for all of us to see
they are stopped.

Kevin Blowe, E7.

WE HAVE been told for years of the inherent rage among Muslims against the
Government and security services. The latest apparent fiasco will doubtless
afford further ammunition to those who call on us to lower our guard against
terror groups.

Andrew Gilligan's suggestion that we should debate with organisations like Hizb
ut-Tahrir to show "the absurdity of their ideas" is logical. But this is
precisely why it's futile. We are not dealing with reasonable people but with
religious fanatics of the worst kind.

Moreover, they feel their co-religionists support them, thanks to the lack of
mea culpa in the Muslim community.

Gilligan calls for better intelligence. Agreed: the security services are as
much victims of political correctness as anyone else. Attacking them for
occasionally getting it wrong could well inhibit further operations. These may
be demeaning to suspects and their community, but for the greater good they are
crucial.

Those who take offence could try challenging the extremists among them; I doubt
they would prevail.

Michael Almaz, WC2.

Councils risk destroying London's market heritage

I WAS amazed to read Andrew Gilligan's story about George Mothersole, the
79-year-old market trader awarded an Asbo for apparently swearing at council
inspectors (31 May).

I was born in Islington, and in my time worked at Billingsgate, Smithfield and
Covent Garden, where I first met Mothersole in the 1950s and considered him an
absolute gentleman.

Swearing in the old markets was regarded as the norm - and often served as a
warning for others to watch out for the heavily-loaded barrows, which had no
brakes. There was a great community spirit among us market workers.

At Old Billingsgate, winos and dossers were employed to help push the loads of
fish up the hills that surrounded it, and we voluntarily ran boxing clubs to
enable local youngsters to take part in a well-disciplined sport.

Inspectors should support old-time traders such as Mothersole to keep markets
alive. Or does Southwark Council want to get rid of them?

Ron Hagland, Kirby-Le-Soken, Essex.

Don't take this city too seriously

I FEAR Will Self is not as alone in his serious-minded London wanderings as he
thinks (2 June). Ever since Iain Sinclair's account of walking the M25, trains
from Uxbridge to Upminster have been full of pallid " psychogeographers" seeking
out the capital's far corners to admire filthy shopping centres and declare how
connected they feel with the city.

The outer Travelcard zones are not an esoteric academic subject - they are where
most Londoners live. Surely Self could at least give these places the respect of
mocking them as much as anywhere else?

Q Parker, quinparker.com.

Who profits from car towing?

WHILE Camden has decided to ban clamping, I hope councils will also address car
towing (5 June).

Last week I parked in Brixton at 8:05pm. Three of the four parking signs allowed
parking after 5:30pm, but in my bay it turned out it was restricted until
8:30pm. By the time I returned at 11:30pm my car had been towed, and it was a
struggle to find out where to.

Why do we pay Pounds 200 for a parking fine, when a speeding fine is just Pounds
60? Who decides whether a car should be towed, clamped or ticketed? And where
exactly does the money go? It certainly doesn't seem to pay for better parking
signage.

Lucy Windsor, SW6.

Text your message

At my local garden centre recently, I noticed water butts of all sizes but not
one attached to a downpipe. A hosepipe was being used legally, but the
connection was loose. How many other garden centres are behaving in such a
cavalier fashion?

Patricia Faulkner, SW11.

How can AN Wilson argue that Catherine Zeta-Jones proves smoking is sexy?

Smokers are a dying breed and should be exiled. As Larry Hagman said, "kissing a
girl who smokes is like kissing an old ashtray". Why does Michael Douglas put up
with it?

Gerry O'Rourke, N4.

I am amazed Patrick Swayze is starring as Nathan Detroit in Guys and Dolls, aged
53. I know many aspiring performers in the UK who have been turned down in
auditions because they look too young, but realism doesn't seem to matter if
you're a superannuated star.

Carol Dyer, Uxbridge.

Reader Ana Beard sticks up for comfortable shoes - but is anyone producing good
walking shoes for women? Clark's has discontinued its best design because,
apparently, there's no market for them, and the make I'm wearing doesn't seem to
be lasting.

Miriam Ariel, W10.

I recently lacerated my hand when leaning to fix my shoe lace against a lamppost
covered with anti-climb paint. Who is responsible for this, and how much has it
cost? Do local authorities really think people are going to go crazy and swing
from the lights?

Dr Frank Brady, SW8.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Western Mail

                             June 6, 2006, Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Emergency services defend response to terror attacks

BYLINE: NEVILLE DEAN AND HELEN WILLIAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 831 words


The emergency services defended their response to the July 7 bombings last night
after a damning official report exposed a catalogue of failings in the chaotic
aftermath of the attacks. Massive communication problems, a lack of basic
medical supplies and a 'completely unaccept- able' failure to properly care for
thousands of survivors were just some of the serious deficiencies it identified
in the rescue operation.

While recognising the heroism of countless individuals, the report said they
were too often let down by the system and a lack of proper planning.

The London Resilience Partnership (LRF), which represents key emergency services
such as police, ambulance and transport, vowed to learn the lessons of the
report by the London Assembly's July 7 review committee.

But LRF chair Phil Woolas argued there was 'no doubt that lives had been saved'
by the professionalism of the response. Contingency plans had been honed and
tested over four years and were carried out with 'incredible acts of bravery',
he insisted.

However, the Assembly's highly critical report said the emergency plans ignored
the needs of many individuals caught up in the attacks.

Richard Barnes, who led the investigation, said, 'They focused on incidents but
not individuals, and processes rather than people. It is vital that these plans
are reviewed and updated to address this major issue.'

The committee said it was 'unacceptable' that the emergency services were still
unable to communicate by radio when underground - despite the recommen- dations
which followed the King's Cross fire 18 years ago. There was also an
over-reliance on the mobile phone network, it said.

In the rush to save lives, details were not taken of the walking wounded, who
may have needed trauma counselling. As many as 6,000 people were likely to have
been severely psychologically affected by the explosions, but the majority are
still not known to the authorities or part of any support network.

Only hospitals with casualty units were put on alert. Great Ormond Street
Children's Hospital, near the Russell Square site, was never alerted - although
a field hospital was set up.

Ben Thwaites, who was caught up in the Edgware Road blast, said it was as long
as an hour before medics got to those trapped in the train. He said the train's
driver told him its first aid box was empty, while the first paramedics at the
site had to wait for their kit to arrive.

Mr Thwaites, from Crowthorne, Berkshire, said when he tried to identify himself
to police as a victim, they told him to go home and follow reports on
television.

He said, 'The people who helped - the medics and the police, everyone - did a
fantastic job, but I fear that they did it despite the process, rather than
because of it.

'There didn't seem to be a coherent plan in place and there certainly didn't
seem to be communications and that is what this report today has centred on.

'The worrying thing for me is that this report has turned up so many other
elements where there are obvious problems which I think highlights the fact that
we need a full-scale public inquiry.'

The failings identified by the report included:

As a result of the communication breakdown, some emergency services personnel at
the blast sites could not communicate with each other, or in some cases even
with their control rooms;

There was no systematic establishment of survivor reception areas, so many were
left to fend for themselves or their details were lost by the authorities;

The casualty bureau was set up 'too slowly' and this had caused great distress
to many people who were trying to track down friends and relatives;

London Ambulance Service was not equipped to deliver sufficient equipment and
medical supplies to the multiple scenes;

There had been a 'general failure' to maintain records of the emergency
services' response to the bombings;

The authorities ought to have known that the mobile phone network would become
congested in the aftermath of such a major incident, yet the emergency services
still relied on mobile phones to communicate between their senior staff;

One elite group of responders were not exempt from traffic regulations, such as
bus lanes or the congestion charge. The report concluded: 'The plans, systems
and processes intended to provide a framework for the response to major
incidents in London must be revised and improved. 'Communications within and
between the emergency services did not stand up on July 7. 'It's unacceptable
that the emergency services, with the exception of the British Transport Police,
are still not able to communicate by radio when they are underground.' Peter
Bradley, chief executive of the London Ambulance Service, said, 'We have
acknowledged we faced difficulties with communications that day, but this did
not prevent us treating and transporting more than 400 patients to hospital from
all the sites within three hours - this is a testament to the way everyone
involved handled what was a tremendously challenging situation.'

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ashfield Today

                                  June 7, 2006

Terror attack hero visits firefighters

LENGTH: 382 words


AN American firefighter who worked at the World Trade Center following the 9/11
terrorist attacks made a special visit to Ashfield last week.

Vincent Forras launched the Gear Up Foundation to equip firefighters in the
developing world after he served at Ground Zero ? and Chad reported earlier this
year how Ashfield crew manager Mark Millington had got involved as UK director.

More than 100 uniforms and equipment from Nottinghamshire Fire and Rescue
Service have now been donated to help poorly-equipped brigades in the
Philippines and have already directly helped save the lives of three children.

Vincent visited Ashfield to say a big thank you to his British colleagues and
told Chad that his charity was making a huge difference.

"I am extremely grateful for everyone who supports Mark and to know that we have
such great friends and supporters in this town is wonderful," Vincent said.

"Mark is a huge part of it and what he has done is extraordinary.

"It gives me the biggest blessing of my life to be able to do something good
from something terrible."

Firefighters across England are set to have their uniforms replaced next year
and Mark is hoping crews in the area will support the Gear Up Foundation by
donating kits.

He said: "We are getting more and more firefighters involved in it.

"The gear that we are throwing away is better than nothing, which is what they
have. I would like to get the whole country involved."

Vincent visited the fire service's Nottinghamshire training centre in Ollerton
last week where it is hoped a project can be set up to train firefighters from
developing countries ? so they can go into burning buildings instead of tackling
them from outside.

Vincent also revealed his health had been badly affected from serving at Ground
Zero for three weeks after the tragedy because of toxic chemicals in the air.

He has suffered serious problems with his lungs, heart, stomach and sinuses
along with constant severe headaches, memory problems, and post-traumatic stress
disorder ? which are expected to eventually kill him.

- For more information on the charity, which is looking for local businesses to
be corporate sponsors, visit www.gearupfoundation.org or contact Mark Millington
on Mansfield 511460.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              27 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 7, 2006 Wednesday

German minister: Downing aircraft would be last resort in terror attack

LENGTH: 116 words


Text of report by German Deutschlandfunk radio on 7 June

German Defence Minister [Franz Josef ] Jung thinks that the employment of the
Luftwaffe during the World Cup would be justified if a terror attack with planes
were imminent.

Jung told WDR [West German broadcasting station] that the downing of a plane
would be the last means. It would only be permitted if only terrorists were on
the plane. However, from his point of view, if the downing were the last resort,
the Bundeswehr mandate would require the protection of the people, he said.

As of today, NATO AWACS surveillance aircraft are monitoring the airspace over
Germany.

Source: Deutschlandfunk radio, Cologne, in German 0900 gmt 7 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday

Israeli army says three "terrorists" killed in Gaza were planning attack

LENGTH: 200 words


Excerpt from report by Israel radio on 8 June

This morning, IDF [Israel Defence Forces] sources claimed that the three
Palestinians who were killed last night by shell fire in the northern Gaza Strip
were terrorists who planned to carry out a gun fire attack nearby. Our
correspondents Roni Bar and Roni Scheinfeld reported that the Palestinians
claimed the dead men were members of the National Security Forces, and that a
terrorist cell took up positions near them. [Passage omitted]

The Israel Air Force attacked eight access roads used by Qassam launchers in the
northern Gaza Strip. Our correspondent Nisim Qeynan reports that the IDF also
dropped leaflets from the air calling on the Palestinian residents not to
collaborate with those firing the rockets. The IDF warned that the IDF response
could harm them.

In Judaea and Samaria [West Bank], the IDF arrested nine fugitives: seven were
arrested in Hebron, and the other two in the area of Tulkarm. Our army affairs
correspondent Karmela Menashe reports that during the operation in Nablus a
firebomb was thrown at the soldiers. No injuries were reported but their vehicle
was damaged.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 0500 gmt 8 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday

Afghan police thwart bomb-laden donkey terror attack

LENGTH: 233 words


Text of report in English by Afghan independent Pajhwok news agency website

Kabul, 8 June: Police on Thursday shot dead a donkey loaded with explosives and
thus thwarted a plot that might have jolted Qalat, the capital of southern Zabol
Province.

The donkey is thought to have been sent by enemies to cause a blast - a strange
tool of terrorism and the second attempt of its type used by militants to spread
horror in the region.

The spokesman for the Zabol governor, Golab Shah Alikhel, told Pajhwok Afghan
News the incident occurred on Wednesday evening. "Police signalled a person to
stop at the Sinak police checkpoint at the city gate. The alleged militant had
loaded explosives on his donkey and wanted to use it in a terrorist act in Qalat
city," he added.

He said the owner of the donkey ran away as he received a signal from the
police, however, after a hard chase police captured him from a nearby garden. He
said the outlaw had loaded a huge amount of explosives and had planed a massive
blast in Qalat.

As police opened fire on the donkey loaded with explosives it blew up, he said,
adding that police had also seized the vehicle that had carried the animal to
the area. He said an investigation was going on questioning the detainee.
Enemies had carried out such an inhuman act in northeastern Badkhshan Province
last year.

Source: Pajhwok Afghan News website, Kabul, in English 1002 gmt 8 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 8, 2006, Thursday
                                 Worcs Edition

Terror of woman in bus attack;
REDDITCH

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 134 words


A TERRIFIED woman was attacked by a stranger as she waited for a bus.

The victim, in her early 20s and from Bromsgrove, was waiting at a bus stop in
Poplar Road, Redditch, when the man approached her.

He struck up a conversation, then made explicit comments to her before
assaulting her, said PC Fergus Green, of Redditch police.

The man is described as white, about 30-years-old, with a skinny build and
shaggy medium length blonde and grey hair. His teeth were blackened with some
missing.

He was wearing a black suit and possibly a blue shirt and had large gold
sovereign ring on one hand.

The man made hand gestures similar to sign language and may have had learning
disabilities, added PC Green.

Anyone with information about the incident, which happened at 7pm on May 16,
should call police on 08457 444 888.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 8, 2006

File theft raises risk of terrorist attack

BYLINE: IAN BRUCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 226 words


INFORMATION which could put more than one million serving US military personnel
at risk of terrorist attack or identity theft was contained on an electronic
file stolen from the home of a Veterans'Affairs Department analyst.

The missing data includes names, social security numbers, birth dates and other
details which could allow thieves to apply for credit or passports using false
identities, or expose families to terrorist retribution forAmerican action in
Iraq and Afghanistan.

The file also contains details of 430,000 part-time National Guard members and
645,000 former regular reservists.

Combining and cross-referencing a number of facts would enable someone with
enough computer knowledge to discover someone's postal code and home address.

James Lewis, the director of technology and public policy at Washington's Centre
for Strategic and International Studies, said: "There is a global black market
in this kind of data. Now, suddenly, there is a treasure trove of information on
members of the US military available which could potentially be used to target
them and their families."

The stolen external computer hard-drive had a range of personal information on
80per cent of active-duty troops, making it the biggest data breach in US
history. A group of former servicemen is now seeking damages from the US
government for breach of confidentiality.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              32 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday

Blair terror-attack file 'stolen'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 272 words


POLICE are investigating allegations that documents about plans to protect Tony
Blair from a terrorist attack in Manchester - found in a hotel two weeks ago -
may have been stolen.

The plans were in a folder found in a guest area at the Midland Hotel and passed
to a journalist, who handed them in to the police.

The documents, belonging to the hotel security staff, detailed security plans
for the Labour conference to be held in Manchester in September. It was at first
thought the file - which police insisted had been widely circulated and did not
contain sensitive information - had simply been mislaid.

But now police have confirmed they are investigating the possibility the folder
was stolen.

It is thought managers at the hotel have alleged the folder may have been stolen
rather than left in a public area of the hotel. But the Midland will still host
many Labour delegates, including some party leaders.

A Labour spokesman insisted the hotel would still form a central part of the
conference. He said: "Are we boycotting the hotel? No, we are not."

A hotel spokeswoman said no members of staff had been sacked or disciplined as a
result of the folder being found. It included "attack scenarios", though police
say they had been drawn up for the Commonwealth Games in 2002 and so were no
longer up-to-date.

The documents included minutes of the "contingencies sub-group" committee which
has members from bodies including the police, Manchester city council, the
Midland Hotel - where Mr Blair is expected to stay - and nearby premises.

They detailed ways to combat a suicide attacker, a car or van bomb and a mortar
or grenade attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             June 8, 2006, Thursday

Two dozen Nato early warning aircraft will help to protect football matches from
aerial terrorist attack

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 61 words


Two dozen Nato early warning aircraft, including seven from the RAF, will help
to protect football matches during the Cup from aerial terrorist attack. The
British aircraft are equipped with radar capable of tracking other aircraft at a
range of more than 200 miles. There is no intelligence of any plot against the
tournament but there is thought to be a general risk.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 9, 2006 Friday

Turkey: Four policemen injured in terrorist attack in southeast

LENGTH: 88 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Kozluk, 8 June: Four policemen were injured when terrorists attacked the house
of the subgovernor in Kozluk town of southeastern city of Batman on Thursday [8
June].

The four policemen, who guard the house, were injured in the attack.

It was also reported that the subgovernor Kamuran Mustafa Balli was away in
Ankara at the time of the attack. The wife and children of the subgovernor were
also not at home.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1932 gmt 8 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 9, 2006 Friday

Terrorist attack kills two NGO workers in Afghan north

LENGTH: 127 words


Text of report by Afghan Balkh Province television on 9 June

Unknown gunmen attacked a CHA [Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance] vehicle
in Chemtal District of Balkh Province, killing two and wounding another. The
Chief of Balkh Rural Development Department Eng Abdol Baaset Ayni confirming the
report said that while they were returning to Mazar-e Sharif after digging a
well in the framework of the National Solidarity Programme in Chemtal District,
they were attacked by unidentified men on their way, and an engineer and his
driver was killed and one another was wounded.

There are no reports from Balkh security officials so far. This is the first
terrorist attack on an NGO worker in Balkh Province.

Source: Balkh TV, Mazar-e Sharif, in Dari 1500 gmt 9 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                              June 9, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

Agents' secret mission to avenge terror attacks;
DVD

BYLINE: SIMON KUKURUZOVIC

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 316  words


MUNICH (15)

Available to rent and buy pounds 19.99.

STEVEN SPIELBERG recreates the aftermath of the horrific attack on the 1972
Summer Olympics by extremist Palestinian group Black September.

The terrorists kidnapped nine Israeli athletes from the Olympic village, killing
two others.

They and their hostages subsequently perished in a gun battle with police at a
military airport, inciting Israel to seek revenge.

Intelligence officer Avner (Hulk's Eric Bana) is recruited by the Israeli Prime
Minister to oversee "Operation Wrath of God", a secret mission to travel across
Europe assassinating the members of Black September responsible for the
terrorist attack.

Mossad officer Ephraim (Geoffrey Rush) is Avner's point of contact throughout
the mission, putting his man in touch with a crack team of patriotic agents
including "cleaner" Carl (Ciaran Hinds) and getaway driver Steve (new Bond star
Daniel Craig).

Shot loose and fast, often on handheld cameras, the film's nervous energy works
to its advantage, stoking the tension as Avner and co work their way through the
list of targets - but at what cost? ****

THE ADVENTURES OF GREYFRIARS BOBBY (PG)

Available to rent and buy pounds 15.99.

BASED on real-life events, this is a family feature about a brave terrier whose
devotion captured the imagination of 19th-century Scotland.

When Police Constable John Gray dies trying to protect his wife Maureen from a
pickpocket, his faithful white-haired terrier Bobby devotes himself to watching
over his master's grave at Greyfriars churchyard in Edinburgh.

Maureen entrusts the four-legged pooch to youngster Ewan (Oliver Golding), a
tyke who had befriended her husband.

The boy loves Bobby with all his heart but nothing can persuade the dog to leave
his master's graveside.

Look out for a number of lively yet brief supporting turns, including Ardal
O'Hanlon as a tramp and Christopher Lee as Lord Provost.**

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TENSION... A scene from Steven Spielberg's Munich (15) (left) about the
horrific terrorist attack on the 1972 Olympics and (right) Oliver Golding as
Ewan with terrier Bobby in The Adventures of Greyfriars Bobby (PG).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                             June 10, 2006 Saturday

Firebug terror attack leaves woman critical

BYLINE:  Claire Elliot

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 582 words


A woman was critically ill in hospital last night after throwing herself from a
burning Aberdeen tenement which may have been torched deliberately.

Police launched a major investigation into the blaze on George Street and an
earlier fire in a nearby street.

The 26-year-old, from the Kincorth area, was visiting the flat when the fire
started. She suffered serious injuries after jumping from a first-floor window
to escape the flames early yesterday.

Witnesses said the woman panicked and instead of waiting for the emergency
services opened a back window to try and jump into the garden below.

But she appeared to have second thoughts and ended up hanging from the window
sill. She then fell on to a shed before landing head-first on concrete.

A neighbour whose home overlooks the flats told how she was woken up by shouts
and screams.

She said: "I went to see what was going on and saw a woman hanging from her
window sill. I ran out and told her not to jump, but just as I got to her she
fell. It was horrible.

"She bounced on to the ground and banged her head off the concrete. She just lay
there and didn't make a noise.

"The paramedics took her away but she still didn't move or make a sound."

A male resident of the block, who did not want to be identified, said: "I woke
up when I heard people screaming in the flats below and in the hallway.

"I could smell the smoke. I didn't know what to do but thankfully it was only
seconds after that I heard the sirens from the fire brigade and I went to my
window and started shouting for help."

The man was helped out the flats by firefighters in breathing equipment.

Grampian Police were last night treating the  5.15am blaze as a "serious
incident of wilful fire-raising".

It was reported just over an hour after a fire was deliberately started in
another block of flats, in nearby Gerrard Street. Detectives say they are not
ruling out a connection and are anxious to trace a man seen on George Street at
about  4am while the fire at Gerrard Street was being investigated.

He was seen near the junction of George Street with Hutcheon Street and is
described as aged 18 to 20, about 5ft 10in, wearing a dark baseball cap, white
shirt and dark trousers, possibly with a jacket tied round his waist.

Police also want to speak to a man who contacted them at about 7am yesterday
with "specific information" about the George Street fire.

Detective Inspector Andy Imray said the man was important to their inquiries and
gave assurances that any further information he could provide would be treated
in confidence.

He refused to be drawn on what details were divulged by the caller.

About 30 officers were involved in the investigation yesterday, including
uniformed and plain-clothed officers and forensic specialists.

Door-to-door inquiries were being carried out and CCTV cameras in the area were
checked.

The two tenement blocks, which were examined by forensic scientists, were also
cordoned off.

Both fires started in the ground-floor common hallways.

The woman, who police have yet to identify, was one of four people from the
George Street flat who were taken to hospital. A second woman and two men, had
to be treated for smoke inhalation.

No one was injured in the Gerrard Street blaze.

Det Insp Imray said it was rare to have two suspicious fires so close together
in such a short space of time and urged residents to ensure their buildings were
locked overnight.

Anyone with information is urged to contact police on 0845 600 5700 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 10, 2006 Saturday

New Zealand deports man "directly associated" with 9/11 terror attacks

LENGTH: 353 words


Text of news release carried by New Zealand government website on 10 June

Immigration Minister David Cunliffe said today that a Yemeni national, Rayed
Mohammed Abdullah Ali, has been deported from New Zealand for security reasons.
"Acting on advice, the government considered that the man's continued presence
in New Zealand posed a threat to national security because:

- he was directly associated with persons responsible for the terrorist attacks
in the United States on 11 September 2001,

- of the nature of his activities in the United States prior to and at that
time;

- and because of the nature of his activities in New Zealand.

"Therefore, a deportation order was sought and obtained from the
governor-general under Section 72 of the Immigration Act 1987.

"With immigration officials, police arrested the man in Palmerston North on
Monday, 29 May, and he was deported to Saudi Arabia the next day."

Mr Cunliffe said the man had arrived in New Zealand in February. "The
individual's identity became apparent only after he arrived in New Zealand - he
used a variation of his name in applying for entry to New Zealand. Once his real
identity became known, he was identified as having close connections to people
involved with the 11 September 2001 attacks in the United States, and had been
named in the 9/11 Commission Report.

"Initially, he lived in Auckland where he undertook some English language
training, the stated purpose of his visit. He then shifted to Palmerston North
where he was building up his flying hours flying with an instructor - he'd
previously trained as a pilot in the United States.

"For security reasons, I cannot comment further. I am advised, however, that at
no point was there any specific risk to New Zealanders during the man's time in
this country," Mr Cunliffe said.

Note: Section 72 provides that where the immigration minister certifies that the
continued presence in New Zealand of a person constitutes a threat to national
security, the governor-general may, by order in council, order that person's
deportation.

Source: New Zealand government website, Wellington, in English 10 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            June 10, 2006, Saturday
                               News Extra Edition

Family's terror ordeal as stray dog attacks pet in its own home

BYLINE: Emma Brown South Wales Echo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 455 words


A mum of five is recovering after surviving a vicious dog attack in her home,
which left her needing two operations on her hands.

Amanda Thomas, 42, from Pentwyn in Cardiff, spent five days in the University of
Wales Hospital, Heath, Cardiff, after the white dog, believed to be a pit bull
terrier, raced into her house while she was at home with her 13-year-old
daughter Angharad.

Mrs Thomas, a full-time mum, said: 'In the evening my daughter's friend knocked
the door. The dog was behind her but she hadn't noticed.

'The dog just rushed into the house. He must have seen our dog Blacky in the
room or smelled him and he attacked him in the living room.

'My daughter was screaming, she was really frightened.

'It was out of this world, unbelievable, he was dragging Blacky around the
living room and Angharad was standing and screaming.'

Mrs Thomas tried to kick the dog, which eventually dragged their little
cross-breed dog Blacky out into the garden, where she tried to stop the attack.

'I was trying to pull the dog off and he bit into my hand, there was blood
dripping from my hand. Then I got a stick and hit the dog until he ran off.

'I will never forget the look in its eyes, he was after my Blacky.'

Mrs Thomas has had two operations under anaesthetic to repair a gaping hole and
ripped skin on her right hand, and a hole in her left thumb which at the time
doctors feared may have severed her tendons. She was given a tetanus jab and was
put on a drip during her stay. She also suffered injuries to her right foot
where the dog bit three of her toes.

Blacky needed staple stitches to repair a rip in his ear, but is recovering
well.

Mrs Thomas said: 'My daughter keeps getting flashbacks. She couldn't even come
and see me in the hospital.

'In the garden Angharad picked up Blacky, then she pulled me back into the
house.

'I was worried about our dog, I thought he was dying so I took him to the vets
before I went to hospital.'

The dog, which may have been a Staffordshire terrier, had blue eyes and the
attack took place at about 6pm on Thursday, June 1, in Heddfan South, Pentwyn,
Cardiff.

A spokesman for South Wales Police said: 'It is not known who owns the dog and
it has not been seen in the area before.

'The purpose of the investigation will be to find out if any criminal offence
has been committed.'

William Lane, environmental officer for Cardiff council, added: 'We haven't had
any inquiries regarding this case, but we will be visiting Mrs Thomas to take
further details and to try to identify the dog.

'We will be increasing our dog patrols in the area.'

Mrs Thomas added: 'I want it destroyed, I want it caught. It could attack a
child next time.

'I am an animal lover but this dog is still out there and it is dangerous.'

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sunday Herald

                                 June 11, 2006

MoD: nuclear convoy attack could 'devastate' way of life;
SECURITY: TERROR THREAT;
'The consequences of such an attack . . . severe disruption to the UK's ability
to function'

BYLINE: By Rob Edwards Environment Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 768 words



HIGHLIGHT: Campaigners have staged protests over transporting warheads through
Scotland Photograph: Owen Humphreys Scottish local authorities which weapons and
other military nuclear materials pass through or fly over


A TERRORIST attack on a nuclear weapons convoy could cause "considerable loss of
life" and prevent the UK from functioning as a sovereign state, the Ministry of
Defence (MoD) has admitted.

The admission is the first official acknowledgement of the catastrophe that
could result from an assault on the trucks that regularly carry Trident warheads
through Scotland. The risk is that, either by accident or design, one of the
bombs could explode.

A detonation of a 100-kilotonne Trident warhead would cause a blast eight times
more powerful than the one which devastated Hiroshima in 1945, killing 100,000
people. Anyone within five kilometres would die instantly.

The MoD statement came in response to a request under the Freedom of Information
Act. It refused to release details of the roads used by nuclear convoys because
this "would provide valuable information to terrorists and could assist in the
planning and carrying out of an attack, " said David Wray, the MoD's director of
information.

"This is an issue of national security given that such an attack has the
potential to lead to damage or destruction of a nuclear weapon within the UK, "
he continued. "The consequences of such an incident are likely to be
considerable loss of life and severe disruption, both to the British people's
way of life and to the UK's ability to function effectively as a sovereign
state."

According to Dr Frank Barnaby, a nuclear physicist who used to work at the
Atomic Weapons Establishment at Aldermaston in Berkshire, the MoD's statement
clearly implied a nuclear explosion. It contradicted previous MoD assurances
that weapons couldn't be set off by terrorists, he said.

"The MoD has always maintained that terrorists couldn't override the [warheads']
safety locks, " he said. "But a sophisticated group would take the bomb to bits
and make it go off, killing themselves in the process."

If a Trident warhead were exploded in central London during a working day it
would kill millions of people, he pointed out. "It would completely devastate a
huge area of the city."

Convoys of nuclear weapons travel by road about six times a year between the
Atomic Weapons Establishment and the Royal Naval Armaments Depot at Coulport on
Loch Long, northwest of Glasgow. They are driven through 21 local authority
areas in Scotland.

The MoD's admission was made in a letter to David Mackenzie, a campaigner with
NukeWatch Scotland, a group which monitors the movement of nuclear weapons.

"Typically, it is only after being backed into a corner that the MoD has
admitted that a terrorist attack on a nuclear weapons convoy has the potential
to cause catastrophic loss of life and threaten the stability of the UK, " said
Mackenzie. "These convoys are criminally dangerous. The answer is not to try to
make them safer. The only truly safe, moral and legal answer is to decommission
our nuclear weapons."

The MoD, however, reiterated its insistence that a nuclear explosion was
impossible because warheads were transported unarmed. "We do everything possible
to prevent a terrorist attack on our nuclear convoys, " said an MoD spokesman.

"As the director of information was trying to make clear, a terrorist attack
does not need to cause a nuclear explosion to cause considerable disruption."

Tomorrow, a delegation of religious and political leaders from Scotland will
travel to Aldermaston to protest about plans to replace Trident with new nuclear
weapons. Delegates include the moderator of the Church of Scotland, the Rt Rev
Alan McDonald, the former Lord Advocate, Lord Murray, and a representative of
the Scottish Catholic Church, Dr Richard McCready.

"The delegation is going down to say that we don't want more nuclear weapons in
Scotland, " said John Ainslie, co-ordinator of the Scottish Campaign for Nuclear
Disarmament. "If Trident is replaced there will be nuclear convoys on our roads
for decades to come."

NEED TO KNOW

THE FACTS The Ministry of Defence has said that a terrorist attack on a nuclear
bomb convoy could disrupt government and cause a large loss of life.

BACKGROUND Nuclear bombs need to be reguarly maintained because the tritium used
to trigger a thermonuclear explosion decays and becomes unreliable.

That's why Trident warheads are regularly transported from the Clyde naval base
to the Atomic Weapons Establishment.

NEED TO KNOW MORE?

www. mod. uk Ministry of Defence.

www. awe. co. uk Atomic Weapons Establishment.

www. banthebomb. org Scottish Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament.

http: //tinyurl. com/k4crv Details on Dr Frank Barnaby.

http: //nukewatch-scotland. org. uk The group that monitors nuclear bomb
convoys.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNHER


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              41 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                             June 12, 2006, Monday
                                 Final Edition

War on terror attacked

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 120 words


The combined efforts of the UK and the US to tackle the war on terror are
creating more problems than they are solving, a highly critical report claimed
today.

Attacks on the scale of September 11 in New York, July 7 in London and the
Madrid bombings in March 2004 are more - rather than less - likely under current
government policies. The report, issued on the day President George Bush was to
discuss the US's future role in Iraq, also said the focus on international
terrorism was distracting attention.

It said threats such as scarcity of natural resources, climate change,
inequality of trade and the nuclear armament of "rogue" states were more
fundamental. The report was compiled by independent Oxford Research Group.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                 June 12, 2006

Terror of attack by gang of yobs

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 285 words


A DISABLED man spoke of his terror after he was mugged by a gang of yobs outside
his home in Sheffield.


The 38-year-old, who does not want to be named for fear of reprisals, was set
upon by four youths who stole his mobile phone and £35 cash as he took his daily
walk on Lowedges Crescent, Low-edges.


The victim, who suffers from back and leg problems, was left badly bruised and
sustained a fractured wrist.


He told The Star: "It was totally unprovoked. I was trying to hold on to a car
to not fall down because I knew if I went down I wouldn't have a chance. They
kicked me to the floor three times but I kept trying to get back up.


"While I was down they punched me in the face, neck and back. I had double
vision because they kicked me so hard in the head. I'm black and blue
everywhere.


"If they would have attacked an old man they would have killed him."


The man's carer was also assaulted.


The yobs grabbed his mobile phone and threw it at his head.


The victim, who has a 17-year-old daughter, added: "My carer doesn't want to
come back up here anymore. He's worried about the repercussions.


" I'm like a rabbit in a corner, I feel so helpless. I'm paranoid about noises
and people walking past the house. I daren't go outside. I want them to be
punished for what they have done to me."


One thug is described as a mixed race boy aged 16 to 17 with short curly
Afro-style hair and of medium build. He was wearing a large puffer jacket and
jeans.


The second offender was a girl aged 15 to 18, with curly Afro-style hair tied
back in a ponytail. They were also accompanied by another black boy and white
boy.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              43 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                       June 16, 2006 Friday 10:40 AM GMT

Australia warns of potential terrorist attack in Pakistan

LENGTH: 178 words


SYDNEY (AFX) - The Australian government has warned of a potential terrorist act
in the Pakistani city of Peshawar, saying Western interests could be attacked.

In a travel advisory issued by the Department for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the
government urged Australians to reconsider any travel to Pakistan due to the
'very high threat of terrorist attack.'

The government continued to receive reports that 'terrorists are planning
attacks against a range of targets, including places frequented by foreigners,'
it said.

The advisory, which largely repeats previous advice, singled out the
northwestern city of Peshawar, close to the border with Afghanistan, as the
potential site of an attack.

'Recent reports suggest that terrorists are planning attacks against Western,
including Australian, individuals and interests in Peshawar, but we emphasize
that attacks could occur at any time, anywhere in Pakistan,' it said.

A suicide bombing in March near the US consulate and Marriott Hotel in the port
city of Karachi killed four people including a US diplomat.

mfc/mtp/jmm/tr

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2006 AFX News Limited

                              44 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 16, 2006 Friday

"Series" of terrorist attacks foiled in Chechen capital

LENGTH: 185 words


Text of report by Russian website Kavkazskiy Uzel on 15 June

15 June: Officers of the Chechen law-enforcement agencies have found a large
cache with weapons, explosives and ammunition in Groznyy.

The cache was found in the Oktyabrskiy district of the Chechen capital. One of
the operatives believes that the militants had been preparing to carry out a
series of terrorist attacks in Groznyy.

"A large cache belonging to bandits was found during searches carried out near
[police] station No 56 in Groznyy's Oktyabrskiy district. It contained two
antitank grenade-launchers, two square metal containers filled with aluminium
powder with detonators, mines, detonators for artillery shells, components for
making landmines, two Kalashnikov machine-guns, an assault rifle and over 700
cartridges for them," the operative said.

"This gives grounds to presume that the militants had been preparing to carry
out a series of terrorist attacks in Groznyy. Work to identify people involved
in the planting of this cache is under way currently," the operative said.

Source: Kavkaz.memo.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 15 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            June 17, 2006, Saturday

TERROR ATTACK SUSPECT IS FLOWN HOME

BYLINE: By Cara Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 305 words


AN Algerian suspected of being an international terrorist was deported from
Britain yesterday.

The man - who can only be identified as "V" - was acquitted in April last year
of involvement in a plot to poison Londoners with the toxin ricin.

A source said he had asked to leave Britain out of "desperation".

The suspect, who is believed to be 32 and single, flew on a scheduled flight
from a London airport to Algiers yesterday afternoon.

He was accompanied by British officials, believed to be from the immigration
service.

He had been in custody at Long Lartin prison in Worcestershire, since September
last year while the Government negotiated his return to Algeria.

The Home Office had previously tried to deport him but were blocked because
human rights laws prevented him being returned to a country where he could face
torture.

But a source close to "V" said he asked to be deported. He added: "Imagine
someone with a family being locked up in a high security prison who does not
know how long he is going to be held.

"This is a chance to be free in Algeria - but to build your life from scratch."

The man was arrested in January 2003 after being in the Manchester flat when
Detective Constable Stephen Oake was stabbed to death by terrorist Kamel
Bourgass during an anti-terror raid.

He was later charged with terrorism offences. Detectives believed he was
planning to smear ricin or other poisons on the door handles of cars and
buildings in the Holloway Road area of London.

Three other Algerian terror suspects have dropped appeals against deportation in
protest at "inhumane" treatment.

A Home Office spokeswoman said: "The British Government are grateful to the
Algerian authorities for their co-operation in facilitating the deportation of
this individual. It is an indication of a shared commitment in the fight against
terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            June 17, 2006, Saturday
                                 Mersey Edition

Sword attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 111 words


TWO brothers from Wirral were last night recovering in hospital after an
unprovoked attack by a man wielding a Samurai sword.

The pair were walking home to Urmson Road, Liscard, when they were attacked by a
lone man armed with a sword during the early hours.

One brother suffered severe head injuries while the other received cuts to his
arm during the attack.

Despite their injuries the brothers, aged 27 and 29, were able to make their way
home and call the emergency services.

The brothers were taken to Arrowe Park Hospital.

The incident took place near the Little Nelson pub on Trafalgar Road, Seacombe.

A police spokeswoman said: "The injuries were not life-threatening."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              June 18, 2006 Sunday

Focus: London Bombings - One Year On: Young, British and Muslim: one woman's
journey to the home of the 7/7 bombers: Next month is the anniversary of the
attacks on London. Three of the terrorists came from Leeds, two from the suburb
of Beeston. Here, writer Urmee Khan reveals her remarkable experience living
with the community which was home to the men who killed in the name of religion

BYLINE: Urmee Khan

SECTION: OBSERVER FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 4065 words


'I would rather die than support Leeds United. I would never support Leeds;
they're a bunch of racist scumbags. Did you hear the rumours at the end of last
season when Leeds played Cardiff at Elland Road? There's was stuff on Leeds fan
sites about teaming up with the Cardiff fans to come here to Beeston and beat
the shit out of Paki terrorists. They are racist fuckers. '

Meet Imran, 28, a Beeston boy, who would later boast of his friendship with one
of the London bombers and his love of fish suppers. His paranoia about living in
Beeston is not unique or surprising.

To get under the skin of a community is hard. When it is scarred as badly as
Beeston - home to two of the 7 July terrorists, with a third from nearby - it
becomes almost impossible. This area of Leeds, in the LS11 postcode with about
5,000 people, has had the world's press gawp and shudder at the place which
'produced the monsters' that killed 52 people and injured hundreds more.

For months afterwards, TV cameras zoomed in on the terrace houses as
correspondents announced: 'I'm standing in front of where the youngest suicide
bomber lived. As you can see this is an area of deprivation and. . .' Their
grave tones cemented an image of an area full of angry people, people who would
give succour to terrorists. Despite such intensive exposure there has never been
a real insight into a place often accused of being 'closed'. We have never heard
the voices and aspirations of people such as Imran.

The 7 July attacks provoked a collective trauma that affected all of us
individually, and I'm no exception. I'm from Redhill in Surrey, in London's
commuter belt. I am also a Muslim. Not a very public one, in that I don't wear
the hijab or go to the mosque every day. But my parents, who came to England
from Bangladesh 30 years ago, have a faith which I think is important. It is my
faith.

One year after the bombings I wanted to test what it is like to be a Muslim in
Britain. I didn't say I was a journalist, but that I was undertaking research
into the issue. Say you're a journalist and people freeze, or show off, or
refuse to speak - particularly if they are women.

I wanted to get to the truth so I moved to Leeds and lived there for a month. I
recorded the experiences and testimonies of wives, mothers, boy racers, youths,
shopkeepers, ex-heroin addicts, religious leaders and everyone else I could find
to speak to. These are the stories of Beeston and of Muslim Britain.

WEEK ONE

Beeston Hill has a parade of shops including one that sells everything at a
pound, several Islamic butchers, a post office, a Chinese restaurant called Chop
Suey, with halal meat dishes, and a pharmacy with a needle exchange for addicts.
Nearby is a park where Shehzad Tanweer, the bomber who blew up himself and eight
innocent people at Aldgate, played cricket the day before the attacks.

My first impressions of Beeston are of surprise. First, I can't believe how
close together it all is - Tempest Road, Lodge Lane, Stratford Street, the
primary school where another bomber, Mohammad Sidique Khan, was a teaching
assistant- all immortalised in the press. Khan, 30, and Tanweer, 22, lived and
worshipped in Beeston. Hasib Mir Hussain, 18, lived in the adjoining Holbeck
area.

The housing was grim looking but far more normal than the menacing streets I
expected. Maybe I had envisaged eerie gothic pathways with shuffling clerics
spreading words of hate. No, it was all drab but very normal.

The area is deprived: 47 per cent of households have people on some form of
state benefit, more than double the average for Leeds as a whole. Ninety-three
per cent of the homes are in the poorest council tax band.

Premises that used to house the area's only dedicated youth club were boarded up
after it was reported that the bombers used to hang out there. Now the only
place which seems to be any sort of youth club is the Hamara Centre (raided by
the police after 7 July), a cheerful set of community offices. One local
resident said of the people involved: 'There's more than a whiff of do-gooder
about them.'

Wearing a headscarf was daunting at first. The last time I had covered myself
was more than 10 years ago. However, in Leeds city centre you realise that shop
assistants look at you acceptingly if your head is covered. But after the first
week, I was at ease with the whole female modesty thing. And it certainly got me
respect from the boy racers in Beeston.

I made my way to the centre expecting it to be run-down and shabby. Instead I
found a vibrant and colourful building in what used to be a church. Notice
boards advertise Pilates classes, Muslim women-only gym work-outs, police
drop-in sessions and a sign advertising cut-price car window tinting. It was
slightly surreal - this could have been any community centre in Britain, yet
this was Beeston.

I smell cooking and see plates of chicken curry and dal for £2, dished out by
two women. I chat with one of them in Bengali: 'I have a daughter at university.
Why don't you move into our house? Your mother will be worried that you are not
eating enough,' she says. I was sent away with a container of second helpings.

Next day I go back for more. I am approached by a young headscarfed woman with
betel nut-stained teeth. She asks if I'm from Bangladesh. There are two types of
people who ask me 'where I'm from' - people from the Home Counties and in
Beeston. Once we establish that my family's from Bangladesh, she tells me her
name is Amina, she's 25, and she's late for her 1pm sewing class.

Amina's home is a terrace house with a green door. We step into her kitchen.
There are a couple of chairs up against a wall with peeling wallpaper and a
table with saucepans. It is a very basic, slightly ramshackle and poor
household. Amina's elderly mother sits on a stool with a frown, chewing nuts
with ferocity. She doesn't say anything apart from offering me tea. Amina's
elderly father, wearing little glasses and with a white beard, comes in carrying
a metal pipe - the boiler in the bathroom is broken.

'I've lived in Beeston for about 20 years and I have four brothers and four
sisters,' Amina says. She is unemployed and gets her classes at the centre for
free but she's looking for a job. 'I've applied to Morrisons and McDonald's, but
they didn't reply. Maybe they want more people with job experience and I haven't
got that.'

As I leave in the early evening, a group of Asian lads are hanging around
outside the chip shop on Tempest Road by the shops. They must be between 15 and
17. They wear a standard outfit in different colours: tracksuit, Nike cap,
Reebok trainers. They are laughing and hitting each other around the head. A
friend cycles up. They chat. I overhear the words 'match', 'prick' and 'chips'.

Next morning I buy chocolate in a grocery shop and am served by Imran. He asks
if I'm a social worker. I say no, a student. Above the counter are St George's
flags on sale at £2. Imran is friendly. I go back later to buy a drink and ask
if he has 10 minutes to talk about urban regeneration for my research.

I meet him after work and we chat in his BMW. Imran asks: 'Have you always worn
that headscarf?' 'Yes,' I lie. 'Smoke?' I shake my head 'You're a good Muslim
Bengali girl, not like apna (our Pakistani) girls. They're no good - the slags.'

For someone like Imran the bombers were more than neighbours - they were his
mates. As we drive around, he lowers his voice and says: 'Don't look back now,
but that lad carrying the blue carrier bag was taken to Paddington Green (police
station in London) because they thought he had something to do with the
bombings.' As I turn around I see a youth wearing a cap disappear into a house.

Imran is about 6ft and quite heavy-looking. He is unshaven and has a big square
diamond stud in his ear. He looks much older than his 28 years. 'I was on heroin
and I used to deal but I've been clean for the past five years,' he says. 'My
mates helped me. I was taken to another mosque, and while the others prayed my
teeth were clattering as I went cold (turkey).'

The boys who helped him get off the drug included 'Kaka (baby) Shehzad Tanweer.
The Aldgate bomber was a good friend of mine,' Imran says.

He goes a bit quiet and says: ' Kasme (promise) you're not secret service?' I
promise and he continues: 'He wasn't a bad lad, you know.' Both Tanweer and Khan
were part of the 'Mullah Crew' who helped local boys to get off drugs and
embrace Islam again.

Imran looks in his rear-view mirror. 'These gora (white people) exaggerate stuff
and we're all suddenly baddies.' It's been especially bad for his mother. He
looks sad. 'She's frazzled. She just can't believe it. Those fucking journalists
have made it hard to live around here.'

Anti-media feeling runs quite deep in this part of LS11, and I grow used to
hearing about the intrusion. It is mostly hate, but a small part is incredulity.
'It's like flipping celebrities everywhere - we had Trevor MacDonald with
security guards! That bloke from Iraq, what's his name. . . John Simpson, and
even Jon Snowdon (sic) came!' Imran said. 'People here couldn't believe people
like that wanted to come to shitty Beeston.'

There were cases of revenge, however. Local boys made one Jewish journalist from
Dallas cry by telling her the bombings were Israel's fault. 'I felt sorry for
her. Those lads had a field day.' Other youths sold made-up stories to
journalists.

Imran's chat seems honest. 'Boys here get married to keep their mums happy. Most
of them tell their blonde girlfriends, "It's all right, I don't really love her.
It's to keep my ma off my back. These mangees ("imported" partners from South
Asia) are a nightmare, you know.'

I realise that many of the young men here are no more religiously observant than
an equivalent group of white men. For example, attendance at a nearby massage
parlour is apparently widespread. 'The lads all use it. It's full of prostitutes
from all over the world. It's been raided so many times I can't believe it's
still going. Most of the girls are trafficked. That's why the Old Bill hangs
around.'

He turns to me: 'Can you cook fish? My family have another grocery shop where
they sell fish and vegetables to the Bengalis. If I bring you a fish and some
coriander, you can cook for me,' he roars with laughter.

I came here expecting lots of angry young men. When the press came here last
July, we were all told about 'disillusioned, young thugs'. And to a certain
extent, there were lads milling about looking, well, pretty disillusioned. A
large number get sucked into the boy racer scene, or use hard drugs. But anger
was not something I experienced: there was not one Free Palestine flag in sight.

Real life is far more neutral. One lad told me teenage boys often get drunk on
vodka in the park. But their talk tends to be about girls and football, not
international jihad. Like Imran, they are pacified by the mundanities of
day-to-day living. Angry marches in central London don't speak for them.

I used to be a student in Leeds and at the end of the second week I go out with
some old university friends in Headingley, the student area. The lifestyle is
alcohol-fuelled decadence, and I realise that my time in Beeston is affecting me
more than I'd anticipated; it's as if my Muslim identity is reacting with the
people I meet in Beeston so I look at white student life through slightly
different eyes.

I see students on the Otley run, a pub crawl from the top of Leeds right down to
the bottom of the city, at least 20 pubs long. There are people dressed as the
118 118 runners in the TV adverts, as bumblebees and in army uniforms.

I leave shortly after seeing a blonde woman eating a chilli burger, a red kidney
bean sliding down her cleavage. I wonder if the students would be shocked to
know that many of the cabbies here live in Beeston and are Muslims. I see two
communities separated by a few miles and a whole mindset.

WEEK TWO

The Asha Centre sits on Stratford Street, about three doors from the vaguely
marked Stratford Street mosque. The only thing distinguishing it from a similar
terrace house nearby is a bright yellow bit of canvas pinned above the door
which says: 'Asha Centre 20 Years'.

This street was a particular focus of newspaper attention following 7/7. The
mosque was reported to be radical . But both the Stratford Street and Hardy
Street mosques had banned the bombers from worshipping, and worked closely with
the police.

The centre is managed by a woman called Niznin. 'I've been here since 1986, I'm
second generation,' she says. 'I'm lucky my father really wanted us to be
educated. And I went to university. We have to encourage education, to get to
college and get degrees. As for going back to Bangladesh, I'm not going back.'

Niznin is exposed to the problems of local first- and second-generation Asians
and, more specifically, Muslims. She tells me about a girl of 16 who has run
away with a married man. 'It is very sad because the girl is now pregnant, and
her mother is so upset and wants to know why her daughter didn't even ask her
(about the problem). If my daughter wanted to run away I would say, tell me, and
you're welcome to go.'

Asked about the poverty of the area she says: 'These houses have been here 100
blooming years and are falling down and schools are closing.'

The centre provides classes and projects for women. With only 25 per cent of
people in the area achieving grades A-C at GCSE (compared with 44 per cent in
Leeds as a whole), these are invaluable.

Niznin explains the compromises that have to be negotiated by some of them. 'If
it's an English class the family starts to get a bit worried they will get too
much freedom. But if they say it's for clothing technology the families
encourage it.' She invites me to be an interpreter for a class the next week. I
say I will.

WEEK THREE

Dawn stands out among the 10 headscarfed women in the sewing room. She is
exasperated. 'How many times have I said you should put the plastic wallets the
right way in the folders otherwise your work will fall out.' She holds up the
ringbinder, and the women look sheepish.

At 9.30am the chat is focused on French hems, seams, folds, and buttonholes. Out
of my depth, I listen to the group of 12 women, half Bangladeshi and half
Pakistani. Some are new brides and all are aged between 20 and 30. Sofia whips
out her mobile phone and shows me a picture of her husband. 'He works in a bank,
we've been married for a year - he's young and attractive, isn't he?'

At lunchtime the women pick up their children at the centre's creche and I sit
in the staff room. It's the normality which is striking. Topics of discussion
include Big Brother - 'Ooh, Sezer is fit,' pipes up one of the white women
workers. Copies of Heat magazine are strewn over the table. We pore over it and
laugh and point at who's too skinny, or too fat. All the women, including those
wearing headscarves and saris, are reading celebrity gossip enthusiastically.
Niznin wants to know if I'm married, and asks if I'm interested in marrying her
son. I know she's deadly serious when she asks: 'Where do your parents live in
Bangladesh? You know, it's very hard to find educated girls from Sylhet
(province) these days.'

I make friends in the class, including a girl called Maryam. She tells me she
had to cook prawn curry and samosas and clean the entire house before she was
able to leave. She is in her early 20s and came to Britain from Pakistan after
marrying a local man. Later she invites me to her mother-in-law's house for
dinner, but I have to pretend to be a distant relative back home from
Bangladesh, such is her unwillingness to reveal she'd been making friends
independently.

The women in Beeston seem to be divided into two types. There are those like
Farida who wants to be hairdressers, and are dressed straight out of Bollywood,
with dyed hair and tight-fitting Asian clothing. The others are like the women I
work with at the centre who have recently arrived from Bangladesh or Pakistan
and are much shyer. I suppose these families hope they will achieve a balanced
lifestyle, with their kids having a bit of both Western culture and a sense of
identity from their homeland. Maybe, however, it just leads to confusion.

This is something I relate to. Both my parents came to this country in the
Seventies and I was born here, feeling pulled in both directions. As children,
we never spoke to my parents in English, and I was put in remedial classes on
the premise that I was 'foreign'. My siblings and I only ever spoke in English
together, which riled my parents. Yes, we were confused, and I am not surprised
at all that the kids of Beeston feel the same.

It is the week of the Forest Gate raid, where two Muslim men are detained as
police storm a house in east London. There are lurid tales in the papers that a
chemical attack has been foiled. One of the brothers is shot in the shoulder.

I ask people in Beeston what they think as the headlines again use imagery of
Muslim people as an enemy within, terrorists. 'Oh the stuff going on in east
London, it's happening again,' one woman says. 'Obviously they got it wrong,
like they got it wrong in Iraq, like they killed that boy in London, I don't
trust these people - MFI, FBI, IE, EF whatever their funny organisations are.
They need to work to reassure the Muslim communities they are not unfairly under
fire.'

Another woman says: 'They have so much dodgy information, but they have to act
on it to protect us. Maybe it's the price we have to pay for living in these
times.' The first woman looked unconvinced, bit into her sandwich and said:
'We'll see'. These debates are happening in kitchens all over the country,
including here. The men were later released without charge. There was no
chemical plot.

On Friday evening I stand and watch as the men leave the mosque. They are all
dressed in traditional salwar kameez and the obligatory religious hat. Across
town, students are putting on hired Burton tuxedos for the Leeds University
summer ball.

The contrast of prayer to God versus the homage to hedonism by thousands of
students gyrating to Rachel Stevens in a field drinking chardonnay is stark. It
is one all young Muslims in Britain face, including those in Beeston.

On Saturday, England play Jamaica in a friendly ahead of the World Cup finals.
In Beeston, England flags flutter sporadically on the streets. The TVs in most
houses are tuned into the match. There's suddenly a round of cheers. England
have scored again and a young Asian man shouts out of the window to a young
woman in a sari. 'Meena, you've got to come and see this, Crouchie's stupid
dance - a right goal fest!'

WEEK FOUR

I am invited to a public meeting at the Al Hikmah Centre in Batley, about seven
miles away. Organised by the Crown Prosecution Service, this 'listening,
reassurance and information seminar' is called Engaging the Muslim Community. It
is an opportunity for Muslims from all over Yorkshire to listen to CPS officials
including its head of counter-terrorism.

There are about 70 people there, mostly elderly religious men. Some of the talk
on race hate legislation and confidence in the criminal justice system feels
like a law lecture. But interesting questions arise afterward such as: 'Why does
Abu Hamza get put away when Nick Griffin (of the BNP) is not prosecuted?' The
older men make long speeches about civil liberties, Iraq and Ireland.

'I remember when all that (the suspicion of Catholics in Britain during the
Seventies) was going on. I know what it feels like for minority communities to
be persecuted - and we are being persecuted,' says one elderly man.

'Muslims around the world are discriminated against,' says another man. 'It is
just like in Iraq and Afghanistan - how can you say that foreign policy doesn't
affect boys here?' A third Muslim man says of the new 'watered down' Religious
Hatred Bill: 'Sikhs and Jews are protected by legislation. Why is it so hard to
protect the Muslims in Britain?'

For the Reverend Bob Shaw, of the Holy Spirit Church in Beeston, the changing
face of the area is an advantage as well as part of its problem. 'There are a
fair number of refugees and asylum seekers from all over. I don't have a big
congregation, but in it I have people from Cameroon, Lebanon, south India,
Ghana, Nigeria, Congo, South Africa and Malawi, and we're just a small
congregation.

'The people here have really pulled together. That's what this community is all
about. It is the most important thing, and it has saved us.'

Last Saturday was Beeston Mela, an Asian fair in Cross Flatts Park. It is an
important day. The organising committee worked until about 11pm the night before
to mark out the stands. It's the first mela since the bombings. It's also the
day of England's first World Cup game.

I have been asked to help on the Asha stall, giving out leaflets and doing henna
painting for 50p a go. I look around and see people of what seems like every
race and nationality - black, Asian, white, Indonesian, you name it. Many are
wearing England shirts. There was an Asian dad telling off his three boys. All
four of them have on identical football outfits.

I admit I was surprised to see little Muslim girls running around with their
faces sporting a red and white St George's flag, as they eat pakoras (an Indian
dish) and bright blue ice lollies. It was everything a fair should be.

During the afternoon, the boys disappear to watch the football, and I remember
the pride with which a friend of Imran's had told me: 'We've bought air horns
for the England games!'

The field is taken over by swarms of young mothers in their best clothes with
their dolled-up young kids. Niznin, who is here, knows most of them. 'You see
Sultana - she was with us in the creche as toddler. Oh and hello, Nasreen.' She
waves. 'When she first came to us she was too shy to come through the front door
and would always come through the back. Now she speaks English fluently and she
even drives!'

A group of boys skulk up to the stall in black hoodies and nod with respect as
Niznin passes. She laughs as the boys run away, and says that 'shatan' and
'shatan's bai' - trouble and trouble's brother - are part of the Asha school
link which supports underachieving Asian boys.

At the end of my month in Beeston, I come to some conclusions about being a
Muslim in a place that entered the public consciousness for all the wrong
reasons, like Dunblane or Lockerbie. Famous because it had some link to tragic
events.

This impoverished community has warmth, hospitality and a decency that is never
reported. I went to Beeston looking for signs of trauma. They are there, of
course - but I came to see it as a neighbourhood, not as the vehicle for events
that happened 200 miles to the south.

As I painted henna tattoos at the mela - including such names as Courtney and
Connor - I had to remind myself that this park was the place where Tanweer had
played cricket, a place that had sent a shudder through me on my first visit.
Beeston is in fact much bigger than those four individuals, and so is Islam.

This journey has been hard for a British Muslim from the edge of London. The
events of 7 July left me sick in the stomach, shocked and angry at the
ideological rubbish which had allowed four so-called Muslim men to unleash
carnage in the name of religion. Our religion.

In Beeston I found kind, decent people: young mums, bored kids, community
cohesion, an interfaith set-up which was the pride of northern England. I came
looking for mullahs bent on destruction. All I found was mothers. I came looking
for answers to explain 7/7 and ended up realising that, just as in every
community, there are complexities here that cannot be explained simply. Yes,
some people are angry. But most are just trying to get on with their lives.

The first anniversary of the July bombings falls in just over a fortnight's
time, and hard, blank faces will greet the inevitable new media intrusions.
We'll get yet more descriptions of a 'closed community', full of danger and an
'it could happen again' mentality. Such descriptions, however, would be wrong.

Some names have been changed

Urmee Khan, right, found youths in Beeston, above, were not interested in jihad.
Lorne Campbell/Guzelian

Above: Police search a house in Colwyn Road, Beeston, after the 7 July bombings.
Shehzad Tanweer, above right, and Sidique Khan, far right, came from the
deprived area of Leeds.

Children enjoy the Beeston Mela.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 18, 2006

Imam backs terror attack against Blair

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo and Abul Taher

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1137 words


Brighton mosque radicalised

A RADICAL Muslim who ousted a leading moderate cleric from his mosque on the
south coast with a campaign of violence has said he believes Tony Blair is a
"legitimate target" for terrorists.

Abubaker Deghayes, who now runs the mosque in Brighton and whose brother Omar is
a detainee at Guantanamo Bay, told an undercover reporter that he endorsed the
views of George Galloway, the Respect MP, who said an attack on the prime
minister by a suicide bomber could be morally justified. Deghayes said he prayed
for Allah to support anyone who attacked Blair.

Court documents show Deghayes took over the mosque using violence, intimidation
and threats. Dr Abduljalil Sajid, a leading imam and a government adviser on
Islam, was forced out as head of the mosque by Deghayes and his supporters.

It is understood Sussex police Special Branch held a number of meetings with
Sajid about extremist elements at the site, but no overt action was taken.
Sajid, chairman of the Muslim Council for Religious and Racial Harmony, is
understood to have raised his concerns about the mosque with Blair.

Police sources have confirmed that in the past extremist literature had been
found at the site and that some of those attending the mosque were suspected of
having fought as "mercenaries" abroad.

The Charity Commission, which has jurisdiction over the mosque because it is run
as a charity, said it did not know how the mosque was receiving and spending
money and added that it was operating "in breach of legal requirements".

A reporter spent two weeks undercover at the Al-Quds mosque, which is in a
detached house in Brighton. On Fridays, it can attract 100-200 worshippers.

Deghayes made his extremist views clear while chatting to the reporter. Asked
whether he shared Galloway's view that the prime minister was a legitimate
target for suicide bombers, he replied: "Yes, I do, I do."

In another conversation, Deghayes said: "He is a legitimate target. Him and Bush
are part of all that we see now."

Later asked if he ever prayed for Blair to be attacked by a Muslim, he said: "I
pray to Allah to support them. Of course, I know anybody who attacks in the name
of Islam, Allah will take care of him."

Deghayes also said he was unconcerned about British troops being killed in Iraq
because the issue was "all clear in international law". "Under international law
anybody who's been invaded, they are entitled to self-defence," he said.

"It's something all countries are signatories to. So what's happening is an
occupation. People in Iraq have every right to liberate themselves."

But he urged the reporter to be careful with whom he discussed his views for
fear of prosecution. Deghayes said: "Don't talk openly, like 'Tony Blair (is) an
open target'. Now you can be taken in for glorifying terrorism.

"(Even) among Muslim brothers ... there are hypocrites, munafiqs (hypocrites).
There are spies, all sorts of people. There's no need to talk about it, to say
like this."

Deghayes this weekend insisted he had understood Galloway to mean Blair was a
legitimate political target. Deghayes, who is from Libya but now has British
citizenship, said he was personally opposed to violence.

The Al-Quds mosque run by Deghayes has links with extremists, according to court
testimony.

David Courtailler, a convicted supporter of Al-Qaeda who is connected to a
number of terrorists responsible for the Madrid bombings and 9/11, converted to
Islam at the Brighton mosque days before travelling to Afghanistan.

Courtailler, who was sentenced to four years in prison in 2004 for aiding
terrorists, was given £ 1,000 by Omar Deghayes to travel to a jihad training
camp in Afghanistan, according to records of his Paris trial.

The revelation surprised supporters of the campaign to free 36-year-old Omar
Deghayes from Guantanamo, where he was sent after being arrested in Pakistan in
2002. He had earlier left Afghanistan where he had lived with his Afghan wife
under the Taliban regime.

Activists have criticised the lack of evidence to justify holding Omar Deghayes,
saying his incarceration is a case of mistaken identity.

According to court records, his older brother Abubaker Deghayes orchestrated a
sustained campaign of intimidation against Sajid.

Deghayes, 38, became aggressive towards those running the Brighton mosque after
they were sceptical about his plan to start an Islamic primary school on the
site in 1996. He told the trustees he wanted to give Muslim children an
education away from "western influences" and "misleading ideologies", but the
scheme was rejected.

In May 1997 Brighton county court found Sajid had been assaulted four times by
Deghayes in December 1996 and January 1997 and was also spat upon and threatened
with a knife by one of his supporters.

Injunctions were issued to prevent Deghayes and his supporters approaching Sajid
but he was forced out of the mosque, followed by the trustees of the Sussex
Muslim Society charity, which operates it.

Deghayes wrote to the Charity Commission in 1996 stating that he and his
followers were in charge but regulators at the commission said at the time they
had not been properly elected and were not entitled to run the charity.

The Charity Commission closed the case in 2004 when new elections were promised,
although by then all the charity's ties with the original trustees had been
severed.

Charity Commission records indicate that since 1998 the charity has filed
incomplete and sporadic accounts. No accounts for the past four financial years
have been received.

The commission said: "The charity is currently in breach of legal requirements
by filing inadequate accounts."

The takeover of the mosque is similar to the coup executed at the Finsbury Park
mosque in north London by Abu Hamza, the hook-handed cleric jailed last year for
inciting murder, who drove out the trustees and imam using violence and slander
so he could use the site to expound his extremist rhetoric.

Hamza also spent some time living at the Brighton mosque in the late 1980s.
Rafique Miah, one of the trustees before the takeover, said: "Abubaker came in
as a worshipper. Then he started to take over. When we told Abubaker, 'This is
England, we have to follow the law,' he would say 'British law under my foot'."

Deghayes insisted his charity had filed accounts regularly. When asked about his
brother's alleged links to Courtailler, he said: "I have no idea what this is
about. The name does not really mean anything to me."

He added: "I don't think George Galloway meant Tony Blair was a target for
assassination, I think he means he is a target to be brought down as a prime
minister, that is how I understood it.

"Anyone who attacks Islam I believe that Allah will take care of him, that is,
Allah will defend Islam. This is what I believe as a Muslim."

Andrew Hasson/Shane McCoy/Robert Newsome

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 18, 2006

Imam backs terror attack on Blair

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo and Abul Taher

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Scotland News; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 565 words


A RADICAL Muslim who ousted a leading moderate cleric from his mosque on the
south coast with a campaign of violence has said he believes Tony Blair is a
"legitimate target" for terrorists.

Abubaker Deghayes, who now runs the mosque in Brighton and whose brother Omar is
a detainee at Guantanamo Bay, told an undercover reporter that he endorsed the
views of George Galloway, the Respect MP, who said an attack on the prime
minister by a suicide bomber could be morally justified. Deghayes said he prayed
for Allah to support anyone who attacked Blair.

Court documents show Deghayes took over the mosque using violence, intimidation
and threats. Dr Abduljalil Sajid, a leading imam and a government adviser on
Islam, was forced out as head of the mosque by Deghayes and his supporters.

It is understood Sussex police Special Branch held a number of meetings with
Sajid about extremist elements at the site, but no overt action was taken.
Sajid, chairman of the Muslim Council for Religious and Racial Harmony, is
understood to have raised his concerns about the mosque with Blair.

Police sources have confirmed that extremist literature had been found at the
site and that some of those attending the mosque were suspected of having fought
as "mercenaries" abroad.

The Charity Commission, which has jurisdiction over the mosque because it is run
as a charity, said that it did not know how the mosque was receiving and
spending money and added that it was operating "in breach of legal
requirements".

A reporter spent two weeks undercover at the Al-Quds mosque, which is in a
detached house in Brighton. On Fridays, it can attract 100-200 worshippers.

Deghayes made his extremist views clear while chatting to the reporter. Asked
whether he shared Galloway's view that the prime minister was a legitimate
target for suicide bombers, he replied: "Yes, I do, I do."

In another conversation, Deghayes said: "He is a legitimate target. Him and Bush
are part of all that we see now."

Later asked if he ever prayed for Blair to be attacked by a Muslim, he said: "I
pray to Allah to support them. Of course, I know anybody who attacks in the name
of Islam, Allah will take care of him."

Deghayes also said he was unconcerned about British troops being killed in Iraq
because the issue was "all clear in international law". "Under international law
anybody who's been invaded, they are entitled to self-defence," he said.

"It's something all countries are signatories to. So what's happening is an
occupation. People in Iraq have every right to liberate themselves."

But he urged the reporter to be careful with whom he discussed his views for
fear of prosecution. Deghayes said: "Don't talk openly, like 'Tony Blair (is) an
open target'. Now you can be taken in for glorifying terrorism. (Even) among
Muslim brothers ... there are hypocrites. There are spies, all sorts of people.
There's no need to talk about it, to say like this."

Deghayes insisted he had understood Galloway to mean Blair was a legitimate
political target. Deghayes, who is from Libya but now has British citizenship,
said he was personally opposed to violence.

The mosque has links with extremists, according to court testimony. David
Courtailler, a convicted supporter of Al-Qaeda who is connected to terrorists
responsible for the Madrid bombings and 9/11, converted to Islam at the Brighton
mosque days before travelling to Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                             June 19, 2006, Monday

2 GUNNED DOWN IN KEBAB SHOP ATTACK;
TERROR HOURS AFTER PETROL BOMB

BYLINE: By Mark McGivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 280 words


TWO kebab shop workers have been shot by a hooded raider.

The shootings happened after the same shop was targeted in a petrol bomb attack
hours earlier.

Police were last night probing any links between the raids at Tony's India
Nights takeaway in the Blairdardie area of Glasgow.

The male victims, aged 21 and 24, were recovering in hospital after the Saturday
night shootings and detectives have launched an attempted murder inquiry.

The attacks were carried out by a white man, in his late teens to early 20s, in
a grey hooded top.

He raced from the scene in a dark car with blacked-out windows. The car was seen
heading towards Great Western Road.

Detective Inspector Simon Midgley said: "At this time, we are trying to
establish a motive. However, there was a suspicious fire at the premises around
6.10am on Saturday morning.

"Whilst we have nothing definite to link these incidents at this time, we are
keeping an open mind.

"I would appeal to anyone who may have been in the area of Blairdardie Road
around 12.45am this morning who may have witnessed the incident or anyone who
has any information that they think might assist the investigation to come
forward."

The shop is owned by the Lally family, who are well known in the area.

Last night, a family spokesman said: "We are in the dark about this. We don't
know of any reason for people wanting to target the shop."

The spokesman said that the shop was formerly run by Tony Lally, in his late
20s, but that it had been leased to another businessman several months ago.

Another worker at the shop said: "I only found out what happened the next day. I
don't know what is behind it because there has never been any hassle here
before."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: A policewoman stands outside the shop yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              June 19, 2006 Monday

Terror plotter was ready to attack

SECTION: LSE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 107 words


A PAKISTANI-born architect accused of plotting an attack on Australian soil was
convicted today of three terrorism-related offences.

A New South Wales court heard Faheem Khalid Lodhi, 36, had compiled maps of
Australia's electricity grid and downloaded aerial images of Sydney military
bases in preparation for the attack.

Prosecutors also said Lodhi, an Australian citizen, had inquired about
bomb-making chemicals and had kept a handwritten notebook with instructions for
making bombs, detonators and poisons.

He was charged under strict new antiterrorism laws which allow a maximum penalty
of life in jail. He is due to be sentenced on 29 June.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 20, 2006 Tuesday

Five Algerian soldiers killed in "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 94 words


Text of report by A. Fersaci entitled: "Five Soldiers Killed in Medea" published
on Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 19 June

Five soldiers were killed Friday [16 June] evening in Gouia on the hills of
Mongorno in the municipality of Berrouaghia. A security source said that the
victims were caught in a terrorist ambush as they made their way to rejoin their
detachment.

Immediately after, the joint security forces launched a large scale search
operation which was still ongoing at the time of going to press.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 19 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 June 20, 2006

Man gets six years for terror gun attack;
Thug threatened to kill ex-girlfriend and teenage son

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 279 words


A MAN held a gun at a terrified teenager's head and told him: "One, two, three,
four, bang - you're dead."

The 17-year-old victim cried out "No, no, no!" during the ordeal, a court was
told today.

Gunman Arthur Tait then terrorised the youth's mother by punching her, choking
her with a scarf, putting a knife to her throat and setting her leg on fire with
lighter fuel.

He was jailed for six years for the attack on his ex-girlfriend and her son.

Tait, formerly of Drumellan Street, Maybole, Ayrshire, was originally charge
with attempting to murder Sandra Baird at her home in Miller Terrace, Maybole,
on February 5.

But the Crown accepted his plea of guilty to a reduced charge of breaking into
the house and assaulting her to her severe injury. He also admitted assaulting
her son Kenneth.

The High Court in Edinburgh was told Tait, 23, forced his way into Ms Baird's
home at 11pm.

He grabbed the 33-yearold by the hair and hauled her out of bed and into the
living room, punching her.

"He told her: "This is what happens when you play about with my head."

Tait then put a gun to her son's head.

He wrapped a football scarf round Ms Baird's neck and pulled it tightly until
she gasped for breath, before letting it go.

He put a knife to her throat and told her: "I'm gonnae put you both in a box."

Tait splashed lighter fuel on her leg and lit it but she managed to put out the
flames with her hands.

He punched her in the face and ribs and forced her to leave her home.

On the way to his home he indicated a cemetery and said to Ms Baird: "See that
graveyard - that's where you're going."

Ms Baird's son called the police and officers burst into Tait's home to find Ms
Baird in a bedroom.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              54 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Mondaq Business Briefing

                                 June 21, 2006

United States: San Luis Obispo Mothers for Peace v. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission: Risk of Terrorist Attack Is Not Too Speculative for Consideration
Under NEPA

BYLINE: By Jay Silberg, Norman Carlin and Mathew J. Swain

LENGTH: 1754 words


The Ninth Circuit recently held in San Luis Obispo Mothers for Peace v. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, No. 03-74628, 2006 WL 1511889 (9th Cir. June 2, 2006)
("Mothers for Peace") that, as a matter of law, the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission ("NRC") erred in determining that the National Environmental Policy
Act ("NEPA") does not require the agency to consider the potential environmental
impacts of terrorist attacks at nuclear facilities. This decision departs from
precedent in major respects. If the Ninth Circuit's reasoning is adopted by
other agencies and courts, environmental review under NEPA and equivalent state
laws could be affected for a wide range of industrial and public projects that
may be seen as terrorist targets. Project developers, licensees and license
applicants, and investors should be aware of this decision and consider
appropriate steps to address any new licensing risks.

Background

In 2001, Pacific Gas and Electric Co. ("PG&E") applied to the NRC for a license
to construct and operate an Interim Spent Fuel Storage Installation at its
Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant in San Luis Obispo, California. The facility
would be used for the aboveground, temporary on-site storage of spent nuclear
fuel.

In 2002, San Luis Obispo Mothers for Peace and others ("Petitioners") petitioned
the NRC to intervene in the licensing proceeding, seeking to raise a number of
issues including the need to consider the environmental impacts of a terrorist
attack on the facility. The NRC denied their attempts to introduce terrorism as
a concern under NEPA, on four grounds: (1) the possibility of a terrorist attack
is too removed from the natural or expected consequences of agency action; (2)
the risk of a terrorist attack cannot be determined, rendering any analysis
meaningless; (3) NEPA does not require a "worst-case" analysis; and (4) NEPA's
public process is not an appropriate forum for sensitive security issues. In
2003, the NRC issued an Environmental Assessment ("EA") for the proposed
facility. Noting that the NRC considers security issues as part of its safety
review and has taken additional measures to protect the security of spent fuel
storage facilities, the EA concluded that "an NRC environmental review is not
the appropriate forum for consideration of terrorist acts." Petitioners
challenged the NRC's denial of their attempt to raise the risk of terrorist
attack as a NEPA issue. The Court denied Petitioners' other claims under the
Atomic Energy Act and Administrative Procedure Act, but agreed with their NEPA
claim.

The Ninth Circuit's Decision

NEPA has the twin aims of obligating a federal agency to consider environmental
impacts before undertaking or approving a proposed action, and ensuring that the
public is informed. The Ninth Circuit found that the question whether NEPA
requires consideration of the environmental impacts of terrorist attacks is
primarily a question of law, which should be reviewed for "reasonableness,"
rather applying than the more deferential standard of review for an agency's
factual findings. The Court then addressed the NRC's four grounds as follows.

First, the Court determined that the possibility of terrorist attacks is not so
"remote and highly speculative" that their environmental impacts can be excluded
from consideration under NEPA. The NRC failed to address factual contentions
that the new facility would increase the risk of an attack. Moreover, the Court
concluded, the NRC's position was "inconsistent with the government's efforts
and expenditures to combat this type of terrorist attack at nuclear facilities"
(id. at *11), in particular the agency's "top to bottom" security review against
terrorist threats.

Second, the Court held that the numeric probability of a terrorist attack need
not be precisely quantifiable in order for its potential environmental impacts
to be considered. Rather, the Court found, the proper inquiry is whether the
risk of an attack is significant. If so, then NEPA requires taking a "hard look"
at the environmental consequences of a terrorist attack. Moreover, the NRC
failed to show that that the risk of an attack is actually unquantifiable, given
that the agency claimed to have undertaken meaningful assessments of such risk
in other contexts.

Third, the Court determined that the NRC erred by characterizing Petitioners'
request as a demand for a "worst-case" analysis. As the NRC correctly pointed
out, former Council on Environmental Quality ("CEQ") regulations requiring a
worst-case analysis are no longer in effect. However, the current CEQ
regulations do require an analysis of events with potentially catastrophic
consequences, "even if their probability of occurrence is low, provided that the
analysis of impacts is supported by credible evidence, is not based on pure
conjecture, and is within the rule of reason." (Id. at *13, quoting 40 C.F.R.
Para. 1502.22(b)(4).) According to the Court, Petitioners did not ask the NRC to
engage in conjecture on the worst-case outcome, but instead sought an analysis
of the likely range of environmental impacts if an attack occurred.

Fourth, the Court held that "[t]here is no support for the use of security
concerns as an excuse from NEPA's requirements." (Id. at *15.) Though security
considerations may permit or require modification of some of the NEPA procedures
to limit the public disclosure of sensitive information, allowing a "security
exemption" from NEPA would be inconsistent with one of NEPA's purposes: to
ensure that the public can contribute to the body of information being
considered by the agency. The Court noted that the NRC did not articulate any
explanation for its unwillingness to consider the information that Petitioners
offered to contribute to the process.

Having failed to consider the potential environmental impacts of a terrorist
attack, the EA was found to be inadequate. In remanding to the NRC, the Court
stated that its decision "should not be construed as constraining the NRC's
consideration of the merits on remand, or circumscribing the procedures that the
NRC must employ in conducting its analysis." (Id. at *16.)

Effects of the Ninth Circuit's Decision

The NRC and PG&E have not yet decided whether to seek rehearing, rehearing en
banc or Supreme Court review. Should the Mothers for Peace decision become law,
when considering proposed nuclear projects within the Ninth Circuit, the NRC
must consider public comments regarding the potential environmental impacts of a
terrorist attack. If the agency determines that the risk of attack is
significant, it must then evaluate the potential environmental impacts.

The reasoning of Mothers for Peace could prove persuasive to other agencies and
courts as well. However, there is reason to doubt that this is a sound decision.
Among other issues, the U.S. Supreme Court has held that to require
consideration of a particular effect under NEPA, there must be a "reasonably
close causal relationship" between the effect and the proposed action.
Metropolitan Edison Co. v. People Against Nuclear Energy, 460 U.S. 766, 774
(1983). While the Ninth Circuit seeks to distinguish Metropolitan Edison, the
relationship between the NRC's decision to license the facility and the
hypothetical terrorist attack nevertheless seems too attenuated to meet the
standard of a "reasonably close causal relationship."

In addition, Mothers for Peace conflicts with Second, Third and Eighth Circuit
decisions upholding the exclusion of terrorism risks from consideration under
NEPA. In New York v. U.S. Department of Transportation, 715 F.2d 732, 750 (2nd
Cir. 1982), cert. denied, 465 U.S. 1055 (1984), the Second Circuit held that the
"risks of sabotage were too far afield for consideration" in NEPA review of
proposed transport routes for radioactive material. In Limerick Ecology Action
v. NRC, 869 F.2d 719, 743-44 (3rd Cir. 1989), the Third Circuit found that
existing risk assessment methods did not provide a meaningful basis to assess
risks of sabotage to a proposed nuclear power plant. These cases preceded the
attacks of September 11, 2001. However, in a more recent case, the Eighth
Circuit found supplemental NEPA review unnecessary for railroad projects
approved before September 11, because any increased terrorist threat to the
nation's transportation system was general in nature and not specific to these
projects. Mid States Coalition for Progress v. Surface Transportation Board, 345
F.3d 520, 544 (8th Cir. 2003).

NEPA Practice Implications

Nuclear power plants are not the only facilities that may be seen as potential
terrorist targets. If the Ninth Circuit's reasoning is widely followed, it could
affect the procedures and scope of environmental review under NEPA and similar
state laws, such as the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA"). A wide
range of industrial and public projects, including energy facilities, dams,
urban infrastructure, transportation facilities and the like, could be affected.
Many agencies will be ill-equipped to deal with terrorism issues substantively
or procedurally. The knowledge and expertise of the project applicant will
likely be increasingly important.

However, the Court left open the possibility that an agency faced with NEPA
comments raising the terrorism issue could reject them on the merits.
Presumably, an agency would be entitled to deal with such issues on a generic
basis, as with other environmental issues. See, e.g., Baltimore Gas & Electric
Co. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, 462 U.S. 17 (1983). In addition, the
decision confirms an agency's ability to modify NEPA's public participation
process as needed to prevent the disclosure of sensitive security information.

Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman's Energy and Environment, Land Use & Natural
Resources practice teams monitor developments in nuclear regulation and
environmental law. If you wish to obtain more details on the Mothers for Peace
case and its implications, or to develop strategies for projects that require
federal approval, please contact the Pillsbury lawyer with whom you work or one
of the authors of this article.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide

to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your

specific circumstances.

Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP
101 West Broadway
Suite 1800
San Diego
CA 92101-8219
UNITED STATES
Fax: 619236 1995
E-mail: lisa.christensen@pillsburylaw.com
URL: www.pillsburylaw.com



(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2006 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                           Copyright 2006 Mondaq Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            June 21, 2006, Wednesday

Eta suspects detained before talks to end terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Graham Keeley

SECTION: OVERSEAS NEWS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 164 words


Anti-terrorist police in Spain and France arrested 12 members of Eta's extortion
network yesterday, delivering the biggest blow against the terrorist group since
it announced a permanent ceasefire (Graham Keeley writes).

Police said that the suspects had spent the past 20 years extracting what Eta
calls a "revolutionary tax" from terrified victims, mostly in the Basque
Country.

Among those arrested were Julen de Madariaga, one of the founders of Eta, and
Angel Iturbe Abasolo, the financial brains of the Basque separatist
organisation.

Juan Fernando Lopez Aguilar, the Spanish Justice Minister, said that the arrests
would not affect the planned peace talks with Eta that are due to start within
weeks. "This won't make any difference at all...to the Government's decision to
take an historic opportunity to end Eta's violence," he said.

But Arnaldo Otegi, the leader of Batasuna, the banned political wing of Eta,
condemned the arrests as a "clear and frontal attack on hopes for peace".

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                   AFX - Asia

                      June 22, 2006 Thursday 12:38 PM GMT

Philippines warns of possible terrorist attack ahead of ASEAN summit

LENGTH: 233 words


MANILA (XFN-ASIA) - President Gloria Arroyo's chief security officer warned of a
possible terrorist attack in the Philippines ahead of the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) summit in December.

Brigadier-General Delfin Bangit, commander of the Presidential Security Group
(PSG), said the unit has formally tabled a request to boost its size by at least
700 soldiers, though he said there is no specific threat against the 18 heads of
government set to attend the meeting.

'I refer to some international terrorist groups, and our intelligence has been
consistently monitoring the developments.'

He added: 'This is one particular area of PSG concern.'

Bangit said he received a security briefing about the terror threat late last
night. 'It's the regular terrorism, terrorist act of bombing and the like,' he
said, without naming any specific targets.

He said the PSG is closely coordinating with the rest of the armed forces as
well as the national police.

Leaders of ASEAN members Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar,
the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam as well as some of the group's
major trading partners are scheduled to hold a summit in the central city of
Cebu in mid-December.

'We are undermanned by more than 700 and approximately another 100 officers,' he
said.

However, 'by all indications, we will be able to carry out ASEAN very
successfully.'

str/cgm/sm/net

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2006 AFX News Limited

                              57 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                              June 23, 2006 Friday

Mum (25) in sex attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 258 words


This is the face of a man who sexually assaulted and punched a young mum in
front of her two-year-old child.

He is one of two men being hunted by police following the attack in broad
daylight.

The 25-year-old victim was walking along a path between the Curzon Estate and
Clinton Park, in Tattershall, when she was assaulted at around 2.45pm on
Tuesday.

Two men approached the woman from behind on mountain bikes.

She stood aside to let them pass when one of the men grabbed her by the neck.
The other man stepped in front of her, grabbed her and tried to undo her belt.

He tried to kiss her and indecently assaulted her.

The woman later told police she lashed out at the man touching her when her
child, who was in his pushchair, began to cry.

He then punched her in the face and both men fled the scene.

Police said both the woman and her son had been left extremely shaken.

Officers, who are appealing for witnesses, have released an e-fit photograph of
one of the men.

It is of a white man, aged 20 to 25, slim, and around 5ft 8in to 5ft 10in tall.

He had acne-ridden skin, bad teeth  and was  gaunt-looking.

He wore a dark blue baseball cap with a New York Yankees team logo on the front,
a dark blue short-sleeved V-necked shirt and dark blue jeans.

He smelled of stale sweat and had scars on the back of his hands, which were
cracked and dry with chewed nails.

The second man is described as olive-skinned and unshaven.  He  smelled of sweat
and wore a red or plain maroon T-shirt, and royal blue tracksuit bottoms with
white stripes running down either side.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                              June 23, 2006 Friday

Mum (25) in sex attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 258 words


This is the face of a man who sexually assaulted and punched a young mum in
front of her two-year-old child.

He is one of two men being hunted by police following the attack in broad
daylight.

The 25-year-old victim was walking along a path between the Curzon Estate and
Clinton Park, in Tattershall, when she was assaulted at around 2.45pm on
Tuesday.

Two men approached the woman from behind on mountain bikes.

She stood aside to let them pass when one of the men grabbed her by the neck.
The other man stepped in front of her, grabbed her and tried to undo her belt.

He tried to kiss her and indecently assaulted her.

The woman later told police she lashed out at the man touching her when her
child, who was in his pushchair, began to cry.

He then punched her in the face and both men fled the scene.

Police said both the woman and her son had been left extremely shaken.

Officers, who are appealing for witnesses, have released an e-fit photograph of
one of the men.

It is of a white man, aged 20 to 25, slim, and around 5ft 8in to 5ft 10in tall.

He had acne-ridden skin, bad teeth  and was  gaunt-looking.

He wore a dark blue baseball cap with a New York Yankees team logo on the front,
a dark blue short-sleeved V-necked shirt and dark blue jeans.

He smelled of stale sweat and had scars on the back of his hands, which were
cracked and dry with chewed nails.

The second man is described as olive-skinned and unshaven.  He  smelled of sweat
and wore a red or plain maroon T-shirt, and royal blue tracksuit bottoms with
white stripes running down either side.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 24, 2006 Saturday
                                  Eire Edition

7 'PLOTTED TO BLOW UP SEARS';
FBI FOIL TERROR ATTACK ON TOWER

BYLINE: BY RYAN PARRY US CORRESPONDENT IN NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 226 words


SEVEN men plotted to blow up America's tallest building in an attack "just as
good or greater" than 9/11.

The American "homegrown terrorists" - allegedly part of a radical Black Muslim
group - were arrested in an FBI raid in northern Miami.

It's believed the group was planning to attack Chicago's Sears Tower - which
stands at 1,450ft tall - and the FBI's HQ in Florida.

The group called "Seas of David" wanted to be an al- Qaeda cell and even pledged
a blood oath to Osama Bin Laden.

The group were set to launch a "full ground war" against the US and plotted to
"kill all the devils we can", officials have revealed.

FBI agents raided a warehouse where the suspects lived on Thursday. No weapons
or explosives were found but officials said they had made plans to buy
bomb-making materials.

According to court documents, a man named as Narseal Batiste recruited and
trained the others "for a mission to wage war against the United States
government".

Batiste met with an FBI agent who was posing as an al-Qaeda fanatic and asked
for guns, radios, vehicles and pounds 30,000.

Speaking in Washington, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales said the seven, five
US citizens and two foreigners, had been charged with conspiracy to support a
terror group, levy war against the US and conspiracy to cause explosions.

All seven face life in jail if convicted.

r.parry@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: Sears Tower

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            June 24, 2006, Saturday

9/11 terrorist attacks in America

BYLINE: Compiled by Bess Twiston-Davies

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 76

LENGTH: 89 words


A poll has found that most Muslims in Turkey, Jordan, Indonesia and Eygpt do not
believe that Arabs committed the 9/11 terrorist attacks in America.

More than 14,000 Muslims and non-Muslims in 13 countries were surveyed by the
Pew Research Center. "The most salient findings include the extent to which
Muslims have an aggrieved view of the West, and Westerners are sceptical and
wary of Muslim values," said Andrew Kohut, the centre's president. "British
Muslims were the most radicalised and the French Muslims were the most
temperate."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 26, 2006, Monday
                             Black Country Edition

Girl, 3, in dog attack terror

BYLINE: Gurdip Thandi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 212 words


A TODDLER was rushed to hospital after being savaged by a dog in the Black
Country.

The three-year-old girl is thought to have been bitten on the head by a bull
terrier as she played in the garden of her home in Bewley Road, Willenhall, at
around 2.40pm yesterday.

The animal, owned by a neighbour, was set to be destroyed following the
incident.

Paramedics rushed the little girl to the Manor Hospital, Walsall, after she
suffered the head injury.

Her wound was described as nasty but not life-threatening and she was
transferred to Birmingham Children's Hospital for further treatment today.

It is believed she may need plastic surgery.

Insp Dick Cowley, of Bloxwich Police, said: "The dog was a bull terrier and the
child suffered a nasty, but not life-threatening head injury.

"We have been told the dog is going to be destroyed.

"People need to be careful with dogs near children and the consequences of a dog
getting out of control can be serious, as this unfortunate incident has shown."

A West Midlands Police spokesman said that a 47-year-old man had been arrested
at the scene and had been charged with having a dog dangerously out of control
in a public place.

He has been bailed to appear before Walsall magistrates on July 3.

Probe into motorbike death crash STORY: PAGE 3

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRIBUTES... flowers at the crash scene today.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                              June 26, 2006 Monday
                                 First Edition

From barking bad to top dog;
PET TRAINING: When your mutt isn't being a good boy there's help at hand to dish
out some discipline and woof justice WHAT happens when your pooch is no longer
man's best friend and starts creating havoc? The country seems to be over-run
with caninec troublemakers who terrorise owners, attack visitors and drive
neighbours round the bend.p So who are you going to call to tackle your tearaway
dog? Barkbusters of course.

BYLINE: KAREN HAMBRIDGE reports.

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 323 words


FOR Louise Mokrzycki it's often harder training the owners of delinquent dogs
than it is the dogs themselves.

But that's all part of the job for the Coventry and Warwickshire representative
of national dog discipline company, Barkbusters.

Louise, who lives in Ashby but is originally from Fillongley, has been a
Barkbuster for almost three years.

She says the techniques she uses owe much to common sense and knowledge of dog
behaviour.

"Dogs are pack animals and need a strong leader so the owner has to put
themselves in that position," said Louise, who is married to Jan, a sales and
marketing director and has two children, Anya, 15 and James, 12.

"Unfortunately owners forget this and often treat their dogs more like
children."

She said consistency and firmness were essential and solutions might be simple.

"If you are out all day and you don't do a lot with the dog, then of course the
dog is going to get bored," explained 42-year-old Louise, who owns a German
Shepherd, Keira.

"And taking it to the park, letting it off the leash and letting it run around
is not enough.

"A dog needs stimulation. If it gets bored it will start to attention seek and
that may mean chewing or other destructive behaviour."

Her work she says is as much training the owner as the dog and sometimes it can
mean radical changes in the way the owner acts to prompt improvement in their
pet.

"The techniques we use do work, but it can be tough for the owners.

"Sometimes owners find they have to treat the dog very differently. If you let
the dog sleep on your bed for example of course it's going to become territorial
and will object if someone else sleeps there too."

Barkbusters training always takes place in the dog's home environment, essential
says Louise as the animal's behaviour may be different in other situations and
the training less effective.

For more information or to contact Barkbusters call 0808 100 4071 or visit the
website www.barkbusters.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                              June 26, 2006 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Bat terror attack

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 50 words


Baseball bat raiders robbed a Tyneside Co-op last night.

They struck at the Co-op on Brookland Terrace supermarket in New York, North
Shields, and detectives are trying to speak to witnesses and piece together
exactly what happened during the 10pm raid.

Anyone with information should call (0191) 214 6555.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 27, 2006 Tuesday

Philippine police guard "vital institutions" against possible terror attacks

LENGTH: 300 words


Excerpt from report by Delon Porcalla with Paolo Romero published in English by
Philippine newspaper The Philippine Star website on 27 June

Security has been heightened at the House of Representatives and the
Sandiganbayan after authorities received reports that terrorists were plotting
to bomb vital installations in Quezon City.

Police and security sources told reporters that "there might be a series of
bombings of vital installations, among them the Batasan Pambansa and the
Sandiganbayan."

Intelligence reports also identified radio and television stations in Quezon
City including ABS-CBN and GMA-7, and their radio stations, dzMM and dzBB,
respectively.

Reliable sources said the bombings "might occur between 1 and 3 p.m. [local
time]" yesterday and today.

Sandiganbayan sheriff Ed Urieta said they had already made security arrangements
with the Quezon City police and had deployed two bomb-sniffing dogs to scour the
five-story Sandiganbayan building on Commonwealth Avenue for any trace of
explosive devices.

"We have already scoured the area with the K-9 dogs," he said.

"We are on a heightened alert. But we are still coordinating with the local
police just in case. It's still business as usual here."

At Malacanang [the presidential palace], Executive Secretary Eduardo Ermita said
authorities are ready to confront terror threats.

"We often receive such information of possible bombings and other attacks and we
make it a point to verify all of them," he said. "While we do that, we put up
measures and contingencies and we're prepared to meet such threats."

Ermita called for full cooperation from the people, particularly in reporting
suspicious incidents and information that could indicate terror activities.
[passage omitted]

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 27 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Belfast Telegraph

                             June 27, 2006 Tuesday

Dogs Terror;
Frightening new figures reveal attacks are occurring at the rate of two every
day

BYLINE: By Michael McHugh

LENGTH: 354  words


There were calls for action on dangerous dogs last night after it emerged that
there have been more than 3,000 dog attacks in Ulster over the last five years.

The shocking figure of 3,683, equating to 14 attacks a week, has prompted alarm
from parents and calls for more effective dangerous dogs legislation.

The statistics for 2000-2004 were released following two incidents in east
Belfast last month in which a six-year-old girl was bitten in the face and an
11-year-old boy had part of his ear bitten off as he walked home from school.

Pip Jaffa from the Parents' Advice Centre said she was concerned at the news.

"There are issues about children being attracted to dogs because they are cuddly
and fun, so it is important for adults to supervise children when they are near
dogs," she said.

"It is about being sensible and keeping the children supervised because an
attack by a dog may be very serious.

"The bottom line is that it can frighten children and while most dogs are okay
they need to be approached with caution."

Last month a six-year-old girl had to be taken to hospital, after being bitten
in the face by a Staffordshire bull terrier, at Trillick Street, in the east of
the city.

The girl received stitches to her face after the lunchtime incident.

The attack followed an earlier case in which a dog described as an illegal pit
bull terrier attacked Patrick Gorman as he was walking to his home in the
Markets area from school.

Patrick was stroking the dog when it lunged at him and bit his ear off. The
owner denied that the dog was illegal.

East Belfast MP Peter Robinson obtained the figures in Westminster.

There have been 10 pit bull-type animals destroyed under the Dangerous Dogs
Order in the last five years.

Relatively few cases have been prosecuted by district councils under the
Dangerous Dogs legislation. A USPCA spokesman said: "It would be our view that
better enforcement of the law would help situation but there are also
responsibilities on dog owners."

Belfast City Council, which is responsible for enforcement, said there have been
no prosecutions for possession of a pit bull during the last 12 years.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             June 27, 2006 Tuesday

Politics: Human Rights Act: Cameron's call to repeal legislation would not end
deportation battles, say ministers: Tory leader says act harming anti-terror
fight: Lord chancellor attacks plan as 'nonsense'

BYLINE: Will Woodward and Alan Travis

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 689 words


David Cameron's plan to introduce a bespoke British "bill of rights" would do
nothing to prevent suspected terrorists using European law to resist
deportation, ministers said last night.

The Tory leader's call yesterday for a replacement to the Human Rights Act
provoked debate across legal and political circles and showed yet again his
ability to seize the news agenda.

He received unexpected support from Lady Helena Kennedy, the independent-minded
lawyer who sits on Labour benches in the House of Lords, but he was also
condemned by several leading lawyers and opposition politicians.

Mr Cameron tore into the Human Rights Act, introduced by the government in 1998,
while insisting Britain would remain a signatory of the European convention on
human rights (ECHR) which the act enshrines.

Lord Falconer, the lord chancellor, clashed with Oliver Letwin, the
Conservatives' policy chief, on Radio 4's PM programme yesterday. He said it was
"nonsense" to suggest Mr Cameron's plan could overcome the government's failure
to remove nine Afghan hijackers allowed to stay in the UK in May after a judge
ruled that to deport them would deprive them of their human rights. Lord
Falconer said the defence in this, and other cases, relied on Article 3 of the
convention which rules that no one shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman
or degrading treatment or punishment. "The interpretation . . . applies right
across Europe on this," he said.

Government sources said the change would do nothing to circumvent the Chahal
case of 1996, where a court prevented the deportation of a Sikh militant to
India. Britain is trying to get this ruling overturned at Strasbourg and is
supported by four other countries. In both cases, the European convention
retained primacy. "The ECHR's the daddy," said one official.

In his speech at the Centre for Policy Studies yesterday Mr Cameron said that
while the Human Rights Act had set some positive precedents, such as the right
of older married couples not to be separated in different care homes, the act
was undermining the battle against terrorism.

"It is practically an invitation for terrorists and would-be terrorists to come
to Britain, safe in the knowledge that whatever crime they may have committed in
their home country and whatever suspicion there may be that they might be
planning a terrorist attack in the UK or elsewhere, they won't be sent back to
their country of origin and may not even be detained, because the process is so
compli cated and time-consuming for the government," he said. Removing the act
would not solve the problem, but a "clearly set out constitutional doctrine",
such as the Germans have with their "basic law", would help the UK.

Lady Kennedy said campaigners such as lobby group Charter 88 had argued for
years that Britain needed its own British bill of rights, but Labour had
introduced a limited version which did little more than enshrine the ECHR. "The
reality is that the European convention on human rights would be the backbone,
the skeleton on which you put more flesh," she told Radio 4's Today programme.
"I would like us to protect trial by jury. That's why I'm in favour of a bill of
rights because we have seen an erosion of our common law."

Peter Facey, of Charter 88, said: "We welcome David Cameron's commitment . . .
If he wants to protect citizens rights and ensure they cannot be infringed by
any government he should start a nationwide debate on whether we should have a
written constitution." The Lib Dem Lord Carlile, the government's watchdog on
the terrorism laws, said Mr Cameron should be ashamed for putting forward such
an "ill-thought out and populist proposal".

The proposals were also criticised last night by Mr Cameron's former tutor,
Oxford politics professor Vernon Bogdanor. He told Channel 4 News: "I think
there is more to politics about this than there is about constitutional theory.
I believe its ill thought-out and confused . . . He may have forgotten some of
the things I've taught him. I'd be happy to give him a few more tutorials on
civil liberties."

Comment, page 29 > Leader comment, page 30 > guardian.co.uk/politics>

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 28, 2006 Wednesday

Russian TV gives more details on terrorist attack in Groznyy

LENGTH: 141 words


Text of report by Russian Centre TV on 28 June

Another terrorist attack has been staged in Chechnya - according to new
information two policemen were injured as a result of a blast in Groznyy. A
VAZ-2106 car packed with 2 kg of explosives exploded not far from a police
station in the city's Leninskiy district yesterday [27 June].

Purely by chance the policemen who arrived on the scene of the incident
succeeded in preventing an even more serious terrorist attack - they noticed an
explosive device in yet another car standing nearby and managed to defuse it.

Obviously, according to terrorists' schemes the car with 3 kg of hexogen was to
explode when the staff and the leadership of the local interior ministry
assembled there.

[Video shows the scene of the incident, a destroyed car, policemen]

Source: Centre TV, Moscow, in Russian 0745 gmt 28 Jun 06

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             June 29, 2006 Thursday

Lee's wake-up call;
Lucky Brit who escaped terror attack leads our trio into second round

BYLINE: MIKE DICKSON

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 81

LENGTH: 765 words


FEW catalysts for a career turnaround can match that quoted by yesterday's
British winner Martin Lee and his near-miss with Al-Qaeda terror.

Last summer, down in both luck and ranking, the 28-year-old lefthander went on
holiday to Egypt to contemplate his future and came home just two days before
his resort was blown up.

The experience replenished his appetite for tennis and yesterday his revival
gathered pace as he reached the second round of Wimbledon with a 6-2, 7-6, 7-6
victory over giant Belgian Dick Norman.

His was not the only fine performance from the home contingent, with 20-year-old
wildcard Melanie South beating No 14 seed Francesca Schiavone of Italy. It was
the best performance by a British woman since 1998 when Sam Smith saw off eighth
seed Conchita Martinez, the 1994 champion.

South is joined in the second round by Sarah Borwell, who beat world No 66 Marta
Domachowska from Poland.

Lee is a former world junior No 1 and onetime senior top 100 player whose career
had nosedived after one knee and two groin operations.

He said: 'Last year I was in the doubles here and then played a Challenger event
in Nottingham and I thought I had played my last match. I was working hard and
not getting anywhere so I decided to go on holiday to Sharm El Sheikh with my
girlfriend.

'I came back on a Wednesday and the bomb was on the Friday exactly where I had
been, so I thought to myself I was quite lucky.

'In a way it was a wakeup call. I didn't know if I wanted to play again - but
after getting back I was sort of gagging to play.' Working with his tennis coach
father Brian, he has subsequently worked his way up to 252 in the world, still
134 places below yesterday's opponent.

Lee, who managed to tame Norman's massive serve, owed his place in the first
round to a wildcard which he would not have been granted if the Lawn Tennis
Association had their way.

He came third in the British playoffs for just one spot but the All England Club
gave him a free entry anyway, much to the displeasure of LTA chief executive
Roger Draper who has abandoned the usual forelocktugging to the Championships.

Draper has a fair point, but this particular outcome was a happy one and the
relaunch of Lee's career can continue when he plays Finnish 22nd seed Jarkko
Nieminen.

Lee was the fifth British man to make the second round, with two women managing
the same feat.

South is very much on her own manor this week, having been brought up in nearby
Kingston-on-Thames and learning the game across the road from the All England at
the Wimbledon club.

The 20-year-old was impressively unfazed by an opponent enjoying the best year
of her career and made light of a 291-place ranking deficit to win 3-6, 6-3,
6-4.

However uncomfortable the Italian is on grass, it still takes pluck to beat such
a high seed in your first Championships.

Schiavone, who has reached two finals on the WTA Tour this year, said: 'I found
Melanie's serve hard to return and she was good at pushing me outside the court.
I've no complaints - she played very well.' South, who now plays American Shenay
Perry, was overjoyed at winning at the famous club over the road. 'I started
training at Wimbledon around the age of 10. During my lessons I could sometimes
hear the crowd and the scores.' Borwell, 26, has taken a very different route to
SW19, having grown up in Middlesbrough and gone to university in Texas.

She had 10 friends and family in the crowd and had to calm them down at the
start of the final set against Domachowska. Borwell was to emerge a 6-3, 6-7,
6-4 winner after failing to serve out the match in the second set and finding
her supporters' anxiety was spreading to her.

She fires herself up before her matches by listening to folk music from
Montenegro and will need to be in tune for her next round as she faces
outstanding Serbian 18-year-old Ana Ivanovic.

Borwell said: 'Although I'm 26 I'm quite young on the Tour and it takes a while
to understand how to play these top players.' Most gallant British loser of the
day was Scotland's Alan Mackin, who pushed this year's Australian Open finalist,
Cypriot Marcos Baghdatis, before losing 6-4, 6-7, 6-7, 7-5, 6-2.

Mackin led by a break in the fourth set and had to withstand his opponent
holding up play with supposed back injuries.

'I don't think he was injured, but he did what is allowed in the rules of the
game,' said Mackin.

ARGENTINE Carlos Berlocq has flown home, leaving behind discussions between
Betfair and tennis authorities about irregular betting patterns around his
firstround defeat by Britain's Richard Bloomfield. No one would comment
yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLASTING BACK: A REVITALISED LEE (ABOVE) HAS TOO MUCH FOR THE GIANT
THREAT OF NORMAN, WHILE SOUTH (LEFT) ENJOYED THE BEST WIN BY A BRITISH WOMAN
SINCE 1998 PICTURES: ARNOLD SLATER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             June 30, 2006, Friday

Detained Iraqis 'were planning terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: Richard Ford and Frances Gibb

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 614 words


SIX Iraqis at the centre of the controversy over the Government's anti-terror
laws are supporters of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi and were allegedly sent to Britain
to carry out terror attacks, according to Whitehall sources.

The men, detained last year and placed under highly restricitve control orders,
arrived in Britain as asylum-seekers but were allegedly plotting attacks on
civilians. Whitehall sources claim that the attacks would have involved bombs in
which there would have been mass fatalities.

The men, in their twenties and thirties, were detained in raids in Greater
Manchester, London and the Midlands in November and December.

They are being held under draconian conditions including having to remain in
their homes for 18 hours a day. They are banned from using mobile telephones or
having access to the internet.

The men have either had their asylum claims rejected or are awaiting decisions.

They say that they cannot be returned to Iraq because they fear ill treatment.

On Wednesday Mr Justice Sullivan, a High Court judge, quashed control orders
made against the men, declaring the orders incompatible with their human rights.

The allegations of links with Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, al-Qaeda's leader in Iraq
who was killed this month, reflect Whitehall's anger at the ruling. With the
battle lines drawn between the judiciary and ministers over anti-terror laws,
Whitehall is clearly attempting to put the judges on the back foot by indicating
that they are not taking the threat and potential danger to the public
seriously.

John Denham, who chairs the Commons Home Affairs Select Committee, demanded
urgent talks between politicians and the judiciary. He told the BBC Radio 4
Today programme: "There is a constitutional crisis emerging here, I think, about
the way in which the judges and the courts are approaching these issues.

"When many of us, as I did, supported the Human Rights Act -and indeed still
support it -we thought that, on great matters of state of this sort, if the
elected Parliament had taken a careful view of what was in the wider public
interest that would be given considerable weight by the courts.

"That doesn't seem to be what's happening at the moment and that's why I don't
think it's over the top to talk about an emerging constitutional crisis."

John Reid, the Home Secretary, will seek to overturn the control order ruling.
The first hearing takes place on Monday. but an appeal in the case of the Iraqis
is unlikely to be heard befor the autumn.

If the High Court decisions stand, human rights lawyers say that the Government
will have to go back to the drawing board.

Mr Denham said that he could see no alternative to some form of control order.
"If effective control orders are struck down...I think that probably means that
the people go back into the pool of people we are concerned about and the
security services will take very difficult decisions about who not to keep an
eye on, and let's just hope they choose the right people."

Yesterday the office of the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Phillips of Worth
Matravers, said that there was already an informal mechanism for exchanging
views through regular meetings between the head of the judiciary and ministers.

David Pannick, QC, a leading human rights barrister, said: "There is no
constitutional crisis. On the contrary, the constitution is working well. Judges
are doing their job and applying the laws enacted by Parliament, including the
Human Rights Act.

"If politicians find that inconvenient, they will just have to try a bit harder
to devise policies that comply with basic principles. If there is a crisis, it
is a synthetic political crisis created by politicians."

Leading article, page 25

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 1, 2006 Saturday

Algerian papers says two soldiers wounded in "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 135 words


Excerpt from report by Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 1 July

This past Wednesday  night into Thursday morning [ 28 to 29 June], following a
homemade bomb explosion, two soldiers were wounded during a search operation in
the maquis of Timeri-Moussa (Adekar) and those of Ait Abdelmoumene, in the
municipality of Beni Ksila.

[Passage omitted]

The two victims were evacuated to the Sidi-Aich hospital. According to
corroborating sources, during the search operation the two wounded soldiers had
been moving forward on land which turned out to have been mined by the terrorist
group from the Salafi Group for Call and Combat [GSPC] that reigns supreme in
the Beni Ksila region and which has carried out several bloody crimes against
army forces.

[Passage omitted].

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 1 Jul 06

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                        The News of the World (England)

                              July 2, 2006 Sunday

"Terror attack took my precious daughter"

BYLINE: Pat Moore

SECTION: 100% TRUE LIFE; 7/7 BOMBS NEVER FORGET

LENGTH: 773  words


This Friday marks the first anniversary of the London bombings.

For these families, the pain still lives on

June treasures her photos and memories of her daughter.

On July 7, June Taylor kissed her daughter Carrie goodbye. Sadly it was the last
time she saw her alive

When June Taylor said goodbye to her daughter Carrie, 24, at LiverpoolStreet
station last July, she had no idea she would never see her again.

"Every morning Carrie and I would travel to London together from our home in
Billericay, Essex," says June. "At Liverpool Street, Carrie would take the
Underground to the Royal Society of Arts on The Strand, where she was a finance
officer, while I would walk to my job at an insurance company.

"On July 7, I watched her walk away before Iwent to my office. We did that every
day. As she went down to the Tube, she smiled and waved before disappearing into
the crowd. I didn't know I'd never travel with Carrie again."

While June, 58, watched her daughter walk off, suicide bomber Shehzad Tanweer,
22, was climbing aboard a Circle Line train heading for Liverpool Street.

Tragically, Carrie got into the carriage where Tanweer was getting ready to
detonate his bomb.

As the train left the station, he was seen fiddling with his rucksack.

Seconds later, the bomb went off, killing eight, including Tanweer, and injuring
163 people.

By the time of the explosion, June was at her desk. "I heard there'd been a
power surge at Liverpool Street, so I texted Carrie to ask whether it had
affected her journey. I know now she was dead by then."

June rang her husband John, 57. He told her that there were early reports that a
bomb had gone off on the Underground.

"I called Carrie's mobile," says June. "There was no answer.

"I didn't think anything terrible had happened to her. I just thought she was
stuck on a train somewhere and that she would ring when she could.

"But I couldn't concentrate and as the day wore on, I became more and more
concerned. I kept ringing and ringing her."

At 8pm, June and son Simon, 29, returned home.

"We couldn't eat. We couldn't sleep. We couldn't do anything,"she says. "We kept
waiting for the phone to ring, but were terrified of the news it might bring.

"The next day John and I searched six hospitals looking for our daughter, but to
no avail."

It was 10 days before Carrie was identified, after forensic experts had taken
fingerprints from her room. She was among the last of the dead to be named.

"We were advised not to see her body," says June. "That was hard. I kept
thinking, 'What if they've made a mistake and it's not her?'

"It was a very difficult time. I never dreamt I'd have to plan my daughter's
funeral."

Three weeks after she died,Carrie was cremated. Wanting her daughter nearby,
June had her ashes interred just 10 minutes away from the family home.

To mark Carrie's 25th birthday on May 26th this year, family and friends held a
memorial service. June read out an emotional poem she'd written for her
daughter.

"The service was about Carrie's life -not how or why she died,"says June.

"Some days we're fine, other days something will trigger a memory and we'll
break down. We have to learn to live with the pain.

"We're lucky to have so many memories of Carrie to bring a smile to our faces."

Carrie's bedroom is just like any other young woman's -full of books, photo
albums, cuddly toys and mementos.

Against one wall is her bed, neatly made, just as she left it on the day she
died. Beside her desk is a bag of beauty products she'd recently bought but
never used.

In front of these is a red bag, a little worn and dusty. It's the one Carrie was
carrying when she was killed. The police returned it to the family months after
the explosion -it still contains personal items, including her perfume.

On top of a jewellery box is Carrie's beloved musical box.

"It's a bit dusty and tatty," says June. "But Carrie loved it."

She slowly turns the key and listens to the lullaby.

"My daughter is in my heart and my mind. She always will be."

As a result of the News Of The World's 7/7 What About The Victims? campaign, the
government doubled compensation payouts to severely affected victims and called
for an overhaul of the payments system.

JUNE'S POEM TO CARRIE

Carrie, Carrie, Carrie how far back are we meant to go A meaningful existence
you seemed destined not to know From little girl to womanhood your effervescence
would Shine through today as always and rightly so it should.

We have to live forever lacking wisdom from your lips Your wicked humour sense
of fun no more at our fingertips But having you has given us a joy which is
second to none To live our lives without you -unimaginable -but must be done.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                              July 3, 2006, Monday

TERROR OF AUTISTIC BOY,13;
EXCLUSIVE ATTACK ON MARTIN BY RAILWAY LINE THUGS

BYLINE: By Lachlan Mackinnon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 375 words


A DAD whose 13-year-old autistic son was savagely beaten by two young thugs says
he fears they will kill someone.

George Cooper, 8 0, reckons his son Martin, who has Asperger's syndrome, would
be dead if he hadn't managed to flee.

He told the Record: "My wee boy could have been murdered."

Martin was attacked just 100 yards from his home in Glasgow's east end.

He was playing with his football next to a metal railway fence when two boys
around the same age launched their brutal attack.

Without any provocation, they:

BROKE his nose against the fence.

DRAGGED his face along the fence, breaking his cheekbone.

SMASHED a brick against the back of his head.

REPEATEDLY whipped his body with electric cable.

Yesterday, dad George, of Baillieston, said: "There are evil people in the world
and these two are obviously evil.

"Martin is very quiet, probably because of his condition.

"He has quite long hair and he says one of the boys grabbed it from behind,
smashed his face against the fence and dragged it along.

"We think he was unconscious at one point because he remembers waking up and
running for his life.

"The boys even chased him to the door of the close and he only managed to lock
it before they got to him.

"They even tried to batter the door down before they gave up and ran off."

After the attack a week ago, Martin was taken to Glasgow Royal Infirmary where
doctors strapped his face up.

He has since been examined by a specialist facial surgeon at the Southern
General.

George stays apart from Martin, who lives in Budhill, near Shettleston, with his
wheelchair-bound mum Elizabeth and brother Eric, 10.

The worried dad said: "We think some other kids saw the attack but when the
police went round to their homes, their parents refused to let them speak.

"They don't want their kids to have to give evidence - which means these two
nutters will get off scott free.

"I believe that if Martin hadn't somehow been able to get away, they wouldn't
have stopped. I think they were trying to kill him."

George said the attack bore some of the hallmarks of the murder attack on
Liverpool toddler James Bulger in 1993 - also carried out by two boys at a
railway line.

A police spokesman said: "No arrests have been made at the present time and
inquiries are ongoing."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SAVAGE ASSAULT: Martin, 13

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              July 4, 2006 Tuesday

Clarke attack on judges as the storm over terror laws rages

BYLINE: JAMES SLACK

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 448 words


CHARLES CLARKE yesterday bitterly attacked the judiciary as the row over terror
laws escalated.

The former Home Secretary revealed that, during his 18 months in office, Law
Lords refused to meet him on a single occasion to discuss key rulings.

Describing it as 'one of my most depressing experiences as Home Secretary', he
demanded: 'That attitude has to change.' Judges, who have overturned measures
passed by Parliament such as control orders, were making decisions of 'deep
concern' to the nation's security without being accountable for them, he said.

His comments, made as Government lawyers made a separate assault on the
judiciary in the Court of Appeal, reflect deep unease at the way human rights
laws are being used to strike down antiterror legislation.

Mr Clarke said clashes between MPs and judges were giving rise to 'confusion and
disorder' within the criminal justice system and a 'lack of confidence among all
those who have to enforce the law'.

'Moreover, it corrodes the confidence of the public that their safety is being
properly protected.' He also admitted that the failure to find weapons of mass
destruction in Iraq had damaged public confidence in the security services.

His admission came as the Home Office accused the judge responsible for defeats
on its legislation, Mr Justice Sullivan, of 'misunderstandings and errors' in
his interpretation of the law.

He has inflicted two separate crushing defeats of control orders, as well as
ruling that nine Afghan hijackers should be allowed to stay in Britain.

The Home Office is appealing against one of the control order verdicts, a ruling
that it had breached human rights law by imposing restrictions on a student
suspectedof planning to fight against coalition-troops in Iraq. The appeal is
expected to last for a further two days. If the Home Office loses, the entire
control order regime will have to be scrapped.

Last night, Gordon Brown was warned that he risks losing support among Labour
backbenchers after backing a move to give police fresh powers to lock up terror
suspects without charge.

The Chancellor has made it clear that the current 28-day limit should be
extended. But his drive to increase police powers came as the influential Home
Affairs Committee launched an attack on the Government's attempt to secure 90
days last November.

The MPs accused Tony Blair and Charles Clarke of not examining the issue
rigorously enough or properly presenting the case to MPs or the public.

Sources close to Mr Brown say he is 'convinced' tougher powers are needed and
will treat the issue as a priority if he gets into Downing Street. He is also
preparing to curb welfare benefits for the families of terror suspects.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                             July 4, 2006, Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Miracle girl in dog attack terror

BYLINE: Will Sutton

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 473 words


A little girl who survived all odds when she was born has been savaged by a
Rottweiler.

The powerful dog sank its teeth into the legs of six-year-old Shauna Lewis as
she played in the street at 5pm on Sunday.

The attack happened in Stamford Street, in central Middlesbrough, not far from
the home of her grandparents Vera and Malcolm Broughton.

Grandad Malcolm, 53, of Esher Street, described how two teenage boys ran to the
little girl's aid and were forced to "prise" the dog's jaws off Shauna's legs,
before carrying her to his and Vera's home.

Malcolm said the youngster was bitten twice on her right thigh and suffered at
least three puncture wounds to her left shin and calf.

She was rushed to James Cook University Hospital and underwent surgery yesterday
morning with her grandparents and mum Sarah, 25, keeping watch by her bedside.

Speaking this morning Vera said: "She is bearing up.

"We've had a long two nights with her, she is on two lots of pain-killers.

"Shauna got up to try and walk last night but her balance nearly went and she
had to grab something.

"We picked her up and put her back on the settee. She'll get there.

"She has come this far in her life so she'll make it."

Malcolm said: "She would never have done anything to provoke a big dog like
that.

"She was playing in the street with her friends and the next thing the dog went
for her.

"That dog must have had a good tear at her. There was a lot of blood and she was
in a lot of pain.

"I stayed with her that night in hospital and she woke at 2am when the
pain-killers must have worn off.

"She said to me 'Look what that naughty dog has done to me'.

"She is only a little girl - she was born very premature so she's only tiny."

Shauna was born four months premature, weighed a mere 1lb 7oz, and was suffering
chronic lung disease.

She endured seven life-saving operations, as reported at the time.

After her latest ordeal, the youngster underwent more than two hours of surgery
to stitch up her wounds.

Malcolm said: "There had been talk of skin grafts but they are going to make
that decision later.

"We're glad she's back at home now and she's staying with us.

"We're all very worried about her.

"It's awful for this to happen to her now after all she has gone through.

"She already has scars on her chest from operations, she doesn't need anymore."

Cleveland Police confirmed the Rottweiler that attacked Shauna was destroyed by
a vet four hours after the attack.

Malcolm today warned other parents of the dangers of letting their children near
animals, especially in the hot summer weather.

"The dog shouldn't have been let out without a muzzle or on a leash.

"The weather has been so hot the last few days that other kids should be warned
about approaching dogs - the heat is bound to make things worse.

"In a way, I think Shauna has been lucky.

"Imagine if it had bitten her face."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 5, 2006 Wednesday

Afghan paper urges tough action against those behind terror attacks

LENGTH: 292 words


Text of editorial by Afghan newspaper Pagah on 4 July

The bomb explosion at the teacher training faculty [in Herat on 3 July], in
which a female student was martyred and a number of others were wounded, was an
inhumane crime. This incident seriously hurt the people of our city.

Given the situation and considering the fact that terrorists do not have access
to educational centres, this inhumane act may be seen as an example of treachery
by a number of people who bear a grudge. The crimes committed by these people
are getting more serious because their wild and terrorist acts have not been
investigated.

If the current elected and democratic government had not procrastinated over the
punishment of those responsible for these organized crimes since the interim
government was formed, and if these criminals had encountered a serious reaction
from the courts, they were certainly not have been able to disrupt the security
of the nation and the government could be proud of the nation who voted for it.

Martyring and injuring innocent students is not the end of pre-planned crimes
and irrational violence. The nation is impatiently waiting for the day when the
dossiers on these criminals will no longer be forgotten. They are awaiting the
day when the terrorist activities of these traitors who form a fifth column in
the city become known to them. They are awaiting the day when the veil is
publicly stripped from the faces of these professional criminals so that we will
no longer witness violations of human rights and disruption of the security of
this Muslim nation. Therefore, the government should not act as it used to do
because indifference towards the rights of the citizens will bring about
distrust.

Source: Pagah, Herat, in Dari 4 Jul 06

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 5, 2006 Wednesday

Afghan paper says "God's word" clearly forbids terror attacks

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of unattributed commentary entitled "Does this nation deserve such enmity?"
and published by Afghan state-run newspaper Etefaq-e Eslam on 4 July

The explosion at the teacher training faculty of Herat University [on 3 July]
caused mental anguished for our people. Herat regional hospital was full of
families who rushed there to see the condition of their daughters after hearing
news of the explosion. Many mothers shed tears in sorrow over the pain their
daughters and family members suffered yesterday.

After passing through years of difficulties, invasion and war, when the killing
of Muslim men and women was common, our nation does not want to see their
children being killed or injured once again.

However, enmity towards this oppressed nation - which has no guilt except for
being Muslim and which has no ambition except for peace, stability and
development - continues. A number of individuals want to display what they want
by carrying out such acts. Does God allow us to kill our Muslim brother or
sister? Does He allow us to kill or injure our brother or sister who has
committed no crime? God's word is clear and a guide for those who accept Islam
as their religion. There is no Islamic or humane explanation for such acts. What
do the enemies of the nation want to achieve by carrying out attacks such as the
recent university blast? Do such acts not create hatred among the people?!

Does this nation, which dedicated 1.5 million martyrs in the war against Soviet
troops and which wishes to live in peace, deserve all this enmity?!

Source: Etefaq-e Eslam, Herat, in Dari 4 Jul 06

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            July 5, 2006, Wednesday
                                 Worcs Edition

Football: WORLD CUP 2006 - Rape beast in sword terror;
COURTS: Jail for evil attacker armed with Samurai weapon

BYLINE: Ross McCarthy

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 369 words


A FATHER-of-two wielding a samurai sword who terrorised and raped a woman after
breaking into her Birmingham home, has been caged indefinitely.

Evil Mohammed Khaliq had to be shot three times by a police officer armed with a
stun gun before he was finally subdued after refusing to hand over the sword
following the attack.

Birmingham Crown Court Judge David McCarthy branded the attack as "quite
horrific."

He said Khaliq had a criminal record which showed he persistently carried knives
with the intention of attacking people.

Passing an indeterminate sentence on Khaliq for the protection of the public he
told him: "The facts of this case are quite horrific.

"You forced your way into this lady's home armed with a sword and you subjected
her to a most humiliating and disgusting form of rape.

"When the police arrived you reacted with the utmost violence."

The Judge added that he represented a significant risk of serious harm to the
public.

Khaliq (54) of Nineveh Road, Handsworth, who admitted charges of rape, affray,
having an offensive weapon and damaging property, was also ordered to register
as a sex offender for life.

Simon Drew, prosecuting, said on July 13 last year Khaliq started drinking and
then went to a party in Handsworth where he made advances to a woman who
repelled them.

He was escorted from the premises but nearly an hour later went to the woman's
mother's home armed with a samurai sword.

When she answered the door Khaliq put the sword through the gap and forced his
way in, pushing the 57-year-old victim onto a sofa. Khaliq then sexually
assaulted her.

Mr Drew said Khaliq then tried to make the woman drink some beer before raping
her. He said the victim escaped when her daughter returned home.

When other people who had been at the party went to the house they were
confronted by Khaliq in the front garden. He was still armed with the sword and
was shouting threats at them.

He then proceeded to smash items in the property and when police arrived they
unsuccessfully tried to restrain him by using CS gas before firearms officers
used a stun gun.

Trevor Berryman, defending, said Khaliq had little memory of what happened in
the house and had previously suffered from a psychotic illness.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Brentwood Gazette

                             July 5, 2006 Wednesday

My fears for new terror bomb attack

BYLINE:  David Ainsworth

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 130 words


The father of one of the victims of the 7/7 terror attack believes another
atrocity could happen at any time.

John Taylor has warned the thousands of commuters in Brentwood, Billericay and
Romford never to forget the horror of that day - summed up for many by this
photograph.

His daughter Carrie Taylor, 24, was one of the 52 people murdered in the
attacks. A further 800 were injured and thousands left in shock - including many
Gazette readers whom we speak to inside.

Mr Taylor, of Upland Road, Billericay, said: "I think it could happen again. The
measures that have been put in place to stop it are totally inadequate."

Mr Taylor vowed to continue his fight for a full public inquiry.

Meanwhile, people are being encouraged to mark Friday's anniversary with two
minutes of silence.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Brentwood Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                               Construction News

                             July 6, 2006 Thursday

Terror-attack documents found in a ditch

BYLINE: Lisa Glancy

SECTION: ARTICLE; Road

LENGTH: 47  words



HIGHLIGHT: A sensitive dossier featuring details of the Government's response to
a major terrorist attack has been found in a roadside ditch, it was revealed.


The 46-page Ministry of Defence file was discovered in a gym bag and handed to
the Sun newspaper by a member of the public. The bag - also containing an MoD
security pass - had apparently been stolen from a Major's car while he was
shopping at a Sainsbury's store in the Home Counties.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Construction News


                            Copyright 2006 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Western Mail

                             July 6, 2006, Thursday
                                 Second Edition

Terror-attack papers found in ditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 117 words


A sensitive dossier with details of the government's response to a major
terrorist attack has been found in a roadside ditch, it was reported last night.

The 46-page Ministry of Defence file was found in a bag and handed to a London
newspaper by a member of the public.

The bag - also containing an MoD security pass - had apparently been stolen from
a Major's car while he was shopping in the Home Counties.

The dossier is said to reveal how the SAS and bomb disposal experts would be
deployed in the event of a terrorist strike, and how many helicopters were
available.

The newspaper said there were also details of how Cabinet ministers, the
military, and intelligence services would meet after an attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              July 7, 2006, Friday
                              North Wales Edition

My diary of disaster;
On the first anniversary of the 7/7 terror attacks on London, the North Wales
woman at the heart of the emergency response gives a minute by minute account of
how the drama unfolded

BYLINE: ROLAND HUGHES

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1134 words


SALVATION Army Major Muriel McClenahan was at the centre of London's emergency
response on July 7.

The 57-year-old, originally from Cefn Mawr, Wrexham, drafted a mass fatality
plan for the London Resilience Team set up after the 9/11 attacks.

In January she was handed an OBE for her "extraordinary services to the
communities of London" in the wake of the terror attacks.

In an exclusive interview to mark the first anniversary of the terrorist
atrocity of the she describes how the fateful day unfolded.

9am "I was the duty officer for the London Resilience Team that day so was on
call to go out to anything.

"At around 9am I was at the Salvation Army headquarters at Elephant and Castle
and was supposed to be receiving a long-service award at 10am.

"It was going to be a big day for me and as I walked through the door my pager
went off saying there was something untoward happening at Liverpool Street.

"I thought straight away that if it was just untoward my pager wouldn't have
gone off. It doesn't happen that often.

"From then it was just a waiting game."

9.25am "I got another message saying it was total disruption on the underground
and it was being evacuated.

"That, in London, is a massive event. You are talking about 1,000 people in each
train at rush-hour and the streets were totally blocked with people trying to
walk about.

"The strangest thing was not seeing transport on the roads. People were walking
down the middle of the roads, there were no buses, no cars, no taxis, nothing.
It was quite eerie.

"Evacuating the underground was a massive thing to do even if there hadn't have
been bombs involved."

10am "I walked all the way back to the Resilience Team office in Millbank, and
by the time I got there, events were unfolding in front of our eyes.

"By then the bus had gone off at Tavistock Square and it was clear what was
happening. We immediately realised it was something big.

"We were just in the office watching it on Sky like everybody else. It was as
up-to-date as the information could be.

"Nobody had any idea to what extent the fatalities would be so we had to get as
much information as possible as quickly as possible and get a good overall
picture.

"But while we were all working, I still had to think whether the members of my
family were OK and how I communicated to them that I was OK.

"My very personal emotions were mixed in with my professional performance and
there was a clash, a real conflict. But you just had to get on with the job.

"My own son-in-law, a policeman, was in Tavistock Square when the bus bomb went
off and my daughter was anxious to get hold of him.

"She didn't hear from him until 3pm in the end because he had been helping the
victims."

1pm "We stayed at Millbank just assessing the information and getting as much
news as we could before heading off.

"At that point a strategic coordination group was set up, at a location I can't
reveal, and all the leaders of all the agencies came together to discuss our
reaction.

"We are the team that acts as the link between the government and the emergency
services so we fed the information on to a select group of ministers in the
government.

"All the information about what had happened was going backwards and forwards
through us through videolink.

"The mass fatality plan which I drafted had, ironically, been returned to us
only 10 days before so it was all very new.

"So although it was new paper we knew exactly what to do in principle and we got
down to it."

4pm "We made the decision to set up a temporary mortuary for the victims.

"The majority of mortuaries in London are Victorian mortuaries, used every day,
so we proposed a demountable structure that could be used as a temporary
mortuary in London. So that was the plan that was activated.

"It was a building with solid walls that covered the size of two football
pitches which was eventually set up in a military barracks.

"All the information came to us but the one difficult thing to know was the
amount of deaths. Until people got down to search the underground, we just
didn't know.

"The worst case scenario was hundreds and hundreds of deaths and we would have
been prepared. But people in emergency services never speculate. Only the media
speculated."

11pm-1am "We moved from our location back to the Mill-bank offices and at 1am we
went for a site visit where the mortuary was already being set up.

"There were 250 people working in the mortuary for the best part of three
months.

"It was only when you saw the ambulances coming in, knowing there were human
remains inside, that it sunk in what had happened.

"Then it became real. People came into the mortuary to see their loved ones and
you realised there and then somebody's life had changed forever."

3.10am "The day ended and we were put up in a hotel for the night. We were all
back up by 7am so it wasn't a long night's sleep.

"We were all obviously tired but we knew we had a job to do. But because we all
worked together on a day-to-day basis, there was a real understanding between us
and we all supported each other.

"The day made me realise, in spite of such tremendous wickedness, there are also
people who do extraordinary things to ensure that the people affected are
treated as kindly as possible.

"There was a real goodness I saw in people who may not necessarily have faith
but worked for the good of everyone that day - call that what you like.

"It showed that wickedness does not get equalled out by more wickedness - but by
the goodness that is shown.

"Faith leaders stood, together, very strongly against what happened.

"This was a group of people who, although they were Muslim, did not fully take
on the Muslim spirit in the Koran.

"It has also made me realise that, in traumatic times, people do turn to faith
for support.

"Many people who came to the mortuary didn't want anybody of faith there.

"But as soon as they viewed their loved-ones, they asked for someone from the
Salvation Army and prayed together.

"Rather than make me question my faith, it has actually confirmed my faith in
the fundamental goodness of people."

rolandhughes@dailypost.co.uk

People came into the mortuary to see their loved ones and you realised there and
then somebody's life had changed forever

Major Muriel McClenahan

Profile

MURIEL McClenahan was brought up in Cefn Mawr, near Wrexham, and was a pupil at
Ruabon Girls Grammar School.

In 1971 she joined the Salvation Army and still serves with the association 35
years on.

She worked as a volunteer alongside emergency services in London and took a
masters degree in emergency management at the University of Hertfordshire in
2000.

The mum-of-two was then seconded to the London Resilience Team set up to deal
with major incidents in the wake of the September 11 attacks.

Her plan to handle a disaster in London was completed only days before the July
7 bombings.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wreckage of the bus blown up in Tavistock Square' Salvation Army Major
Muriel McClenahan with the OBE she was given in January for her work with the
London resilience Team after the 7/7 attacks

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 7, 2006 Friday

Firms 'not ready for a new terror attack'

BYLINE: JAMES ROSSITER

SECTION: A MERGE; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 448 words


A YEAR on from the 7/7 bombing London's businesses are woefully under-prepared
to deal with another terrorist atrocity.

Evidence has emerged that the City is becoming increasingly complacent about
planning against possible future bombings.

Among disturbing findings are that fewer firms have emergency plans than just
six months ago, and six out of 10 firms do not have emergency backup plans in
the event of a major incident.

That is worrying for thousands of City workers who could well be on the front
line of a new outrage.

On the day of last year's bombing, several banks and law firms around Broadgate
Circus and Aldgate were plunged into chaos as staff were left without clear
guidelines over whether to evacuate buildings or stay at their desks.

Despite this, a survey of more than 200 top directors in London shows that the
number of firms with emergency, contingency or business continuity plans in
place has fallen by 5% over the past six months. Just one in five retailers,
hardest hit by the visitor stayaway in the weeks after 7/7, has any kind of
plan.

According to the London Chambers of Commerce (LCC) report, the business
community's planning has been undermined by a lack of cohesion at Government
level, where five different departments have become involved in co-ordinating
and advising business on how to respond.

The LCC found the capital's banks, accountants, lawyers and insurers are
generally better organised than most other businesses to deal with an
attack-related emergency, but only just over half have some sort of "continuity
management" strategy to allow trading to continue in the event of a disaster.

Topping the report's policy recommendations is for Britain to use America's
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as a blueprint for a near-identical new UK
Government agency, including its own minister to take central control of
counter-terrorism and disaster planning.

Among the LCCI's other key recommendations is thatGovernmentfunded "reward
schemes" to help the capital's army of small businesses set up a disaster
recovery plan and to encourage large firms to "partner" smaller firms.

SECURITY remains a huge issue for the City, particularly for Canary Wharf, which
an American government report recently suggested has been targeted by al Qaeda.
The Docklands developer says it has received no information frompolice that the
site - where 80,000 workers many from top City firms are located - is a specific
target, but it is taking no chances. Richard Kemp, head of security says
defences include a computerised explosive detection system, CCTV network with
computerised number plate recognition, plainclothes security staff and
specially-trained sniffer dogs.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                              July 7, 2006 Friday

Terror attacks affect all of us - no matter what religion we are

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 276 words


The effects of the London bombings are still around everywhere.

I realised this when I visited London for the first time in June.

We only went to see the famous sites, but while we were there we came across the
damaged Tube stations.

I felt so sorry and frightened, I put myself in the position of the people who
were in the Underground. They were innocent like me, and some were children.

I am so sorry about what happened and I want to tell people that most Muslims
are not like that.

I can understand why people feel anger - it's because they don't understand the
Islamic religion.

I just want to help people and explain that not all Muslims are bombers.

I also think terrorist attacks affect everyone. It doesn't matter what religion
you are, because we are all human beings. Bombings happen everywhere - in Muslim
countries and in Christian countries - and they kill people of every race and
religion.

But visiting the London bombing sites made me realise how people in less
developed countries are far more damaged by terrorism than we are in Britain.

I have a friend who has just been to Sharm El Sheikh in Egypt, which was bombed
last year.

She says the area is still devastated and, like me, she was very moved to see
this.

In underdeveloped cou- ntries, you can't imagine how serious terrorism is. It
destroys more jobs and families because the country finds it more difficult to
rebuild itself.

We need to stop terrorists however we can.

After the London bombings, I was very upset by the way I was treated by some
people in Exeter, but now people have welcomed us into the community.

I hope this continues for the sake of my son, who speaks Arabic and English.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 7, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

ONE DAY, SEVEN LIVES, ONE YEAR ON.;
Has it really been a year? The scars of the terrorist attacks that took place in
London on 7 July 2005 are far from healed. That dreadful morning marked a shift
in our national psyche. No longer could we take for granted the basic rituals of
our daily lives. No longer could we feel safe in the company of strangers.
Thongs would never be quite the same again, hi the following pages, seven people
who were touched by the bombings relive the horror - and reflect on how it
changed them

BYLINE: BY TERRY KIRBY, IAN HERBERT, ED CAESAR )ASON BENNETTO & JEREMY LAURANCE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 6015 words


STEVE ELDRIDGE

TUBE DRIVER, METROPOLITAN LINE

Steve Eldridge, 47, lives in St Albans and is unmarried. He has been driving
trains on the Metropolitan Line for three years. He was standing at Aldgate
station when the bomb went off and helped evacuate the injured.

I was off work for nine weeks after 7 July. I went to the doctor's for
post-traumatic stress. I went for counselling. But it didn't help as much as us
drivers getting together and talking about the day. A couple of weeks after I
went back to work, I was at Aldgate station when a passenger told me I had an
unattended bag on my train. I went back, and saw a big leather holdall, zipped
and locked. I evacuated the train, and contacted line control. The person who
owned the bag eventually came back to claim it. He was sent off with his tail
between his legs.

"Then I drove the train to Moorgate, and everything hit me. I think I'd been
bottling it up inside. I broke down. I got a bit further on - to Farringdon -
before I called the manager and said, 'You've got to get me off the train. I
can't go on.' I went home. But, the next morning, I got in the train again, and
the manager came with me, and I was OK.

"You can never completely go back to normal. If my train gets held outside
Aldgate, you can still see the mark on the wall where the explosion happened. It
brings it all back. But I never thought about changing jobs - it would have felt
like running away. I don't know anyone who hasn't gone back to work.

"On 7 July, I had driven my car down to the depot, as I do every day, and then
driven a train from Wembley down to Aldgate. I was waiting to pick up my next
train, and having a joke with another driver, Paul, when the bomb happened. When
it went off, another driver, Mark, had just started pulling away.

"There was this loud bang. It was a very short, sharp gust of wind, but it
didn't knock us off our feet. Deep down, I thought, 'that sounds like a bomb'.
I'd never had any experience with a bomb before except what I'd seen on
television. It could have been the compressor had gone on one of the trains. But
we knew it was a little bit too loud for that.

"The explosion happened on train 204, just outside the station. But it was a
good few minutes before smoke started to come out of the tunnel. We couldn't see
into the tunnel. But we went in, and that's when we could see people wandering
over the track, covered in blood.

"Train 204 had six cars. The explosion happened in the second car. My colleagues
went to assist the people they could see. Mark and me carried on walking in. We
couldn't see the train because the smoke was so dense, and choking us back. But,
out of the smoke, we saw Tim, the driver of train 204. He was very shaken.

"One of the passengers came up to me. He had blood all over his face. He said,
'Help me get the people out.' The second car had been ripped apart by the
explosion - it looked like someone had opened it up with an old-fashioned
tin-opener. When we saw the third car, we saw all the passengers clambering up
the windows and banging on them. The car was full up with smoke. So we tried to
get the doors open, but we couldn't.

"I went to step over something that I thought was a piece of rubble. I looked
down, and that was the first body that I saw. At that point, I saw there were
other bodies, doors that had been blown off the train, lying beside the second
car. Me and this passenger tried to open the doors again, but it wouldn't work.

"I looked around. I couldn't see the other drivers. For a split second, I
thought 'I don't need to be here. Get out.' But it only lasted a split second,
and then I thought, 'You've got to get on with it.'

"I was probably in the tunnel for 40 minutes, and as time went on, I felt
better.

"Minutes later, I saw hundreds of people walking towards me. Mark and Tim had
gone to the last carriage and had helped people out of the back of the train. I
had to do something. There were bodies and debris on the track. I stayed where I
was, to stop people seeing the bodies. The platform lights were on, so I said,
'Just keep looking at the lights. Follow the lights.'

"Some people saw the bodies and were distressed, but generally, the passengers
were totally calm. Not one person said anything to me. A couple of people got
their camera phones out trying to take photographs. I requested that they put
them away. One did, and one didn't.

"Near the end of it all, I was standing right by the bodies. This passenger, who
had helped me all the way through, had stayed with me. I was helping the last
few passengers over the debris and out of the tunnel, when one of the bodies
woke up. He got up, and walked past my left shoulder. He didn't have any clothes
on apart from a pair of pants. The blast had ripped his clothes off. He went and
stood up against the tunnel wall with his hands apart, leaning on the wall. The
passenger went and held him. After a few seconds, the body just went down again.

"Just then - 25 minutes after the blast - two firemen arrived. They came over
and tried to carry the injured man, but he was a big man, so four of them
carried him out on the ladder. I don't know if he survived. I've thought about
it a lot. I'm frightened of the answer. I hoped and prayed that he survived, and
I looked through what was written in the press, but I'm still not sure.

"When I finally got home to St Albans, I stood under the shower for two hours. I
was numb.

IRSHAD HUSSAIN

FRIEND OF ALDGATE BOMBER'S FAMILY

Irshad Hussain, 54, is a family friend of Mumtaz and Parveen Tanweer, whose son,
Shahzad, 22, detonated the Aldgate Tube bomb, killing six.

I still don't know what to say when I see Mumtaz [Shahzad Tan-weer's father] in
the street. Not once in these past 12 months have I brought up the subject of
Shahzad, the son of whom he and Parveen [his wife] were so proud. I would not do
anything to hurt Mumtaz, so we just stick to talking about cars, just as we
always have. There's no mistaking what the events of 7 July have done to him,
though. His smile has gone. And when we talk, I feel he has lost his old energy
for life.

"He had plenty of it when he and I got to know each other as neighbours on
Tempest Road [inLeeds' Beeston district]. I knew his son, Shahzad, in the way
that all Mumtaz's friends knew him: he was very intelligent, normal, polite -
nothing to suggest he was a troublemaker. Shahzad's parents really, really
looked after him. They gave him everything. He was doing well at [Leeds
Metropolitan] university.

"Many people have said in the last 12 months that we - or the parents of the
bombers - might have raised the alarm about these boys. Well, if anything
obvious was going on, we would certainly have picked it up. Shahzad was not a
recluse. He played cricket with the other boys at Cross Flatts Park. If
something was being planned overtly down there, we fathers would have known
about it. We all know each others' families around here. If somebody else's
child is found shoplifting, or pinching cars, everyone knows. With Shahzad,
there was no indication. It's not as if he was growing up in a home where there
was a radical outlook. Mumtaz loves England. He's built up businesses here, made
some money, and Shahzad was also on the way up. Mumtaz and his wife both speak
English. Theirs is truly a British Muslim household.

"The days that followed the blast were wretched for us all. First, we got to
know that Shahzad was missing. He had told his parents he was going to London
and they reported his failure to return. Gradually, it became clear that he had
died in the blasts. A few days later the police moved into the area [to search
the bombers' houses and, fearing explosives may have been left in Beeston, seal
off a number of streets]. It was then that I saw on satellite TV that Shahzad
was implicated. I just could not understand how it could be. Most of the Muslims
around here still feel the same.

"When it comes to talking about the events of 12 months ago, this is very much a
community that has shut up shop. Those who do talk do not make a habit of doing
so where others can see them. Nobody dares to say anything. One of the reasons
for this atmosphere is that Muslims here still don't understand what went wrong
with Shahzad and the other three bombers. The Tanweers feel that very much, too.
They want to find out what happened to their son. Who got him involved, who
masterminded it?

"The police and the Government have never come to this community and provided
answers to those questions. Those four boys carried it out under our noses and
we missed it. No one has ever arrived here and said: 'This is how they got away
with preparing for what they did.' Where are the answers? I don't want another
person's son to do what those four did. Neither does any father. The authorities
can help us by providing us with answers that we can work with. I remain
convinced that there was some kind of mastermind at work. They talk about
al-Qaeda [on TV]. I just don't know.

"There are plenty of fathers, like me, around here who have had conversations
with their children in the aftermath of 7 July. My youngest is 18, the same age
as Hasib Hussain was last July. We tell them: 'The people who died in London are
somebody else's kids. Don't even think about it.' I believe it is up to parents
to know what their children are doing.

"But it's true to say that Britain's foreign policy - and some of the police
operations in the past 12 months, like Forest Gate - have not helped fathers
like me. When young people see pictures on TV of the tanks going into Palestine,
they react. They feel that Britain is implicated because Israel has the strong
support of this Government and of the US.

"The communication between the young people and the police here in Beeston also
leaves a bit to be desired. The police are just trying to do their job because
the Government lays down the law and they must follow it. But that makes many of
the young people disinclined to help them. The young people don't see the police
as being on their side. It means that if there is information still to be
disclosed about Shahzad and the others, they are disinclined to offer it up.
There is a massive gap between young Asians and the police. They have no
confidence in what the police are doing. Over the past year the police have
tried to speak to young Asians. I just don't think they have got a response.
That situation certainly needs to change.

"This anniversary will make everyone here reflect on how little we still know.
Everybody is looking to get on with their normal lives, except the families of
those who have lost loved ones. For the Tanweers, the anniversary will be a day
of prayers and quiet reflection.

KATHARINE HUNT

CONSULTANT ANAESTHETIST

Katharine Hunt, 37, is a consultant anaesthetist at the National Hospital for
Neurology and Neuro-surgery in central London. She was one of the first doctors
on the scene at Russell Square.

I was the consultant on call on 7 July. Someone banged on my door about 9.30am
and told me there had been an incident at King's Cross. A group of us met at the
main reception desk and set up the emergency procedure. Our first job was to
stop all routine surgery and clear the intensive-care unit for casualties with
head injuries that could be referred from other hospitals.

"A short while later we heard casualties were being brought to the surface at
Russell Square Tube station, which is a two-minute run from here. Four of us,
two consultants and two senior registrars, decided we would go. We went to the
operating theatre and grabbed equipment - fluids, bandages and painkillers - and
ran to Russell Square in our theatre "blues".

"Unless you have worked in a war zone, nothing prepares you for what awaited us.
There were bodies sprawled all over the ticket hall - both sides of the
barriers. Some were horrifically injured with double amputations and were
severely burnt.

"The smell was of charred clothes, burnt skin and singed hair. Many of the
casualties were blackened, covered in soot. I was struck by how young they were
- City workers on their way to their offices. A few were moaning, but the main
sound was of sirens, lots of them

"There were other doctors there and we split into groups, dealing with the most
severely injured first. One casualty I tended to was a nurse from Great Ormond
Street. She had had a leg blown off. She came back to talk to us the other day.
She is doing very well. I have seen a lot of road accidents and stabbings in my
time. But it was the scale of it that was shocking. You might see two or three
in A&E if you were unlucky - here there were 30 or 40.

"Your professional persona takes over - you get on and do what you are trained
to do. We stabilised them, checked their airway, inserted needles for
intravenous fluids and gave them painkilling injections. I resuscitated one
patient who had lost both legs. You reassure them, tell them they are in good
hands and tell them what you are going to do. Most were so shocked they could
barely communicate - even the ones with relatively minor injuries. Those that
could were asking about companions - "Where's my brother?", "Where's my
girlfriend?" - not what had happened to them. You think about people on the Tube
in their nice clothes and then you see them all torn and dirty. I have been a
doctor for 12 years and dealing with injuries is part of my job. But I see them
in the operating theatre, a clean clinical environment, not amid the chaos of a
station ticket hall.

"Halfway through the work, I looked round the ticket hall and suddenly wondered
how safe it was. A lot of the walking wounded had carried their bags up from the
Tube with them. We were working directly above the train and carriages. We
didn't know if there would be another bomb. All the emergency manuals say
rescuers need to consider their own safety first - but no one did on the day. We
discussed this later - were we putting ourselves at risk? If 30 people are
injured and 30 rush in to help and there is another bomb you have got 60
injured.

"As the last casualties were being taken off in ambulances, we returned to the
hospital. I phoned my husband to let him know I was all right - he was frantic.

There was no clinical work - everything had stopped as we waited for the
patients we thought we were going to get. In the event we only got one referred
from University College Hospital with a head injury. But there is no way of
predicting what will happen in these incidents.

"It was only later that the enormity of it hit me. I am not a tearful person but
if you had spoken to my husband he would have told you I was shocked, quiet and
a bit shaky for some time. Talking about it helped, especially to non-medical
people who knew nothing beyond what they had read in the papers.

'A year on I still think about it. I realise how fortunate I am compared with
others I saw that day. Some of the patients I see now have an awful lot to put
up with and I think the experience has made me more compassionate. There were
two people from our hospital among the casualties - a secretary who was killed
and a professor who was severely injured. When they are from your own workplace
it is really quite scary. I used to use Russell Square Tube station and I still
pass it now. I feel lucky it wasn't me. The big change in my life in the last 12
months is that I am now pregnant. It is my first child. You always think where
is the best place to bring up a child and I am fortunate that my parents have a
house in Devon. It seems a nicer, cleaner place to bring up a child, though I
don't think I'll be moving any time soon.

JOHN FALDING

LOST PARTNER IN BUS BOMBING

John Falding, 62, a retired Financial Times journalist from Marylebone in
central London, was the boyfriend of Anat Rosenberg, 39, an Israeli who worked
for NCH, the children's charity, and who died on the bus in Tavistock Square.
They were speaking on the telephone when the bomb went off.

It doesn't feel like a year. It still feels like I'm living amid the confusion
of the time immediately afterwards. It all still seems very bizarre, very
difficult to take it all in. What happened was so pointless: so many people
died, so many people injured, so many lives emptied. That I find very difficult
to accept.

"Anat's parents, Arie and Naomi, came over from Israel the following Monday and
took her home for burial on 19 July. She was buried the same day that they
landed in Jerusalem, in accordance with Jewish law. "A month later, I went over
there to see her grave and to stay with her parents. I saw Anat's room at their
apartment. It was poignant to see her piano, her music, her dolls, and I
received further insights into her character from sampling the Israeli
lifestyle.

"I get on well with her parents, who I had not met before, and I keep in touch
by phone and letter. Being in Israel did open my eyes to some aspects of the
situation over there, which, of course, does have relevance to what happened in
London. Her parents are not religiously observant and profess to be liberals,
but, nevertheless, have strong views on the Palestinians.

"I try to see both sides, but having seen places that have been blown apart by
bombs and experienced the airport-style security just to get to the supermarket,
you get a different perspective. It helped me understood why Anat believed she
was safer in London, which was why she stayed away from Israel in recent years.
It's ironic that although she was constantly aware of the dangers from
terrorism, London could not save her.

"In November, Anat's parents and I attended the service of commemoration at St
Paul's Cathedral. I found myself wondering, 'What I am I doing here?' It was all
so unreal. When they dimmed the lights and the sun poured through the east
window, it was a real moment of hope, it was incredibly moving.

"I've not really involved myself with the network of support groups for
survivors and relatives. I've met a few of them but I tended to feel I wanted to
cope in my own solitary way. Neither have I sought any formal counselling - it's
enough to know it's there if I need it.

"Although I do believe in God, I haven't particularly sought comfort in my
faith. But I have popped into a church occasionally and lit a candle for Anat
and had a few minutes of contemplation. The bleak moments come and go. One thing
I have learnt is that time doesn't heal, it just creates a way of coping with a
constant emptiness.

"It has been helpful to talk to the media. As someone said, it's good to have
the ear of sympathetic strangers when it is still a bit searing to talk to
people close to me. I've also written about Anat's life for a tribute book
containing stories of a number of those who died and which will be deposited in
the Museum of London. I tried to capture her life and personality, aware that it
is going to be there for posterity.

"Last month, many relatives and survivors were invited to Highgrove House to
meet the Prince of Wales. Others there were victims of terrorist attacks in the
Middle East. I had a few minutes one-to-one with the Prince, and the concern and
sympathy he expressed will long be a source of comfort for me.

"I'm just about to send Anat's parents a professionally made DVD of a small
ceremony in Dorset Square, near my home. Just before Easter, I planted a
flowering, pink cherry tree there and a few weeks ago unveiled a plaque
dedicating the tree to Anat and her fellow victims.

"I wanted a focus in this country for remembering Anat, and chose the private
square because we once went to a garden party there and it was one of the
happiest evenings of her life. I remember her dancing like a dervish as she
revisited her training in dance and ballet.

"Anat was an enormously vibrant person who loved life to the full, and loved
London and enjoying all the cultural delights the city had to offer.

"I shall be attending all the events [today] to mark the first anniversary. I
was somewhat taken aback when I heard there was going to be a ceremony in
Regent's Park in the evening. It will be incredibly poignant for me because it
was where we spent our last night together. We saw Twelfth Night at the Open Air
Theatre and strolled through the park afterwards hand in hand. I would not have
been able to go near the place on a summer's evening had it not been for this
event. I'm sure it's going to be an emotional experience.

"What happens next is unknown territory. Over the past year, almost every day
has been some kind of anniversary of the things we did together. As the next
year passes, it's going to be different again. Although I should have no
difficulty holding on to my memories, I'm making notes so I don't forget the
slightest detail. She always said I would miss her if anything happened. She
could never have guessed how much.

ASHLEY WALKER

FIRST POLICE OFFICERTO ARRIVE AT TAVISTOCK SQ_

PC Ashley Walker, 26, was the first police officer to arrive on the scene of the
Tavistock Square bus bombing that killed 14, including the 18-year-old suicide
bomber, and injured about 110.

PC Walker, a London-born university graduate with parents who moved to Britain
from the Caribbean island of Grenada, gave up a pounds 33,000 job in computers
to join the Metropolitan Police two and a half years ago.

For his actions during the aftermath of the attack on the Number 30
double-decker bus he was awarded the Commissioner's High Commendation, the Met's
top honour for bravery.

"It started as a normal day, with an 8-to-4shift.Ihad been at work for about an
hour when we had a call saying that there was smoke coming out of King's Cross
station.

"We are only about two minutes' drive away so myself and five other officers got
into a van, but we soon got stuck in traffic, so we got out and walked. We still
didn't know what was going on and were told to help with a cordon. I had been
walking towards Tavistock Square when I heard a large thud, like a large skip
crashing to the ground. I glanced straight up and saw a sheet of metal, which
was the roof of a bus, in mid-air and shards of metal and debris about 150
metres away. Everything seemed in slow motion. There was a pause and a silence
afterwards, and then hundreds of people started screaming and running.

"I began to jog, then run towards the bus. I could hear people screaming for
help. As I got closer you could see body parts scattered on the ground and on
several cars close to the bus. There was blood everywhere.

"There was a gaping hole with jagged edges in the top deck of the bus. People
were jumping and falling out of the bus. I began helping people get off. Those
on the bottom deck had a lot of head and leg injuries. When I got to the top
deck all the chairs were flattened and squashed. There were people with really
bad injuries, like having a leg blown off, and such a lot of blood everywhere -
their clothes were covered in blood.

"I could also see and hear a couple of people who were murmuring, they were
trapped under the wreckage. There was nothing I could do to free them. I had to
carry, grip, and hoist people out of the bus. There were about 10 people behind
the bus who were in a bad way. They had limbs missing and some of the bodies
were twisted and distorted in a terrible way. There were trails of blood
everywhere. Until then the worst thing I had seen was a stabbing and a road
traffic accident. I have seen a lot of war films and stuff, but nothing that
compares to the carnage I saw then.

"From then on it was a matter of giving first aid. People were using fold-down
tables as stretchers to take the injured to a nearby hotel. Doctors from the
nearby BMA [British Medical Association] headquarters arrived and started to
help. I was so relieved to see them. The organisation started to kick in as more
emergency services and help arrived, although there were people standing around
and watching. One man was even filming it with his telephone camera until I
shouted at him.

"I got home that night at about 10 and went for a quick drink with my cousin and
some friends. When I went to bed it was in my mind, I couldn't go to sleep - 1
was just thinking about it all the time. Eventually I just nodded off. It was a
relief to be back at work and to be among close colleagues and friends - to be
with people who had been through the same thing.

"Since the bombing it has been really important to talk to them, because they
were there, they saw it, they lived it, they experienced it. Initially the
police gave us a debrief and group discussions to air our concerns and
grievances, to talk through what happened that day. A few of us didn't talk. I
wasn't comfortable talking in a group, partly because many of the victims that I
helped had died. Eventually I had a one-to-one counselling session.

"I feel a lot closer to my colleagues now. Seeing some of them cry and helping
each other forms a bond. What I experienced and my memories of it are never
entirely out of my mind. You think about the bombings, you think about the
victims, the management, the press, everything.

"Even now if I'm working at a festival and I hear a balloon pop or loud bang, my
heart skips a beat. Or it could be something minor like seeing someone who looks
like one of the victims I helped, or one of those trapped or terribly injured.
It brings it all back. I just have to pick up a newspaper or watch the
television and hear that 50 people have been killed in Baghdad, or wherever, and
it reminds me of what happened. Hearing about children being killed reminds me
of what I saw.

"Before the suicide bombings I never thought anything like this would happen in
London. I thought we were safe here. Wherever you live you usually think nothing
terrible will occur, and when it does it is such a shock. The whole experience,
however, has reinforced why I wanted to join the police. When I went to the St
Paul's [Cathedral] memorial I talked to some of the people I helped and they
thanked me. I know I could have kept on with my career in computers and I would
probably have ended up with a big house and a mortgage, but when I'm 40 or 50
years old I know I will be able to look back and say I achieved something
worthwhile. I will never be able to entirely forget what happened on that day,
but I know in my heart that I made a difference, and that's why I became a
police officer.

MOHAMMED IQBAL

LORD MAYOR OF LEEDS

Mohammed Iqbal, 45, is the first Asian Lord Mayor of Leeds. His ward of City and
Hunslet covers the Beeston area where three of the bombers lived.

The sense of disbelief about what happened 12 months ago remains as profound for
me as for everyone around here. I came across Mohammed Sidique Khan several
years ago and I distinctly remember his face. He wasn't working below the radar.
He was a community worker' someone people knew. We've all asked ourselves how he
could have carried out the acts he did under our noses.

"Don't get me wrong. I'm not saying there's any sense of denial here about the
four bombers - and the three [Khan, Shahzad Tanweer and Hasib Hussain] who came
from my part of Leeds. A minority might subscribe to the view that these young
men were not the bombers, that it was a set up in some way. The majority - the
sensible people - don't feel the same, though. They feel that what's happened
has happened and that's the end of it.

"That said, I do think we could do with seeing more of the forensic evidence and
more information about the bombings. For as long as we have to go on the word of
the investigators, it will be difficult for some people to accept the things
that they are being told. It's important to remember how much of a shock it was
for everybody when the names of people they knew started to appear on
television.

"I do think that a public inquiry into the bombings would be for the best. It
would enable everyone to know exactly what was going on and answer some of the
nagging doubts people have about how much they ought to have known. We just want
to learn lessons from it and move on. That is certainly my view - though all the
opinions here are my own, and not necessarily the council's.

"My first concern when I heard that the bombs had gone off and that they were
linked to Islamic terrorists [several days before a specific connection with
Leeds was established] was to communicate the revulsion Muslims felt about it.
Muslim leaders and I issued a statement condemning the bombings as barbaric and
unislamic.

"Of course, we had no reason to believe that our city was going to be linked to
such an atrocity. Leeds - and Beeston - has its share of problems, but it is not
really any different to many other districts in Britain. There's nothing that
marks it down as a place for terrorism, and when people come back looking for
exciting angles on the story here, it creates a distorted image of what is, at
heart, a positive, vibrant community.

"Is there radicalism that we should be worried about? Well, first I would say
that radicalism is everywhere. I've encountered Stop the War Coalition activists
who come across as violent - and I've come across Muslims. But that's not to say
that anybody will go as far as those four went last July. Nobody thinks that was
right.

"If anything, Beeston's link to the terror attacks has brought the community
closer together. It has been besieged, but people have united in a sense of
protection for their neighbourhood. People ask whether enough money is being put
into the regeneration of Beeston to give young people hope. There is work to be
done, as there is everywhere, but a lot is happening. The educational
under-achievement is being tackled. New schools and a community sports facility
will be completed this year' a new swimming pool and health centre will be
finished next year. We want to make people proud of their corner of this city,
and of Britain.

"People suggest that there is insufficient community leadership to keep
potential radicals on the straight and narrow. But you tell me which young
people listen to their community leaders? The parents are responsible - but only
to an extent. Parents can't force their children into a particular behaviour,
they can only lead by example and bring up their children to their own views.
Yes, a society is responsible for the actions of its young people to an extent,
and the local authority is responsible to an extent. But I don't think the
Muslim community here should be held accountable.

"I do know that the British Muslim community of Beeston is proud of its
nationality. So am 1.1 was born in Kashmir. My family moved here when I was
nine. I am now Leeds' first Asian Lord Mayor. I have put something in to the
country and got something back in return. My conscience is clear. But yes, it is
right to examine the role of British foreign policy in all of this. The opinion
polls say that 67 per cent of people think foreign policy contributed to the
bombings.

"We in Beeston have become stronger because of what happened. But we have also
been shaken. I will officiate at a tree planting to mark the anniversary, in
Cross Flatts Park [where Tanweer and Khan played cricket]. A tree is planted and
grows. It becomes stronger. Good things stem from anew beginning.

MARK MARGOLIS

SURVIVED ATTACK ON PICCADILLY LINE TRAIN

Mark Margolis, 30, is a project manager for a software consultancy and lives in
Finsbury Park, north London. He was in the front carriage of the Piccadilly Line
train when the bomb went off between King's Cross and Russell Square. He
suffered minor injuries to his face and some hearing impairment.

I was sitting about 20 feet from where the bomb went off. It had been a normal
morning, although I was running a bit late. The first train that came along was
completely packed. I got the second, which was also crowded, but managed to get
a seat after King's Cross. That's when the bomb went off. There was this
extremely loud popping noise. In the dark, I tried to assess the situation, felt
my legs and arms, felt my head and there was some bleeding, but I thought, 'I'm
OK.' All around me people were screaming. It was awful, horrendous. I've no idea
how long we were there, but eventually the driver opened his door and we got out
through his cab and walked along the tunnel. As we got to Russell Square, I
began to feel a bit faint and had to lean on the guy who was walking ahead of
me. When we got up on to the concourse there were a few more people coming up,
but the small number of them suggested to me that the majority of people had not
made it out of the station.

"After I got out of Russell Square station I rang my wife, Sarah, and she came
to meet me. We walked all the way to the Royal Free Hospital in Hampstead
because I calculated that the hospitals closer to the scene would be fully
occupied with the more seriously injured. I've still got the small marks on my
face, which, if you didn't know what had happened to me, you would think I had
drawn on with a pencil. It is the carbon burned into my skin. The doctors said I
could have an operation to get rid of it, but that there would always be some
kind of mark.

"I went back on the Tube the day after the attacks. I walked to Euston station
and then got the Victoria Line back to Finsbury Park, where I live. It was a bit
of bravado, but it felt like a necessary thing to do. I knew that if I didn't do
it, then it would become very hard to travel on the Underground in the future.
And it was the only thing you could do to fight what happened. I wasn't that
badly injured and I went back to work on the Monday afterwards.

"By the end of July I was quite emotionally distressed. I wasn't sleeping or
eating very well and I could not believe I was the same person as before.

But we went on a diving holiday to Menorca, which we had already booked. I had a
couple of easy dives first and then went cave diving, which perhaps wasn't the
best thing to do in the circumstances, but it was one of the most exhilarating
things I have ever done. It helped me in the sense that it brought me back down
a level, but no more than that.

"I was one of the first members of King's Cross United, the online support
group, along with Rachel North, [who has written an online diary and campaigns
for a public inquiry into the bombings]. We were the first two people to meet
who had been in the carriage. My wife and I went to see Rachel and her partner -
we talked virtually non-stop for three or four hours. I found the group, which
now has about 100 members, helpful, but after a while I knew I needed to get
back to reality, to take a step back from it. But it is definitely a help to
know it's still there.

"I'm mostly back to normal now, but not completely. I have changed some of my
habits and certain things I do. I have rituals, like always picking up my keys
in a certain order. I use the Tube now, but I don't travel on the Piccadilly
Line if I can help it, although I have been on it a couple of times. There are
too many memories' just getting on the Tube at all is enough for me. I always
make sure I sit at the front of the carriage, near the driver's door, and make
sure I leave for work early. I can't face being on the Tube at the same time,
so, if I'm running late, I will wait a couple of hours.

"My dad said to me that many people have to carry a burden through life, but
that others don't necessarily know about it. I guess that is the case with me.
It will stay with me for the rest of my life, I think about it every day, but it
is just an experience that I have had. I'm very conscious of the fact that it
has not changed me as a person.

"It's not going to affect my future or what I do with my life. I'm sure things
will get better for me as time passes. I don't have any feelings of guilt about
those that didn't make it out of the train. However, I recognise that I have
been extremely lucky. I want to make sure that I don't blow the opportunity I
have been given and that I live my life now to the maximum. I owe that to those
that died.

"I was born in London and lived for some years in Italy, so I've always been
used to living among a lot of different races and religions, and it hasn't
affected my views. And I don't blame what happened on religion.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PORTRAIT BY TOM PILSTON' PORTRAIT BY VICTOR DE JESUS/UNP' PORTRAIT BY
TOM PILSTON' PORTRAIT BY HELEN ATKINSON' PORTRAIT BY TOM PILSTON' PORTRAIT BY
VICTOR DE JESUS/UNP' PORTRAIT BY JAMES EMMETT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              July 7, 2006 Friday

Ports 'wide open' to terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 499 words


A cross-party group of MPs has called on the Government to hold an inquiry into
a controversial shake-up of the customs service - amid warnings that it has left
the Westcountry's ports "wide open" to smugglers and terrorists.

More than 20 MPs, including four from Devon and Cornwall, have signed a Commons
motion urging ministers to investigate the changes at HM Revenue and Customs
(HMRC), that have seen the removal of a permanent customs presence from
Westcountry ports such as Plymouth and Falmouth.

The South West's 100 customs officers are now deployed on an "intelligence-led"
basis. HMRC insists that this has led to a more efficient use of resources. But
unions claim the practical effect is that Westcountry-based customs officers now
spend virtually all of their time outside the region on missions at major entry
points like Dover, Heathrow and Gatwick.

Last month the Government's anti-terrorism watchdog Lord Carlile warned that the
changes had left customs officers "too thinly spread".

MPs have now called on ministers "to address these issues and to ensure the
Chancellor's efficiency savings do not further hamper securing the nation's
borders". The MPs have also urged the Government to "open an inquiry into
customs cover at UK points of entry in order to address the concerns raised by
Lord Carlile and the PCS union about the inadequate customs cover at all UK
points of entry and to provide real solutions for secure UK borders".

Torbay MP Adrian Sanders, one of four Westcountry Lib-Dems backing the motion,
said that re-establishing a visible customs presence at the Westcountry's ports
would help to deter potential smugglers and terrorists.

He added: "Lord Carlile's criticisms simply highlight the complete lack of
cohesion in the Government's approach to defending the UK from terrorism.  It is
absurd that while expensive and unpopular schemes such as the National Identity
Card Database are forced through Parliament, infringing on the civil liberties
of British citizens, the ground-level measures that are our first defence
against the threat of terrorism are being overlooked, understaffed and
under-funded.

"When police, intelligence and customs units are well manned and able to work
together they provide an excellent service.  A strong, visible security presence
at all our points of entry provides an obvious deterrent to any potential
terrorist threat."

Home Secretary John Reid has defended the Government's approach of targeting the
deployment of customs staff according to risk. "The time has long gone when
small numbers of staff, carrying out the same and similar tasks each day in
fixed locations, can provide either the detection or the deterrent capability
needed," Mr Reid said.

But HMRC has so far refused to publish details of the level of drugs and guns
seizures in the South West since the changes were introduced.

Other MPs signing the Commons motion include Andrew George (St Ives), Colin
Breed (South East Cornwall) and Dan Rogerson (North Cornwall).

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                              July 7, 2006 Friday

Ports 'wide open' to terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 499 words


A cross-party group of MPs has called on the Government to hold an inquiry into
a controversial shake-up of the customs service - amid warnings that it has left
the Westcountry's ports "wide open" to smugglers and terrorists.

More than 20 MPs, including four from Devon and Cornwall, have signed a Commons
motion urging ministers to investigate the changes at HM Revenue and Customs
(HMRC), that have seen the removal of a permanent customs presence from
Westcountry ports such as Plymouth and Falmouth.

The South West's 100 customs officers are now deployed on an "intelligence-led"
basis. HMRC insists that this has led to a more efficient use of resources. But
unions claim the practical effect is that Westcountry-based customs officers now
spend virtually all of their time outside the region on missions at major entry
points like Dover, Heathrow and Gatwick.

Last month the Government's anti-terrorism watchdog Lord Carlile warned that the
changes had left customs officers "too thinly spread".

MPs have now called on ministers "to address these issues and to ensure the
Chancellor's efficiency savings do not further hamper securing the nation's
borders". The MPs have also urged the Government to "open an inquiry into
customs cover at UK points of entry in order to address the concerns raised by
Lord Carlile and the PCS union about the inadequate customs cover at all UK
points of entry and to provide real solutions for secure UK borders".

Torbay MP Adrian Sanders, one of four Westcountry Lib-Dems backing the motion,
said that re-establishing a visible customs presence at the Westcountry's ports
would help to deter potential smugglers and terrorists.

He added: "Lord Carlile's criticisms simply highlight the complete lack of
cohesion in the Government's approach to defending the UK from terrorism.  It is
absurd that while expensive and unpopular schemes such as the National Identity
Card Database are forced through Parliament, infringing on the civil liberties
of British citizens, the ground-level measures that are our first defence
against the threat of terrorism are being overlooked, understaffed and
under-funded.

"When police, intelligence and customs units are well manned and able to work
together they provide an excellent service.  A strong, visible security presence
at all our points of entry provides an obvious deterrent to any potential
terrorist threat."

Home Secretary John Reid has defended the Government's approach of targeting the
deployment of customs staff according to risk. "The time has long gone when
small numbers of staff, carrying out the same and similar tasks each day in
fixed locations, can provide either the detection or the deterrent capability
needed," Mr Reid said.

But HMRC has so far refused to publish details of the level of drugs and guns
seizures in the South West since the changes were introduced.

Other MPs signing the Commons motion include Andrew George (St Ives), Colin
Breed (South East Cornwall) and Dan Rogerson (North Cornwall).

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                             July 8, 2006, Saturday
                                 First Edition

FBI stops terrorist attack on New York;
JULY 7 ANNIVERSARY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 322 words


The FBI yesterday said it disrupted an alleged plot by foreign terrorists to
attack New York's transport system.

One suspect, said by a senior Lebanese security official to be a member of al
Qaida, has been arrested in Lebanon.

FBI agents were said to have got wind of the plot as they monitored internet
chat rooms, and determined Manhattan's tunnels might be being targeted on the
basis of code words used online.

A federal official said terrorists were looking at Lower Manhattan but mentioned
no specific target.

The New York Daily News, which broke the news, reported terrorists wanted to
blow up the Holland Tunnel, the southernmost link between Manhattan and New
Jersey, in a bid to flood New York's financial district.

But a government official said the tunnel was not a target.

Experts said it was unlikely any plan to flood the Wall Street area would work,
because it is above the level of the Hudson River.

In a joint statement, the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security said: "We
have disrupted a terrorist network that was in the planning stages of an attack.

"This investigation is ongoing. We know al Qaida continues to have an interest
in attacking the United States.

"At this point in time, there is no specific or credible information al Qaida is
planning an attack on US soil.

"At the same time, the FBI, through the New York Joint Terrorism Task Force,
will continue to investigate suspected activities here and abroad with our
partners from the US and international law enforcement and intelligence
community."

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said the Metropolitan Police was not involved in the
investigation.

Lebanese authorities acted on a US request to arrest a suspect identified as
Amir Andalousli.

A Lebanese official said the Beirut native, real name Assem Hammoud, had
admitted the plot after being arrested a month ago.

"Hammoud is a member of al Qaida and he confessed to this (plot) frankly," the
official said.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 8, 2006 Saturday
                                 First Edition

European News IN BRIEF: Terror attack inquiry ends

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 44 words


MADRID A Spanish judge has concluded the investigation into the terror attacks
in Madrid, which killed 191 people, paving the way for a trial at a date to be
set. Judge Juan del Olmo confirmed charges made in April against 29 people over
the March 2004 train bombings.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Western Mail

                             July 8, 2006, Saturday
                                 First Edition

FBI foils terrorist attack on New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 387 words


The fbi yesterday said it had disrupted an alleged plot by foreign terrorists to
attack New York's transport system.

One suspect, said by a senior Lebanese security official to be a member of
al-Qaeda, has been arrested in Lebanon over the claims.

FBI agents were said to have got wind of the plot as they monitored internet
chat rooms used by extremists, and determined that Manhattan's tunnels might be
being targeted on the basis of code words used in the online conversations.

A federal official said terrorists were looking at Lower Manhattan but no
specific target was mentioned.

The New York Daily News, which broke the news of the alleged plot, reported that
the terrorists had wanted to blow up the Holland Tunnel, the southernmost link
between Manhattan and New Jersey, in a bid to flood New York's financial
district.

But a government official with knowledge of the investigation said the tunnel
was not a target.

Experts said it was unlikely that any plan to flood the Wall Street area would
work, because it is above the level of the Hudson River.

In a joint statement, the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security said, 'We
have disrupted a terrorist network that was in the planning stages of an attack.

They added, 'This investigation is ongoing. We know al-Qaeda continues to have
an interest in attacking the United States.

'At this point, there is no specific or credible information that al-Qaeda is
planning an attack on US soil.

'At the same time, the FBI, through the New York Joint Terrorism Task Force,
will continue to investigate suspected activities here and abroad with our
partners from the US and international law enforcement and intelligence
community.'

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said the Metropolitan Police was not involved in the
investigation into the alleged New York plot, nor the arrest in Lebanon.

Authorities there acted on a US request to arrest a suspect identified as Amir
Andalousli.

A Lebanese official said the Beirut native, whose real name is Assem Hammoud,
had admitted the plot after being arrested a month ago.

'Hammoud is a member of al-Qaeda and he confessed to this (plot) information
frankly and without coercion,' the official said.

One US official said other arrests had been made overseas, and not all were in
Lebanon.

The planning was not thought to have progressed very far.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                       July 11, 2006 Tuesday 9:13 AM GMT

Pakistan rules out terror attack in plane crash investigation

LENGTH: 323 words


MULTAN, Pakistan (XFN-ASIA) - Officials here have ruled out the possibility of a
terror attack in an airliner crash that killed 45 people, as they sent the
plane's 'black box' for analysis.

The ageing Pakistani International Airlines (PIA) Fokker F27 plummeted to the
ground and burst into flames shortly after take-off from the central city of
Multan yesterday.

'Investigations have started and there is no sign of anything other than an
accident,' Interior Ministry secretary Syed Kamal Shah told Agence France-Presse
when asked if terrorism was involved.

Several witnesses said the plane swerved in the air just before it hit the
ground, while police quoted others as saying it was already on fire before it
crashed.

Shah said there was likely a mechanical failure.

'There will be a technical examination of witness statements including those
from the public who saw the plane catch fire minutes after take-off,' Shah said.

An investigation team has also been examining the wreckage of the 38-year-old
Dutch-built turboprop, which was carrying 41 passengers and four crew to the
eastern city of Lahore.

The plane's 'black box' data recorder was recovered from the burnt-out wreckage
of the aircraft and has been sent to experts in Karachi for analysis, Multan
airport manager Ahsan Mehboob said.

Representatives from the Fokker company were also expected here in a couple of
days to join the investigation, he added.

PIA's eight Fokker aircraft came under scrutiny by legislators last year over
claims that they had flown too many hours. They are due to be replaced by new
ATR 42 aircraft.

The airline has said the plane that crashed was within its permitted lifespan.

The victims of the accident yesterday included two high court judges, a
university vice chancellor and two military brigadiers.

Courts were closed today to pay homage to the killed judges, while the Multan
Bar Association announced a three-day mourning period.

str-mz/sz/dk/sm/swp

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2006 AFX News Limited

                              91 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 11, 2006 Tuesday

Chechen leader killed: Beslan massacre mastermind dies in blast as Russia says
he was plotting new attack: Anti-terror triumph for Putin on eve of G8 summit:
12 others die with 'enemy No 1' in vehicle explosions

BYLINE: Nick Paton Walsh, Moscow

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 957 words


Shamil Basayev, Russia's most wanted man and the self-confessed mastermind of
the Beslan massacre, was killed yesterday apparently in an assault by security
forces which President Vladimir Putin described as retribution for 10 years of
attacks on civilians. Basayev and 12 other militants died in an early morning
explosion which destroyed several vehicles in the southern republic of
Ingushetia, neighbouring Basayev's native Chechnya. His body was reportedly
disfigured in the blast but identified by some of its parts.

The rebels confirmed Basayev's death, though they said it was in an accident.

President George Bush said Basayev had got what he deserved. "If he's the person
who ordered the killing of children in Beslan, he deserved it," Mr Bush said.

The 41-year-old Basayev, who lost a foot in the second Chechen war in 2000,
frequently appeared in internet broadcasts and statements to haunt the Kremlin.
His repeated evasion of the security services in the north Caucasus was a
continued embarrassment to Moscow and suggested its control over the region was
weak.

Nikolai Patrushev, the head of Russia's security service, the FSB, told Mr Putin
in televised comments that Basayev had been killed during an overnight operation
in Ingushetia. Mr Patrushev said the militants had "plotted a terrorist attack
in Ingushetia in an attempt to put pressure on the leadership of Russia during
the period when the G8 summit is due to take place". He declined to give further
details, but said that "the creation of an operational network, particularly in
countries where weapons were collected and sent to militants in Russia", had
aided the FSB in tracking down Basayev.

An FSB spokesman, Nikolai Zakharov, told the Guardian: "Basayev was killed with
12 other militants. It was a special operation by our guys. It happened early on
Monday morning in the village of Ekazhevo, in the region of Nazran (the Ingush
capital)."

Mr Zakharov said two other militants had been identified as Tarkhan Ganzhiev and
Issa Khushtov, members of an armed group which attacked Ingushetia, killing at
least 100 police and officials, in June 2004. A third militant was identified as
Ali Taziev, a high-profile fighter known as Magas who masterminded the June
attack. Mr Zakharov declined to go into detail about what the militants were
planning, but added: "They were preparing a terror attack for the eve of the
G8."

The Kremlin put a £6m bounty on Basayev's head after Beslan, which ended with
the deaths of 331 people in a series of blasts and a bungled siege by the
Russian military.

Mr Putin said the death was payback for a decade of attacks on civilians,
beginning with another hostage crisis in Budyonnovsk in 1995. "This is
retaliation he deserves for killing our children in Beslan, Budyonnovsk, all the
terrorist acts his bandits perpetrated in Moscow and other regions of Russia,"
the president said. He said the FSB agents involved in the attack should receive
awards.

Basayev's death came as a boost for Mr Putin ahead of the G8 summit this weekend
in St Petersburg. Dmitri Peskov, a Kremlin spokesman, told the Guardian: "It is
a great success for the Russian special services, as they succeeded in killing a
terrorist whose hands bore the blood of many people, including children." He
said the timing was not connected to the G8. "It's a difficult task, and the
Russian special services don't orientate such work around such events," he said.

There were conflicting reports last night as to whether Basayev had been in a
lorry laden with up to 100kg of explosives which blew up, or in a car travelling
alongside. Russian sappers defused 40 rocket shells at the site of the blast.

But Akhmed Zakayev, a Chechen separatist envoy who lives in London, where he has
political asylum, suggested that the death may have been an accident. "I do not
believe there was some operation carried out by Patrushev and his colleagues. I
think this was a fatal accident," he told the Reuters news agency.

The website kavkaz.org.uk, linked to separatists, quoted a separatist military
source as saying: "There was no special operation. Shamil and other of our
brothers became martyrs." They claimed the truck blew up accidentally. Russia's
state-run First Channel said it may have been hit by a missile strike.

Ingushetia's deputy prime minister, Bashir Aushev, said: "As far as I know,
(Basayev) was identified by the head. All his characteristic features are
there."

The pro-Russian president of Chechnya, Alu Alkhanov, said the death marked "the
logical end of the tough struggle against illegal paramilitary formations". But
analysts say a power struggle being waged inside Chechnya is not between
Moscow's forces and extremists, but between Chechen militants hired by Moscow to
keep a tight grip on the republic.

guardian.co.uk/chechnya >

Reign of terror

1992 Basayev begins fighting for the separatist movement of Abkhazia, a
breakaway republic of Georgia near his native Chechnya

June 14 1995 He leads a band of Chechen militants and seizes hostages at a
Russian hospital in Budyonnovsk, 90 miles north of Chechnya; 100 die when troops
storm the hospital three days later

October 23 2002 Militants claiming a link to Basayev take more than 800 hostages
at a Moscow theatre; 129 hostages and 41 militants die as special forces storm
the building

August 24 2004 Ninety people die as two airliners are blown up by suicide
bombers after taking off from a Moscow airport

September 1 2004 Gunmen seize a school in Beslan. Mines laid around the hostages
by the militants detonate, killing 331 people.

October 13 2005 Police suppress a raid by militants in the town of Nalchik, west
of Chechnya, killing 139 people, including 94 militants. Reports suggest Basayev
led one group of militants

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 11, 2006 Tuesday

Zidane returns to adulation, intrigue and calls to tell all: Chirac greets
flawed hero with unconditional praise: Lip-readers say terrorist insult led to
violent attack

BYLINE: Angelique Chrisafis, Paris and John Hooper, Rome

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 925 words


Under a haze of French flags and firecracker smoke, the crowd of several
thousand people filling Place de la Concorde yesterday afternoon chanted "Zizou!
Zizou!" in a hero's welcome for Zinedine Zidane, the French football captain
sent off for headbutting an Italian player as France lost the World Cup final.

At the same time, Italian politicians, French anti-racism campaigners and a host
of international lip-readers were trying to unravel the mystery of what Italy's
Marco Materazzi might have said to provoke Zidane into violence, with some
suggesting he might have called the son of Algerian immigrants "a dirty
terrorist" and said his sister was a "whore".

Looking unmistakably sheepish, the man once nicknamed "Zidane President" waved
down to the adoring Paris crowd who were keen to forgive their national hero for
going out of his last ever match on a red card. Zidane, the immigrant
warehouseman's son who practised his first shots against the grim concrete high
rises of north Marseille, carried on his shoulders the weight of France's
football success - not to mention championing racial integration, healing the
country's bruised national image, and boosting the economy by making people feel
good - all the time advertising a host of national products from mineral water
to yoghurt.

President Jacques Chirac, well aware that he too is in his final hours at the
helm, and beset by problems, praised the captain unconditionally. "The match you
played last night was full of talent and professionalism," he said. "I know that
you are sad and disappointed, but what I want to tell you is that the whole
country is extremely proud of you. You have honoured the country with your
exceptional qualities and your fantastic fighting spirit, which was your
strength in difficult times, but also in winning times."

But analysts in Paris said if Zidane wanted to save his future advertising
contracts, he would have to explain himself.

A former Juventus player, Zidane would have understood any comment made in
Italian. Speculation was rife on the streets of Paris yesterday that it was
either a racist or anti-Algerian comment, or a taunt at his mother, who is
believed to be unwell, or his French-Spanish wife. One Italian lip-reader told
the BBC that Materazzi said first: "I wish an ugly death to you and all your
family," and then simply "go fuck yourself". Zidane is fiercely proud of his
family and roots in the Algerian village of Taguemount in Kabylie and calls
himself a non-practising Muslim.

The French campaign group SOS Racism said yesterday that. according to several
well informed sources, Materazzi called Zidane a "dirty terrorist". It called on
Fifa to investigate and discipline the Italian player if it were true.

In Italy, a government MP said he was tabling a question in parliament after a
report in the Guardian suggested that Materazzi had called Zidane a terrorist.

The 32-year-old Italian defender Materazzi is viewed as the hardest of the "hard
men" in Serie A. In 2004, he was given one of longest bans in the history of the
Italian game for an unprovoked attack on another player in the tunnel. His
victim, who was punched in the face, said Materazzi had taunted him throughout
the game.

Riccardo Villari, a centre-left deputy, said he had asked Italy's sports
minister to find out what had happened. "Without wishing to detract in any way
from the joy of yesterday's victory, if what has been reported by the Guardian
is true, it would represent a reprehensible episode."

On his return to Italy, Materazzi said: "It is absolutely not true that I called
him a terrorist. I don't even know what it means. What happened was seen by
everyone on live television."

A Brazilian television channel, Globo, quoted lip-readers as saying the Italian
defender had twice called Zidane's sister a "whore" before launching an
unspecified insult at the player himself.

Zidane's agent, Alain Migliaccio, said that the French captain had been
"provoked" when Materazzi had said "something very grave". He told Radio Five
live: "He (Zidane) will not reveal what Materazzi said, but he will in one or
two days' time explain why he had such a reaction. When he is calmer he will
speak. When I saw him at 2am he was very sad, he did not want to end his career
like this."

Among the Algerian community on the streets near Paris's Gare du Nord yesterday,
the feeling was that Zidane was "unfairly abused". "Materazzi must have said
something about his family," said 18-year-old Aziz, who started playing for the
local football team aged 10 when Zidane led France to world cup victory in 1998.
"It's a shame that Zidane has sullied his career, but he will always have a
place in our hearts," he said. Some sections of the French press were less
forgiving. The biggest selling sports daily, L'Equipe, asked in a frontpage
piece: "What should we tell our children, for whom you have become an example
for ever?. . . How could that happen to a man like you?"

Pascal Boniface, director of Paris's Institute for International and Strategic
Relations and author of a recent book on football and globalisation, said
Zidane's huge advertising contracts were probably safe. "Zidane must now come
forward and explain. It won't kill off his contracts - it wasn't a line of coke.
But it's good for us to see our national hero is fallible."

Despite France's joy that their team unexpectedly made the final, there was a
grim sense that life was back to normal. The daily Liberation mused: "For a
month, France was dreaming with Zidane. This morning, it wakes up to Chirac."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 12, 2006 Wednesday

Lebanon attacked without reason, Syria supports terror - Olmert

LENGTH: 540 words


Text of statement and question-and-answer session with Israeli Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert at a joint news conference with visiting Japanese Prime Minister
Junichiro Koizumi at the Prime Minister's Office in Jerusalem, broadcast live by
Israel radio on 12 July

[Ehud Olmert in Hebrew with consecutive translation into Japanese; reception
poor throughout] This morning on the northern border, we witnessed attacks
against Israeli civilians and soldiers. At this time, our security forces are
operating inside Lebanese territory and this evening the cabinet will meet to
approve the continuation of our policy inside Lebanon.

I would like to clarify that this morning's events do not constitute a terrorist
attack but rather an unprovoked attack against Israel by a sovereign country
without any reason.

The Lebanese government, of which Hezbollah is part, is trying to undermine the
regional stability. Lebanon is responsible and Lebanon will suffer the
consequences of its actions.

The State of Israel and its citizens are facing trying times. In the past, we
knew how to meet difficult challenges, even some more difficult and complex than
those we face now. The State of Israel will also know how to overcome those who
are trying to harm us now. Thank you very much.

[Olmert in progress in reply to Voice of Israel political correspondent Shmuel
Tal's question about whether the situation calls for preparing the Israeli
people for war and for the establishment of an emergency government] - one thing
must be understood: This was an act of war, without any provocation, on
sovereign territory over which there is no argument either in Israel or in the
international community. It is absolutely clear that the State of Israel will
respond and it will respond in a way that is unequivocal and that will lead
those who started this act of war to bear very painful and far-reaching
consequences for their actions.

Ever since we heard about these events, I met this morning in my office with the
Shalit family [of the soldier captured in the Gaza Strip], with Aviva and Noam
Shalit, for a meeting that had been scheduled beforehand. Other than the meeting
with the Japanese prime minister, which I pondered over and concluded that it
would be improper to cancel due to the special circumstances of our relations,
Japan's international importance and the unique prominence of Prime Minister
Koizumi, who is a leader - broadcast discontinued due to poor reception]

[Olmert, in progress] - that was carried out against the State of Israel from
the Lebanese territory. As for Syria's reaction, in recent times the Syrian
government has proved its terrorist nature. The Syrian government supports
terrorism. It sponsors terrorism and encourages murderous activities by
terrorist elements on its soil and those it sponsors abroad. Obviously, we will
have to deploy appropriately in order to deal with this behaviour by the Syrian
government.

All the time, I have constantly reiterated that we would not surrender to
extortion or negotiate with terrorist elements over the lives of Israeli
soldiers. That was true yesterday and remains the case today. [broadcast
discontinued due to poor reception]

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1025 gmt 12 Jul 06

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            July 12, 2006 Wednesday
                               City Final Edition

City mourns train victims;
BOMB BLAST: Prayers held after terror attack in India

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 238 words


PRAYERS were being said across Coventry after bombings in India which have
killed more than 180 people.

Members of the city's Indian community were united in their condemnation of the
attacks on a busy commuter railway in the city of Mumbai yesterday.

And many people attended temples to say prayers following the bombings.

Pren Bhakri, the chairman of the Coventry Hindu Association, has family in
Mumbai and was worried for their safety.

He said: "It was very shocking. Whoever did these attacks are spreading hatred
among the community and they have killed innocent people.

"I have friends and family there. I rang them yesterday and they are OK but I
was scared for them.

"Our people are saying prayers for the victims."

At the Gurdwara Guru Nanak Parkash Sikh Temple, Harnall Lane West, in Foleshill,
people also gathered to pray for the dead and injured.

Balbir Singh Dhami, aged 60, of Peveril Drive, Styvechale, a former Jaguar
worker, said: "I can't find the words for it.

"It is only innocent people getting trapped in something like this.

"It's so unfortunate. I feel sorry for the families and I hope they bring
whoever is responsible to justice."

Ude Singh, aged 53, from Bulls Head Lane in Stoke, has lived in Coventry for 60
years.

The former die caster said: "Everyone is saying it's shameful. It felt really
bad to see it on the news."

A series of services at temples and community centres will take place throughout
the week.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: D34405_5 SHOCKED... Members of the Coventry Indian community pray
(above) at the Gurdwara Guru Nanak Parkash Sikh Temple after the attack,
condemned by Balbir Singh Dhami (left)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 12, 2006

TERRORIST ATTACKS KILL 160 IN INDIA Eight explosions hit train network

BYLINE: CAMERON SIMPSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 312 words



HIGHLIGHT: RESCUE EFFORT: An injured passenger is carried away after a blast at
the Mahim railway station in Mumbai. Picture: AP


EIGHT explosions ripped through packed commuter trains and stations during
yesterday's rush hour in Mumbai, India's entertainment and financial capital,
killing more than 160 people and injuring 460.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility but suspicion fell on Muslim
militants fighting New Delhi's rule in disputed Kashmir.

India's major cities were put on high alert after the blasts which appeared
timed to impose maximum carnage in the bustling city of 16 million.

They occurred on five trains and at two stations in Mumbai's suburbs, which are
linked to the city centre mainly by an overground rail network that is used by
some 6.5million people each day.

Heavy monsoon downpours hampered rescue efforts which were continuing into the
night.

Police inspector Ashok Jadhav said: "The death toll is 163 and around 460 people
have been injured."

Police think the bombs were hidden in luggage racks above commuters' heads.
Witnesses reported seeing body parts strewn about stations, and Indian
television news channels broadcast footage of bystanders carrying victims to
ambulances and searching through the twisted wreckage.

As news spread frantic residents tried to call family and friends. The mobile
phone network collapsed adding to the sense of panic. With all train services
suspended, thousands were unable to return home and left with no way to let
relatives know where they were.

Manmohan Singh, India's prime minister, called an emergency cabinet meeting, and
said terrorists were behind the attacks.

Tony Blair said the attacks were "brutal and shameful". The Prime Minister
added: "We stand united with India . . . to defeat terrorism in all its forms."

The Foreign Office advised travellers to India to "exercise increased
vigilance", while consular officials were investigating whether any British
nationals had been killed or injured.

A city in terror Page 2

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              96 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             July 13, 2006 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Bombings - relatives besiege city charity;
TERRORIST ATTACKS: Phones ring non-stop as people struggle for information about
loved ones

BYLINE: By Fiona Scott POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 345 words


MORE THAN 200 people worried their relatives were killed or injured in the
Indian train terrorist attacks have contacted a Coventry charity.

Phones have barely stopped ringing at the offices of Sewa International at Sandy
Lane, Radford, since news of the bombings in Mumbai.

Busy staff so far can't tell them much - they haven't yet heard from their
sister organisations in India who the victims were.

Sanjay Jagatia, of Sewa International, said: "We haven't yet been able to
confirm whether anyone from Coventry has been killed or maimed in the attacks.

"That's one of the things we're working to find out. Unfortunately from what
we're hearing from various points set up there, it's quite disorganised. Names
haven't been released yet."

He said the death toll - provisionally estimated at more than 200 - was likely
to rise.

"Our volunteers are saying it's going to be a lot more than that. There's no
real way of finding out how many people are actually on these trains, they're so
packed.

"Some relatives won't even know their loved ones were on the trains."

Members of the Indian sister organisations were among the first to help victims
of the carnage of the seven bombings.

The Coventry office is now preparing to send specialised trauma counsellors to
India to help victims of the ordeal.

Mr Jagatia condemned the terrorist attacks as "cowardly and brutal" acts
"designed to kill and maim innocent people".

He said: "The attack was designed to kill as many people as possible, like the
previous similar bombings in New York, Bali, Madrid and London".

Bombs ripped through seven packed rush-hour trains at the same time in the
Matanga, Khar, Mahim, Jogeshwari, Borivali and Bhayandar areas of Mumbai.

Mr Jagatia said: "Our volunteer workforce based in these areas are normally the
first on the scene to help relief efforts.

"In Borivali, we have an office there so the volunteers ran out immediately to
help."

He added: "Our volunteer doctors were drafted in to help out in the hospitals,
to treat people with multiple injuries. Many volunteers have also given blood
donations."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCK... A man grieves over the bomb attacks on trains (left).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            July 13, 2006, Thursday

Ice-cool under terror attack

BYLINE: Anatole Kaletsky

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1022 words


Unlike the hysterical reaction of America and Spain, India's restraint under
pressure is exemplary

People of goodwill have been unanimous in their denunciation of the Bombay
terrorist outrage. For once, the whole civilised world could agree with Tony
Blair, speaking yesterday in Parliament: "Our message is that we stand in
solidarity with the Indian people to defeat this terrorism wherever it exists."

When we see human bodies so cruelly ripped apart, not only in such bastions of
"Western imperialism" as New York, Madrid and London, but also in India,
Indonesia and Kenya we can all surely agree that the War on Terror is more than
just an American or British obsession. This is truly a global war, in which all
civilised nations stand united.

United and wrong. For there was one small note of dissent, or at least of
nuance, in yesterday's ringing declarations of solidarity and renewed commitment
to the war against terror. Manmohan Singh, the famously cerebral Prime Minister
of India, denounced the attack as "a shocking attempt to spread a feeling of
fear and terror among our citizens", but carefully refrained from blaming any
specific terrorist group or threatening any particular counter-measures.

Instead of describing this atrocity as "an act of war", the Indian authorities
were treating it essentially as a criminal act. Instead of succumbing to the
populist temptation to blame Pakistan, where many anti-Indian terrorist groups
enjoy safe haven, Dr Singh did exactly the opposite. "The very first statements
from India stressed that dialogue and confidence-building measures with Pakistan
would continue," Professor Radha Kumar, one of India's leading authorities on
inter-communal tensions. noted yesterday.

The people of India seemed equally calm. Bombay, instead of panicking or
wallowing in self-pity, went on with its daily business. The shops and markets
stayed open.

The transport services went on running and passengers were not intimidated from
using buses and trains. In all these respects, Bombay's reaction was similar to
London's and a world apart from the hysteria in New York and Madrid.

This contrast can be tritely explained by cliches about the national character -
the fatalism of the Hindus, the stoicism of the British, the passion of the
Spaniards and so on. There are, however, more instructive political conclusions.

India, even more than Britain or Spain, has a history of terrorist horrors.

Starting with the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi, moving on through the
intercommunal bloodshed after partition to the shooting of Indira Gandhi, the
murder of numerous local politicians and the seemingly endless bombings by
Kashmiri separatists, Maoists and religious fanatics of all kinds, India
probably has more experience of terror than any other nation.

We can draw lessons from India's cool, self-confident behaviour. The first
lesson is that Indians, both politicians and ordinary people, seem to respond
much more rationally than Americans to the risks of terrorism. While 170 deaths
is a terrible tragedy, the Indians seem to recognise that terrorism remains a
negligible risk in the greater scheme of things and need not unduly disrupt
their lives.

Even if the bombings in Bombay were repeated weekly, they would represent a
smaller risk than crossing an Indian road. Seen as a one-off event, this bombing
was a far less destructive tragedy than the earthquakes, typhoons, tsunamis and
other natural disasters that regularly afflict southern Asia. This sense of
proportion should allow Indians to get on with their lives after the bombings
and discourage the overreaction, the inter-communal bloodshed and the Indo-
Pakistani confrontation that the terrorists obviously want.

The need to deny terrorists their objectives leads to a second conclusion. To
treat terrorist attacks as "acts of war", as President Bush has famously done
since 9/11, is the most counterproductive policy imaginable, at least if the
objective is genuinely to prevent further terrorism, rather than to wage a
never-ending "war on terror". Equally wrongheaded is to try to draw every
country hit by terrorism into an imaginary brotherhood of solidarity against
terror, as Tony Blair did in yesterday's parliamentary statement.

The disastrous consequences of confusing terrorism with war are obvious enough.

Observe the confusion of US objectives in Iraq, the descent into anarchy in
Afghanistan and, just yesterday, the self-destructive decision of Ehud Olmert to
respond to the kidnapping of two Israeli soldiers as if it were an act of war by
the Government of Lebanon. Or note that it is now almost five years since 9/11,
yet Osama bin Laden is still at large and the Taleban virus has been transmitted
from Afghanistan to nuclear-armed Pakistan. But why has the War on Terror been
such a failure?

The most plausible explanation was presented last week by Shami Chakrabarti,
director of the civil rights group Liberty, at the LSE conference on George
Soros's book, The Age of Fallibility: Consequences of the War on Terror.
Liberals such as Mr Soros have long argued that the War on Terror was "a false
metaphor" because the "enemy" was not an army or a state, but an abstract
concept, implying that the war, with all the attendant restrictions on open
civil liberties and political debate, might continue for ever.

But, as Ms Chakrabati pointed out, there is another "hawkish" argument against
the War on Terror metaphor, which is even more powerful: the War on Terror has
turned common criminals and mass murderers into soldiers and martyrs. As Ms
Chakrabarti noted, the greatest aspiration of Irish terrorist groups was to be
recognised as soldiers -an aspiration that British governments consistently and
rightly denied them. Yet just before the 7/7 attacks in London, the lead bomber
was able to write in his testament, without a hint of self-doubt: "We are at war
and I am a soldier."

This is the glamorous image of terrorism that President Bush and Mr Blair have
spent five years promoting. Luckily for India, her leaders have greater
intelligence and sang-froid.

Join the Debate

Send your e-mails to letters@thetimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 400 DOCUMENTS


              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                             July 13, 2006 Thursday

Family pledge to help other victims of terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: The Northern Echo


THE family of a North-East terrorism victim are hoping to put a horrendous year
behind them by helping victims of future attacks abroad.Sunday will mark the
first anniversary of a bomb blast in Turkey that claimed the life of 21-year-old
tourist Helyn Bennett, from Spennymoor, County Durham, while on a family
holiday.Miss Bennett's mother, Sharon Holden, now plans to focus on improving
support for people affected by  future terrorist attacks.Mrs Holden, 42, will
advise the Foreign Office how to deal with families facing the same horror her
own went through last July.She said: "We were told Helyn had died by a holiday
rep in a car park. We should have been taken aside as soon as they knew our
family was involved and told in private. "I'll be advising the Foreign Office
about training workers so things can be done differently to make it easier for
families to cope."Unfortunately, there will be more terrorist attacks but we
will feel better knowing we've tried to help other people like us."Miss
Bennett's fiance, Stephen Stables, and four other members of her family were
injured when the bomb exploded on a bus in the resort of Kusadasi.On Sunday,
they and other relatives and close friends will mark the first anniversary of
the tragedy with a private service to unveil a memorial bench at Jubilee Park,
in Spennymoor.There are plans to create a sculpture in Helyn's memory at the
University Hospital of North Durham, where she worked as a trainee chef with her
mother and aunt.

Mrs Holden said: "It has been awful and I can't really say I'm moving on. "Some
weeks I just want to curl up and hide away."Everything has been an uphill
struggle - losing Helyn, the others' injuries, paying for medical bills and
getting memorials sorted."Stepfather Tom Holden added: "It has been a horrendous
year for the whole family, trying to cope with what happened then the aftermath
with hospital visits. "But people have been very supportive and we try to think
of the good times we had with Helyn."*A man has been arrested in connection with
the bombing and awaits trial in Turkey.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 14, 2006 Friday

Two killed, two injured in terror attack in Georgia's breakaway region - Russian
report

LENGTH: 379 words


Text of report by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS

Tskhinvali (South Ossetia), 14 July: A terrorist attack occurred in the centre
of Tskhinvali at 0905 [0505 gmt] this morning, as a result of which two workers
were killed, and a woman and a child were injured.

"The terrorist attack was aimed against a local member of parliament, commander
of the Defence Ministry detachment Bala Bestuta, who luckily survived," the
republic's Defence Minister Anatoliy Barankevich has told ITAR-TASS.

He said that the remote-controlled explosive device was planted in a hollow tree
outside Bestuta's home. "The device was triggered when Bestuta was leaving his
home and getting into his car. He was not injured. Two workers who were
unloading a minibus at a distance of 3 m. from the car died, two more people
were injured," he said.

"This terrorist attack is similar to the one that killed Security Council
Secretary Oleg Alborov on 9 July," he said. Bestuta is a hero of South Ossetia
and is highly respected in the republic, Barankevich added.

The minister said that Georgian security services, which are implementing a plan
aimed at eliminating South Ossetian leaders and public figures, are behind
today's terrorist attack.

"We believe that today's attack, like other recent acts of provocation and
terrorist acts, was masterminded in Tbilisi and is in line with the activities
carried out by Georgian authorities to exacerbate the situation in the
republic," Barankevich said.

Moreover, Tskhinvali today is marking the 14th anniversary of the joint
peacekeeping forces being brought into the zone of the Georgian-Ossetian
conflict. Today's assassination attempt against Bestuta could be related to the
event, the minister said.

The scene of the blast, not far from Tskhinvali's central square and
administrative buildings, has been cordoned off, the necessary investigation is
in progress. An investigation group has been set up to look into the incident.

[In a later report at 0627 gmt, ITAR-TASS said that the power of the explosive
device was 1 kg in TNT equivalent. The agency quoted the republic's Interior
Minister, Mikhail Mindzayev, as saying: "The device was remote-controlled, it
was filled with cut nails and screws."]

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0559 gmt 14 Jul 06

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 14, 2006 Friday

Kyrgyz spokesman says eliminated gunmen plotted terror attacks

LENGTH: 263 words


Text of report by Kyrgyz AKIpress news agency website

Bishkek, 14 July: A subversive and terrorist group made up of five members of
the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan was eliminated during a special operation
carried out by forces of the National Security Service and the Interior Ministry
in Dzhalal-Abad [administrative centre of Kyrgyzstan's southwestern Dzhalal-Abad
Region] today, a spokesman for the National Security Service, Oytal Osmonov, has
told AKIpress.

The chairman of the National Security Service, Busurmankul Taabaldiyev, was in
charge of the operation.

"The leader of the group was Nazimdzhan Sadykov, alias Palvan. This group also
included a man named Zakidinov [both names transliterated], alias Rais, who was
involved in an attack on a traffic policeman from the department of state
traffic police for Dzhalal-Abad Region in July 2006," Osmonov said.

He said that the group was involved in a series of terror attacks, including
bomb explosions in Tashkent and at the Oberon [wholesale] market in Bishkek.

The National Security Service says that the destroyed terrorists plotted to
organize a series of terror attacks in Kyrgyzstan's southern part and to
destabilize the situation in the Fergana Valley by instigating ethnic conflicts
there.

The operation was one of the special measures to eliminate militants and their
accomplice, Oytal Osmonov said.

The National Security Service is currently carrying out the necessary
investigation measures to identify and eliminate other accomplices.

Source: AKIpress news agency website, Bishkek, in Russian 1214 gmt 14 Jul 06

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                       July 17, 2006 Monday 12:26 PM GMT

G8 SUMMIT Leaders cites 'urgency' in protecting energy sites from terror attack

LENGTH: 218 words


SAINT PETERSBURG (AFX) - G8 summit leaders vowed to bolster cooperation in
fighting terrorism, agreeing on the 'urgency' of protecting the world's energy
infrastructure from attack.

'We recognize the urgency of enhancing our cooperation with regard to countering
terrorist and other criminal attacks on critical energy infrastructure
facilities,' G8 leaders said in a summit declaration on counter-terrorism.

The leaders announced an action plan for the world's 'critical energy
infrastructure' that included ranking the vulnerability of various energy sites
to attack and evaluating the chances of such an attack.

The G8 countries -- Britain, Canada, France, Germany, India, Japan, Russia and
the US -- denounced terrorism worldwide and condemned perpetrators of attacks,
which they said caused 'untold suffering and death'.

'We pledge that we will not rest until the terrible blight of terrorism has been
removed from our daily lives,' the G8 declaration stated.

newsdesk@afxnews.com

afp/fp/nes

COPYRIGHT


Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.

The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News Content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.

AFX News and AFX Financial News Logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2006 AFX News Limited

                              102 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 18, 2006 Tuesday

Russia claims to have averted terrorist attacks during G8 summit

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS

Moscow, 18 July: Russia's law-enforcement and security agencies have thwarted
the intention of terrorists and extremists to disrupt the G8 summit in St
Petersburg.

"The plans and designs of the leaders of terrorist and extremist organizations
to wreck the summit in St Petersburg were identified in good time and
prevented," the third session of the National Antiterrorism Committee was told
today by its chairman, Federal Security Service Director Nikolay Patrushev.

Not only a security HQ in St Petersburg but also operational HQs in the North
Caucasus region were at work every day during the summit's preparation and
conduct, Patrushev said. "Their forces and resources were placed on alert," he
added.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0837 gmt 18 Jul 06

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 18, 2006 Tuesday

Pakistan minister calls Israeli attacks on Lebanon "open terrorism"

LENGTH: 401 words


Text of report by Associated Press of Pakistan (APP) news agency

Islamabad, 18 July: Terming the Israeli attacks on innocent civilians in Lebanon
as "open terrorism", Minister for Information and Broadcasting Muhammad Ali
Durrani has said the strikes were an attack on the entire humanity.

He was talking to reporters here Tuesday [18 July] at Islamabad Bar Association
after addressing Siddique-i-Akbar Seminar as chief guest.

"This is an attack on innocent civilians. Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz stood up
to the challenge and voiced against this carnage. Pakistan would employ its
influence at all available forums, including the Organization of Islamic
Countries (OIC) [as received], to voice against the Israeli attacks. The whole
world should stand up to this issue," he said.

Answering a query regarding the Indian prime minister's initiative to postpone
the scheduled secretary-level talks between the two countries, Durrani said the
Indian initiative was "un-necessary" and "deplorable".

"This initiative is not only against the will and aspirations of the peoples of
both the countries but also against the interest of the region. This is an
attempt to sabotage the peace process initiated by President Pervez Musharraf.
However, I am optimistic that the international pressure, coupled with the
peoples of India and Pakistan, would reject all such attempts aimed at derailing
the process of progress and prosperity within the region and India would return
to the dialogue process," he added.

When asked, Senator Durrani said, Bush-Manmohan meeting would only be
significant if it can carry on the peace process forward. The information
minister further said that Pakistan leadership had already announced its
willingness to cooperate with the Indian government on all issues.

On the no-confidence move against Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz from the
opposition, Senator Durrani termed it an "artificial" move and said it had no
significance as it was initiated by "rejected elements".

"Pakistan is the only country within the region which has lowest prices of
daily-use items. Having acquired the level of econo-political stability, the
country is heading towards affluence and sustainable growth-rate. That is the
reason that the government is least concerned about such cosmetic moves by the
opposition," he added.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0951 gmt
18 Jul 06

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                             July 18, 2006 Tuesday

Pre-jail 'test' for gran terror attack girl, 18

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 348 words


A teenager who robbed her 78-year-old, blind grandmother, terrifying her victim
witless, has been given five weeks to save herself from a prison sentence.

When 18-year-old Katie Byrne originally appeared at Exeter Crown Court, she was
spared a jail term after the judge heard that the victim Eileen Bowen had
forgiven her granddaughter.

Instead the Torquay teenager was given a community order for 12 months and told
to go on the Think First programme.

She was also told to do 100 hours unpaid work.

But she was brought back before the court which heard that while Byrne had done
the work, she had not attended appointments and had been in breach of the order.

Judge Paul Darlow adjourned sentence for five weeks and told Byrne: "Here's the
deal. A new Think First programme is starting and I will give you five weeks to
go on that programme.

"If you miss just one appointment you will go to prison. You are very close to
going inside because you thought you had better things to do with your time than
keep appointments. That is wrong."

At the original hearing, when Byrne of East Pafford Avenue, Watcombe, pleaded
guilty to the robbery, the court was told she was looking after the pensioner
when they had a row and she started demanding money from her.

She hurled a torrent of abuse at her victim, put her hand on her neck and over
her mouth.

Prosecutor Chris Bennett said the woman was terrified and shaking and at first
tried to get out of her home in Corfe Crescent, Torquay.

But eventually she was so scared she handed over £20 to her grand-daughter.

The court heard in addition to being blind, Mrs Bowen was hard of hearing,
suffered from diabetes and angina and had suffered a heart attack shortly before
the robbery.

Mr Bennett said Byrne had a previous conviction for assault on her aunt.

Mitigating Kevin Hopper said at the time Byrne was working in a care home as
well as looking after her grandmother and on this day she seemed to have gone
from one extreme to the other.

She was very fearful about what might happen to her and it appeared it was her
family that bore the brunt of her anger.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            July 19, 2006 Wednesday

Woman groped in mob attack terror

BYLINE: Annabelle Steggles

LENGTH: 297  words


Four pervs try to rip off her clothes in street

A TERRIFIED woman was attacked by four men who tried to rip her clothes off as
she walked home.

The beasts cornered the 35-year-old in the street and began groping her as she
screamed for help.

A brave passer-by rushed to save her, but he was punched and kicked to the
ground.

Last night one onlooker who saw the vicious attack in Paisley said the yobs were
like a "pack of wild animals".

The witness added: "The

men started picking on this woman.

"I don't know what they said but the next thing they began fondling her.

"She was obviously very frightened but there wasn't much she could do.

Beating

"Then they tried to rip her clothes off and she started screaming.

"There was a man close by and he ran over to help.

"He got a beating - he was kicked and punched to the ground."

Despite being battered, the man managed to chase the thugs - who were all aged
between 20 and 30 - away.

Police are now studying CCTV footage from the town centre in the hope that the
men were caught on film.

One of them was wearing a pink shirt, another a red top and black trousers and a
third a white checked shirt.

Cops also appealed for the man who went to help the woman to come forward.

The incident happened between 1am and 3am on Saturday - just hours after a
15-year-old girl was indecently assaulted as she walked along a cycle track in
the town at around 12.20am.

The girl - who was not hurt - was attacked by two men in their twenties, both
with short, dark hair.

One had on a white tracksuit top, the other a dark jacket.

Appeal

Strathclyde Police said the incidents, which happened about four miles apart,
are not thought to be related.

A spokesman added: "We would appeal for anyone who witnessed either incident to
get in touch with us. Enquiries are ongoing."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 20, 2006 Thursday

Nigerian railways alert over terror attacks

LENGTH: 84 words


Text of report by Nigerian Rhythm FM radio on 20 July

The Nigerian Railway Corporation [NRC] has issued security alerts to its major
train stations nationwide in the wake of terrorists train attacks in various
part of the world.

The corporation assistant director, public relations, David Nakoso, said the
corporation's management had directed its seven district managers to ensure
maximum security of trains arriving and departing from their districts.

Source: Rhythm FM, Abuja, in English 1100 gmt 20 Jul 06

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 21, 2006 Friday

Russian TV says Georgia planned terror attacks in South Ossetia

LENGTH: 170 words


Text of report by Russia TV on 21 July

South Ossetia's special services have arrested a local resident in Tskhinvali.
He confessed to planning a series of terrorist attacks against the employees of
the South Ossetian Defence Ministry. He was arrested last night [20 July] in his
home where explosive devices were also found.

The detainee said that an acquaintance of his had approached him in March saying
that he acted on the instruction of Georgian special services and suggested that
the man should stage explosions aimed at South Ossetian servicemen. He promised
the detainee 5,000 dollars for each terrorist attack. The detainee's name has
not been disclosed so far.

[C/r 0240-0314, video shows the South Ossetian footage of the detainee looking
like an ordinary civilian being convoyed by three officers with Kalashnikov
assault rifles and pushed into an UAZ jeep; and the detainee speaking to camera
with black strip covering his eyes, voice not audible.]

Source: RTR Russia TV, Moscow, in Russian 0400 gmt 21 Jul 06

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 21, 2006 Friday

Israel's attack on Lebanon "religious terrorism" - Bangladesh foreign minister

LENGTH: 370 words


Excerpt from report by UNB News Agency, Dhaka, headlined: "Israeli attack on
Lebanon 'religious terrorism' - says Foreign Minister" by Bangladesh newspaper
The Daily Star website on 21 July

Foreign Minister M Morshed Khan yesterday termed Israeli attacks on Lebanon as
"religious terrorism" and said the OIC [Organization of Islamic Conference] and
Arab League are not playing their desired role when the entire Muslim Ummah
[community] is facing ruination.

"We consider it as state terrorism, as gross violation of human rights. It is
religious terrorism and fundamentalism on the part of Israel and its
supporters," he said at a press briefing with Overseas Correspondents'
Association Bangladesh (OCAB) members at the Jatiya Press Club.

Morshed expressed utter disappointment over the role of the Organization of
Islamic Conference (OIC) and the Arab League for "not coming to our
expectations" although this has engulfed the entire Middle East.

"OIC and Arab League have many options to do... [ellipses as published] They can
do much more than what we can now see," he said, adding Bangladesh as a member
of OIC is going to send its "comments" to OIC about its role in the Middle East.

The foreign minister urged the world community to restrain the "state terrorism"
of Israel on Lebanon and Palestine.

Asked about the evacuation of the Bangladeshis from Lebanon, he said the foreign
ministry has requested the IOM to find ways and means for the evacuation, but
most Bangladeshis are not going to IOM, rather they preferred going to Syria or
other neighbouring countries on their own.

He said the number of Bangladeshis in Lebanon is much less than 10,000 as
appeared in some reports. It is difficult to say the exact number as
Bangladeshis are spreading all over the Middle Eastern countries in different
ways.

On the issue of Palestine, Morshed said Bangladesh fully support the inalienable
rights of the Palestinian people including the right to have a state of their
own with Jerusalem as its capital.

He called for a comprehensive solution to the Palestinian question in accordance
with the UN resolutions, the Arab Peace Plan and the Road Map. [passage omitted]

Source: The Daily Star website, Dhaka, in English 21 Jul 06

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                             July 22, 2006 Saturday

Letters - The world must stop Arab terror attacks on Israel

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 186 words


Israel demonstrated a restrained response by hitting nothing at Beirut Airport
other than the runways.

But it is not Israel's legitimate self-defence but the provocative capture of
two of its soldiers by Hezbollah which has brought the Middle East to its most
dangerous level of instability in recent times.

The complete Israeli withdrawal from south Lebanon in 2000 - and from Gaza in
August 2005 - has been met with continuing cross-border aggression by the Arab
jihadis of Hezbollah and Hamas.

Their refusal to respond to Israel's withdrawal with anything but more attacks
is the primary reality.

PM Ehus Olmert's description of this as an act of war by the Lebanese government
is valid - Hezbollah is part of that regime and has been given an armed monopoly
in south Lebanon by it since Israel withdrew - in spite of the United Nations
resolution demanding that Hezbollah be disarmed.

International pressure is urgently needed to scale down the tension but pressure
on the Hamas and Hezbollah aggressors who initiated the tension with their
unprovoked cross-border attacks and kidnappings.

TOM CAREW, Ranelagh, Dublin 6.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 23, 2006 Sunday

Algerian "terrorists" mount mortar attack on small town

LENGTH: 243 words


Text of report by A. Boukarine headlined "Ain Kechra (Skikda): Terrorists carry
out mortar attack"; published by Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 22 July

A terrorist attack using a mortar was launched on Wednesday [19 July] at about
2200 [2100 gmt] by a group of terrorists lying in ambush on a mountain
overlooking the small town of Tamedna, six kilometres from the town of Oueldja
Boulbeliout, in the Ain Kechra municipality, about 100 kilometres west of
[Skikda] Province's main town [about 400 km east of Algiers]. According to
reports by locals, several projectiles fired from a hebheb-type [homemade]
mortar fell on that small town just 20 or so meters away from a cafe. Panic then
gripped residents, who fled in every direction until the security forces
arrived, which clashed with the terrorists for half an hour before the latter
disappeared into thin air under cover of night.

Fortunately this attack claimed no victim. The forces of the People's National
Army spent the whole night with residents to calm them down and protect them
against [further] possible incursions.

Moreover, and according to credible sources, a group of terrorists made up of 10
or so armed elements carried out an incursion in the hamlet of Ma Lahlou not far
from Bouchetata, about 30 kilometres west of the city of Skikda on Wednesday
night. They robbed its residents, stripping them of their meagre savings and
food.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 22 Jul 06

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 25, 2006 Tuesday

India draws up standard procedures for dealing with terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 267 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi,StartDateStartDate 25 July: The Indian government has devised three
standard operating procedures [SOPs] to deal with terrorist attacks involving
use of radiological, nuclear materials, biological agents and chemical weapons
(RNBC), Lok Sabha, the country's lower house of Parliament, was informed Tuesday
[25 July].

These SOPs inter alia provide for preparedness by the concerned
ministries/departments/agencies and state governments and union territories
administrations in terms of identification/annual review of potential targets,
formation and training of specialist response teams, training of fire service
and state police personnel, Federal Minister of State for Home [Affairs] Sri
Prakash Jaiswal said in a written reply.

These procedures for responding to terrorist attacks using chemical weapons and
involving use of radioactive materials have been circulated to the concerned
ministries/ departments/agencies/governments and UT [Union Territories]
administrations for drawing up their individual SOPs/action plans and also
initiate necessary preparedness measures, he said.

Four out of the eight battalions of the National Disaster Response Force have
been earmarked specifically for RNBC disaster/terrorist strikes.

The establishments and institutions where such radiological and nuclear
materials and chemical and biological agents are produced or procured for use
have adequate security stipulations to check such items from being procured by
unauthorized persons, he added.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1843 gmt 25 Jul 06

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                 July 27, 2006

Dog attack terror

LENGTH: 395 words


By Jo Rostron A four-year-old Leeds boy was shaken 'like a rag doll' in an
horrific dog attack. Mum Cheryl McCann watched in horror as the neighbour's pet
flew at four-year-old Brandon, clamping its teeth around the youngster's leg.
Dad Lenroy Hutchinson tried to beat the bull mastiff off in a bid to rescue his
son from the animal's locked jaws.

The dog only released the screaming youngster when it was hit with a mop.
Brandon was then taken to hospital by ambulance where he stayed for two nights,
suffering serious leg wounds, scratches and bruises. Now Cheryl, 30, refuses to
return to her Meanwood home one week after the attack. The family have been told
the police cannot take action as the dog was invited into the family's garden by
dad Lenroy, 39. The dog owner told the YEP: "It's gone to a farm. No comment."
Cheryl has taken children Brandon, Aneka, six months old, and Sinead Blake, 13,
to stay at her parents' home in Little London. Cheryl said of the dog: "I am
annoyed because it's still there. I have seen him in the garden. I have got
three children, I need to know that it's gone. Brandon is terrified. He's been
very brave but he's traumatised. I am staying here until the dog goes." Cheryl
says she is suffering flashbacks from the attack last Thursday. "The dog went
for his neck but Brandon put his arms up and then the dog grabbed his leg, he
had lock jaw and wouldn't let go. I had hold of Brandon and his shorts were
ripping, the dog was shaking him all over. "Lenroy ran outside and started
punching the dog but he wouldn't let go. I picked the mop up which must have had
bleach on so it stung him and then he let go. "Brandon's been in hospital for
two nights and he's had plastic surgery and he had to have very strong
antibiotics and morphine. His flesh was all hanging out and across his back is
where the dog has clawed him. "He was dragging him around like a piece of paper.
If his dad wasn't there it would have been a lot worse." A West Yorkshire Police
spokesman said: "Police attended having been called by the ambulance service.
The dog was in the garden of the injured boy with the consent of the
householder. No offence was committed under the Dangerous Dogs Act as the dog
was not in a public place or a private one without permission." Have your say in
our forum http://www.leedstoday.net/template/mk4_forum/threads.aspx?topic=462

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 29, 2006 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

HOW STONE WON OVER THE RIGHT;
When Oliver Stone announced he was to make a film about the 11 September terror
attacks, conservatives were horrified. David Usborne looks at how they've now
become his biggest fans Politics and Hollywood

BYLINE: David Usborne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1813 words


When word leaked from Hollywood a little over a year ago that Paramount Pictures
was making a feature film about the terror attacks of 11 September 2001, many
thought the studio was extremely brave. The movie, which opens in two weeks,
would coincide closely with the fifth anniversary of the tragedy.

First there was the obvious concern about timing and sensitivity. Would
audiences, in the US especially, be ready for a celluloid rehash of events so
recent and painful? In the end it was another film, United 93, from the British
director Paul Green-grass, which took the plunge first. Released in the spring
of this year, it won mostly rapturous reviews and did well - though not
brilliantly - at the box office.

Even more arresting, however, was the news that the director of the Paramount
film was to be Oliver Stone. On the one hand, it seemed a natural choice. The
59-year-old Stone has a long track record of revisiting moments of modern
history in his movies, most notably the Vietnam War in Platoon and Born on the
4th of July, as well as points of crisis in the American presidency, as in Nixon
and JFK.

At the same time, however, giving such a tricky project to Stone seemed
downright rash. Sometimes painted as the bad boy of Hollywood, he had a
reputation for making the occasional flop -think Heaven andEarth, another
Vietnam War chronicle - frequently indulging in far-fetched conspiracy theories,
in JFK especially, and revelling in extreme on-screen violence, such as in
Natural Born Killers.

Above all, Stone was just so damned political. His anti-war agenda was plainly
laid out in the Vietnam films. More recently, in 2004, he had released his
second documentary, about President Castro, called Looking for Fidel, a portrait
of a country deeply in love with its leader. Who knew what kind of lefty,
conspiracy nonsense he would try with this film, simply titled World Trade
Center?

The powerful conservative right was the first to erupt: Stone's liberal
instincts were certain to turn the film into an anti-Bush, anti-war,
give-peace-a- chance tirade that would be a dire insult, they claimed, to the
country and to the families of the victims. The only thing worse would have been
to have chosen the leftist documentary-maker Michael Moore. The conservative
Washington Times newspaper raged that the hiring of the "conspiracy-addled"
Stone to direct the film was a "maliciously inspired choice". As the pundits of
the right are discovering now, however, even they can be dead wrong sometimes.

Like United 93, World Trade Center does not try to chronicle the vast span of
the tragedy of 11 September but restricts itself to one particular saga within
it. For Greengrass, the focus was the heroism of passengers on board the fourth
hijacked airliner, which crashed into a field in Pennsylvania This time, we have
a mostly factual retelling of how two police officers rushed into the South
Tower to help their colleagues moments before it collapsed. The officers, played
by Nicolas Cage and Michael Pena, are the film's main characters, struggling to
stay alive for almost 24 hours beneath mounds of rubble, ash and dust, while
their families and spouses wait on the outside for news of their fate.

Although we are still some time away from the film's general release - it comes
out on 9 August in the US, but British au-diences must wait until 29 September -
a buzz is already in the air. It is buzz, of course, that is far from
accidental, but skillfully generated by the marketing folks at Paramount.

In many respects, the promotional campaign for this film has been different from
the traditional. Next Thursday, it will get its red-carpet premiere in
Manhattan, but there will be none of the usual attendant hi-jinks, like
post-premiere parties. (Guests for the opening of United 93 at least got a
late-night supper at the Four Seasons restaurant.)

This is the city, after all, where the attacks actually happened and almost
3,000 people perished. In the same spirit, studio bosses ordained that there
should be no billboard advertising in New York or in neighbouring New Jersey,
where so many of the victims lived. We have, however, been seeing the cinema
trailers and television spots in the rest of the country.

Meanwhile, rather than inviting journalists from around the world to a one-day
junket in a hotel in New York or in Los Angeles to push the movie as a studio
might normally do, Paramount yesterday wound up a 10-city tour of the US,
screening the movie in each place and introducing guest audiences to cast
members and to the two men the film celebrates, police officers John McLoughlin
(Cage) and Will Jimeno.

These and earlier test screenings have delivered a few surprises. The first,
which apparently even Paramount wasn't prepared for, has been the film's appeal
to teenagers. The young adult demographic is key for ensuring big box-office for
a film, but when the subject matter is history, studios don't usually bother
with it. But it was Stone, who has two children of 10 and 14 years, who began
telling Paramount that the film would have particular resonance for teens. They
were alive when the attacks happened, he reasoned, but were too young at the
time to fully to understand what was happening. The film almost gives them a
second chance to process those events and to express their feelings about them
more fully.

"Oliver believed in his heart that young audiences would respond in a profound
way," Gerry Rich, marketing president for Paramount, told the Los Angeles Times
last week. The first screenings showed that Stone had a point. "They loved the
movie," said Mr Rich. "Kids who were seven, eight or nine at the time didn't
know enough. It makes perfect sense that they'd want to know what really
happened."

Altering its marketing tactics accordingly, Paramount crafted new advertising
spots aimed at young audiences. "Every generation has its defining moment," one
spot intones against music from the band Coldplay. "This was ours." Meanwhile,
the popular music channel MTV last night aired a special "Town Hall" forum of
young adults discussing the film and what it means. MTV is owned by Viacom and
so is Paramount.

None of the advance screenings were more important, however, than the one during
the Washington DC stop on the 10-city tour. In the audience were several
opinion-makers from the conservative right, including writers from the National
Review as well as Cal Thomas, a syndicated columnist and pundit of Fox
Television, and Brent Bozell, the president of the highly conservative Media
Research Center, which has led the campaign against violence in Hollywood.

This may have seemed like opening your battle tent to your most feared enemy.
But the move was deftly calculated. The New York Times revealed last week that
Paramount had hired an out-side firm called Creative Response Concepts to reach
out the conservative right and to romance it in advance of the film's release.
This is an outfit that has a long history of working for clients of the far
right, including Bozell's Media Research Center as well as the Christian
Coalition. Creative Response Concepts was also the group which helped to craft
the Swift Boat Veterans For Truth campaign which so successfully attacked the
Democratic candidate John Kerry in the 2004 presidential race, depicting him as
a traitor to the country because of his anti-Vietnam War positions, a conflict
in which he fought.

The irony is inescapable. Stone, with his own record of anti-Vietnam War
campaigning, was one of the first to condemn the Swift Boat spots in 2004.
Contacted by The New York Times last week, he insisted that he had had no
knowledge of the relationship of Creative Response Concepts with the film. And
he noted that, when it comes to promoting films, he himself has "hired
publicists in the past that had skeletons in their closet", adding: "It's not a
holier-than-thou street here. It's an impure market."

The lamb-like reaction of Stone may be understandable. The reaction to the film
among the Christian right has been one of astonished admiration. With one or two
exceptions, the conservative commentators who have for so long loathed Stone
have suddenly found it in themselves to embrace and celebrate him. First, this
will help to put otherwise sceptical, Middle-American, Republican-voting bums in
cinema seats. But also, the suddenness of the right's shift of opinion has
itself generated an avalanche of commentary in newspapers, on blogs and on news
channels across the land that is free publicity the likes of which Paramount
could hardly have dreamt.

Apparently, the story of two men under the concrete and cement as told by Stone
contains all the mantras of the Christian right - endurance, trust in God,
commitment to family and patriotism. Add the subplot of two wives waiting for
word of their husbands and you have a veritable paean to family values.

"Oliver Stone, in recreating what happened that day in the lives of two
resilient men, has done more than any politician's speech could ever do as we
approach the fifth anniversary of the attacks," enthused Kathryn Jean Lopez,
editor of the online edition of the National Review. "And yes, really: that
Oliver Stone. JFK Oliver Stone." Eating its words of a year ago, The Washington
Times said in an editorial last week that "Mr Stone has made a truly great
movie".

Writing on Townhall.com, Bozell acknowledged that he had expected Stone to
deliver a "tiresome, loathsome, Bush-lied-thou-sands-died production designed to
titillate the Michael Moore left-wing fringe". Yet he has been busy e-mailing
roughly 400,000 members of his Media Research Center and the affiliated Parents
Television Council, urging them to see the film. In a press release, he called
it "a masterpiece [that] must be seen by as many people as possible", and added:
"It's more than a movie - it's a vivid reminder of the love, heroism, faith and
patriotism that comprise the fabric of our country." Fox's Thomas put it even
more pithily: "It is one of the greatest pro-American, pro-family, pro-male,
flag-waving, God Bless America films you will ever see."

World Trade Center cost a not insignificant $65m (pounds 34.8m) to make. Only
when it comes out will we see whether it will have a sufficiently broad appeal
to make its money back. (United 93's box-office in the US only reached $31.5m.)

So far, Paramount must be feeling pleased with how things are looking. They are
counting on teens and now, presumably, they are counting on red-state
(Republican) voters to turn out as well. If they are not careful, however, they
may end up losing the one demographic they imagined they could rely on: liberals
and lovers of the old Oliver Stone, for whom all this conservative gushing might
be too much to stomach.

The story of two men under the concrete and cement as told by Stone contains all
the mantras of the Christian right

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Director Oliver Stone, opposite and above with actor Nicolas Cage on
the set of World Trade Center, his film about the 11 September attacks. Below,
Nicolas Cage in a scene from the film rex features

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 31, 2006 Monday

Qana attack "act of state terrorism" - Bosnian party

LENGTH: 215 words


Text of report by Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA

Sarajevo, 31 July: The Social Democratic Party (SDP) today asked the B-H
[Bosnia-Hercegovina] Presidency and Council of Ministers to send to
international institutions and the Israeli government a note with the sharpest
condemnation of the barbaric murder of 54 innocent persons in the Lebanese
village of Qana and to initiate proceedings before the UN Security Council for
"halting the Israeli aggression against Lebanon, a sovereign state which is a
member of this organization".

"The SDP is aghast at the murder of 54 innocent people in Qana. There is no
political or military justification for this act of state terrorism. Because of
its own first-hand experience, B-H does not have the right to bury its head in
the sand," says a statement by the party.

The statement adds that "no matter how insignificant B-H citizens seem to be
within the framework of global politics" they can contribute to the cessation of
suffering with their engagement.

"On behalf of B-H citizens, and astonished by a lack of empathy among the local
[Bosnian] authorities, we express out sincere condolences to the families of the
killed children and other victims," the statement says.

Source: SRNA news agency, Bijeljina, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 1116 gmt 31 Jul
06

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            August 1, 2006, Tuesday

TEENGANG TERRORAT SKI PARTY;
EXCLUSIVE THUGS ATTACK GUESTS WITH BATS AND IRON BARS

BYLINE: By Keith McLeod & Kevin Turner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 200 words


ARMED thugs terrorised partygoers at a posh venue and caused thousands of pounds
of damage to cars.

Guests were locked in for their own protection when the gang showed up waving
iron bars and baseball bats and throwing rocks.

Cars arriving to pick up guests at Bearsden Ski Club, near Glasgow, were
attacked and Vehicles in the car park were smashed.

One staff member and three guests suffered facial injuries in separate attacks.
Two of them needed hospital treatment.

Yesterday, guests claimed some of the attackers were 4th and 5th year pupils at
Bearsden Academy.

Troubled flared as the 21st birthday bash for a Bearsden woman was winding down.
The gang tried to get in but were refused.

One guest said: "No one could believe what was happening - it was a full-scale
riot.

Club general manager Drew Travers, 51, said: "There were around 70 people at the
party and none of them did anything wrong.

"These thugs had not been invited. I can only praise the actions of my staff who
reacted in the proper way to protect people.

CCTV images of the violence, which flared at around 12.30am on Sunday, are to be
passed to police.

Yesterday, a police spokeswoman said they were "following a positive line of
inquiry".

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR: Bearsden Ski Club

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             August 1, 2006 Tuesday

Sex attack terror of woman in carjack

BYLINE: KIZZY TAYLOR

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 340 words


A TATTOOED sex attacker subjected a woman to a terrifying carjack ordeal in
broad daylight and only yards from a police station.

The man, who had a spider's web tattoo on his neck, leapt into his victim's car
as she returned from using a cashpoint.

He then threatened the 33-year-old with a screwdriver and forced her to drive to
a nearby supermarket car park before sexually assaulting her.

Police last night said the woman was not injured in the attack, which happened
in Glasgow's east end, but was left 'extremely distressed'.

Detective Inspector Robbie Allan of Strathclyde Police said: 'Although she was
not physically injured, this was a terrifying attack for this woman.

'She was threatened with a screwdriver and basically had to do what the attacker
wanted.

'He was near a police station and it was broad daylight, so it does appear that
he was prepared to take plenty of risk.' Appealing for witnesses or anyone with
information as to the attacker's identity to come forward, Mr Allan said: 'This
is an isolated case but we want to catch him before a similar attack happens.

'The victim has given us an excellent description and we will be focusing on his
tattoo.' The attack happened just before 3pm on Sunday as the woman stopped her
Citroen Picasso at the Lloyds TSB cash machine in Shettleston Road.

As she returned from the cashpoint, the man got into the car, held a screwdriver
to her body and demanded that she drive a short distance away.

He told her to pull into the car park at the back of the Coop store in Amulree
Street and then subjected her to a sexual assault.

The man, who was described as being between 30 and 35 years old, eventually
fled, leaving his terrified victim to raise the alarm.

She told police her attacker was between 5ft 5in and 5ft 7in tall, of medium
build and had the spider's web tattoo on the right side of his neck.

Anyone who witnessed the abduction or attack, or who has information about the
identity of the attacker, should contact Shettleston CID on 0141 532 4800 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 2, 2006 Wednesday

Philippine army launch attack after Abu Sayyaf, terror suspects said sighted

LENGTH: 616 words


Excerpt from report in English by Philippine newspaper The Philippine Star
website on 2 August

Indanan, Sulu: Heavy fighting erupted in this town yesterday as government
forces launched an offensive against Abu Sayyaf leader Khadafi Janjalani and two
foreigners suspected of masterminding the October 2002 bombings in Bali,
Indonesia.

Army troops and Marines backed by helicopter MG-520 gunships clashed with Abu
Sayyaf guerrillas after Janjanlani and his two Jemaah Islamiyah (JI) cohorts,
Dulmatin and Umar Patek, were spotted in the village of Marang, near a camp of
the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF), in Indanan.

Two Marines have been wounded. No casualties were given for the Abu Sayyaf and
JI.

The major offensive erupted as the military and the MNLF firmed up their close
cooperation in the latest military action to deprive terrorists of sanctuary and
bring development to this province, one of the poorest in the country.

The MNLF said it will deny Janjalani and his confederates refuge. After fighting
a decades-long rebellion to establish a separate Muslim homeland in Mindanao,
the MNLF signed a 1996 peace deal with the government.

Military and MNLF officials are in close contact to avoid accidental clashes
between troops and MNLF fighters.

Dulmatin and Umar Patek are both figures in the al-Qa'idah-linked Jemaah
Islamiyah terrorist organization and are wanted by the United States.

Dulmatin, who carries a 10m-dollar bounty on his head, is an electronics
specialist with training in al-Qa'idah camps in Afghanistan and is a senior
figure in Jemaah Islamiyah.

He is believed to have been one of the masterminds behind the 2002 bombings in
Bali, Indonesia, which killed 202 people, including seven Americans.

Umar Patek, who has a 1m-dollar bounty on his head, is believed to have served
as the assistant for the field coordinator of the Bali bombings.

The United States is offering 5m dollars for the capture of Janjalani, who is in
the Federal Bureau of Investigation's list of most wanted terrorists for
kidnapping and killing US citizens. [passage omitted]

Brig-Gen Mohammad Ben Dolorfino, Southern Command deputy chief for operations,
said Janjalani, Dulmatin and Umar Patek were sighted taking refuge in Indanan
near an MNLF camp.

"They have combined forces with the other Abu Sayyaf commanders," Dolorfino
said.

Military officials believe their forces are facing about 100 to 150 Abu Sayyaf
gunmen.

Two Marines were wounded in the initial fighting early morning yesterday when
troops of the 3rd Marine Brigade's Force Recon Company ran into an Abu Sayyaf
unit led by Umar Patek.

The two Marines were evacuated and flown to a military hospital with help from
the US Joint Special Operation Task Force. "We have been consistent in providing
training and technical assistance to the Armed Forces of the Philippines," said
US task force spokeswoman Cmdr. Katy Wright.

US troops are not involved in combat operations but are helping in securing
civilians. Government forces are helping civilians out of harm's way as the
pursuit of the Abu Sayyaf continues. MNLF cooperating Khaid Ajibun, MNLF Sulu
State chairman, said they are cooperating with the military in line with the
1996 peace accord. He said the MNLF will not allow the Abu Sayyaf to seek refuge
in their territory and MNLF fighters have been ordered to keep them out.

The military and the MNLF have established a "no firing" buffer zone to avoid
accidental clashes. Signs have been posted to prevent soldiers from straying
into the six-sq.km. MNLF-controlled territory.

"We in the MNLF are in compliance with the peace agreement," Ajibun said.
[passage omitted]

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 2 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            August 2, 2006 Wednesday

Go-ahead for centre equipped to respond to terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 386 words


A disaster co-ordination centre capable of responding to terrorist attacks has
been given the go-ahead by planning chiefs.

Fire bosses are confident the multi-million pound regional urban search and
rescue facility, to be built near Exeter, will be ready to respond to major
disasters or serious incidents anywhere in the South West by next year.

It could also respond to emergencies across the rest of the UK or abroad.

East Devon District Council has granted approval for the Devon Fire & Rescue
Service project which would see a team of 16 search and rescue experts based
next to its headquarters at Clyst St George.

The team would be trained to use several million pounds worth of sophisticated
equipment given to the service by the Government.

The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister is to provide the majority of the
funding for the centre, which has been earmarked for a site on a field south of
the headquarters.

The permission paves the way for the service to complete the purchase of the
privately-owned site.

The project would involve the erection of three buildings to accommodate the
team, with changing rooms; kit storage and offices; a workshop to maintain
equipment; and a building to allow for training in disaster situations.

Space for 12 search and rescue vehicles; temporary kennels for search and rescue
dogs; and car parking are also included in the proposals.

Some of the specialist equipment, which the service has already taken delivery
of, includes large trucks with the ability to lift up pods of equipment; heavy
lifting machinery; a high volume pump for serious flooding; cutting gear; and
listening devices and special cameras to probe inside destroyed buildings.

The team would be on 24-hour call with a back-up team of 14 available.

It would be one of 20 urban search and rescue centres across the country.

Devon's deputy chief fire officer Robert Fyfe said: "It is the ideal location,
close to the main transport infrastructure, and will complement the site.

"The application was for a building to house a number of resources provided by
the Government, thereby enabling us to respond to major national, regional and
local incidents."

As part of the planning process, the service held a public meeting to attempt to
allay any concerns from nearby residents about the possible impact of the
development.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            August 2, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Second Edition

Appeal judges attack control orders for terror suspects

BYLINE: By Nigel Morris Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 194 words


The Government has been rebuffed for the second time in the courts over its use
of control orders, amounting to virtual house arrest, for terrorist suspects.

The ruling by the Court of Appeal plunges the control order regime, the
centrepiece of recent anti-terror legislation, deeper into crisis.

Five weeks ago, the High Court denounced the controversial restrictions on six
terror suspects as a breach of their human rights as they amounted to a
deprivation of liberty.

John Reid, the Home Secretary, challenged the ruling, but the appeal judges
inflicted a second defeat on the Government.

The judges, headed by the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Phillips, said the arguments
for quashing control orders were compelling: "We agree that the facts of this
case fall clearly on the wrong side of the dividing line.'

The six men, who cannot be identified, are all Iraqi asylum-seekers suspected of
travelling to Britain to carry out some form of terrorist outrage. They were
arrested under anti-terrorism legislation but then released without charge.
Instead control orders were made against them.

Mr Reid said last night he would fight the case all the way to the House of
Lords.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             August 4, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

Thug jailed for mum and tot knife terror;
ROBBERY: Teenager led horrifying attack on pregnant woman in city car park

BYLINE: By Dayle Crutch low

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 278 words


TEENAGE thug Christopher O'Kane has been jailed for five years after threatening
a mum and her 11-month-old baby with a knife during a horrifying robbery.

Coventry Crown Court heard how, along with an accomplice, O'Kane, aged 17,
demanded her keys as she returned to her car at City College, in Albany Road,
Spon End, at around 7.40pm on Wednesday, May 10.

They told the woman, who was 15 weeks pregnant at the time, that they would hurt
her baby if she didn't comply and the terrified mum promptly handed them over.
The thieves then sped off in the small hatchback car.

In a statement read out by prosecutor Neil Chawla the victim said: "The crime
will affect me in the future. I will worry about being out with my baby.

" Judge Marten Coates said the crime had been committed "on the spur of the
moment. "With a nod and a wink to his accomplice it was decided that this lady
would be a victim of crime."

The court heard that O'Kane, of Halford Lane, Keresley, had a string of previous
convictions for violent assaults and two previous convictions for robbery.

In one incident in 2005 he assaulted a man and threatened him with a screwdriver
before robbing him.

His defence counsel said the crimes were a result of drinking problems.

Sentencing O'Kane, Judge Coates told him: "Your victim was a woman with a child,
who was pregnant. She is now frightened to go out alone.

"The life and safety of her child was threatened and to enforce that threat a
knife was produced.

"You pose a serious risk to members of the public and I am sentencing you to
detention for public protection.

" O'Kane must serve at least half of his five-year sentence before he is able to
apply for parole.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            August 5, 2006, Saturday

THE TRUE STORY OF 9/11;
DIRECTOR OLIVER STONE CLAIMS CONTROVERSIAL NEW MOVIE ABOUT TWIN TOWERS TERROR
ATTACKS IS 'TOTALLY AUTHENTIC'

BYLINE: By Rick Fulton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 906 words


THERE are only five weeks to go before the fifth anniversary of September 11.

It's a major milestone marking the day when the world stood still as two planes
were crashed into New York's Twin Towers and another into the Pentagon.

While documentaries like Fahrenheit 9/11 have asked how the Bush administration
failed to detect the terrorists and why the Twin Towers collapsed, Hollywood has
taken longer to make a movie out of the tragedy.

Many still feel five years isn't enough to make money from a day in which almost
3000 people died.

But tentatively Tinseltown is doing just that. Already this year Universal have
released United 93 - a film about the fourth plane to be hijacked whose
passengers and crew managed to crash the plane into a Pennsylvanian field.

Now UIP in the UK will release another 9/11 film on September 29, barely two
weeks after the anniversary.

World Trade Center is directed by Oliver Stone and is the real-life story of two
Port Authority policemen (played by Nicolas Cage and Michael Pena) who were
trapped in the rubble for 12 hours when the buildings collapsed.

While it was mainly Americans who died in the attack, there were also British
and Scottish victims.

Director Stone, who is seen as a conspiracist director for films about
presidents, claims this film isn't about why or how it happened but the bravery
of certain individuals.

He said: "This is one of the few films I've done that I didn't initiate. The
script came to me. The idea of doing 9/11 in microcosm, through specific
stories, appealed to me. It seemed the perfect way to capture the larger story."

He said he decided early on not to show the impact of the airliners crashing
into the buildings, or the actual collapse of the towers ("We've already seen
those pictures") and the challenge was achieving "absolute authenticity."

"Since we had many of the actual rescuers playing themselves, they were able to
advise us and keep us honest."

REVIEW: Brian Lowry, Variety

ATTEMPTING to convey a macro vision of 9/11 through a lens, Oliver Stone is to
be credited for presenting this challenging, fact-based story with admirable
restraint in his new movie World Trade Center, a quality that has not always
characterised his past directorial efforts.

Yet these events result in a claustrophobic film, as two Port Authority cops lie
buried in rubble struggling to survive after the terrorist attacks.

As such, the movie yields some touching moments but proves to be an arduous
experience, yet it is more uplifting than the other 9/11 movie, United 93.

With the five-year anniversary of the terrorist attacks almost upon us,
Paramount's task to sell another movie based on the attacks remains a formidable
one.

That's largely because those harrowing images were brought to us through the
power of television and have been explored extensively within that medium, from
Jules and Gedeon Naudet's CBS documentary 9/11 - which most closely mirrors
elements here - to the various dramatisations related to United 93.

Stone's film bears some thematic resemblance to Frank Marshall's movie Alive.
Both offer a tribute to human endurance under unimaginable conditions, but
watching young guys huddle together trying not to freeze to death or two cops
pinned under tons of debris isn't exactly a thrill ride.

The first produced screenplay from Andrea Berloff, World Trade Center begins
with a powerful sense of foreboding, as the characters go about what will be
anything but another mundane Tuesday.

Sergeant John McLoughlin (Nicolas Cage) drives to his job at the New York Port
Authority, where there's a Hill Street Blues-type briefing before chaos erupts
as news about the attacks begins to filter through. As a result, McLoughlin and
a busload of officers, including Will Jimeno (Michael Pena), rush to the scene.

"There's no plan for an evacuation of this magnitude," McLoughlin says, as he
prepares his team to enter the building.

Then, suddenly, the world comes crashing down around them, leaving McLoughlin
and Jimeno trapped.

It's at this point that the movie inevitably bogs down.

Largely eschewing flashbacks, Stone alternates between the cops, McLoughlin's
wife Donna (Maria Bello). and Jimeno's pregnant spouse Allison (Maggie
Gyllenhaal).

A fourth thread centres on Dave Karnes (Michael Shannon), a former Marine who
dons his uniform and drives from Connecticut directly to Ground Zero, where he
wades through the desolation searching for survivors.

Beyond this core, Stone has populated his film with terrific actors, from Viola
Davis as a worried mother with a missing son, to Donna Murphy as one of
McLoughlin's wife's friends.

And while both actors deliver strong performances, they are confined by the
narrative, spurring a degree of impatience for the climax.

For Paramount, the saving grace could be that many who venture to the cinema
will do so with at best cursory knowledge of the story's resolution, unlike the
grim certainty of United 93.

Yet both this and the Universal film ultimately present an inspiring vision of
can-do American spirit, exemplified by Karnes and the rescue workers (played
among others, Stephen Dorff and Frank Whaley) risking life and limb to assist
complete strangers.

Technically, Stone's production is a work of superior craftsmanship, highlighted
by astonishing sound quality, which captures the towers' destruction with a
staggering din as the buildings give way. Craig Armstrong also delivers an
appropriately sensitive score.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAPPED: Nicolas Cage delivers a strong performance' CENTRE POINT:
Controversial director Oliver Stone' MATTER OF SURVIVAL: Michael Pena and
Nicolas Cage play the principal characters in the new Oliver Stone movie

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 7, 2006 Monday

Afghan TV urges change in terror tactics in light of suicide attacks

LENGTH: 291 words


Text of commentary by Afghan independent Aina TV on 6 August

[Presenter] Over the last two months, the coalition forces and Afghan National
Army [ANA] have conducted most of their military operations in Panjwai District
of Kandahar Province. Last Thursday's [3 August] explosion in the district
highlights the need for a change in counter-terrorism policy. Please listen to
Aina TV's commentary on this issue.

[Commentator] At least 21 people were killed and 13 others injured in Thursday's
explosion in Panjwai District of Kandahar Province. This attack coincides with
the coalition forces and ANA conducting major military operations in Panjwai
District over the last two months.

According to Defence Ministry officials, more than 600 Taleban militants were
killed and 300 others arrested in Operation Mountain Lion and Operation Mountain
Thrust. Thursday's explosion in Panjwai District can be seen as one of the
bloodiest terrorist attacks of its kind since the fall of the Taleban. Modern
military technology, the participation of nearly 10,000 American and Afghan
troops in lengthy mopping-up operations and the use of plentiful budget funds
will not help eliminate the Taleban or ensure security. Therefore, new methods
should be tried. This coincides with Pentagon officials announcing that they are
to dispatch 11,000 new troops to ensure security in Afghanistan.

According to a number of analysts, the government's economic policy has resulted
in public disillusionment and insecurity in the country.

In addition, a number of parliamentary officials have warned Afghanistan about
moving toward Pakistan because Pakistan has discovered the strategic military
tactics of Afghanistan.

Source: Aina TV, Kabul/Sheberghan, in Dari 1530 gmt 6 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             August 7, 2006 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

BUERK: ANIMAL RIGHTS ACTIVISTS 'TERRORISTS';
EXCLUSIVE BROADCASTER'S ASTONISHING ATTACK

BYLINE: BY CAMERON ROBERTSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 440 words


BROADCASTER Michael Buerk has blasted animal rights protesters as "terrorists"
in an extraordinary attack.

The former Ten O'Clock News front-man said they should shut up and realise how
animal testing helps humans.

Buerk, 60, complained: "It's all a terrible mix of sloppy sentimentality and
lazy disinterest. There's hopeless confusion over our relations with animals.

"These protesters think animals have the same rights as us - that's wrong.

"If experimenting is necessary to cure terrible human conditions, it should be
done - simple as that."

In a TV documentary later this month, Buerk says extreme action by the
hardliners was just a "euphemism for vandalism, even terrorism". And he
investigates how campaigners are damaging public support through their direct
action.

He claims scientists are being targeted because the public has a "mixed-up and
illogical attitude towards the animals we rely on for food".

Buerk argues: "On one hand we're more sentimental about some animals, but on the
other we want cheap food, but we don't want to know how it's done. The result -
factory farming."

He highlights the positive outcomes of animal testing for medical purposes,
showing how someone with Parkinson's is helped by a tremour device developed
through testing on monkeys.

He also talks to Pro-Test, a group supporting the rights of scientific
researchers, and chair of the Countryside Alliance Kate Hoey - who criticised
the public's "misty-eyed" view of animals.

He quotes a survey in May in which more than 70 per cent of the public accepted
testing was sometimes essential.

And he confronts Mel Broughton, an animal rights activist jailed for four years
in 1997 for smuggling incendiary bombs into an animal testing facility.

In the TV show, he also mocks their noisy protests when he hears two monkeys
suffered during tests in Oxford.

Buerk says: "It sounds horrendous, until you learn that the 'Oxford Two' weren't
political prisoners being tortured and murdered.

"It's not as if there wasn't clear, even startling evidence of the real benefits
provided by experiments.

"The truth is the animal rights movement has lost the argument."

Buerk adds: "I hate the idea of unnecessary cruelty, but it's time we woke up to
what we stand to lose if animals aren't used for research."

Last year he provoked outrage by moaning men had become "sperm donors" in a
women's world.

Don't Get Me Started: Michael Buerk - Animal Rights, Human Wrongs is shown on
Five on August 22.

BRAVE OR ABUERK?

ARE animal rights protesters who use violence to make their point terrorists?
Calls 25p from standard BT line

YES: 0901 3834422 NO: 0901 3834421

cameron.robertson@mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLASTED: The Oxford Two animal rights protest' OUTSPOKEN: Veteran
journalist Michael Buerk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             August 7, 2006 Monday
                                 2 Star Edition

ANIMAL PROTESTORS 'ARE LIKE TERRORISTS';
EXCLUSIVE BROADCASTER'S ASTONISHING ATTACK

BYLINE: BY CAMERON ROBERTSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 443 words


BROADCASTER Michael Buerk has blasted animal rights protesters as "terrorists"
in an extraordinary attack.

The former Ten O'Clock News front-man said they should shut up and see how
animal testing helps humans.

Buerk, 60, complained: "It's all a terrible mix of sloppy sentimentality and
lazy disinterest. There's hopeless confusion over our relations with animals.

"These protesters think animals have the same rights as us - that's wrong.

"If experimenting is necessary to cure terrible human conditions, it should be
done - simple as that."

In a TV documentary later this month, Buerk says extreme action by the
hardliners was just a "euphemism for vandalism, even terrorism". And he
investigates how campaigners are damaging public support through their direct
action.

He claims scientists are being targeted because the public has a "mixed-up and
illogical attitude towards the animals we rely on for food".

Buerk argues: "On one hand we're more sentimental about some animals, but on the
other we want cheap food, but we don't want to know how it's done. The result -
factory farming."

He highlights the positive outcomes of animal testing for medical purposes,
showing how someone with Parkinson's is helped by a tremour device developed
through testing on monkeys.

He also talks to Pro-Test, a group supporting the rights of scientific
researchers, and chair of the Countryside Alliance Kate Hoey, who criticised the
public's "misty-eyed" view of animals.

He quotes a survey in May in which more than 70 per cent of the public accepted
testing was sometimes essential.

And he confronts Mel Broughton, an animal rights activist jailed for four years
in 1997 for smuggling incendiary bombs into an animal testing facility.

In the TV show, he also mocks their noisy protests when he hears two monkeys
suffered during tests in Oxford.

Buerk says: "It sounds horrendous, until you learn that the 'Oxford Two' weren't
political prisoners being tortured and murdered.

"It's not as if there wasn't clear, even startling evidence of the real benefits
provided by experiments.

"The truth is the animal rights movement has lost the argument."

Buerk adds: "I hate the idea of unnecessary cruelty, but it's time we woke up to
what we stand to lose if animals aren't used for research."

Last year he provoked outrage by moaning men had become "sperm donors" in a
women's world.

Don't Get Me Started: Michael Buerk - Animal Rights, Human Wrongs is shown on
Five on August 22.

BRAVE OR ABUERK?

IS he right to brand animal rights protesters who use violence 'terrorists'?
Calls 25p from standard BT line

YES: 0901 3834422 NO: 0901 3834421

Voice of the Mirror:Page 8

cameron.robertson@mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLASTED: The Oxford Two animal rights protest' OUTSPOKEN: Veteran
journalist Michael Buerk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 400 DOCUMENTS


               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                             August 7, 2006 Monday

Top Muslim cop attacks anti-terror laws

BYLINE: Local London Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: This Is Local London


SCOTLAND Yard's top Muslim police officer will today warn that Muslims are being
discriminated against by anti-terrorism laws and enforcement agencies.

Met assistant commissioner Tarique Ghaffur will warn that there is a real risk
that ethnic minorities could be criminalised in the war on terror at home.

He will also call for an independent judicial review into why some young British
Muslims turn to extremism when he addresses the National Black Police
Association conference in Manchester, according to the Guardian newspaper.

"Not only has anti-terrorism and security legislation been tightened across many
European countries with the effect of indirectly discriminating against Muslims,
but other equally unwanted practices have also emerged, including 'passenger
profiling' as well as increased stop and search and arrest under terrorism
legislation," he will reportedly say.

He will also say that the increase of stop and searches by police tended to be
based "more on physical appearance than being intelligence-led."

"There is a very real danger that the counter-terrorism label is also being used
by other law enforcement agencies to the effect that there is a real risk of
criminalising minority communities," he will say.

"The impact of this will be that just at the time we need the confidence and
trust of these communities, they may retreat inside themselves.

"We therefore need proper accountability and transparency round all policy and
direction that affects communities."

Mr Ghaffur will reportedly propose a judicial inquiry into what caused the
"anger and resentment" of young British Muslims that lay behind the July terror
attacks.

"We must think long and hard about the causal factors of anger and resentment.
In particular, we need to adopt an evidence-based approach to building
solutions."

He will also tell how discrimination had affected his own career: "I have been
deliberately excluded from groups, processes and decision-making on occasions. I
have had creative ideas turned down, only for them to then be subsequently
suggested by colleagues and accepted."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 9, 2006 Wednesday

Russia: Law defines actions against aerial terrorist attacks air force chief

LENGTH: 332 words


Text of report in English by Russian news agency Interfax-AVN website

Moscow, 9 August: The law on countering terrorism clearly defines actions of the
military in case of extremist attacks from the air, Army General Vladimir
Mikhaylov, Russian air force commander-in-chief, said on Wednesday [9 August].

"Anyway, I know what I must do in such situations, and I am not afraid of the
consequences of my decisions. But due to obvious reasons it is not expedient to
disclose the algorithm of actions and the composition of means and forces to be
involved in holding such anti-terrorist operations," Mikhaylov told
Interfax-Military News Agency.

He noted that the algorithm had existed before the law was passed, but now it is
written into the law. "There are documents that clearly determine who must act
and how they should do it," he said.

Asked about the role of the S-400 Triumf surface-to-air missile system in
developing the Russian aerospace defence system, Mikhaylov said that Triumf is a
reliable foundation for developing aerospace defence structures. "Alongside with
S-400, we have another system called A-135, and all that is now concentrated in
the same hands. As a result, we will definitely reach the parameters that are
close to what we wish to see after 2011," he noted.

According to Mikhaylov, the air force will soon incorporate air defence units of
the Ground Troops, now reporting to the command of military districts. All the
latest exercises and the experiment held at the 6th army of the Leningrad
Military District confirm that this decision is correct, he said. "Efficiency
will grow, controllability will improve, and there will be no duplication that
is inevitable when commands are received from different commanders," he
stressed.

Mikhaylov said he was sure that "there will be no organizational difficulties in
incorporating air defence units of the Ground Troops into the Air Force".

Source: Interfax-AVN military news agency website, Moscow, in English 0950 gmt 9
Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            August 9, 2006 Wednesday

Terry recalls terror of attack by masked raiders at post office

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 421 words


Post Office worker Terry Reardon has spoken for the first time of his terror
when he confronted masked raiders.

Brave Mr Reardon, 64, from Exmouth, broke his silence about the ordeal as
detectives revealed their plan to offer a cash reward to catch the gang
responsible.

Mr Reardon's right arm was injured by a baseball bat wielded by the masked
intruders who burst into Brixington Post Office in Churchill Road, Exmouth, two
weeks ago.

The former London postal service worker leapt from behind the counter to stop
the balaclava-clad robbers getting to cash in a safe but was hit with the bat.

A red Peugeot used as a getaway car was found burnt out in Berry Close hours
after the July 27 robbery.

Police have arrested a woman in connection with the incident. She has been
bailed pending further inquiries.

Mr Reardon, who has worked for post office owner Ken Brighton, 63, for three
years, welcomed the offer of the reward.

He said: "I was terrified when the robbers came in through a back door.

"I tried to bar the way as they headed for the safe. They hit my arm with a bat
as I tried to stop them getting in through the door.

"It was a good job I'm a big bloke because they were smaller than me and I tried
to use my strength to bundle them out of the shop.''

Mr Reardon said he hoped to get the go-ahead from his doctor to return to work
in the next few days.

He added: "My arm has recovered, but it could have been much worse. I could have
got head injuries.''

Mr Brighton, who was not in the post office when the intruders struck, said:
"Luckily, Terry is 6ft 3ins tall and he did his best to stop the robbers.

"I'm pleased there is a reward to help bring those responsible to court.

"What happened was shocking. The whole community here at Brixington has been
shocked over what happened.

"I'm looking forward to Terry returning to work because he is popular. Between
us we have 80 years post office experience.''

Despite Mr Reardon's efforts the robbers escaped with a substantial amount of
money.

Det Con Steve Merrett of Exmouth CID said: "A reward is being offered for
information leading to the arrest and conviction of those responsible. At this
time we cannot say how much."

He added: "Two addresses have been searched which led to the arrest of a woman
who has been bailed. We are continuing with our inquiries and they are very
positive.''

Police are still appealing for witnesses to the robbery, which happened at
3.50pm.

Anyone with information should contact police on  08452 777444 or via
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            August 10, 2006 Thursday

LONDON TERROR ATTACK DRAMA

SECTION: A MERGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 30 words


HEATHROW JETS TARGETED . Alert put at 'critical' level . Airport bomb plot
foiled . 18 seized in dawn raids REPORTS: Pages 2, 3, 4 & 5 On guard: an armed
police officer patrols Heathrow

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            August 10, 2006 Thursday

'IT COULD'VE BEEN WORSE THAN 9/11';
LONDON TERROR ATTACK DRAMA Terror alert now at 'critical' Hundreds of flights
cancelled Al Qaeda bombers foiled

BYLINE: JUSTIN DAVENPORT

SECTION: LSE 04; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 516 words


A PLOT to blow up passenger jets over major cities has been foiled, Scotland
Yard said today.

The carnage could have been worse than 9/11, an anti-terror source said.

Deputy Commissioner Paul Stephenson said: "This was intended to be mass murder
on an unimaginable scale."

Between six and 12 flights from Britain to the US were targeted. It is believed
the aim was to detonate the bombs simultaneously, a hallmark of al Qaeda
terrorists.

The devices, thought to be a new type of "liquid chemical" bomb, were to be
smuggled on board in hand luggage.

Terror chiefs raised the threat level to critical, the highest, meaning that
Britain is considered to be under attack. A total of 21 people were arrested in
dawn raids across London, High Wycombe and Birmingham.

There were severe delays at UK airports as hundreds of f lights were cancelled
and thousands of passengers were sent home.

Heathrow was closed to incoming flights. No hand

Holidaying Blair gives OK to clampdown luggage is being allowed in cabins.

One of the properties raided today was a terrace house in Forest Road,
Walthamstow.

Searches of houses are ongoing and more arrests are expected. The majority of
those held today are believed to be British.

Police launched a major operation last night after receiving intelligence that
an attack was imminent.

One source told the Standard: "If this had been successful it would have been
worse than 9/11. If planes had been blown up over major cities the destruction
would have been immense." A total of 2,801 people died on September 11 2001.

A major surveillance operation by Scotland Yard's antiterrorist branch and the
security services had been under way for several months with suspects being
tracked and monitored.

If terrorists have found a way of smuggling small amounts of explosives onto
planes without detection it would be a security nightmare. Police have feared
that JOHN REID spelled out the scale of the terror plot today as it emerged Tony
Blair had approved the police operation.

In a dramatic televised statement, the Home Secretary said the security services
were "doing everything possible to disrupt any further terrorist activity".

He said that the plot was "very significant" and was designed to bring down a
number of aircraft "causing considerable loss of life". His words came as
Downing Street revealed that the Prime Minister, who is holidaying in Barbados
with his family, had backed the counter-terror swoop. Mr Blair was told within
minutes of the discovery of the plot. In his absence, Deputy Prime Minister John
Prescott is today expected to chair a meeting of Cobra, the Cabinet emergency
committee.

bombs might be assembled on planes by a number of passengers smuggling the
separate components on board in their hand luggage.

Scotland Yard said in a statement: "We would like to reassure the public that
this operation was carried out with public safety uppermost in our minds. This
is a major operation which inevitably will be lengthy and complex."

Cobra, the committee involving ministers, emergency services and security
agencies, had been meeting through the night.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           August 10, 2006, Thursday
                                  Main Edition

AIR PORT ON TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 6 words


Full dramatic story inside - Pages 2&3

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON GUARD: An armed policeman at Liverpool John Lennon airport this
morning Picture: MARTIN BIRCHALL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           August 10, 2006, Thursday
                                 Extra Edition

BRACED FOR TERROR ATTACK: Armed cops at J LA over blast alert;
MASSIVE SECURITY AT ALL UK AIRPORTS AS 21 ARE ARRESTED OVER SUSPECTED PLANE PLOT

BYLINE: SPECIAL REPORTS by MICHELLE FIDDLER, NEIL HODGSON and MARY MURTAGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 783 words


ARMED police patrolled Liverpool John Lennon airport today as a major terrorist
threat sparked a national alert.

Huge queues built up at check-in desks across the country as airport staff
enforced rigid security procedures. It follows news of a suspected plot to
allegedly blow up aircraft in mid-flight early today.

A joint operation by the Metropolitan police's anti-terrorist branch and
security service uncovered a suspected plan to detonate bombs smuggled on board
an aircraft in hand luggage.

Home Office minister Dr John Reid said the plot was designed to "bring down a
number of aircraft through mid-flight explosions, causing a considerable loss of
life".

Twenty-five people have been arrested in connection with the terrorist plot,
most in London with some in the Thames Valley and Birmingham. All are thought to
be British. Searches were continuing at a number of other addresses.

Heathrow closed at 9am to all incoming flights which had not yet taken off.

Today the usual bustling airport forecourt outside JLA's terminal building was
eerily quiet.

All traffic apart from buses and taxis was directed to a car park to drop off
and pick up passengers.

Alongside armed police, mobile CCTV vans were stationed at the airport and a
sniffer dog checked passengers and their luggage.

Queues built up at the check-in desks as passengers transferred permitted
personal belongings into clear carrier bags.

All other hand luggage had to go inside airplanes' holds.

Approximately 20 flights were due to depart before noon, but by 9am seven of
those flights, including those to Shannon, Berlin, Venice and Carcassonne, had
already been cancelled.

Marjorie Nicholl from St Helens said: "We heard before we left the house this
morning about the problems. We're only going for a day trip to Belfast so we
weren't stowing any luggage anyway.

"We left our handbags and everything we didn't need at home. All I'm carrying is
my money, passport and glasses.

"I found it fine in the airport this morning. We've been largely unaffected but
all the other passengers seem calm. I think everybody understands why this has
to happen."

Managers at the airport, which carries around 4.5 million passengers every year,
were advising those catching planes or picking up arrivals to allow more time
for the security checks.

The area in front of the terminal and the pick-up/drop-off area was cleared, and
only passengers were allowed inside the terminal.

Liverpool JLA corporate affairs manager Robin Tudor said: "Arrangements for
buses and taxis remain as normal.

"There are queues to the roundabout near the airport and people walking across
the grass area to reach us."

Police were stopping people on Speke Hall Avenue to warn of the delays.

Mr Tudor said passengers had to follow check-in procedures.

"There will be no internet checkin, so people who have printed off their own
boarding cards at home will have to go through the normal check-in.

"No hand luggage will be allowed. Passengers need to think very carefully. They
should put all hand luggage inside suitcases. "

The security searches were also stepped up, causing long delays. Mr Tudor said:
"Searches have been stepped up. We know it is a slow process but it will now be
more rigorous."

The heightened alert will remain in place indefinitely.

A Department of Transport spokesman said: "We hope that these measures, which
are being kept under review by the government, will need to be in place for a
limited period only

Useful numbers

Contact details for information: Liverpool John Lennon airport: 0870 750 8484
www.liverpooljohnlennon airport.com

Manchester airport: 0161-489 3000 www.manchesterairport. co.uk

easy Jet: 0871 244

236 6

www.easyjet.com

Ryanair: 0871 246

0000

www.ryanair.com

VLM: 0871 666 5050www.flyvlm.com

Flybe: 0906 209 0005 www.flybe.com

What you can take with you

TRAVELLERS can take limited hand luggage in a transparent plastic carrier bag.
Nothing can be carried in pockets.

Items allowed are:

Pocket-size wallets and purses plus contents.

Essential travel documents.

Prescription medicines and medical items essential for the flight, not liquid.

Glasses without glasses cases.

Contact lens holders, not bottles of solution.

Tissues (unboxed).

Keys (not electrical).

Female sanitary items, unboxed.

Baby food and milk. Contents must be tasted by accompanying passenger.

Nappies, wipes, creams and nappy disposal bags.

Pushchairs and walking aids will be X-ray screened and only airport-provided
wheelchairs can pass through screening point.

Passengers to the US face secondary searches at boarding gate.

Any liquids will be taken from passengers.

Electrical or battery-powered items, including laptops, mobile phones, iPods and
remote controls, must be checked in as hold baggage.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RING OF STEEL: A heavy police presence at Liverpool John Lennon
airport' CLEAR VIEW: A passenger at Liverpool airport with hand luggage' ON
GUARD: Armed officers at Liverpool John Lennon Airport mix with passengers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                               New Civil Engineer

                            August 10, 2006 Thursday

Airports in chaos as MI5 prevent mass terror attack

BYLINE: NCE

SECTION: ARTICLE; NCE; Airports; Terrorism

LENGTH: 222  words



HIGHLIGHT: 'The current threat level is assessed as critical. This means that an
attack is expected imminently and indicates an extremely high level of threat to
the UK,' announced security service MI5 this morning.'


A terrorist plot to blow up aircraft in mid flight was disrupted today in what
Scotland Yard described as 'a joint pre-planned intelligence-led operation by
the Met's Anti-terrorist Branch and Security Service.'It is believed that
terrorists were planning to detonate explosive devices smuggled on board the
aircraft in hand luggage. Police said the attacks were particularly targeted at
flights from the UK to the USA. Overnight police have arrested a number of
people in London. These arrests are the culmination of a major covert
counter-terrorist operation lasting several months. Home Secretary John Reid
said: 'Overnight the police, with the full knowledge of Ministers, have carried
out a major counter-terrorism operation to disrupt what we believe to be a major
threat to the UK and international partners. 'The police, acting with the
Security Service MI5, are investigating an alleged plot to bring down a number
of aircraft through mid-flight explosions, causing a considerable loss of
life.'The police believe the alleged plot was a very significant one indeed.'At
2am this morning the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre raised the UK threat state
to its highest level: Critical. 'This will mean major disruption at all UK
airports from today. But as far as is possible we want people to go about their
business as normal.'

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: New Construction Engineer


                            Copyright 2006 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 11, 2006 Friday

Bosnian intelligence chief slams attack on Izetbegovic's grave as terrorist act

LENGTH: 167 words


Excerpt from report by Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA

Sarajevo, 11 August: The director of the State Investigation and Protection
Agency (SIPA), Sredoje Novic, has condemned this morning's desecration of
[Bosnian Muslim wartime leader] Alija Izetbegovic's grave, calling this a clear
act of terrorism.

He said during this morning's visit to the cemetery in the Sarajevo settlement
of Kovaci that this was something he had never experienced before in his career,
because, he added, graves have never been desecrated in such a manner in this
area.

"What is important at this point in time is to remain calm and begin a serious
and professional investigation of the total situation using all the
professionalism of the police and prosecution structures. This should include
the whole period, from the end of the security supervision of Izetbegovic's
grave until the moment this act occurred," Novic underlined. [Passage omitted]

Source: SRNA news agency, Bijeljina, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 0932 gmt 11 Aug
06

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 11, 2006 Friday

Bosnian minister says attack on Izetbegovic's grave is "more than terrorism"

LENGTH: 122 words


Text of report by Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation News Agency FENA

Sarajevo, 11 August: This could only be done by terrorists, nationalists or sick
minds, Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation [FB-H] Premier Ahmet Hadzipasic said today
after having seen the damaged grave of the first RB-H [Republic of
Bosnia-Hercegovina] Presidency chairman, Alija Izetbegovic, in the Kovaci
Martyrs' Cemetery.

"This is more than terrorism," FB-H Interior Minister Mevludin Halilovic, who
was with the FB-H premier at the scene, said.

Minister Halilovic said that measures have been undertaken in order to prevent a
deterioration in the security situation following this event.

Source: Federation News Agency, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 1002 gmt
11 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 11, 2006 Friday

Bosnian leader says attack on Izetbegovic's grave is "heinous terrorist act"

LENGTH: 125 words


Excerpt from report by Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA

Sarajevo, 11 August: B-H [Bosnia-Hercegovina] Presidency Chairman Sulejman Tihic
is of the opinion that the desecration of Alija Izetbegovic's grave is a
criminal act, an attack against B-H, peace and coexistence, as well as an
attempt to destabilize the situation in B-H, Tihic's office has said.

Alija Izetbegovic was the first B-H Presidency chairman.

According to the statement, this "heinous terrorist act gives even more strength
to B-H patriots and defenders of their homeland in their fight for such a B-H as
Izetbegovic worked for and for which its best sons gave their lives and health".
[Passage omitted]

Source: SRNA news agency, Bijeljina, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 1209 gmt 11 Aug
06

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 11, 2006 Friday

Foiled terrorist attack in UK still achieved impact - Hungarian daily

LENGTH: 602 words


Text of editorial by Endre Aczel, headlined "They have got half of it", by
Hungarian newspaper Nepszabadsag on 11 August

They have still achieved half of what they wanted. That is to say, half of the
impact that the assumed airline mass murderers had in mind. If their plan had
been successful (and that was not easy to write down), then the authorities
would be now implementing security and precautionary measures, considered
extraordinary in "times of peace," after the killings. If it had happened, chaos
would have prevailed among the feelings of shock, grief, and revenge and two
important global sectors, air traffic and tourism, would have been wrecked. It
will be calculated how much it has cost not only them, but also us.

On Thursday night [ 10 August], seven newscasts out of 10 reported that, while
the aircraft were still stranded on the runways, airlines, airport operators,
and large travel agencies were taking a dive on the stock markets. Such a move
devalues national assets all over the world. We still remember very well the day
after 11 September 2001. People avoided flying and taking long journeys for a
long time. They did not want to die - after all, no one knew then if the
terrorist attacks would be repeated later. They were not repeated, because the
terrorist groups had to pull themselves together in the face of the new security
measures. Presumably, they have now succeeded in doing this. "New-wave"
terrorists have taken the stage now; they have matured with new techniques. One
thing that has not changed, though, is that they are also ready to commit
suicide, of course. Another thing that has not changed, either: in one way or
another, they can be linked to Al-Qa'idah. Over the past five years, airlines
and travel agencies have managed to clear the clouds of New York; their only
concern was the changes in the price of gasoline. They did not expect another
wave of terror. Now they can start all over again.

It is easier to assess the damage than to find out why dozens of European
citizens (at least according to their passports) would be willing to destroy
themselves and thousands of unsuspecting airline passengers. Who are these
people? I am afraid they come from the same brood as the London subway bombers.
The first statement about them is more than telling: "They were born in Great
Britain." Those others were born there, too. But their parents were born in
other countries.

When someone is classified as being born on British soil, it also implies that
he is "not English." They are the people of the immigrants from Asia, most
probably from a Muslim country, and their socialization was derailed at some
point. This was either because they had too much experience of being a minority
(which, in a civilization sense, cannot even be compared to the majority status
they enjoyed in their "motherland") or because they started to gather around
mosques that, armed with their imported priests, are prepared to defy European
and Christian civilization and, most importantly, enlightened thinking.

By all means, the thwarted plotters of mass murder did not consider the country
where they were born as their homeland; they did, however, hold it responsible
(together with white America) for the situation that had developed in the lands
of their ancestors. For the underdevelopment, the poverty, and the wars. There
has always been only one constructive element in that mentality: destruction.
Until that point, it belongs to the field of psychopathology. However, the
consequences go far beyond than hospital wards.

Source: Nepszabadsag, Budapest, in Hungarian 11 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             August 11, 2006 Friday

Mr Blair has repeatedly denied our role in the invasion of Iraq has made Britain
more vulnerable to terrorist attack. No one believes him . . .

BYLINE: MAX HASTINGS

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1836 words


TO A terrorist, it is so tempting. In a season when every airport in the world
is thronged with heaving humanity, how great are the chances that a hot, weary,
eyesore security scanner will identify a random jumble of innocent-looking
components in a handbag as a potential explosive device?

The world's murderous fanatics remain fixated with aircraft as targets.

For all their size, they are relatively fragile.

Hundreds of people die when a plane is destroyed in flight, and thousands more
are at risk if its stricken remains fall on a great conurbation.

We should pity the security forces. They are obliged daily to juggle our safety
against the economic and social priority of enabling hundreds of thousands of
people to travel freely.

The Israelis run the world's only genuine high-security airline, and El Al
achieves this by adopting an intensity of passenger search and interrogation
which most of us find unacceptable.

Our safety hinges overwhelmingly upon identifying prospective suicidebombers
before they can strike, as the police and intelligence services appear to have
done yesterday. It is hard to overstate the strain which this responsibility
imposes.

They can frustrate plot after plot, detain suspect after suspect. Yet, amid the
teeming multitudes out there in the streets of suburban Britain, among the
growing number of Muslim radicals, they know that they need miss only a single
cell for disaster to fall upon innocent people.

That is why they keep warning us that, sooner or later, another atrocity as
horrible as last summer's London bombings is bound to happen.

It takes about 20 officers to maintain round-the-clock surveillance on a
terrorist suspect. Often, such a person is a 'sleeper', who does nothing for
months, save pursue his lawful affairs.

When resources are stretched, constant juggling of manpower is needed to monitor
dangerous people.

Yet the security service and police know that, if they withdraw coverage of a
suspect who later commits a terrible crime, ministers and the media will be at
their throats.

'The stakes are getting higher for government as public expectations of safety
and security rise,' Sir David Omand, Britain's former co-ordinator of security
and intelligence, said a few months ago.

'The UK is wrestling with the tradeoff between intelligence effectiveness and
individual privacy, between due legal process and protecting the public from
dangerous fanatics, between free public speech and neutralising the messages of
hate from the advocates of terrorism.' In the early Fifties, in the dark days of
the Cold War, Britain's chiefs of staff debated how to defend this country from
Soviet suicide-bombers carrying portable nuclear devices.

After a brief discussion, they decided that it was impossible to provide 'point
defence' against such a threat. They concluded that the only answer was to
depend upon deterrence - Russia's knowledge that if its agents exploded atomic
bombs in Britain, we would respond in kind.

Today, of course, deterrence is a dead letter. It is impossible to threaten with
retaliation Osama Bin Laden in his cave, though mercifully his acolytes lack
nuclear weapons.

The only course for government and its agents is to defend us by what they call
'the four Ps': prevention, pursuit, protection and preparation.

The first two of these are designed to address the present generation of
terrorists. The last two are intended to forestall the next generation.

Everybody connected with intelligence and counter-terrorism recognises the need
for a long-term programme to prevent the radicalisation of young British
Muslims.

Sheaves of reports and studies circulate among the security departments, which
assess why some young men - especially our own, homegrown residents - become
radicalised to the point of being willing to kill themselves and others.

I have one such document in front of me now. It notes that many wouldbe
terrorists fall prey to the fanatics in their teens, and are at their most
dangerous in their 20s.

They are overwhelmingly male, though women play a part in the family support
structure of socalled jihadists.

Ironically, given the inferior status of women in the Muslim world, female
'victimhood' is a significant force in motivating some young radicals - for
instance, through images of Muslim women allegedly being violated by Coalition
troops in Iraq.

The internet plays a large part in their political education, with a host of
websites inciting them to rise against the infidel.

Jihadists believe that Islam is under attack from the Jews and the Christian
West - especially America - and is betrayed by corrupt, insufficiently
fundamentalist Middle Eastern governments.

They think that, in such circumstances, the Koran justifies defensive action -
which, in their twisted minds, includes killing Western innocents.

One clue to imminent suicide action by a terrorist can be that he pays his
debts, to make himself 'a purer offering to God'. Many swallow the 'Single
Narrative', which regards history as an unbroken tale of Christian and Jewish
persecution of Islam.

In Britain, second - and third - generation Muslims often feel isolated both
from their own societies and from ours. Embracing radicalism gives them a sense
that they are adopting a higher ideal than either.

It is very hard for a Western nation to counter the sort of nonsense peddled by
the 'Single Narrative'. Tony Blair urges moderate Muslims to work more actively
to counter the extremists' myths, but he has little success.

Muslims of all persuasions resist almost anything a Westerner has to say about
their faith, and even moderates show little enthusiasm for taking on the
extremists.

Some young Muslims are attracted to radicalism not by religion, but merely by
cultural and political alienation.

Joining a violent assault on the West, even upon the very community in which
they live, gives a sense of purpose to bored and rootless lives, of the same
kind that a generation ago made some young Catholic Northern Irishmen choose the
status of becoming IRA gunmen in preference to being an unemployed bricklayer or
barman.

The most obvious cause of Muslim alienation is, of course, Iraq - and now,
American and British support for Israeli action in Lebanon.

Tony Blair has repeatedly denied that our participation in the invasion of Iraq
has made Britain more vulnerable to terrorist attack. No one, least of all in
the intelligence services, believes him.

Deluded young men in Birmingham or Bradford, London or Leeds, who address
themselves to terrorism, see an immediate grievance in Western actions in the
Middle East.

Nightly scenes of slaughter and devastation on their television screens rouse
them to blind bitterness against those they hold responsible.

By blowing up an aircraft or a Tube train, they do not expect to drive Britain
and America out of Iraq, or Israel out of Lebanon. They are content merely to
inflict pain upon our country comparable with that which they think we are
inflicting on the nations of the Middle East.

'Many jihadists see themselves as engaged in a divinely ordained millennial
process rather than a progression leading to a result - victory or defeat,' says
a Whitehall analysis of British Muslim radicalism.

'What is important to them is not the winning - God will see to that eventually
- but the taking part.

What will change them, gradually, is argument, the removal of justifying causes
(Palestine, Iraq), the erosion of belief and the day-today frustration of their
designs.' There is not much comfort there for us, prospective victims of these
impassioned, reckless, murderous people. Neither George Bush nor Tony Blair
shows any signs of penitence for Iraq, and indeed both have raised the stakes by
backing Israel's actions in Lebanon.

Religion plays a part in their motivation, too. They are driven by a sincere
Christian belief in their own rectitude, which is no more susceptible to
rational argument than the 'Single Narrative' of the Islamic radicals.

They are not terrorists, of course, but the elected leaders of democracies.

Nonetheless, their God has persuaded them to commit some sorely ill-judged
actions, which have cost a host of lives.

Sir David Omand says: 'The struggle of ideas, as much as the tactical battle on
the streets, has to be won. We badly need a counternarrative that will help
groups exposed to the terrorist message make sense of what they are seeing
around them.' Yet it is hard to create this when many British and American
people, never mind the Muslim radicals, lack confidence in their own
governments' policies in the Middle East.

The police and intelligence services are struggling not only to provide us with
short-term protection against murderous fanatics, but against a government
foreign policy which is making matters worse, by promoting Muslim
radicalisation.

Nothing justifies terrorist atrocities. Nothing can make it acceptable for young
British Muslims or foreign jihadists to murder innocent people.

But it would be absurd not to acknowledge that, in the five years since 9/11,
Muslims have become more and not less alienated from the West. In other words,
the security authorities' job is getting harder, not easier.

Yesterday was a miserable day for us all. We pitied hundreds of thousands of
hapless people who found holidays wrecked and lives disrupted by the huge
airport shutdown.

Yet we must anticipate more of the same in the years ahead, because there is no
short-term panacea for international terrorism, and we are frontline targets.

Many countries around the world, which declared total support for the struggle
against Al Qaeda in the wake of 9/11, are today only half-hearted in their
contributions.

Even some European nations do much less than they should, because they are
unsympathetic to American Middle Eastern policy, and pin hopes for their own
safety upon avoiding provocation of Muslims, either individually or as nations.

This makes the job of our own intelligence services that much more difficult.
Almost all terrorist networks cross frontiers, as the Home Secretary observed
yesterday. Only if the West unites to counter the threat can we prevail, and
today such unity is elusive.

However little we like it, we must resign ourselves to some loss of civil
liberties. The police and intelligence services cannot deal with terrorism
without the wide spread of powers of surveillance.

It is their misfortune that they depend for new legislation to assist their
purposes on a government which no longer commands trust.

It is understandable that the public has little enthusiasm for giving new powers
to Tony Blair and his ministers, when they show themselves so little fit to
exercise those which they already possess.

Before judging the plot which the security forces frustrated yesterday, we need
to know much more about it.

For now, we can only mop our brows and be grateful that what appears to have
been a major threat to innocent lives has been prevented. But there will be more
of the same, and as a society we shall need all our courage and patience to meet
them.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLAIR AND BUSH: UNITED IN THEIR OWN BELIEFS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                August 11, 2006

Baby terror in attack by drunk thug;
Tot showered with glass as window broken

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 240 words


A BABY was showered with glass after a drunken teenager threw a piece of wood at
a window, a court heard.

Lisa Hyndman, 18, had been given permission to use the toilet at the house in
Dalskeith Avenue in Paisley but it was suspected she had stolen something.

She returned to the property at around 10pm and stood outside shouting and
swearing and hurling verbal abuse at the occupants, then threw the piece of wood
at the window.

Depute fiscal Paul Ayre told Paisley Sheriff Court: "The impact caused the
window to shatter and glass fragments fell on to a five-month-old baby lying in
a cot."

In court, Hyndman, of Paisley, admitted conducting herself in a disorderly
manner and committing a breach of the peace in Dalskeith Avenue in July 2004.
She also admitted smashing the window while behaving in a culpable and reckless
manner, causing fragments to fall onto the tot.

Defence agent Mark Lovie said his client had previously appeared in court and
had been making good progress and staying out of further trouble.

Due to the condition shewasinatthetime of the offence, Hyndman had no
recollection of what had taken place, the agent claimed. Hyndman, he said, had
become more mature since the incident.

Sheriff George Kavanagh told her: "You can't get much more defenceless than a
fivemonth-old baby, can you?"

After studying social reports, Sheriff Kavanagh placed the accused on probation
and ordered her to complete 100 hours of community service.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              139 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                            August 11, 2006, Friday
                                   1 Edition

Terror as devil dog attacks pet

BYLINE: Alan McEwen

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 552 words


A DOG owner has told how her pet West Highland terrier was almost killed by a
Rottweiler as it played in her garden with a two-year-old toddler.

The terrier called Jimbo needed 80 stitches after being grabbed by the throat
and shaken violently.

Vets told Matilda Lynch that her nine-year-old dog was unlikely to survive the
savage assault.

The Rottweiler also bit her neighbour Joanne Lumsden, 21, in the arm as she
tried to pull the animal off Jimbo and protect her two-year-old son, David.

Their 18-year-old neighbour, Dean Stewart, appeared in court yesterday after
being accused of being in charge of the Rottweiler and not keeping it under
proper control.

But he walked free after telling Edinburgh Sheriff Court that the dog was a
stray which had followed him home from a nearby park and disappeared afterwards.
Sheriff Ian Simpson QC yesterday ruled that the case against the teenager had
not been proved following a trial at Edinburgh Sheriff Court.

Today, Mrs Lumsden said the Rottweiler was a danger to children and other
animals and should be "destroyed" if it is found.

The Rottweiler jumped over a fence into Mrs Lynch's garden in Muirhouse Avenue
on December 20 last year.

It grabbed Jimbo by the throat and viciously shook the terrified terrier before
throwing it in the air.

The injured pet managed to escape into the safety of its home, but the
Rottweiller followed it inside, dragged it out again and continued its savage
attack, shaking and throwing it.

Mrs Lynch's 80-year-old mother Elizabeth, who is wheelchair-bound, tried to
throw a plant pot at the stray but failed to halt the attack. Ms Lumsden finally
managed to prise the dog away, but suffered bite marks on her arm. Moments
before the attack her son David had been playing beside Jimbo in the back
garden.

Mrs Lynch, 54, said: "The dog jumped over the fence from next door and grabbed
hold of Jimbo with its teeth.

"It was ragging Jimbo about with its jaws clamped shut. It wasn't letting go of
him.

"Jimbo was covered in blood. I couldn't believe he was still alive.

"The vet told me the muscles in his neck were ripped from shoulder to shoulder
and he had puncture wounds all over his body. He needed about 80 stitches."

Mrs Lynch said her pet, which she had owned since he was a puppy, fought a
desperate battle for survival.

She added: "Jimbo was in and out of the vet's for two months. He was on liquid
morphine when I got him home.

"Then on New Year's Day he came down with an infection. The vet said he wouldn't
make it but he's a fighter. He's okay now but he still has trouble with his
neck. And he's quite withdrawn and easily scared.

"That Rottweiler should be destroyed because it's a danger to other animals and
children.

"My neighbour's son was sitting right next to Jimbo when he was attacked.

"The Rottweiler could easily have went for the baby instead."

Mrs Lynch told the court that Mr Stewart had referred to the Rottweiler as "his
dog" and that it had been with him in his garden.

Stewart claimed the dog had followed him from a nearby park and he had planned
to contact an animal charity to collect it when it suddenly bolted into his
neighbour's garden.

Sheriff Simpson told him: "I find you not guilty on the basis that were simply
intervening in relation to this dog to try to be helpful and you had no
delegated authority over it."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                August 11, 2006

Terrorists planned 'dry run' of attack

LENGTH: 248 words


TERRORISTS planned a dry run of their attack on ten USA bound planes within two
days, according to US intelligence officials. The actual attack would have
followed within days.

Sources said five men were still being hunted in the UK. One official said the
suicide attackers planned to use a peroxide-based solution that could ignite
when sparked by a camera flash or another electronic device. The test run was
designed to see whether the plotters would be able to smuggle the needed
materials aboard the planes, these officials said. They spoke anonymously
because of the sensitivity of the subject matter.The test run was designed to
see whether the plotters would be able to smuggle the needed materials aboard
the planes, the officials said. The details of the alleged plot surfaced as the
administration posted a maximum code-red alert for passenger flights from
England to the US and banned liquids from all carry-on bags.The security upgrade
triggered long lines at airports across the US, and governors in at least two
states activated National Guard troops to help provide protection. "This was a
well-advanced plan," homeland security secretary Michael Chertoff said as
British authorities announced the arrests of 24 alleged plotters yesterday. "In
some respects suggestive of an al Qaida plot." Los Angeles mayor Antonio
Villaraigosa said as many as 10 flights had been targeted. Other officials said
they were United, American and Continental Airlines routes from Britain to US.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 12, 2006 Saturday

India must attack Pakistan, Bangladesh "terrorist centres" - BJP leader

LENGTH: 347 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Panaji, 12 August: The main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Saturday [12
August] demanded that India attack Pakistan and Bangladesh "to dismantle
terrorist centres" in these countries.  "I demand that after taking the
international community into confidence, India attack Pakistan to dismantle
terrorist centres," BJP President Rajnath Singh told reporters in this capital
of the western Indian state of Goa.

"Not only Pakistan but Bangladesh should also be attacked where terrorist
centres are operating," he added.

Refusing to name any specific international body, Singh said international
support should be garnered before such attacks.

Singh, who is in Goa on his two-day tour which started Friday, said that Indian
government should use its diplomatic skills to convince the international
community.

On asked as to why BJP could not attack these two countries during the party's
tenure, Singh said then Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee had specifically
told Pakistan President Parvez Musharaff that there will be no (no) talks with
Pakistan till they gave a commitment to stop cross border terrorism.  "Only when
Musharaff made the commitment, the dialogue was started," he said.

"Neighbouring countries, including Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka,
are becoming a hub of terrorism. This situation is posing grave danger to
security of India," Singh said.

BJP president accused the Union [federal] government of being "silent and not
doing" anything to curb terrorist activities. "It is not a secret that ISI
[Inter-Services Intelligence] is involved in terrorist attacks in India," he
said.

Singh demanded that India stop all confidence-building measures with Pakistan
and seek international community's help to declare Pakistan as a terrorist
state.

About Nepal, Singh said India should intervene in the affairs of Nepal to ensure
that Maoists did not take over the country.

"If they (Maoists) want to come into mainstream, we have no objection," he said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1427 gmt 12 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           August 12, 2006, Saturday
                                 First Edition

OUR TERROR NIGHTMARE: Police to investigate arson attack links;
BRITAIN ON ALERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 117 words


Police were investigating yesterday whether an arson attack at a mosque was
linked to the foiled terror plot.

Youths attacked the mosque in Blacon, near Chester, shortly before midnight on
Thursday. It is understood people were inside the building at the time.

A spokeswoman for Cheshire Constabulary said an accelerant was poured through a
door and set on fire. The small blaze was quickly extinguished by people inside
and no one was injured. Only minor damage was caused.

Police said the incident was being investigated as a "faith hate" crime but said
it was too early to say if it was linked to the terror alert.

Last September, youths set fire to the lawn in front of the mosque, damaging the
building.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           August 12, 2006, Saturday
                                 Mersey Edition

Firebomber hits mosque with 'faith hate attack';
Arson scare hours after 'terror plot' news

BYLINE: LIAM MURPHY Daily Post Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 386 words


A CHESTER mosque was firebombed in what police are calling a "faith hate attack"
which came just hours after an alleged major terrorist plot against UK airports
was foiled.

The Shahjalal Mosque and Islamic Centre, in Blacon, was targeted by an arsonist
who poured flammable liquid through the front entrance of the mosque and set
light to it.

Carpets and fittings in the building caught fire, but a group of people who were
inside the mosque were able to stamp out the flames.

But officers confirmed they are investigating the incident, which happened hours
after a major terrorist alert brought airports to a standstill across the
country, as a "faith hate attack", and a spokeswoman for Cheshire Police said
the blaze itself was "a very minor incident".

It is not the first time the Shahjalal mosque has been targeted. Last September,
Muslim leaders in Chester said they believed an arson attack on the same mosque
may have been connected with the London bombings.

On that occasion, a fire was started with petrol outside a side entrance of the
Blacon mosque while worshippers held an all-night prayer session. Other
incidents at the mosque in recent years include an anti-Islamic slogan being
painted on a wall outside, and on one occasion male worshippers, who leave their
shoes outside the prayer room, found they had gone when they returned.

Cheshire Chief Constable Peter Fahy, who has expressed a personal commitment to
protecting vulnerable groups, has previously visited the mosque.

In 2004, Cheshire Constabulary revealed the existence of hidden CCTV cameras at
the mosque in an effort to deter yobs from verbally abusing the 250-strong
congregation and smashing windows of the mosque and visitors' cars.

In the latest incident, the fire service was called at 11.58pm on Thursday to
the mosque in Blacon.

A spokesman for Chester Police said: "Shortly before midnight police were called
to a fire at a mosque in Clifton Drive, Blacon.

"A small amount of flammable liquid was put through the door of the mosque. This
resulted in superficial damage.

"It is being treated as arson and investigated as a faith hate crime.

"Police inquiries are at an early stage and the motive for the attack is not yet
known."

No one from the mosque was available for comment yesterday.

liammurphy@dailypost.co.uk

It is being treated as arson

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                            August 12, 2006 Saturday

Thug's 'terror' attackon Kurd

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 291 words


A Kurdish man was branded a "terrorist" in a racially motivated attack in
Torquay.

The 35-year-old was out in the town in the early hours of yesterday morning when
a "skinhead" called him a terrorist and punched him in the face.

The unprovoked attack came hours after airports around Britain were severely
disrupted following a suspected plot to blow up airliners.

The victim, who lives in Torquay, had previously been in a busy nightclub.

He was in the Fleet Walk area when a man came up to him and punched him in the
face.

It is believed the victim was alone at the time of the attack but police reckon
the offender was with three others.

Acting Inspector for operations Torbay, Richard Hooper Bennett, said police will
not tolerate racially motivated attacks.

He said: "This man was minding his own business in the Fleet Walk area when he
was called a terrorist and racial abuse was hurled at him.

"The attacker was described as being of stocky build with a 'skinhead' haircut.

"Police are treating any racially motivated attacks as extremely serious.

"There are extra patrols on the streets in a bid to stop violent crime affecting
vulnerable members of our community.

"We are urging anyone with information about this crime to contact police.

"We believe the offender was with other people and we are urging them to come
forward."

Acting Insp Hooper Bennett said police are trawling through Torbay Council's
CCTV footage and footage from nearby licensed premises.

He added: "We are urging anyone who heard the offender shout racial abuse or
throw a punch at the victim to come forward with information.

"We will not tolerate such behaviour."

Police are to interview the victim through a Kurdish interpreter.

Contact police on 08452 777444, quoting FT/06/7385.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                                August 12, 2006

Another wave of terror attacks feared

LENGTH: 792 words


Reid calls for vigilance amid warning that public transport system could be at
risk after plane plot is thwarted

William Green Political Correspondent

TERRORISTS are feared to be planning to launch another wave of attacks against
public transport after the foiling of a plot to blow up transatlantic flights.

The concerns are understood to be behind the decision to keep this country's
terror warning level at critical - the highest state of alert.

Security sources have revealed two martyrdom tapes and "corroborative evidence"
have been found in houses being searched in connection with the plot to down
United States-bound passenger jets from Britain using explosives hidden in soft
drinks bottles.

Police also reportedly found a detonator in woodland in High Wycombe,
Buckinghamshire, where anti-terror raids linked to the plot have taken place.

It also emerged that internet cafés - two in Slough and one in Reading - have
been raided and computer equipment seized by police in an echo of the inquiry
into the July 7 suicide attacks on London last year.

In a further dramatic dev-elopment, the extent of the Pakistan connection to the
plot was revealed after officials there announced the arrest of two British
nationals and described one as a "key" suspect linked, it was claimed, to
al-Qaida. As detectives prepared to question 23 people remaining in custody in
the UK after one suspect was released without charge last night, the Pakistani
authorities identified Rashid Rauf as one of seven people held in Karachi and
Lahore.

Pakistani officials said it was the arrests there that triggered the police
operation to dismantle the plot in the early hours of Thursday. At least seven
people have been held, with claims of further arrests yesterday.

A number of the plotters were radicalised in terrorist training camps in
Pakistan, it was also claimed.

Two suspects are said to have met a suspected al-Qaida explosives expert and
received a wire transfer of money from Pakistan.

It was also reported the original tip-off about the plot was from someone in the
British Muslim community worried about an acquaintance's activities.

In cities throughout Italy police arrested 40 people in raids on Muslim
gathering places in a security crackdown yesterday after the foiling of the
plot.

The investigation is continuing amid fears an attack could still be imminent.
One insider has told the Yorkshire Post of fears of a "second wave" of attacks
that might not necessarily happen in the UK, but if they did would target the
London Underground or trains.

Home Secretary John Reid appealed for vigilance and warned the police could not
be 100 per cent certain every-one involved in the plot had been arrested, amid
continuing reports five more suspects are being hunted.

But he said the security authorities were confident the main players had been
accounted for in a conspiracy said to have targeted British Airways, as well as
US airlines United, Continental and American.

At a press conference in London, Mr Reid praised the international authorities
who assisted with the investigation, going out of his way to thank the Pakistani
government.

Tony Blair also telephoned Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf to thank him for
his country's role in thwarting the terror plot.

Last night Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott praised the response of the
public, security services, police, transport staff and aviation companies.

He paid tribute to the "superb job" done by the Home Secretary and Transport
Secretary Douglas Alexander, adding: "The Prime Minister is fully engaged in all
decisions and I have had regular discussions with him."

Shadow Homeland Security Minister Patrick Mercer said: "I certainly don't think
the danger is over yet and in the same way that we were attacked on July 7 and
July 21 last year. I would expect terrorists would try to attack again in the
near future. That is why there must be no complacency following the tremendous
success by the police and security services."

Details of those arrested in the UK emerged after 19 of the 24 suspects - of
whom at least three are converts to Islam - had their assets frozen by the Bank
of England.

A heavily pregnant woman and a man in a wheelchair were amongst those reportedly
arrested.

william.green@ypn.co.uk

News Referendum

Do the police need new powers to combat terrorism?

If you AGREE call 0901 801 4392

If you DISAGREE call 0901 801 4393

Or text your vote YPNEWS (space) YES or NO and send to 84070

Or join the debate on our website at www.yorkshireposttoday.co.uk

Views posted on our website must include an address of the sender.

YESTERDAY'S RESULT

Should hand luggage be banned from all aeroplanes?

Yes 65%

No 35%

Calls cost 10p. Mobiles and payphones may vary. Texts cost 25p plus standard
network rates.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday

Philippine military says raid pre-empts possible terror attack on Manila

LENGTH: 530 words


Excerpt from report by Gina Peralta-Elorde published in English by Philippine
newspaper The Daily Tribune website on 13 August

The military yesterday confirmed that the terrorist group Abu Sayyaf planned to
sow terror in the country by conducting bombing operations, but they were
thwarted following the discovery of the group's largest camp in Jolo, Sulu.

As early as July, the military had planned to raid the camps of the Abu Sayyaf
in the jungles of Jolo after receiving information from residents nearby.

Intelligence reports disclosed the camp was being used as training ground by Abu
Sayyaf members and once served as the hiding place of Abu Sayyaf leaders Abu
Sulayman, Khadafi Janjalani and Radulan Sahiron.

The Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) on Friday [11 August] disclosed that
with their intensified manhunt operations for Jemaah Islamiyah (JI) leaders Omar
Patek and Dulmatin, the duo could not have left Jolo.

The two JI leaders were allegedly teaching the bandit group how to make bombs,
including liquid bombs, which they learned from Al-Qa'idah. The two are bomb
experts and were tagged as the masterminds in the bombings in Bali, Indonesia.

According to National Security Adviser Norberto Gonzales, the government may
have pre-empted possible terror attacks on Manila.

"When the operations started on Jolo, there was ongoing training in explosives.
They were assembling explosives there," Gonzales said.

Abu Sayyaf, the smallest of four Muslim rebel groups in Mindanao, is blamed for
a number of deadly terror attacks, including the bombing of a ferry near Manila
in 2004 which killed more than 100 persons.

After four days of air and ground assaults, soldiers and marines overran the Abu
Sayyaf jungle camp early this month, but failed to find the two JI leaders.

The military earlier said seven Abu Sayyaf members were killed in a major
three-day land, air and sea operation on known Abu Sayyaf positions on Jolo.
Three other suspected Abu Sayyaf members were arrested as they tried to flee by
boat.

The captured training camp is located in the foothills of Mount Bud Kapok. Army
infantry as well as Marine forces were involved in the assault, which military
officials earlier said made use of intelligence provided by us military advisers
operating in the southern Philippines.

The United States government has offered up to 10m dollars for the capture of
Dulmatin and 1m dollars for Patek for their roles in the Bali bombings.

Regional intelligence officials say Dulmatin, an electronics and bomb expert
trained in Al-Qa'idah camps in Afghanistan, is a senior JI member believed to
have triggered the bombs. Patek allegedly helped coordinate the attack.

The military claimed to have seized bomb-making materials and equipment from the
captured camp.

The AFP said the electronic circuits discovered in the Abu Sayyaf camp will be
subjected to examination by US bomb experts.

Military intelligence officials have said JI was building up links with Abu
Sayyaf, considered a terrorist organization by the US. The Abu Sayyaf is also
believed to have ties with Al-Qa'idah leader Usamah Bin-Ladin. [passage omitted]

Source: The Daily Tribune website, Manila, in English 13 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday

US behaviour in Mideast provides motivation for "terror attacks" - Iran paper

LENGTH: 481 words


Text of editorial in English by Iran News website on 13 August 06

[Editorial entitled: "West's contradictory conduct and terror attacks"]

Britain named 19 people yesterday suspected of a plot to blow up transatlantic
airliners and ordered their assets frozen, a day after police said they had
foiled "murder on an unimaginable scale".

US officials said suspected suicide bombers were just days from simultaneous
attacks on up to 10 aircraft flying from Britain to the United States, raising
the spectre of strikes to rival the 11 September 2001 attacks on the United
States.

News of the arrests caused chaos at Britain's airports at the height of the
holiday season, with hundreds of flights cancelled. Strict security measures
were still in place yesterday, causing long queues.

Police said the plan was to blow up planes with chemical bombs smuggled on board
disguised as drinks. The US Homeland Security Department said the 24 people
arrested were British.

The Bank of England, acting on instructions from the government, published the
names and addresses of 19 suspects, saying it would be illegal to release their
funds.

The suspected plot came to light 13 months after four British Muslim suicide
bombers killed 52 people on London's transport network.

Such threats are worrying for Western nations and, as everybody can see, a large
number of European airlines have witnessed a drop in their incomes. Other
economic sectors in European countries are also susceptible to damage. One can
see how the Western economy could prove vulnerable.

The neutralization of this so-called terrorist plot is a significant
development, but it indicates a big contrast in the behaviour of Western
governments.

Political pundits are of the view that extremists always meet one another.
Currently, Israel is pressing ahead with its extremist and illogical policies
against Palestine and Lebanon. A group like al-Qa'idah may turn up for a
riposte.

Western governments remain tight-lipped in the face of massacre of innocent
people in Iraq, Afghanistan, Palestine and Lebanon. In exchange, another
extremist group dares to kill civilians in the West, justifying their act with
the death of civilians in Muslim countries.

Such a justification is wrong, but it does not mean that Western countries are
entitled to cause deaths in other countries in line with their expansionist
policies.

The way Western countries, notably the United States, behave in the Middle East
provides motivation for such horrible acts.

Western countries have to reconsider their policy. They should know that death
of civilians is bad for all nations.

They should not forget the fact that the persistence of the same contradictory
behaviour would cause a repetition of terror attacks.

Samuel Huntington has highlighted revolts in Muslim countries in his concept
"Clash of Civilizations".

Source: Iran News website, Tehran, in English 13 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday

"Terrorist attack by bandits" leaves eight Iranian policemen dead

LENGTH: 140 words


Text of report by Iranian radio on 13 August

Following a crime committed by bandits on the Bam-Zahedan road [near the eastern
borders of Iran] the council for provision of security in the town of Bam has
held an extraordinary session.

According to IRNA, the participants at the meeting included Bam's governor, Mr
E'temadi, and officials from security organizations, the Law Enforcement Force
and the judiciary.

In a terrorist attack committed last night by armed bandits eight members of the
Law Enforcement Force were martyred and three injured.

The Law Enforcement Force has confiscated 51 tonnes of different narcotics in
the Sistan va Baluchestan Province and many dozens of bandits have been detained
and handed over to the officials of the Judiciary.

Source: Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Tehran, in Persian 0430 gmt 13
Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday

Prescott sidelined over attack on Israelis;
10/8 Terror Plot

BYLINE: JONATHAN OLIVER

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 388 words


JOHN PRESCOTT was effectively sacked as stand-in Prime Minister during last
week's terror crisis after leading a Cabinet revolt against Tony Blair's Middle
East policy.

The Mail on Sunday can reveal that Mr Prescott launched a vitriolic attack on
his boss's continued refusal to condemn the Israeli strikes that have killed
hundreds of Lebanese civilians.

At the final Cabinet meeting before the summer break, the Deputy Prime Minister
told Mr Blair: 'I am not at all happy about the attacks by the Israelis.'

Mr Prescott's disloyalty meant that when 24 terrorist suspects were arrested in
connection with the airliner bomb plot, it was the ultra-Blairite Home Secretary
John Reid who was put in charge of the Government's response.

Despite nominally being in charge during Mr Blair's holiday in the Caribbean, Mr
Prescott was gagged from making a public statement until 36 hours after news of
the police raids broke.

Humiliatingly, even then, he was allowed to make a statement lasting just 91
seconds, with reporters banned from the room.

Meanwhile Mr Reid has both been chairing the Cobra security committee in
Whitehall and appearing as the public face of the Government during the crisis.

Further evidence of how Mr Prescott was sidelined emerged in reports that on
Thursday he had planned to appear at an airport to show solidarity with stranded
passengers but then mysteriously failed to appear.

He had wanted to make public statements on Thursday and Friday mornings. But he
was forced to wait until Friday evening to make his first appearance missing the
early evening television bulletins and newspaper first editions.

Now, say Labour rebels, Mr Prescott is privately supporting the campaign to
recall Parliament to discuss the Lebanon crisis.

Since Thursday, he has spoken to organisers of a petition with 100 backbench
Labour names and indicated he would support an emergency Commons debate.

Mr Prescott has persuaded Hemsworth MP Jon Trickett, who is leading the
campaign, to hand the list to him rather than Commons leader Jack Straw.

* Gaffe-prone Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair was advised by his
key Press adviser, Dick Fedorcio, to 'stay out of the spotlight' during the
terrorist operation in case he made inappropriate comments.

Instead his deputy, Paul Stephenson, took over a Press conference on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 13, 2006, Sunday

HORNY DEVIL;
 EXCLUSIVE 1 WESTLIFE'S TERROR AS THEY'RE ATTACKED BY ANGRY 2-TON

BYLINE: BY ALICE WALKER

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 314 words

HIGHLIGHT: ANIMAL ATTRACTION: Rhino took a charge at jeep' WILD WEST: Kian,
Mark, Nicky and Shane were at Knowsley Safari Park


WESTLIFE had to make a hasty getaway after being charged by a RHINO during a
trip to a safari park this week.

The Irish four-piece were on a day out at Knowsley Safari Park in Liverpool when
the animal bolted towards their vehicle.

Only the quick thinking actions of the park warden, who was driving them around
the park, saved them.

He managed to slam his foot on the accelerator and speed away from the rampaging
beast with seconds to spare.

Luckily the Dublin and Sligo lads escaped unscathed without their jeep being
crushed by the huge animal - but it still gave the lads a bit of a fright.

Park manager David Ross, who escorted the boys around the park, last night said:
"The rhino certainly caused a bit of excitement in the car, and we had to beat a
hasty retreat.

"She was sweltering in the heat poor thing, and I think we got a bit too close
to her."

David said Kian Egan, Shane Filan, Mark Feehily and Nicky Byrne were a bit
shaken by the hairy incident but still enjoyed their visit.

He added: "They were very polite and fully enjoyed their trip even though it was
bit frightening."

Earlier in the day the band had dinner with the park's owner, the 19th Earl of
Derby.

Westlife made the trip in secret after being invited for the fun day out.

White rhino, like those in Knowsley Safari Park, are normally peaceful grass
grazers which rarely attack.

An exception was in June 1996 when conservation worker Daniel Lipscombe, 22,
from Guernsey, died at a rhino sanctuary in Botswana.

The university graduate was charged down and killed after clambering into a
rhino enclosure.

An adult white rhino can weigh up to 2.7 tonnes, reach a shoulder height of 6ft
and a length of 15ft.

Worldwide, various species of rhino are responsible for 100 deaths each year,
mainly in India, Bangladesh and Nepal.

irishpeople@mgn.ie

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.

                              151 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 14, 2006, Monday
                                Solihull Edition

Attack still 'highly likely' - Reid;
TERROR THREAT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 335 words


HOME Secretary John Reid today insisted a terrorist attack was still "highly
likely", as the national terror threat level was downgraded from critical to
severe.

Mr Reid said intelligence assessments suggested that an attack was no longer
imminent - but he warned that did not mean the threat had gone away.

"The public needs to know that there may be other people out there who may be
planning an attack against the UK.

"That is why there are a number of other security service operations under way,"
he told a news conference in London.

"There is still a very serious threat of an attack. The threat level is at
severe, indicating the high likelihood of an attempted terrorist attack at some
stage."

A ban on carrying hand luggage on aeroplanes introduced following last
Thursday's airline bomb security alert and police operation has been lifted.

The ban, part of new security measures, caused huge disruption at UK airports
and the decision to lift it has been welcomed by airlines.

The Department for Transport said an item of hand luggage must not be more than
45cm long, 35cm wide and 16cm deep including wheels, handles and side pockets,
the statement said.

Other bags, such as handbags, may be carried. No liquids are permitted, except
for essential prescription medicines and baby milk and baby food.

John Morris, head of corporate affairs at Birmingham International Airport,
said: "We are asking people to adopt a sensible approach to this and if they
have any doubt to pack the item in the hold luggage."

Mr Morris said there had been no cancellations and the biggest delay facing
passengers waiting for one flight this morning was just 16 minutes.

Police are still holding 2 3 men following Thursday's raids and it was reported
today that they are searching woods at King's Wood, near High Wycombe,
Buckinghamshire, the scene of one of the raids.

Last night a British Airways flight from London to New York turned back after a
mobile phone - then banned - was found on board.

MAIL SAYS: PAGE 42

WHITTOCK: PAGE 8

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STILL WAITING... passengers at Heathrow Airport last night.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            August 14, 2006, Monday
                              North Wales Edition

Reid: More terror attacks are 'likely'

BYLINE: JOHN BINGHAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 420 words


HOME Secretary John Reid warned yesterday that fresh attacks on the UK were
"highly likely" as he revealed that police were investigating around two dozen
major terror plots.

As police continued to hold 23 men over airline liquid bomb allegations, Mr Reid
said that at least four major terror plots had been foiled since last year's
London bombings.

Amid anger over the handling of delays in British airports, Mr Reid said the
Government had been responding to "extraordinary circumstances", with a plan to
blow up multiple aircraft believed to have been imminent.

Britain was put on "critical" alert, the highest level of terror warning, early
on Thursday morning as police launched raids in London, Birmingham and High
Wycombe, Bucks.

Mr Reid told the BBC: "Even if on the basis of our intelligence ... we reduced
from 'critical' to 'severe' ... it is highly likely there will be another
terrorist attempt and that is one thing of which we can be sure."

Responding to a newspaper report that "up to two dozen" terror probes were
operating across the country, the Home Secretary said that there could also be
unknown threats.

"I'm not going to confirm an exact number, but I wouldn't deny that that would
indicate the number of major conspiracies that we are trying to look at," he
said.

"There would be more which are not at the centre of our considerations and there
may be more that we don't know about at all."

Asked how many terror plots capable of causing major loss of life had been
foiled since July 7 last year, he said: "I can tell you that at least four major
plots have been thwarted."

He also warned that despite the police operation, members of the alleged terror
ring could still be "out there".

"We believe it was a major, major plot," he said.

"We believe ... that we have the main targets from that particular surveillance
and plot.

"We can't rule out either that there are people that we don't know about
connected with this plot, or that there are others connected with other
conspiracies.

"Or, indeed, that there are people who are prepared to use this opportunity to
carry out a terrorist attack."

One of those arrested last week is set to appear in court tomorrow for a
decision on extra detention while one has been released and a further 22 can be
detained until Wednesday.

In Pakistan up to 17 others are believed to be in custody including Briton
Rashid Rauf, who has been officially described as a "key" suspect and is thought
to be the brother of Tayib Rauf, 22, one of those arrested in Birmingham last
week.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Home Secretary John Reid appearing on the BBC news channel yesterday
where he said that Britain had thwarted at least four terrorist plots since July
7 last year

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             August 14, 2006 Monday

Terror plot: Security: Threat of attack downgraded to severe

BYLINE: David Hencke, Westminster correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 653 words


John Reid, the home secretary, said early today that the threat to the UK from
terrorism has been downgraded from critical to severe after an intelligence
assessment suggested that an attack was no longer imminent.

The change was made by the Joint Terrorism and Analysis Centre based on the
latest intelligence, a statement from the Home Office said.

Mr Reid said the precautionary measures introduced last Thursday were being
relaxed after the police operation in which24 people were arrested in connection
with an alleged terror plot last week.

Mr Reid said: iThere has now been time to assess the intelligence picture
following the police operation. The police believe that the main suspects in the
alleged plot were arrested last week.

iThreat level assessments are intelligence-led. It is not a process where
scientific precision is possible. They involve judgments. The public needs to
know that there may be other people out there

who may be planning an attack against the UK. That is why there are a number of
other security service operations under

way.i

He went on to stress that the change in threat level did not mean the treat had
gone away. iThere is still a very serious threat of an attack. The threat level
is at severe indicating the high likelihood of an

attempted terrorist attack at some stage, and I urge the public to remain
vigilant,i potential terrorist strikes, are currently being investigated by the
police and security services. The initiative to revive a longer period of
detention without trial o it may go up to 42 days from the current 28 as a
compromise o is widely shared by ministers including Tony Blair,Gordon Brown,
John Prescott and Ruth

Kelly.

While insisting that the government would not push through legislation on the
hoof, Mr Reid said 90 days was iwhat the

police and security services wantedi and therefore should be implemented.

But the government is certain to run into opposition again not only from groups
such as Liberty, which condemned the move yesterday, but also from the
Conservatives who opposed the extension last time.

David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said: iObviously we would support any
measure to curb terrorism. We are not blind. But this move is not appropriate.
So far there has been no need to detain anybody for 28 days and can you imagine
the backlash if someone is detained for 90 days and then released without any
charges in the current climate in the Muslim community?i he said.

Earlier yesterday Mr Reid had signalled yesterday that the government may revive
plans to detain people without charge for

up to 90 days as part of a package to deter a fresh wave of terror attacks. The
move reflects a toughening attitude across government in the wake of last week's
alleged failed terror attack.

Ministers are also alarmed that up to 24 major known conspiracies, involving
potential terrorist strikes, are currently being investigated by the police and
security services. The initiative to revive

a longer period of detention without trial o it may go up to 42 days from the
current 28 as a compromise o is widely shared by ministers including Tony Blair,
Gordon Brown, John Prescott and Ruth Kelly.

While insisting that the government would not push through legislation on the
hoof, Mr Reid said 90 days was iwhat the

police and security services wantedi and therefore should be implemented. But
the government is certain to run into opposition again not only from groups such
as Liberty, which condemned

the move yesterday, but also from the Conservatives who opposed the extension
last time.

David Davis, the shadow home secretary,said: iObviously we would support any
measure to curb terrorism. We are not blind. But this move is not appropriate.
So far there has been no need to detain anybody for 28 days and can you imagine
the backlash if someone is detained for 90days and then released without any
charges in the current climate in the Muslim community?i

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                             August 14, 2006 Monday

More UK terror attacks are likely warns Reid

BYLINE: John Bingham, PA

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 660 words


Home Secretary John Reid warned yesterday that fresh attacks on the UK were
"highly likely" as he revealed that police were investigating around two dozen
major terror plots.

As police continued to hold 23 men over airline liquid bomb allegations, Dr Reid
said that at least four major terror plots had been foiled since last year's
London bombings.

Amid anger over the handling of delays in British airports, Dr Reid said the
government had been responding to "extraordinary circumstances", with a plan to
blow up multiple aircraft believed to have been imminent.

Britain was put on "critical" alert - the highest level of terror warning - up
from "severe", early on Thursday morning as police launched raids in London,
Birmingham and High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire.

Dr Reid told the BBC News 24 Sunday programme: "Even if on the basis of our
intelligence we reduced from 'critical' to 'severe' it is highly likely there
will be another terrorist attempt and that is one thing of which we can be
sure."

Responding to a report in The Observer that "up to two dozen" terror probes were
operating across the country, the home secretary said that there could also be
unknown threats.

"I'm not going to confirm an exact number but I wouldn't deny that that would
indicate the number of major conspiracies that we are trying to look at," Dr
Reid said.

"There would be more which are not at the centre of our considerations and there
may be more that we don't know about at all."

Asked how many terror plots capable of causing major loss of life had been
foiled since July 7 last year, he said: "I can tell you that at least four major
plots have been thwarted."

He also warned that despite the police operation, members of the alleged terror
ring could still be "out there."

"We believe it was a major, major plot. We believe that we have the main targets
from that particular surveillance and plot.

"As I said there are still people out there who would carry out such attacks.

"We can't rule out either that there are people that we don't know about
connected with this plot or that there are others connected with other
conspiracies, or indeed that there are people who are prepared to use this
opportunity to carry out a terrorist attack."

One of those arrested last week is set to appear in court today for a decision
on extra detention while one has been released and a further 22 can be detained
until Wednesday.

In Pakistan up to 17 others are believed to be in custody including Briton
Rashid Rauf, who has been officially described as a "key" suspect and is thought
to be the brother of Tayib Rauf (22) one of those arrested in Birmingham last
week.

Pakistan said the arrest of Rashid Rauf and others in the country had
"triggered" Thursday's dawn raids in Britain.

While sources have indicated that the authorities in Pakistan may be looking at
a connection with Matiur Rehman, a senior figure in the Pakistani terrorist
group Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, there has been no official confirmation.

British foreign ministry spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam said yesterday: "We have not
made any connection, we have not mentioned his name in connection with this
case."

Rehman - who has previously been linked to a bid to assassinate Pakistan's
president General Pervez Musharraf - has been named as a wanted man in Pakistan.

He has featured on a formal newspaper advertisement offering a reward for his
capture at the head of Pakistan's six 'most wanted terrorists.

Pakistan has pointed to a suspected link to al Qaida elements in Afghanistan, a
claim its neighbour angrily rejected yesterday.

Shadow home secretary David Davis said Dr Reid and the government had handled
the situation "reasonably well" but called for troops to be sent into major
airports to help with security checks and ease delays.

The Department for Transport responded that the situation at London airports was
"challenging" adding that the department was "working intensively" and keeping
the new arrangements "under review".

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            August 14, 2006, Monday

Terror attacks are 'still highly likely'

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill and Stewart Tendler

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 783 words


The public is warned to remain vigilant despite a downgrading of the terrorist
threat, Sean O'Neill and Stewart Tendler write

The level of the terrorism threat facing Britain was downgraded from "critical"
to "severe" early this morning, but John Reid, the Home Secretary, gave warning
that the public still needed to remain vigilant.

The security services were conducting investigations into at least 24 terrorism
plots, he said, adding: "The public needs to know that there may be other people
out there who may be planning an attack against the UK. The change in the threat
level does not mean that the threat has gone away."

A Home Office spokesman said of the revised security level: "A terrorist attack
is still highly likely but the intelligence assessment suggests that it is no
longer imminent."

Highlighting the continuing nervousness, however, a British Airways flight to
JFK airport in New York was turned back late last night after an unclaimed
mobile phone was found onboard. A spokeswoman for the airline said that anxiety
among passengers persuaded the captain to return to Heathrow.

The downgrading of the terror threat, made by the Joint Terrorism Analysis
Centre, was accompanied by a softening of the baggage restrictions for airline
passengers.

The Department of Transport said that travellers would now be allowed to carry
one item of hand luggage on board.

Police are continuing to hold 23 people who were arrested last week in
connection with the alleged airline plot, including at least one woman and a
17-year old.

One person has been released without charge and it is anticipated that a number
of others will be freed. A legal source that the the freed man was an "innocent
bystander" who was caught up in the raids. However, Scotland Yard remained
confident that it had detained the ringleaders of a terrorist cell who were
planning to commit mass murder.

In Pakistan officials were interrogating two Britons, including Rashid Rauf, 25,
from Birmingham, whose brother was held in London.

Pakistani authorities said that Mr Rauf is a "key person" in the alleged plot
and has revealed crucial information, including details of the transfer of large
sums of money to Britain.

Tracing the channels through which that money was moved has become the priority
of Pakistani investigators, who are working in close co-operation with British
security services.

Sources in Pakistan said that there were growing indications that the old guard
of the al-Qaeda leadership -including Ayman al-Zawahiri, its second-in-command -
were involved in the planning.

The choice of targets, a direct assault on British and American interest and the
fact that at least one "martyrdom video" had already been made were
characteristic of an al-Qaeda operation.

Officials in Islamabad said that hundred of British Muslims were thought to have
travelled to al-Qaeda training camps in the Afghan-Pakistan border region.

Mr Rauf, who left Britain in 2002 after the murder of his uncle in Birmingham,
is alleged to have received explosives training at one of those camps.

The suspects in custody in Britain can be held for up to 28 days under new
anti-terrorism powers.

Late last night the Home Office said that although there is no intelligence to
suggest that there is an imminent threat "the public needs to remain vigilant as
the threat has not gone away".

Dr Reid added: "Last Thursday, the threat level was raised to critical. As I
said then, this was a precautionary measure based on an assessment of the
possibility of terrorist activity in the immediate aftermath of the action taken
by the police.

"There has now been time to assess the intelligence picture following the police
operation. The police believe that the main suspects in the alleged plot were
arrested last week.

"Threat level assessments are intelligence-led. It is not a process where
scientific precision is possible. They involve judgments. There is still a very
serious threat of an attack.

"The threat level is at severe, indicating the high likelihood of an attempted
terrorist attack at some stage, and I urge the public to remain vigilant."

Reporting team: Michael Evans, Zahid Hussain and Dominic Kennedy and Daniel
McGrory Letters, page 14 Leading article, page 15 Mary Ann Sieghart, page 17

CUSTODY DEADLINES

August 10 Police arrest 24 terrorist suspects

August 11 Magistrate gives police power to hold suspects for five more days

August 16 Magistrate to review the detentions -can give the police up to seven
more days

August 23 Police must apply to High Court judge for another seven days'
detention

August 30 Judge decides whether police can continue to question suspects for
further seven days

September 6 Deadline to release or charge suspects

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Belfast Telegraph

                            August 15, 2006 Tuesday

Man Of Vision;
Armagh native Seamus McGarvey is the acclaimed cinematographer behind such
movies as The Hours, Enigma and High Fidelity. Now his latest film, Oliver
Stone's controversial World Trade Centre, about the terrorist attacks of 9/11,
is about to hit our cinema screens

BYLINE: By Maureen Coleman

LENGTH: 296  words


A controversial new movie about the 9/11 attacks featuring cinematography by
Ulsterman Seamus McGarvey is due to open in the UK next month.

Oliver Stone's World Trade Centre opened in the US last week amid fears that the
foiled terror strikes in London might stop audiences going to see it.

But the movie, starring Nicolas Cage and Maggie Gyllenhaal, took $$4.4m at the
box office on the opening day on Wednesday - a solid midweek debut.

The cinematography on the film was provided by Armagh man Seamus McGarvey.

The 39-year-old father-of-one, who lives in Edinburgh, has already worked on
such impressive movies as The Hours, Enigma, High Fidelity and Sahara.

Seamus started out as a photographer before attending film school in London.

He was responsible for photographing and directing more than 100 music videos
for acts like U2, Coldplay, Robbie Williams and Sir Paul McCartney. In 1998 he
was invited to join the British Society of Cinematographers, making him the
youngest ever member.

In 2004 he was awared the Royal Photographic Society's prestigious Lumiere medal
for contribution to the art of cinematography.

His latest venture is his most controversial to date - tackling the sensitive
issue of the terror attacks on the World Trade Centre in September 2001.

However, the movie concentrates on the true story of Port Authority police
officers John McLoughlin and Will Jimeno who were trapped in the rubble of the
Twin Towers, and avoids the politics.

The movie has been rated PG-13 for "intense and emotional content, some
disturbing images" and is being billed as an uplifting story about everyday New
Yorkers helping each other amid the tragedy.

Among Stone's other movies include JFK, Born On The Fourth of July and Platoon.

World Trade Centre opens in the UK on September 29.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            August 15, 2006 Tuesday

Bush attacks Iran's 'support of terror' as ceasefire begins

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 666 words


GEORGE Bush yesterday issued his toughest warning yet to Iran, accusing the
Islamic regime of backing militant groups in Lebanon and Iraq.

'In both these countries Iran is backing armed groups in the hope of stopping
democracy from taking hold,' he said. 'Iran must stop its support of terror.'
President Bush said the war in Lebanon was part of a broader struggle between
freedom and terror in a speech at the State Department yesterday. 'We can only
imagine how much more dangerous this conflict would be if Iran had the nuclear
weapon it seeks,' he said.

His warning came as Israeli air strikes and Hezbollah rocket fire ended after
the ceasefire took effect.

President Bush said Iran and Syria were the primary sponsors of Hezbollah
guerillas who captured two Israeli soldiers last month, igniting the conflict
with Israel.

He added that the ' responsibility for this suffering lies with Hezbollah' and
said, 'there's going to be a new power in the south of Lebanon'.

Bush said the ceasefire resolution adopted by the United Nations was 'an
important step forward that will help bring an end to the violence'.

'We certainly hope the cease fire holds,' the president said.

'Lebanon can't be a strong democracy when there is a state within a state and
that's Hezbollah.

'Hezbollah attacked Israel without any knowledge of the government.

'Hezbollah started the crisis, and Hezbollah suffered a defeat in this crisis,'
the president said.

But in the Middle East, there were competing claims about who came out on top in
the month-long war.

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said the war had shifted the strategic
balance in the region and eliminated the 'state within a state' run by
Hezbollah, restoring the Lebanese government's sovereignty in the south.

Israeli Interior Minister Roni Bar-On added: 'The capabilities of long-range
rockets have been minimised almost to zero.' But Hezbollah leader Sheik Hassan
Nasrallah said his guerillas achieved a 'strategic, historic victory' against
Israel.

'We came out victorious in a war in which big Arab armies were defeated,'
Nasrallah said.

Moments after his speech ended, celebratory gunfire erupted across the Lebanese
capital.

'We are today before a strategic, historic victory, without exaggeration,' the
cleric added, calling yesterday 'a great day'. Now was not the time to debate
the disarmament of his guerilla fighters, he declared.

'This is immoral, incorrect and inappropriate,' he said. 'It is wrong timing on
the psychological and moral level.

'Who will defend Lebanon in case of a new Israeli offensive?

The Lebanese army and international troops are incapable of protecting Lebanon.'
But Nasrallah said he was open to dialogue about Hezbollah's weapons at the
appropriate time. And he credited his group's weaponry with proving to Israel
that 'war with Lebanon will not be a picnic. It will be very costly.' Nasrallah
said the 'massive devastation and destruction' inflicted upon Lebanon during the
month-long war reflected Israel's 'failure and impotency'.

As the two sides claimed victory, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said he was
relieved that the cessation of hostilities 'appears to be generally holding'.

Around 1,110 people in Lebanon and 156 Israelis have been killed in the war.

Israel says it killed around 530 Hezbollah fighters, although the militants have
acknowledged only 80 deaths.

The truce has prompted tens of thousands of Lebanese to head back to their homes
in the south, despite a warning from Israel not to return to the area.

Thousands of Israeli troops remain in southern Lebanon, and Israel has said they
will not withdraw fully until an expanded peacekeeping force arrives alongside
Lebanese troops.

An air and sea blockade of Lebanon would remain until measures to stop Hezbollah
from rearming were in place, a military source said.

The commander of the U.N.

peacekeeping force in Lebanon met senior Lebanese and Israeli army officials at
the border to discuss implementing the U.N. resolution on ending fighting.

Comment Page 14

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GEORGE BUSH: TOUGH TALK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            August 15, 2006, Tuesday
                                 Mersey Edition

Airport security relaxed as terror attack tension eases

BYLINE: JESSICA SHAUGHNESSY Daily Post Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 404 words


PASSENGERS travelling out of Liverpool John Lennon Airport have been allowed to
start taking hand luggage on board aeroplanes after the terrorist threat was
downgraded.

Security measures were relaxed after the Government said the risk of attack is
no longer imminent but still highly likely and reduced the alert from critical
to severe.

New security regulations were planned to ease disruption at airports across the
country.

Though yesterday's passengers were allowed to take bags on to their plane,
stringent checks were still being carried out.

Under the new regime the quantity of hand baggage allowed on board has been
halved.

The ban on liquid, except baby milk and medicines is still in place and half of
all passengers are being searched.

But last night, a spokeswoman for LJLA said easing restrictions would ease
congestion in the departure lounge.

She said: "We did not cancel any flights today and delays were minimal, so
things are getting easier.

"Passengers are only allowed one small bag on board and they are still not
allowed to carry any liquid, except baby milk, which does still have to be
checked.

"We are continuing to carry out body searches on one in every two passengers so
we are still asking travellers to arrive in plenty of time."

The new regime is being carried out at every airport and is one of the strictest
security regulations in the world.

The official threat level was raised to critical for the first time last week
amid fears that the police operation to smash an alleged airliner bomb plot
could provoke a retaliatory terrorist strike. There were also concerns that
others linked to the plot may have evaded arrest.

The level was downgraded to severe overnight on Sunday after intelligence
experts at the Joint Terrorism and Analysis Centre (JTac) decided that the
immediacy of the threat had passed.

Transport Secretary Douglas Alexander said that once the threat level had been
lowered, "immediate action" was taken to revise the airline security regime.

He said that the new regulations incorporated the latest intelligence about
terrorist capabilities and the latest scientific and operational thinking on
what was becoming an increasingly critical topic.

He added: "We reserve absolutely the right to modify our security requirement as
and when we become aware of new tactics and techniques which might be used
against us."

We did not cancel any flights today

jessicashaughnessy@dailypost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A passenger carries her hand luggage at Liverpool John Lennon Airport,
where amended security measures were introduced

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                            August 15, 2006, Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

Police chief warns 'threat of terrorist attack is not over'

BYLINE: MICHAEL BLACKLEY

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 757 words


THE Chief Constable of Lothian and Borders Police today said Edinburgh faces a
very serious threat of terrorist attack and warned that believing otherwise was
"naïve and dangerous".

Paddy Tomkins said Scotland needs to be alert to the threat and that the Capital
has to make counter-acting terrorism a new policing priority for the foreseeable
future.

But he warned that any racist backlash in the Lothians as a result of the new
terror alert will not be tolerated, and said police would make it a priority to
send offenders to the courts.

His comments come after two mosques in the Lothians were targeted in racist
attacks over the weekend.

A 37-year-old man was arrested and charged in the early hours of Saturday
morning for allegedly hurling racist abuse at someone within a mosque in
Livingston's Craigshill Road. And racist graffiti was also

found on the wall of the Shagalal Mosque on the city's Annandale Street Lane on
Saturday morning.

Mr Tomkins, who has warned before that cities like Edinburgh face as much a risk
of terrorist attack as the major cities in England, called on the community to
help and assist police in tackling the threat.

The stark warning comes as airports slowly return to normal after a weekend of
delays following the uncovering of the major terrorist plot to blow up US-bound
flights from the UK last week.

The foiled plot has prompted the Government to look at controversial new
screening methods for passengers, including giving security staff the power to
stop people based on their ethnic or religious background.

Mr Tomkins said: "Some may think that there is no Scottish context to this
threat but I am convinced that such belief is naïve and perhaps dangerous. Those
who would carry out such acts make no distinction between parts of the United
Kingdom and seem unlikely to spare us on other idealised or romantic grounds.

"Furthermore the plot and its context within world events illustrates that this
is a new policing priority for the foreseeable future. These alleged acts are
criminal in their nature and are an assault on every community that makes up
Scottish society.

"The perpetrators of terrorism have always justified the carnage in the terms of
whatever ideology they follow. If this is now done in the guise of a perversion
of religious belief it does not hide the fact that this is murder and the
perpetrators are criminals.

"These issues are a major threat to our society and are on a scale that requires
a co-ordinated response from us all.

"The police cannot do this alone but we can succeed if we maintain that active
support and co-operation of our communities."

Mr Tomkins also called on any victims of racist attacks to report the crime to
police or file a remote report on the Lothian and Borders Police website at
www.lbp.police.uk/takecontrol.

Mr Tomkins, who has warned in the past that members of the public should get
used to the image of armed police officers in and around the city, said: "These
are difficult times for us all but I would wish to reassure people of our
determination to strongly fight the threat of terrorism while defending the
rights and freedoms of all the communities that make up our vibrant and diverse
country."

Meanwhile, a spokeswoman for Edinburgh Airport today said schedules were getting
back to normal.

Airport staff were handing out leaflets to passengers detailing the new
restrictions on hand-luggage which came into force at Edinburgh yesterday. New
signs have also been put up in the terminal.

Further security measures for the UK's airports which allow security staff to
focus on passengers who pose the greatest risk are also being discussed between
the government and airport operators. Those who behave suspiciously, have an
unusual travel pattern or, controversially, a certain ethnic or religious
background would be selected by the passenger-profiling technique.

It was reported that Department for Transport (DTI) officials have discussed the
practicalities of such a system with airport operators including BAA, with the
belief that it would be more effective at identifying potential terrorists than
random searches.

Members of the Muslim community would be more likely to be selected for extra
checks, according to the reports, although the system would be more
sophisticated than simply picking out young men of Asian appearance.

But Britain's highest-ranking Muslim police officer, Tarique Ghaffur, an
assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, has warned that such
profiling techniques would cause mistrust and anger among young Muslims.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                            August 15, 2006 Tuesday

Teenager's attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 188 words


A Teenager is scared to go out alone after being randomly attacked by yobs.

The 15-year-old boy and his female friend were walking down Larmour Road,
Grimsby, towards Great Coates Road, when two youths began punching him.

The Whitgift School pupil said: "They grabbed my hair and were trying to smash
my face into the railings."

Shortly after the boy's friend ran to get help, his attackers walked away.

The victim, who is now afraid to go out alone, ran home and collapsed on his
front lawn.

He was taken to Grimsby's Diana Princess of Wales Hospital, where he was treated
but not detained.

Immediately after the attack on Sunday, August 6, the boy's father found the
youths he believed were responsible, but he claimed police did not attend in
time to arrest them.

The victim's 36-year-old mother said: "It was totally pointless ringing 999
because there was no emergency response from the police."

But police spokeswoman Gemma Bell said officers acted appropriately on the
information they were given.

She said: "It sounds like this was an unprovoked attack and these offenders need
apprehending."

Information to police on 0845 6060 222.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Grimsby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            August 15, 2006 Tuesday

Islamic extremist warns of terror attack

SECTION: JET 'PLOTTER' WAS TICKET INSPECTOR

LENGTH: 33  words


AN Islamic extremist last night warned that Britain faces a terror attack on the
scale of 9/11.

Anjem Choudary, 39 - former head of radical group al-Muhajiroun - said planned
atrocities will succeed.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                           August 16, 2006 Wednesday

Wife's bath attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 139 words


A Husband's attack on his wife only stopped when she declared her love for him.

Haydn Watson, 47, flipped when he saw a cigarette butt in the toilet.

He grabbed his wife  and held her  under the water.

Watson, of 11 Richmond Avenue, Rhynie, admitted attacking his wife Linda at the
family home in Colpy near Insch, last May.

He had previously denied attempted murder, but yesterday pleaded guilty at the
High Court in Aberdeen to a lesser charge of assault. The court heard Mrs Watson
went upstairs to have a bath but was interrupted when Watson asked to use the
toilet.

He grabbed his wife, lifted her up and threw her into the bath.

He held her by the neck with her head under the water.

Watson only let go when she managed to get her head above water to squeak : "I
love you".

The case was deferred until September 7, for background reports.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Aberdeen Evening Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           August 16, 2006, Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Cameron breaks ranks to attack terror plans;
BRITAIN ON ALERT

BYLINE: Neville Dean, Joe Churcher and Chris Greenwood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 533 words


The political consensus in the wake of the alleged airliner bomb plot was
shattered yesterday after Conservative leader David Cameron dramatically broke
ranks to attack the Government's counter terrorism strategy.

As police revealed details of another arrest and the huge number of searches in
connection with the investigation, Mr Cameron said the Government was not doing
enough to protect national security or fight Islamic extremism.

But Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott hit back, describing the Tory leader's
remarks as "beyond belief".

In a new development last night, Scotland Yard disclosed that a 25th person had
been arrested in the Thames Valley area over the alleged plot.

The person was held on suspicion of being involved in the commission,
preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism and remains in custody at a
Thames Valley police station.

The force also revealed details of the searches it has carried out in connection
with the investigation.

Officers have searched 46 residential and business premises in London, the West
Midlands and Thames Valley, including King's Wood in High Wycombe,
Buckinghamshire. It said 22 of the searches remain ongoing.

Twenty vehicles have also been searched, although Scotland Yard refused to
discuss what officers had recovered.

But the continuing police investigation and easing of airport congestion were
overshadowed by Mr Cameron's outspoken attack on the Government.

Chancellor Gordon Brown's "error of judgment" in freezing the Home Office budget
for three years was one of a series of policy failings on terrorism by Tony
Blair's administration, he claimed.

"I do not believe that our Government is doing enough to fight Islamist
extremists at home or to protect our security," he said.

A Treasury source said later it was wrong to claim the Home Office budget was
being frozen, and Mr Cameron and Mr Osborne should be "ashamed" for undermining
the fight against terrorism.

Not making intercept evidence available in court and failing to follow through
on the Prime Minister's 12-point security plan were other errors, he said.

Mr Cameron also criticised the apparent failure to enforce existing legislation
or to work to "build the fabric of our own society" to prevent extremism.

"Why have so few, if any, preachers of hate been prosecuted or expelled, with
those that have gone having done so voluntarily?" he asked.

His speech provoked a furious Government response.

"At a time when we should all stand united in the face of alleged terrorist
threats, he seeks to undermine that unity," Mr Prescott said.

Detectives have until this evening to continue questioning the 23 people
arrested last week over the alleged plot.

However, the complexity of the case means detectives are likely to seek a series
of further extensions - taking them close to the maximum 28 days - before
deciding whether to charge or release the suspects.

Home Secretary John Reid will be updating other European interior ministers on
the investigation today.

The Interior ministers of France, Germany, Finland, Portugal and Slovenia will
attend the meeting in London alongside European Commission Vice-President Franco
Frattini and EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator Gijs De Vries.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron: Outspoken' John Prescott: Furious

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           August 16, 2006 Wednesday

Cameron attacks Blair over terrorism fight

BYLINE: George Jones and Graeme Wilson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 372 words


THE united front in the battle against terrorism was shattered yesterday as
David Cameron accused the Government of not doing enough to fight Islamic
extremism.

Ministers immediately accused him of "playing politics'' with national security.

The Conservative leader, making his first political intervention since returning
from holiday, launched an outspoken attack on the Government's security record
in the wake of the alleged attempt to blow up transatlantic passenger jets.

He praised the police and security services but called for an urgent rethink of
the "bizarre'' decision by Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, to freeze the Home
Office budget for the next three years.

Mr Cameron criticised the delay in making intercept evidence available in court
in trials of terrorist suspects and accused Tony Blair of failing to implement a
12-point security plan announced after the July 7 bombings last year and the
recommendations on community cohesion.

The Tory leader claimed that John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, was not
up to the job of leading the Government during the crisis while Mr Blair was in
Barbados.

Mr Prescott led Labour's counter-attack, accusing Mr Cameron of undermining the
fight against terrorism and failing to support earlier security measures
introduced by the Government. The Deputy Prime Minister said: "David Cameron's
remarks are almost beyond belief. At a time when we should all stand united in
the face of alleged terrorist threats, he seeks to undermine that unity.''

But fresh questions about Mr Prescott's grip on the crisis were raised last
night after Muslim Labour MPs said that he disclosed details of the police
investigation into the alleged plot during a meeting at No 10.

He revealed that some of the 24 people arrested in recent terror raids - a man
was seized yesterday - would not face serious charges.

Mr Cameron made his comments at a Westminster press conference after meeting
senior shadow cabinet members.

They brought a frenzied response with three ministers accusing him of breaking
the cross-party consensus on fighting terrorism.

As the war of words escalated, a Labour aide close to Mr Brown said Mr Cameron
had shown himself "unworthy to lead the Tory party, let alone the country''.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                           August 16, 2006 Wednesday

Midnight terror as gang attack house

BYLINE:  DANIEL EVANS

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 322 words


A Disabled war veteran and his wife have been targeted by a terrifying, hooded
gang.

At midnight last Thursday, Lee and Mandy Wroe were shocked by bangs and smashes
as bricks flew through their car window and the front bay window of their
Weelsby Street home, Grimsby.

Then, at 1am on Monday, they were subject to a more sustained attack.

"They came around to cause as much damage as they could," said Lee (38), who
served in the first Gulf War, Kosovo and Northern Ireland during his time with
the Parachute Regiment.

"Three of them came round the back, broke the back gate open and pulled our wall
down.

"My wife was at the back window. She shouted and banged the window, but they
just kept coming.

"Then they picked up the bricks and put them through the back windows and door."

Mandy (41) added: "It was very scary. Nothing bothered them and they were very
determined."

Lee uses a walking stick to get around due to metal pins in both legs.

"I heard what was going on and came wobbling down the stairs," he said. "While
we were phoning the police they came back and put a brick through the front
windscreen of my Ford Focus.

"We don't know why they've done this. I'm disabled and trying to get back into
work. Maybe people don't like it."

He is starting a job as a lorry driver this week.

"I've been to war so it doesn't scare me," he added. "It's my wife I'm more
worried about and what might happen when I'm out of the house."

The couple have lived at the house, between Julian Street and Buller Street for
four years and this is the first incident.

The white suspects, aged 17 to 24, were wearing track-suit bottoms and trainers.
One had a thin, dark moustache.

Humberside Police spokeswoman Gemma Bell said: "If anyone knows who is
responsible or why this couple have been targeted, they should contact police.
These incidents have caused a lot of distress."

Information to police on 08456060222, log 887 of August 10, or log 57, of August
14.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Grimsby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           August 16, 2006 Wednesday

Terror plot: Tory response: Cameron attacks Labour 'failure'

BYLINE: Will Woodward, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 160 words


Cross-party unity over the terror alert fractured yesterday when David Cameron,
the Conservative leader, said that the government was failing to tackle
extremism and ensure the nation's security.

In a move condemned as "beyond belief" by the deputy prime minister, John
Prescott, Mr Cameron offered the first sustained Tory criticism of ministers
over security issues since the crisis began last week. On his return from his
holiday in Corfu, Mr Cameron called on the chancellor to abandon the three-year
freeze on Home Office spending, and urged legislation to allow phone-tap
evidence to be used in court - which the government is considering.

Mr Cameron said: "I do not believe the government is doing enough to fight
Islamist extremism at home, or to protect our security."

Mr Prescott said: "David Cameron's remarks are almost beyond belief. At a time
when we should all stand united in the face of alleged terrorist threats, he
seeks to undermine that unity."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                           August 16, 2006 Wednesday

Cameron breaks ranks to attack terror policies

BYLINE:  Erin Dean e.dean@bepp.co.uk

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 844 words


The political consensus surrounding terrorism shattered last night after Tory
leader David Cameron accused the Government of not doing enough to protect
Britain against terror attacks.

Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott lashed back saying Mr Cameron's criticism
was undermining the country at a time of crisis.

The row came as police investigating the alleged  plot to blow nine planes out
of the air arrested a further person in the Thames Valley area. A spokesman for
the Met said the force has now carried out a total of 46 searches at residential
and business premises, 22 of which remain ongoing.

The latest arrest took place at 12.55pm yesterday and the unnamed person on
suspicion of being involved in the commission, preparation or instigation of
acts of terrorism. A total of 24 people are now in custody.

But as the investigation continued John Prescott - who is running the country
while Tony Blair is on holiday in the Caribbean - said Mr Cameron's claim that
Ministers were failing to do enough to counter extremism was "almost beyond
belief".

"At a time when we should all stand united in the face of alleged terrorist
threats, he seeks to undermine that unity," Mr Prescott said. "All of Britain's
communities are potential victims of the plans of terrorists and we will only
defeat them if we remain united as a country."

Earlier in the day Mr Cameron said the Government was not doing enough to fight
Islamist extremists.

Gordon Brown's "error of judgment" in freezing the Home Office budget for three
years was one of a series of policy failings by Tony Blair's administration, he
added.

"I do not believe that our Government is doing enough to fight Islamist
extremists at home or to protect our security," he told reporters at a press
conference.

"They have done things that they should not have done, like freezing the Home
Office budget for the next three years."

And he also rejected the idea - put to the Government by Muslim community
leaders yesterday -  that their religious festivals should be marked by public
holidays. He also criticised the Government of not doing enough to tackle
"preachers of hate".

Meanwhile,  the major airports continued to struggle to solve the chaos which
has swamped them for the past five days.

IT also emerged that British Airways has managed to lose 10,000 pieces of hand
luggage during the heightened security restrictions.

In Bristol, Avon and Somerset police said they were considering whether to ask
the Home Office for funding to help meet the extra costs incurred during the
terror alert.

They had large numbers at Bristol International Airport for four days while the
country was on a "critical" level of threat.

Yesterday it was revealed police chiefs wanted a "terror tax" imposed on
passengers to meet the spiralling costs of keeping air travel safe.

"There has been an inevitable increase in costs," said Avon and Somerset
spokesman Dan Mountain. "Whether we will go to the Home Office is certainly
being looked at and it is a possibility."

Flights were still cancelled yesterday at Heathrow and Stansted and passengers
still faced major queues.

Restricted hand luggage was allowed back at all airports yesterday morning for
the first time since 23 people were arrested last Thursday. They were believed
to be part of a major plan to blow up transatlantic flights using liquid
explosives.

Airlines are now planning ways to get compensation for the huge number of
flights cancelled. BA is considering seeking compensation from airports operator
BAA after security measures forced it to cancel hundreds of flights from
Heathrow.

BA boss Willie Walsh attacked BAA's management, saying it had "no adequate plan"
to deal with the emergency.

BA has cancelled 700 Heathrow flights since Thursday after requirements to check
in hand luggage caused delays.

Analysts have speculated that lost revenues from flight cancellations could cost
BA more than £40million, the amount it lost as a result of last summer's strike
by baggage handlers.

Budget airline Ryanair said it was considering suing the Government.

Chief executive Michael O'Leary said his airline had seen a 10 per cent drop in
group bookings over the last couple of days as a result of the travel
disruption.

And the Federation of Tour Operators (FTO) said travel companies had felt "let
down by inconsistent airport policies and clearly inadequate staffing
arrangements".

MEANWHILE, Muslim groups said the Government would risk alienating the Muslim
community if it introduced airport security screening on ethnic and religious
grounds.

It has been claimed  passenger-profiling  would select people behaving
suspiciously, who have an unusual travel pattern or have a certain ethnic or
religious background.

The move also came after former Scotland Yard chief Lord Stevens said airport
chaos could be reduced by targeting passengers for more rigorous checks, with
"young Muslim men" a focus.

However, Metropolitan Police Chief Superintendent Ali Dizaei said tougher checks
based on ethnicity and religious background would create a new offence of
"travelling whilst Asian".

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                           August 16, 2006 Wednesday

Cameron breaks ranks to attack terror policies

BYLINE:  Erin Dean e.dean@bepp.co.uk

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 844 words


The political consensus surrounding terrorism shattered last night after Tory
leader David Cameron accused the Government of not doing enough to protect
Britain against terror attacks.

Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott lashed back saying Mr Cameron's criticism
was undermining the country at a time of crisis.

The row came as police investigating the alleged  plot to blow nine planes out
of the air arrested a further person in the Thames Valley area. A spokesman for
the Met said the force has now carried out a total of 46 searches at residential
and business premises, 22 of which remain ongoing.

The latest arrest took place at 12.55pm yesterday and the unnamed person on
suspicion of being involved in the commission, preparation or instigation of
acts of terrorism. A total of 24 people are now in custody.

But as the investigation continued John Prescott - who is running the country
while Tony Blair is on holiday in the Caribbean - said Mr Cameron's claim that
Ministers were failing to do enough to counter extremism was "almost beyond
belief".

"At a time when we should all stand united in the face of alleged terrorist
threats, he seeks to undermine that unity," Mr Prescott said. "All of Britain's
communities are potential victims of the plans of terrorists and we will only
defeat them if we remain united as a country."

Earlier in the day Mr Cameron said the Government was not doing enough to fight
Islamist extremists.

Gordon Brown's "error of judgment" in freezing the Home Office budget for three
years was one of a series of policy failings by Tony Blair's administration, he
added.

"I do not believe that our Government is doing enough to fight Islamist
extremists at home or to protect our security," he told reporters at a press
conference.

"They have done things that they should not have done, like freezing the Home
Office budget for the next three years."

And he also rejected the idea - put to the Government by Muslim community
leaders yesterday -  that their religious festivals should be marked by public
holidays. He also criticised the Government of not doing enough to tackle
"preachers of hate".

Meanwhile,  the major airports continued to struggle to solve the chaos which
has swamped them for the past five days.

IT also emerged that British Airways has managed to lose 10,000 pieces of hand
luggage during the heightened security restrictions.

In Bristol, Avon and Somerset police said they were considering whether to ask
the Home Office for funding to help meet the extra costs incurred during the
terror alert.

They had large numbers at Bristol International Airport for four days while the
country was on a "critical" level of threat.

Yesterday it was revealed police chiefs wanted a "terror tax" imposed on
passengers to meet the spiralling costs of keeping air travel safe.

"There has been an inevitable increase in costs," said Avon and Somerset
spokesman Dan Mountain. "Whether we will go to the Home Office is certainly
being looked at and it is a possibility."

Flights were still cancelled yesterday at Heathrow and Stansted and passengers
still faced major queues.

Restricted hand luggage was allowed back at all airports yesterday morning for
the first time since 23 people were arrested last Thursday. They were believed
to be part of a major plan to blow up transatlantic flights using liquid
explosives.

Airlines are now planning ways to get compensation for the huge number of
flights cancelled. BA is considering seeking compensation from airports operator
BAA after security measures forced it to cancel hundreds of flights from
Heathrow.

BA boss Willie Walsh attacked BAA's management, saying it had "no adequate plan"
to deal with the emergency.

BA has cancelled 700 Heathrow flights since Thursday after requirements to check
in hand luggage caused delays.

Analysts have speculated that lost revenues from flight cancellations could cost
BA more than £40million, the amount it lost as a result of last summer's strike
by baggage handlers.

Budget airline Ryanair said it was considering suing the Government.

Chief executive Michael O'Leary said his airline had seen a 10 per cent drop in
group bookings over the last couple of days as a result of the travel
disruption.

And the Federation of Tour Operators (FTO) said travel companies had felt "let
down by inconsistent airport policies and clearly inadequate staffing
arrangements".

MEANWHILE, Muslim groups said the Government would risk alienating the Muslim
community if it introduced airport security screening on ethnic and religious
grounds.

It has been claimed  passenger-profiling  would select people behaving
suspiciously, who have an unusual travel pattern or have a certain ethnic or
religious background.

The move also came after former Scotland Yard chief Lord Stevens said airport
chaos could be reduced by targeting passengers for more rigorous checks, with
"young Muslim men" a focus.

However, Metropolitan Police Chief Superintendent Ali Dizaei said tougher checks
based on ethnicity and religious background would create a new offence of
"travelling whilst Asian".

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Belfast Telegraph

                            August 17, 2006 Thursday

Ulster hospitals 'prepared' for major terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Nigel Gould

LENGTH: 503 words


Ulster hospitals have plans in place to deal with "major emergencies" health
chiefs have said, despite a report showing units across the UK are "poorly
prepared" for a terrorist attack.

A study of 34 hospitals around the UK found little evidence that doctors were
properly trained on major incidents or that plans were adequately rehearsed.

Seven experts launched a study after last year's July 7 terrorist attacks on
London, which left 52 innocent people dead.

In a statement, the Department of Health said: "All Health and Personal Social
Services organisations and the Northern Ireland Fire Brigade should have
detailed Emergency Plans/Major Incident Plans which are tested and reviewed on
an annual basis. HPSS organisations and the NIFB are expected to produce annual
reports on emergency planning and completed major incident templates returns to
the DHSSPS.

"DHSSPS holds annual emergency planning monitoring meetings with Boards, Trusts,
Agencies and the NIFB. DHSSPS produces a report on the state of preparedness in
the HPSS and NIFB following the monitoring meetings. Emergency plans/Major
Incident Plans should be flexible to enable organisations to deal effectively
with a major or minor emergency whether foreseen or unforeseen.

"Plans should include planning for a mass casualty and/or catastrophic incident
in line with DHSSPS and Department of Health (London) guidance."

The authors of the new report set out to discover if emergency departments could
perform any better than when they were last surveyed in 1996, when they were
found to be seriously lacking.

They contacted 179 senior registrars working in anaesthesia, emergency care,
general surgery, trauma and orthopaedics.

In all, they obtained responses from 144, of whom 68 (47 per cent) said they had
not read their hospital's major incident plan (MIP) at all.

A total of 33 (23 per cent ) had read the entire plan, while 43 (30 per cent)
had read the bit relating to their speciality.

Only 77 (54 per cent) said they were confident about the specific role they
would have if a major incident occurred.

The major incident co-ordinators in each of the hospitals were also contacted
but the authors only received 17 responses, something they said was "remarkably
difficult to achieve".

Fourteen of those hospitals (82 per cent) had carried out a rehearsal within
five years, but only six (35 per cent) were planning to do so within 12 months.

The authors found "no significant difference" in responses between London and
other UK hospitals, all of which are required by law to have an MIP in place.

The study, published in the Emergency Medicine Journal, did note that registrars
working in emergency departments appeared to be more clued up than those in
other specialities.

It said the reasons given for not improving major incident plans included "lack
of funds, lack of a designated full-time major incident co-ordinator and a lack
of technology".

The authors said: "Preparedness for major incidents in the UK remains poor 10
years after [the original survey]."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            August 17, 2006 Thursday

Hospitals: Doctors are unaware of what to do in terror attack

BYLINE: Sarah Hall

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 95 words


UK hospitals are ill prepared for a major incident such as a terrorist attack,
an Emergency Medicine Journal report reveals today. The study, conducted among
doctors who would be on the frontline after an attack, found little evidence
that they know, or are being properly trained in how to deal with the aftermath
of an attack. Almost half had failed to read their hospital's major incident
plan, which trusts are required to publish, and just over half knew what their
precise role would be. The survey was conducted immediately after last year's
July 7 terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                                August 17, 2006

Hospitals 'ill-prepared' for terror attack

LENGTH: 618 words


Doctors poorly briefed and emergency plans not rehearsed enough, says study

UK hospitals are poorly prepared to deal with a terrorist attack, doctors warned
yesterday.

A study of 34 hospitals around the UK found little evidence that doctors were
properly trained on major incidents or that plans were adequately rehearsed.

Seven experts launched their study after last year's July 7 terrorist attacks on
London, which left 52 innocent people dead.

They set out to discover if emergency departments could perform any better than
when they were last surveyed in 1996, when they were found to be seriously
lacking. The authors, from Wycombe Hospital in south Buckinghamshire and the
North Middlesex University Hospital in north London, contacted 179 senior
registrars working in anaesthesia, emergency care, general surgery, trauma and
orthopaedics.

In all, they obtained responses from 144, of whom 68 (47 per cent) said they had
not read their hospital's major incident plan (MIP) at all.

A total of 33 (23 per cent) had read the entire plan, while 43 (30 per cent) had
read the bit relating to their speciality.

Only 77 (54 per cent) said they were confident about the specific role they
would have if a major incident such as a terrorist attack occurred.

The major incident co-ordinators in each of the hospitals were also contacted
but the authors only received 17 responses, something they said was "remarkably
difficult to achieve".

Fourteen of those hospitals (82 per cent) had carried out a rehearsal within the
past five years, but only six (35 per cent) were planning to do so within the
next 12 months.

Four (24 per cent) said they did not include any incident planning teaching in
introduction sessions for junior and middle grade doctors.

The authors found "no significant difference" in responses between London and
other UK hospitals, all of which are required by law to have an MIP in place.

Dr Tom Cosker, from Wycombe Hospital, said the analysis was carried out before
news of the latest alleged terror plot emerged.

That had given hospital trusts "a warning" but it did not lessen the message of
the research, he said.

He added: "What happens is there is a very rapid change over of junior doctors
in these hospitals.

"You can have brilliant resources but unless you are training your people on a
regular basis, then you are not ready." The study, published in the Emergency
Medicine Journal, did note that registrars working in emergency departments
appeared to be more clued up than those in other specialities.

It said the reasons given for not improving major incident plans included "lack
of funds, lack of a designated full-time major incident co-ordinator and a lack
of technology".

The authors said: "Preparedness for major incidents in the UK remains poor 10
years after the original survey. Effective major incident plans require
forethought, organisation, briefing of relevant staff, and regular rehearsal.

"A terrorist event typically occurs totally unexpectedly and is frequently
accompanied by public panic and unrest, transportation failure and disruption of
major infrastructure.

"It is therefore vital that units expecting to receive large numbers of
casualties are both ready and well rehearsed to deal with a major incident if it
occurs.

"Our study suggests that there is still considerable room for improvement in
British hospitals' readiness for a major incident, and that the situation has
changed little since similar studies were done from 1994 to 2002.

"Urgent investment, education and rehearsal of MIPs is recommended."

Health Minister Rosie Winterton said: "We are carrying out our own evaluation of
the emergency plans of NHS Trusts to identify and address any areas that need
more work."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 18, 2006 Friday

Ethiopia: Police say anti-terrorism unit thwarted attacks against state, public

LENGTH: 245 words


Text of report in English by pro-Ethiopian government Walta Information Centre
website on 17 August

Addis Ababa, 17 August: The Federal Police Commission says it has thwarted
attacks that would have been perpetrated against the public as well as state and
public institutions by establishing a unit for prevention of terrorism.

Public Affairs and Communication Department head with the commission Commander
Demsash Hailu told Walta Information Centre that the commission has apprehended
numerous weapons of various types this Ethiopian year [which started 11
September last year] by anti-terrorist measures it has taken.

He said the commission has also carried out activities of preventing crimes
relevant to the federal affairs and conducted integrated works with regional
states and neighbouring countries to control illegal transfer of arms.

The head commended the cooperation of the people in tipping off illegal weapon
traffickers. Had it not been for the people's cooperation it would have been
impossible to apprehend those who carry small weapons like pistol and grenades,
he added.

The commander said possible dangers of terrorism and violence in Addis Ababa
City were also controlled in the period with coordinated preventive works by the
commission.

It would further reinforce its duty to ensuring the peace and security of the
people in the current fiscal year, Commander Demsash concluded.

Source: Walta Information Centre website, Addis Ababa, in English 17 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 18, 2006 Friday

Turkish police avert armed attack by "terrorists"

LENGTH: 139 words


Text of report by Turkish NTV television's NTV Online website on 18 August

PKK [Kurdistan Workers' Party] militants, who were preparing to attack the
security directorate building in Van's Muradiye District [southeastern Turkey],
fled without achieving their aim after police fired shots at them.

Muradiye Security Directorate guards noticed an armed group around the building
and fired warning shots. As a result of the fire, the terrorists fled the area,
leaving their weapons behind. One LAW [light antitank weapon] was also found
among the abandoned weapons. Van security director Salih Kesmez said that the
special task teams were sent to the district. Kesmez stated that an operation
was launched against the group of terrorists, whose numbers have not been
determined yet.

Source: NTV Online website, Istanbul, in Turkish 18 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                 New Scientist

                                August 19, 2006

Unreality television;
Feel vulnerable to terrorist attack or nervous about travelling? There's an easy
fix, says Michael Bond. Switch off the TV

BYLINE: Michael Bond

SECTION: COMMENT AND ANALYSIS; Comment and Analysis; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 638 words


BEWARE your TV. Depending on who you listen to, it makes you more violent,
increases obesity and consumption of tobacco and alcohol, encourages risky
sexual behaviour and leads to greater social isolation. If you still aren't
convinced of the dangers, try this one: the way television covers current
affairs so distorts your sense of reality and the risks you face that you end up
living a fantasy life.

You may not realise it, but your ideas of the world and the decisions you make -
how to travel, where to live - are heavily influenced by what you see on news
programmes. Since they are a poor reflection of what's going on, you end up
making poor judgements. People running governments are no exception: they pass
policies based on false realities. This is not a neo-Luddite manifesto: there's
plenty of research to back it up. First, though, why pick on television? Surely
all media influence our picture of the world. True, but television is
particularly potent: it is visual and direct, which makes it more likely to
trigger an emotional response than newspapers or radio. And when we get
emotional, we're less able to make sensible judgements about risks.

"We are not rational enough to be exposed to the press," says Nicholas Taleb,
professor in the sciences of uncertainty at the University of Massachusetts at
Amherst. "We're too impressionable. The television media is destroying our
probabilistic mapping of the world. If you watch a building burning on
television, it's going to change your attitude towards that risk, no matter your
intellectual sophistication."

Underlying this is a phenomenon known as the "availability heuristic", first
identified in the 1970s by psychologists Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky. It
describes how people base their predictions about the future more on the
vividness and emotional impact of past events than on the probability of them
happening again. So people rate their chances of dying in a plane crash higher
after watching a news item about such an event.

Unpublished research by Corinne Enright at the University of
Wisconsin-Platteville found that Americans who watched media coverage of the
anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks not only thought another major attack
in the US was more likely, they also suffered more symptoms of post-traumatic
stress disorder (PTSD) than those who didn't. This psychological effect was
noted in 2002 by William Schlenger, then at the Research Triangle Institute,
North Carolina, who found the likelihood of someone suffering PTSD as a result
of 9/11 increased with the number of hours of television coverage they watched (
Journal of the American Medical Association , vol 288, p 581).

For individuals, these effects really matter. They suffer unnecessary anxiety,
and may waste money and time on avoiding or accounting for risks that are
vanishingly small - paying for terrorism insurance, for example, or travelling
by car instead of plane. It can also lead governments to make unwise policy
decisions, such as funding anti-terrorism measures, when spending the money on
improving car safety would save many more lives. We all worry about terrorism
because it is often in the news - the alleged plot to blow up 12 aircraft
travelling from London to the US has left many travellers thinking of little
else. But consider this reality check: the number of Americans killed by
terrorism since the late 1960s is roughly the same as the number killed by
lightning.

So, with all around losing their heads, how do we ensure we keep ours?
Governments could force TV channels to run warning notices on emotive news
reports, or screen statistics to give people a more balanced picture. Call me
old-fashioned, or (as a print journalist) biased, but you could take matters
into your own hands and stop watching the news. Believe me, it feels a lot
safer.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


 Copyright 2006 Reed Business Information, UK, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             August 21, 2006 Monday

Rival airline boss f lies to O'Leary's defence on terror;
British Midland chief joins attack on Britain's chaotic response to threat

BYLINE: PETRINA VOUSDEN

SECTION: ED IRE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 734 words


THE man regarded as the elder statesman of the airline industry has backed
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary's scathing criticism of the security clampdown at
airports.

The backing for Mr O'Leary's stance against the tough new regime came as he
battles accusations of exploiting the terror threat. It is alleged that he
bragged his TV appearances on the subject were boosting Ryanair sales.

British Midland (BMI) chief executive Sir Michael Bishop has described the tough
new security rules which have delayed thousands of Irish people travelling from
the UK back to Ireland as a ' catastrophe.' Now Sir Michael one of the most
highly respected figures in the airline industry has said UK airport operator
BAA's 'wooden response' to the terror threat added to the chaos suffered by
thousands of passengers.

He said the widespread cancellations and delays at Heathrow and other airports
in Britain following the alleged plot to target transatlantic flights had given
the London airport and the British aviation industry at large 'the same
reputation as the old British Rail sandwich'.

He claimed that flights were cancelled or delayed unnecessarily.

The BMI boss made his comments as Ryanair was named the most complained-about
airline in Ireland.

The Dublin-based European Consumer Centre revealed there were 400 complaints
about air travel in the first half of the year and 133 of those gripes were
targeted at Ryanair.

Westmeath- based Michael O'Leary claims he is being targeted by a smear campaign
following his threats to sue the British Government over the airport security
imposed this month.

It is claimed that he boasted that being interviewed about the crisis on
television was like a free advert.

An official at the UK Department of Transport claimed Mr O'Leary said: 'Every
time I appear on TV, I get a spike in sales.' A 'spike' is the sharp shape on a
graph caused by a sudden boom in sales.

Mr O'Leary has furiously denied the remark, claiming it was invented as revenge
for accusing the British government of acting like the Keystone Cops.

When asked if it was true he said: 'That is (a) preposterous and (b) untrue.' He
added: 'When you point out that this government is behaving incompetently like
Keystone Cops, they shoot the messenger.' He then questioned whether the 23
suspects arrested in relation to the alleged airline plot really had been
planning such an atrocity.

He said: 'We may not have seen any attempt to blow aircraft out of the sky,' he
said. 'Where is the evidence? Police arrested 23 suspects who may or may not
have been attempting to attack an airport.

They may have been attempting to attack the London Underground or the Channel
Tunnel.

'The British government is hiding behind the security curtain of "weapons of
mass destruction" such as toothpaste, but is applying these measures only to
airports.' Mr O'Leary is also said to have had a number of heated rows with UK
Transport Secretary Douglas Alexander.

The security clampdown at British airports was eased last week but staff are
still body- searching a higher proportion of passengers than usual.

Airlines are predicting renewed chaos at airports this weekend with millions
planning foreign trips for the British bank holiday.

British Trade and Industry Secretary Alistair Darling promised yesterday that
restrictions in the UK would be made 'more manageable and proportionate' within
the next few days.

In the immediate aftermath of the threat, every single passenger flying out from
the UK was bodysearched. The figure now stands at one in two.

Mr Darling said meetings were planned with BAA to reduce the number further.

It is not the first time Mr O'Leary has been accused of cashing in on the terror
threat.

Last week, he used images of Winston Churchill in Ryanair adverts to urge people
to continue flying despite the fear of terrorism.

The adverts, published in several national British newspapers, featured a photo
of Churchill under the heading Let's Beat Terrorism. A speech balloon coming
from the World War II leader's mouth said: 'Keep Britain Flying'. A caption
below added: '1million seats at Pounds 25 (E37) book today on Ryanair'.

Nearly 200 complaints were made to the British Advertising Standards Authority
saying the advert was offensive.

Ryanair ran a similar campaign using Churchill in the aftermath of the July 7
bombings in London last year. That advert received more than 300 complaints, but
none was upheld.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNDER FIRE: OUTSPOKEN MICHAEL O'LEARY IS ACCUSED OF CASHING IN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             August 21, 2006 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BULLY HELL FOR MARIA;
Evil Charlie's terror attack

BYLINE: by LAURA NEIL

SECTION: NEWS; 22

LENGTH: 141 words


CORRIE Casanova bully-boy Charlie Stubbs is about to plumb the depths of evil.

The construction worker will launch a sinister campaign of terror against his
bit on the side Maria Sutherland.

The handsome lout (Bill Ward, 39) will burgle her flat, ransack it and leave
pretty Maria quivering with fear.

But there's method in his madness. He'll hope the attack will lure the
mini-skirted beauty (Samia Smith, 24) back into his bed.

Last night a series insider confirmed: "Charlie excels himself with this
cowardly raid. It looks like he could eventually give serial killer Tricky Dicky
Hillman a run for his money.

"Later he'll even play the hero. When the police leave, he arrives as the caring
landlord offering to help Maria tidy up."

His twisted plan will work as Maria moves in for a kiss, saying she doesn't know
what she would have done without him.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FEAR: Chas cons Maria

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 22, 2006 Tuesday

Terror attack occurs at gas-refining plant in Russian southern republic

LENGTH: 154 words


Text of report by Russian news agency RIA Novosti

Moscow, 22 August: A terrorist attack has occurred at a gas pipeline in
Ingushetia's Malgobekskiy District, the republic's Interior Ministry has told
RIA Novosti news agency over the telephone.

The blast happened in the village of Vosnesenovskaya at 0230 Moscow time [2230
gmt 21 August]. "Criminals planted two powerful shaped charges that went off
practically simultaneously," a source in the ministry said.

After the blast oil began leaking and caught fire, the flame was 15-20 m. high,
he added.

It took fire-fighters approximately three hours to put out the fire. The oil
leak has been stopped and the fire put out to date. No casualties have been
reported.

The Interior Ministry said that a terrorist attack is the main cause of the
incident. A criminal case was opened, an investigation is in progress.

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0422 gmt 22 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 22, 2006 Tuesday

Russian prosecutor does not rule out terrorism behind market attack in Moscow

LENGTH: 154 words


Text of report by Russian news agency RIA Novosti

Dushanbe, 22 August: The main theories of the explosion at the Cherkizovskiy
market in Moscow remain a terrorist attack or criminal showdowns, Russian
Prosecutor-General Yuriy Chayka said today.

"There are two working theories now. It may be a terrorist attack or criminal
showdowns," Chayka told reporters in Dushanbe where he took part in a session of
the prosecutors-general of the CIS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.

He said that there were five Chinese and a Vietnamese national among those
killed in the explosion.

"Two people have been arrested and an investigation is under way. I cannot tell
you anything new so far," Chayka said.

The blast at the Evraziya market located on the premises of the Cherkizovskiy
market happened on Monday morning. Ten people have died and 55 have been hurt.

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0650 gmt 22 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 23, 2006 Wednesday

Thai army chief says no information on south terror attack plot

LENGTH: 94 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper The Nation website on 23 August

Army Commander-in-Chief Gen Sonthi Boonyaratglin said Wednesday [23 August] that
the army had so far received no information about the planned attacks by
Bersatu-led terrorists in the deep south.

Some intelligence agencies have claimed that the Bersatu-led terrorists planned
to launch massive attacks on 31 August.

"This is new information. The army has not received such information yet. I need
time to study it first," Sonthi said.

Source: The Nation website, Bangkok, in English 23 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                           August 23, 2006 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Appeal in gun terror attack

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 204 words


Masked bandits escaping from a gunpoint building society raid may have been
spotted.

Detectives investigating the attack at the Stanley branch of Bradford and
Bingley are now appealing to the public for help.

The robbery began shortly before 10am on Monday when two men wearing motorcycle
helmets went into the branch on Front Street.

They confronted four members of staff and two customers, demanding cash. One was
carrying a firearm.

The pair demanded staff hand over cash and one jumped over the counter.

The first was wearing a dark green jacket, and the gunman had on a camouflage
coat.

They made their getaway on a black 400cc trial bike and are thought to have
travelled along Beamish Road and then Royal Road before going along a footpath
by the indoor market.

The bike was found abandoned behind Station Road.

The robbery was captured on CCTV and the bike is currently undergoing a thorough
forensic examination.

Det Insp Kevin Langan said local people could hold clues to the investigation.

"This was a very frightening incident for all those present and we need to
establish where these men went," he said.

Anyone with any information should call Durham Police on 0845 606 0365 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111 with information.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           August 23, 2006 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

G2: Why worry about terrorist attacks? You are much more likely to die from
smoking or be killed in a car crash

BYLINE: Lionel Shriver

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1121 words


George Bush blithers so ceaselessly about "the war on terror" that he has to
keep concocting new names for it - the latest, "the long war", has an ominous
ring, since it implies the American government never intends to shut up about
it, ever - and of course both Blair and the US/UK media have got with the
programme. So it's easy to forget that the number of people who have died from
terrorist attacks in the last five years sits stolidly at 2,752 in the US (all
from 9/11), and 52 in the UK (all from 7/7). For 2004, in both countries? Zero.
Ditto, 2003 and 2002, during which 625 and 725 people were killed by terrorism
worldwide, respectively.

Meanwhile, every year 120,000 people die from smoking in the UK, and 1.2 million
people die from car accidents internationally. In Congo, four million people
have died during the latest scrabble for power. But news consumers are bored
with reports about smoking and drink driving. Western politicians won't make any
domestic headway banging on about some tiresome territorial conflict in Africa.

If this were merely a matter of faddishness, or fear-mongering political
opportunism, we've been through Hula Hoops before, and - somehow - we made it
out the other side of the cold war. But leaving aside the not inconsiderable
matter of passing laws that curtail the "freedom" they are meant to defend,
today's overblown rhetoric about terrorism is in danger of conjuring up the very
bogeyman it feigns to constrain. The single most powerful recruiting sergeant
for suicide bombers isn't Hassan Nasrallah, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad or Osama bin
Laden, but George Bush - with Tony Blair and CNN competing for second place.
Turning the prevention of terrorism into the prime directive of both the
American and British governments, and faithfully parroting this rhetoric in the
news, effectively advertises a job opening. If you want an enemy this badly,
you're going to get one.

Think school shootings - on which I am ostensibly an expert. The biggest drivers
of America's bizarre late-90s profusion of teenage kids suddenly razing their
classrooms with semi- automatics were outsized media coverage and
disproportionately hysterical preventive measures in schools. Kids saw photos of
their peers plastered large as life all over the news, the long profiles on
hitherto nobody misfits in their local papers, and envied the attention. In
conducting paranoid assemblies and persecuting kids who wrote violent poetry,
American high schools just gave their own student bodies ideas. What got lost in
the shuffle is how statistically rare these shootings continued to be, and they
would have been even rarer if public authorities and media pundits had simply
been a little cool.

I'm no psychologist, but school shooters and suicide bombers surely have much in
common. They suffer from equal parts self-pity and grandiosity. They have chips
on their shoulders. They feel underestimated and nourish a private sense of
superiority. They glorify their own view of the world, which they fantasise
about shoving down everyone else's throat. They covet celebrity, and even the
posthumous kind will do. They're actually very imitative, and suggestible, but
they think of themselves as exceptional, as special, as elect. It's a type. It's
not just an Islamic type. You find it in every ethnicity, all over the world.

Exhaustive profiles of real and would-be bombers and fist-shaking
we-shall-defeat-these-evil-doers from government cannot help but stimulate in
these pathetic but ambitious sad-sacks the will to power. Furthermore, in
amplifying the eradication of an essentially criminal problem into a national
raison d'etre, journalists and politicians alike do radical Islamists' work for
them. More than on the body counts, terrorism depends for its efficacy on
shaking faith in systems - transport, trade, the stock market. Quiet,
intelligent security measures are all very well. But shouting from the rooftops
about "threat levels" advertises that these systems are unsafe.

I don't know what the answer is. Margaret Thatcher's starving the IRA of "the
oxygen of publicity" backfired big-time. The prospective political dividends of
filling the vacuum of villainy left by the defunct cold war with the Big Bad
Terrorist are so substantial that realistically Bush, Blair, and their
successors can't give the benefits a miss. But there are plenty of loons out
there with delusions of grandeur. Even this column gives them a leg-up from
madman to martyr.

The contest for the "cleverest" cartoon about the Holocaust run by Iran's
biggest-selling newspaper, Hamshahri, is meant to highlight the west's double
standard: Danish cartoons depicting Mohammed were a justifiable exercise of free
speech, but the Holocaust is sacrosanct. Thus the 200 cartoons on display in a
Tehran museum are intended to provoke outrage in Israel, America and Europe, and
preferably illicit calls for the images - of a Jewish vampire drinking
Palestinian blood or Sharon in an SS uniform - to be repressed.

I'm not outraged, and I don't want those cartoons repressed. I would be happy
for them to be published all over the world. If they are, I'm not about to
brandish placards that threaten Iranians with death for violating my sense of
decency or that denounce free speech. Those cartoons merely expose that some
caricaturists in the Middle East are tasteless, heavy-handed, anti-semitic, and
not very funny. Not that any of that comes as a surprise.

I don't want taste, respect or racial attitudes - that is, the bigotry in your
head, not beating up Jews in parks - to be legislated. Nor even the nature of
reality. Accordingly, Hamshahri has a point. European laws criminalising
Holocaust denial should be taken off the books. First off, they do indeed
infringe on free speech. Second, they are counterproductive. We do not pass laws
against publishing that the earth is flat. Were we to do so, we would only
introduce doubt. If Galileo was right, why would his round-planet shtick need
special protection? In kind, Holocaust denial laws are implicitly insecure. The
Holocaust is a matter of historical fact, and should not require a legal fence
around it any more than the Battle of Trafalgar.

As for those Holocaust cartoons, they constitute opportunity. Publish them
everywhere. Print them on T-shirts, broadcast them on the web. Then be cool,
right? And treat them with the shrugging, blase disdain they deserve.

This week Lionel read JG Ballard's Kingdom Come: "A satire of consumerism about
as subtle as those cartoons in Tehran." Lionel rewatched The Fly (1986): "A rare
remake that is streets ahead of the original and a rare horror film that is
horrifying. All that goop-spewing by Jeff Goldblum put me right off my dinner."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 4, 2006 Monday



CORRECTION: Homophone corner: "(They) are intended to provoke outrage (and)
illicit calls for the images . . . to be repressed (Why worry about terrorist
attacks? page 5, G2, August 23).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 25, 2006 Friday

Most Germans not afraid of terror attacks - poll

LENGTH: 149 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp on 25 August

Cologne: According to a poll, the majority of Germans do not fear terrorist
attacks. A total of 68 per cent of the polled do not believe that they
themselves could be affected by an attack, the Infratest dimap opinion research
institute found on behalf of ARD's "Morgenmagazin" programme. One out of three -
31 per cent - are afraid of an attack.

In a poll in September 2002 only 20 per cent were afraid of falling victim to an
attack, 76 per cent were not concerned.

In the [latest] poll, 80 per cent favoured an expansion of video surveillance on
trains and buses. In contrast, 17 per cent do not think anything of such a step;
42 per cent of the polled are in favour of having armed men accompany trains, 52
per cent are against it. On 22 and 23 August 1,000 citizens were polled.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 0234 gmt 25 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             August 25, 2006 Friday

My beating at hands of Royal List murderers;
I WAS ATTACKED TWICE IN GANG'S TERROR ZONE, SAYS FATHER

BYLINE: JACK LEFLEY

SECTION: LL 04; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 413 words


A FATHER of three told today how the gang that murdered Peter Woodhams also
robbed him and terrorised his family.

Mohammad Kalam, 32, was left with a broken nose after the youths cornered him.

He took a photograph of his injuries to keep as evidence, but his attackers were
never caught.

He spoke out after Peter Woodhams, 22, the father of a young son, was shot dead
moments after a confrontation with the gang - said to be known as the Royal List
Thugs. Both happened in the rundown area of Custom House, near Canning Town.

Seven months earlier Mr Woodhams was attacked by youths and stabbed, but no one
was brought to justice.

Mr Kalam's story emerged as Mr Woodhams's father, also called Peter, ridiculed
police claims that crime in the area was under control. He said residents were
living in fear.

Mr Kalam said today that the teenagers mugged him a second time and subjected
his family to years of verbal abuse and intimidation.

The chef is now afraid to leave his home which is just a few streets from
Freemasons Road, where the youths congregate-He was first targeted by the gang
two years ago as he walked home in the early hours.

"There were four of them all wearing hooded tops," said Mr Kalam. "One walked
straight up and punched me in the face. I dropped to the ground but they kept
kicking and punching me. I begged them to stop but they were like wild animals -
I thought I was going to die."

They let him go after taking Pounds 10 but he needed surgery to repair his
broken nose.

One afternoon in May this year he was again punched in the face by the youths
who stole his mobile phone.

His wife Nurum Begum, 27, nine-year-old son and fouryearold daughter have also
been targeted.

He said: "They swear at us, throw stones and eggs. They beat up my son, called
him racist names and tried to steal his necklace." The Independent Police
Complaints Commission will be examining why no one was charged with the stabbing
of Mr Woodhams.

Newham borough commander-Chief Superintendent Michael Johnson, has denied that
violence is a major problem in the area. He said: "It's not out of control. If
people are afraid they have to come to us."

However, Mr Woodhams's father said: "If violence is not a major problem, then
why is everyone so scared?

"They have dished out all these Asbos to the kids, but it hasn't worked.

It's the residents who are under curfew and living in fear."

No one was arrested over the January stabbing. A 14-yearold has been questioned
this week and released on bail.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIMS: MOHAMMAD KALAM, ABOVE, SAYS HE WAS ATTACKED TWICE BY THE SAME
THUGS WHO KILLED PETER WOODHAMS, LEFT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                August 27, 2006

Cameron: we got it wrong on apartheid: Tory leader dumps key Thatcher legacy:
Ex-PM's allies attack U-turn on 'terrorists'

BYLINE: Ned Temko, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words


DAVID CAMERON dramatically denounced one of Margaret Thatcher's flagship foreign
policies last night, saying that she was wrong to have branded Nelson Mandela's
African National Congress as 'terrorists' and to have opposed sanctions against
the apartheid regime in South Africa.

The Tory leader, who met Mandela in Johannesburg last week, made his most
forceful break yet with the Thatcher years in an article written for today's
Observer . His remarks were welcomed by veterans of the Anti-Apartheid Movement,
who engaged in a fierce political battle with Thatcher during the 1980s as
violence escalated in South Africa's townships while she resisted growing
international pressure for sanctions to be imposed.

But his intervention drew sharp criticism from some of the ex-Prime Minister's
closest allies. Her former spokesman, Sir Bernard Ingham, said: 'I wonder
whether David Cameron is a Conservative.'

Describing Mandela as 'one of the greatest men alive', Cameron writes: 'The
mistakes my party made in the past with respect to relations with the ANC and
sanctions on South Africa make it all the more important to listen now.

'The fact that there is so much to celebrate in the new South Africa is not in
spite of Mandela and the ANC, it is because of them - and we Conservatives
should say so clearly today.'

He adds that his 'overwhelming impression' on visiting a history museum in
Soweto last week was 'not how violent the armed struggle or Soweto uprisings
were, but how restrained'.

Lady - then Mrs - Thatcher, in close alliance with American President Ronald
Reagan, championed a policy of 'constructive engagement' with Pretoria in order
to urge reform on a government which they saw as a bulwark against Soviet-backed
radicalism.

To the fury of the Anti-Apartheid Movement, she described the ANC as
'terrorists'. In 1987, she said that anyone who believed the ANC would ever rule
South Africa was 'living in cloud-cuckoo-land'.

Since becoming Tory leader under the campaign slogan 'Change to win', Cameron
has occasionally sought to distance himself from the Thatcher era. In a
reference to her controversial remark that 'there is no such thing as society',
he has declared: 'There is such a thing as society, it's just not the same as
the state.'

But, in openly repudiating her South Africa policy, he has challenged her legacy
in a political area which has a huge significance for both her supporters and
foes. Commenting on his article last night, the Thatcher-era cabinet minister
and former party chairman Lord Tebbit told The Observer : 'Because of his age,
Mr Cameron is looking at these events as part of history. Others of us who lived
through them and had input into the discussions at the time see things very
differently. The policy of the Thatcher government was a success.

'The result was an overwhelmingly peaceful transition of power in which the
final initiative for the handover came not from foreigners but from native South
Africans - and Afrikaner South Africans, at that.'

Another former minister, who did not wish to be named, said of the Cameron
comments: 'They are ignorant.'

Labour's Northern Ireland Secretary, Peter Hain, who was a prominent
anti-apartheid activist, reacted to the comments with a mix of scepticism and
bitterness.

'I remember Conservative students of David Cameron's generation wearing "Hang
Nelson Mandela" badges on campus,' he said. 'For those of us in the struggle - a
bitter struggle, a life-and-death struggle - the Tories were the enemy as much
as Pretoria.

'If the change is for real, I'm glad. But I wonder how many Tories are behind
this change in mood music.' Mike Terry, long-time executive secretary of the
Anti-Apartheid Movement, said he felt 'vindicated' by Cameron's shift. 'The very
fact he feels being seen with Nelson Mandela is going to influence his
credibility is such a profound change, and a recognition of what South Africa
has accomplished in the past 12 years in terms of transformation.'

Terry's only concern was that 'David Cameron does not just use the meeting as a
photo opportunity, but will have listened to what Mandela has had to say - about
the Iraq war, about the Middle East or about the need for resources to address
HIV/Aids'.

A further welcome for Cameron's initiative came from Shawn Slovo - the
film-maker daughter of former ANC military chief Joe Slovo and his wife, the
anti-apartheid activist Ruth First, who was murdered by the South African
intelligence services in a parcel-bomb attack. 'I feel pleased,' she said. 'I
think: "You're on the right side." Discounting my scepticism, I would say I
don't know whether it could make me want to vote Tory, but that probably meeting
Mandela was a very genuine attempt to pay his respects and to be on the right
side.'

Cameron's article also appears to represent an audacious bid to seize the issue
of African aid and development from Gordon Brown, his probable adversary in the
next general election. Although Cameron says he heard praise while in South
Africa for Tony Blair's 'commitment to Africa', he pointedly omits any reference
to Brown. And he highlights the Tories' determination to address the issue: 'We
will not have a safer, more prosperous world without a successful and
sustainable Africa.'

He adds that he came away from his South Africa visit convinced that politicians
must learn 'patience' and 'humility' in dealing with increasingly complex world
issues and recognise that resolving them will require not just top-down
decisions but long-term engagement at all levels of society.

His visit to South Africa, which came at the invitation of Nelson Mandela, also
appears to mark the start of an effort to raise Cameron's international profile
and to position him, in the words of one senior aide, as a 'potential Prime
Minister in waiting'.

George Osborne, the shadow Chancellor, is travelling to Japan this week and is
scheduled to meet at least two cabinet ministers. He will then join Cameron in
India, where they are expected to hold talks with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
and other leading Indian government figures.


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Belfast Telegraph

                             August 28, 2006 Monday

Ulster tourist tells of her bomb terror;
Ten Britons injured in attacks on Turkish holiday resort

BYLINE: By Debra Douglas

LENGTH: 593  words


One of the Ulster holidaymakers caught up in terrifying bomb blasts at a Turkish
resort in which ten Britons were injured spoke today about her ordeal.

A total of 21 people, including a seven-year-old boy, were injured when three
explosions went off in the tourist resort of Marmaris late last night.

Only one, which was on a minibus ferrying holidaymakers around the resort,
detonated properly, but there were also two other bomb blasts at the same time
in rubbish bins on the main boulevard.

A number of Ulster tourists are staying at the popular resort but none of them
are thought to be injured.

Speaking today, Melanie Boyd, from Moira, Co Down, said it was a frightening
experience.

She said she was caught up in a traffic jam in a taxi when the driver told her a
bomb had gone off.

"There was a lot of hustle and bustle, a lot of panic and everybody was running
around," she explained.

"I was quite panicky myself as I wasn't sure what was going on.

"It was quite scary," she told the BBC.

Ms Boyd, who is due to fly home later tonight, said she had spoken to a lot of
other young people in the area which is lined with bars, clubs, cafes and
restaurants, and they are all scared by what was happening.

She said the area was quiet today with an obvious police presence.

"People are nervous. There are not very many tourists about at all today," she
said.

"A lot of the cafes would be quite busy at this time of the morning, but they
all seem quite empty.

"I think a lot of the locals are quite frightened too. There has been a lot of
talk from them about it too."

Confirming the details, police chief Emin Korpe of Mugla province, where
Marmaris is located, said a total of 21 people were injured in the bomb which is
thought to have been placed under a seat in the bus.

Mugla governor Temel Kocaklar said nine of the injured were released from
hospital following treatment.

Six Britons were taken to Ahu Hetman hospital in Marmaris while four others were
admitted to the Caria hospital.

"There are no life threatening injuries, but necessary medical treatment is
being given," said Ahu Hetman spokeswoman Julie Midgley, who is British.

She said this morning that all six had spent a "comfortable" night.

"Their spirits seem to be good and the doctors have visited them accordingly.
Everything seems to be going quite well," she said.

Suzanne Poyraz, foreign operations manager at the private Caria Hospital, said
four British casualties were brought there by ambulance.

Ms Poyraz said the four suffered burns and shrapnel injuries to their legs and
"lower extremities".

She said a couple - a man and a woman, aged 38 and 44 respectively, from
Coventry - had received minor injuries.

The couple, who are suffering from shock, have now been discharged and efforts
were being made to arrange a flight home today to the UK.

A 13-year-old girl and a 73-year-old woman, who are not related, have both
undergone surgery.

Ms Poyraz said arrangements were also being made to get them home.

"In the circumstances, we feel that emotionally and psychologically it is best
to get them back with their families and friends at home as soon as possible,"
she said.

A spokeswoman for tour operator Thomas Cook, which has hundreds of customers
staying in the region, said five of its guests were among the injured.

She added: "Thomas Cook's resort team are working closely with all the
authorities to ensure they are all well looked after."

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the blast. Kurdish guerillas
have in the past carried out such attacks against tourist resorts.

See page 4

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             August 28, 2006 Monday
                                 Ulster Edition

Nine injured in terror attack on Kosovo bar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 126 words


SERBIA'S leadership yesterday demanded an urgent investigation into a bomb
attack that left nine people " including a Briton " injured in northern Kosovo.

President Boris Tadic called the blast on Saturday a "terrorist attack' in the
UN-run province and demanded punishment for the perpetrators who hurled an
explosive device at a Serb-frequented bar in the town of Kosovska Mitrovica.

Seven Serbs, a pregnant Dutch woman and a British officer serving with the UN
police force in Kosovo were injured by shrapnel.

In Kosovo, UN police spokesman Larry Miller said a suspect was detained, but did
not reveal his identity. Serbia's state television, citing the UN and local Serb
officials, reported that the alleged attacker was a 16-year-old ethnic Albanian
youth.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Century Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             August 28, 2006 Monday
                                 Ulster Edition

Nine injured in terror attack on Kosovo bar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 126 words


SERBIA'S leadership yesterday demanded an urgent investigation into a bomb
attack that left nine people - including a Briton - injured in northern Kosovo.

President Boris Tadic called the blast on Saturday a "terrorist attack" in the
UN-run province and demanded punishment for the perpetrators who hurled an
explosive device at a Serb-frequented bar in the town of Kosovska Mitrovica.

Seven Serbs, a pregnant Dutch woman and a British officer serving with the UN
police force in Kosovo were injured by shrapnel.

In Kosovo, UN police spokesman Larry Miller said a suspect was detained, but did
not reveal his identity. Serbia's state television, citing the UN and local Serb
officials, reported that the alleged attacker was a 16-year-old ethnic Albanian
youth.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Century Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             August 28, 2006 Monday

Police coax brick attack victim, 4, into reliving his terror

BYLINE: CHRIS BROOKE

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 612 words


A FOUR-year-old boy who suffered a fractured skull and other head injuries in a
vicious attack yards from his home was being gently questioned by police
yesterday.

They hope to coax enough information from the traumatised youngster to find out
what happened.

Some neighbours claimed that Charlie Davis had been tied to a tree and battered
with a brick while he was playing on wasteland 200 yards from his home in
Hessle, near Hull.

One ear was so badly damaged that he required plastic surgery, and his teenage
sister who visited him in hospital said he was 'covered in bandages' with a
badly swollen mouth.

A boy of 11 who was arrested and questioned over Thursday's assault was said
yesterday by residents to be a troublemaker who terrorised local children.

The suspect was questioned and released on bail by Humberside police on
Saturday, but could still face charges.

It was revealed yesterday that the schoolboy was told off for hurling stones and
'lumps of concrete' at younger children only two days earlier.

One neighbour said a five-yearold girl suffered bruising after being hit on the
back by a missile.

'He was throwing stones at young children for no reason,' said an elderly woman.

'I saw a little girl pick up this lump of concrete that had been thrown at her
and it was very big.

'I told this boy off and he gave me a load of abuse back. I was furious, I have
never heard such cheeky behaviour in all my life.'

Another mother said Charlie was riding his bike alone and visited her home to
watch workmen laying a new driveway an hour before the attack on Thursday.

'He was fine then. He often comes down here and is always out and about in the
street,' she said.

The mother, who did not want to be identified, said the 11-year-old was a 'nasty
piece of work' and a known troublemaker.

'He hangs around with some other boys and often throws stuff at children,' she
said.

'He threw a stone and kicked our car the other day as my husband drove past.

My husband stopped the car and he ran off. That's what he's like.' She said the
boy 'hung around' with younger children aged from four to seven and 'led them
astray' by encouraging them to misbehave.

'Everyone knows him and he's bad news,' she said. 'The problem is his father
can't control him.'

The boy attends a special school after being expelled from primary school two
years ago for alleged inappropriate behaviour towards other children. His
parents have split up and he lives with his older brother and father, a shop
manager.

Yesterday the boy's 18-year-old brother said the family had ' nothing to say'
about the incident.

He said his father had gone with the boy to a police station after hearing a
report of the attack on the radio.

The 11-year- old, who has been released on police bail until mid-September
pending further inquiries, is said to be 'away for a few days' with relatives.
Charlie's mother Susan, 35, and father Alan, a roofer, were unavailable for
comment yesterday.

The boy was released from Hull Royal Infirmary and the family were said by a
friend to be 'traumatised' by what had happened.

Police said that until they were able to obtain further information from Charlie
they did not know whether he went to wasteland near his house of his own accord
and how he came to suffer the injuries. A spokesman said officers were keeping
an 'open mind' and were trying to establish the facts.

The injured boy's 18-year-old sister, Sammy, said earlier that a couple found
him and carried him home.

'It was awful,' she said. 'The couple who found him carried him back and they
were covered in blood. Mum was screaming. She was in a really bad way.

It's disgusting what has been done to him.' c.brooke@dailymail.co.uk END

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHARLIE DAVIS: HE SUFFERED A FRACTURED SKULL AND HAD PLASTIC SURGERY
THE AREA NEAR THE HUMBER BRIDGE WHERE THE LITTLE BOY WAS FOUND

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Western Mail

                            August 28, 2006, Monday
                                 First Edition

'Terrorist attack' on Briton and Serbs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 86 words


SERBIA'S leadership has demanded an urgent investigation into a bomb attack that
left nine people - including a Briton - injured in northern Kosovo.

President Boris Tadic called the blast on Saturday a 'terrorist attack' in the
UN-run province and demanded punishment for the perpetrators who hurled an
explosive device at a Serb-frequented bar in the town of Kosovska Mitrovica.
Seven Serbs, a pregnant Dutch woman and a British officer serving with the UN
police force in Kosovo were injured by shrapnel, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            August 29, 2006 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

CITY COUPLE VICTIMS OF BOMB OUTRAGE;
Pair among 10 Brits hurt in Turkish terror attack

BYLINE: By Samantha Clarke

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 269 words


A COVENTRY couple were among 10 British holidaymakers injured in a weekend of
bombings in Turkey.

They were hurt when bombs exploded in the popular seaside town of Marmaris.

The Foreign Office said a Coventry man, aged 38, and a woman, aged 44, were
taken to hospital.

They were later released and were expected to be making their way home today.
Their identities have not been released.

Three bombs exploded in Marmaris. One blew apart a minibus in the town centre
and two others exploded in rubbish bins on the town's main boulevard, which is
packed with bars, clubs, cafes and restaurants.

Another family from Quinton, Birmingham were also caught up in the attacks.

Dorothy Hughes was with her daughter Jenny, aged 36, grandson Louis Beckford,
aged nine, Louis's father Alex, aged 35, and his mother Susanne Beckford, aged
67.

Speaking from the family home, Mrs Hughes' son Richard said his mother had
broken both legs and Jenny, Alex and Susanne suffered shrapnel wounds. Louis
suffered burns to his face.

Also injured was Jennifer Smith, aged 13, of Hertfordshire, who had travelled to
Marmaris with her family.

She needed a fivehour operation.

Another bomb attack in Istanbul on Sunday injured six people and another
yesterday, in the coastal resort of Antalya, left three dead and more than 20
wounded.

A militant Kurdish group - the Kurdistan Freedom Falcons - claimed
responsibility for the blasts and warned Turkey was not safe for tourists.

The Foreign Office said: "We believe that international terrorist groups, as
well as indigenous ones, are active in Turkey.

"Further attacks in tourist areas, could well occur."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            August 29, 2006 Tuesday
                               City Final Edition

LOCAL COUPLE VICTIMS OF BOMB OUTRAGE;
Pair among 10 Brits hurt in Turkish terror attack

BYLINE: By Samantha Clarke

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 274 words


A COUPLE from the Coventry area were injured in the terrorist bombings in Turkey
which left three people dead.

The Foreign Office said Kathryn Urry, aged 44, and Mark Stringer, aged 38, were
among 10British holidaymakers hurt in the blasts on Sunday.

The couple were one of three British families - two from the Midlands - caught
up in the attacks on the popular seaside town of Marmaris.

They were taken to the private Caria hospital and later discharged.

They were due to fly home today.

Another Midland family was caught up in the attacks. Dorothy Hughes had
travelled to the resort with her daughter Jenny, 36, grandson Louis Beckford,
aged nine, Louis' father Alex, 35, and his mother Susanne Beckford, 67.

Speaking from the family home in the Quinton area of Birmingham Mrs Hughes' son
Richard said his mother had bro- ken both legs and Jenny, Alex and Susanne
suffered shrapnel wounds. Louis suffered burns to his face.

The bomb, which blew apart a minibus in the centre of Marmaris, was one of
several in Turkey over the weekend.

There were two other explosions at the same time in rubbish bins on the town's
main boulevard, which is packed with bars, clubs, cafes and restaurants.

And an attack in Istanbul on Sunday injured six people, while another yesterday,
in the coastal resort of Antalya, left three dead and more than 20wounded.

A militant Kurdish group - the Kurdistan Freedom Falcons - claimed
responsibility for the blasts.

A statement from the Foreign Office said: "We believe that international
terrorist groups, as well as indigenous ones, are currently active in Turkey.
Further attacks, including in tourist areas, could well occur."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                            August 29, 2006 Tuesday

My terror at snake attack

BYLINE:  catherine oakes

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 499 words


A walker is recovering in hospital after being bitten by the only poisonous
species of snake in the country.

Alex Wells had stopped for a break while walking in the Peak District when he
felt something slide across his hand and sink its teeth into his finger.

The adder was still attached when he looked down, but he shook it off.

The 25-year-old then faced an eight-mile walk with partner Helen Welch back to
their car.

But after  10 minutes his arm swelled up like a balloon. He called telephone
health advice line NHS Direct which advised him to get to a hospital
immediately.

Mr Wells said that it was only then that he started to panic.

He said: "I just remember feeling something slither across my hand and then it
bit me.

"It just felt like a small needle and then I looked down and saw the adder
attached to my finger.

"I managed to shake it off and it wasn't really hurting, so I didn't panic much
until my arm started to swell up."

Mr Wells and Miss Welch, of Swanwick, who had already walked 16 miles before
stopping at Baslow Edge, then started the eight-mile journey back to their car.

But Mr Wells' arm began to swell, which he later found out was caused by the
venom travelling towards his heart.

He said: "It was then that I called NHS Direct and they told me to get to a
hospital.

"We bumped into another couple who drove us the remaining distance to the car,
which was parked in Baslow, and from there I drove to the hospital in Calow, as
Helen doesn't drive. Everything just seemed really hazy as we were in such a
hurry.

"I can't remember much else after we got to the hospital."

Once arriving at The Royal Hospital in Calow at 5.30pm on Saturday, Mr Wells was
kept in for observation before being transferred to The Royal Hallamshire
Hospital in Sheffield.

But it was not until 2am on Sunday that he was given anti-venom, as it had to be
brought from Queen's Medical Centre in Nottingham.

Miss Welch (34) said she could not believe what had happened.

She said: "When it happened we really didn't make a big deal about it and it
wasn't until Alex's arm ballooned and he said that the pain was quite strong
that we decided to get to a hospital as fast as possible.

"It wasn't until I saw him in hospital attached to all the machines that I
realised how lucky he was.."

Adders are found only from February to October, as they hibernate during the
winter. Their natural habitat is dry, open heathland.

According to advice given by NHS Direct, it is rare to suffer serious injury or
death from an adder bite.  Some people who are bitten may not experience
symptoms at all, because the snake may have given them a dry bite containing no
venom.

Others will suffer nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea shortly after being bitten and
the area around the bite may swell up or go numb.

Mr Wells' mother, Gill (51), of Oakwood, found out what had happened when her
son called home.

She said: "Alex called and said he thought he'd been bitten by a snake and could
I check in our nature books to see if it was poisonous."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            August 29, 2006, Tuesday

Three killed in terror attack at second Turkish resort

BYLINE: Suna Erdem

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1297 words


Group that claims to have planted the latest bombs warns tourists not to visit
the country, writes Suna Erdem

TERRORIST bombers have carried out a 24-hour wave of attacks in Turkey, killing
and injuring dozens of people, including British holidaymakers.

Tourists have been warned by the group that has claimed responsibility for the
attacks in Marmaris that its campaign of terror has not ended and they should
not travel to Turkey.

"Turkey is not a safe country. Tourists should not come to Turkey," the Teyre
Azadiye Kurdistan (TAK), also known as the Kurdish Liberation Hawks, said. A
statement said that the group was behind a spate of bombings across the country
this year.

The worst blasts occurred in the resorts of Antalya, where at least three people
died when a bomb exploded in a marketplace yesterday afternoon, and Marmaris,
where ten Britons were injured when their minibus was blown up in the early
hours yesterday.

There were two further blasts in Marmaris, one of the most popular destinations
for British visitors. Another attack injured six people in a suburb of Istanbul.

The bombing campaign is aimed at destabilising Turkey and damaging its economy,
and is not targeted directly at British or Western interests. There have been
twenty bomb attacks in Turkey this year, eight of which have occurred during
August, the peak month for the millions of Britons who visit the country every
year.

Legislation proscribing TAK -a splinter from the outlawed PKK, or Kurdish
Workers' Party -as a terrorist organisation came into force in Britain two weeks
ago.

In Marmaris, where eight of the injured Britons were still being treated in
hospital last night, tourists spoke of the frightening scenes when the minibus
blew up.

A couple from Coventry have been discharged from hospital and two other Britons,
a 73-year-old woman and a 13-year-old girl, underwent surgery for burns. Suzanne
Poyraz, the foreign operations manager at Caria Hospitals, said: "Everyone is OK
now but this was a really bad shock for people here."

Rob Laughton, 41, from Chiswick, West London, was having dinner at a restaurant
in the middle of Marmaris with his wife, Susan, and friends. "We were just sat
there and heard this almighty explosion," he said.

The group ran out of the restaurant. "We just saw the bus and bodies lying on
the ground. We thought, 'We just don't want to be here.' We just ran away."

Jill Thornton, of Consett, Co Durham, said that her son Daniel, 19, was in
Turkey with his girlfriend and her parents, and had seen the aftermath of the
bus explosion. Daniel, who was walking with his girlfriend, Laura Stalker, 17,
said that he was met by a shocking scene. Mrs Thornton said: "He is only 19 and
his girlfriend is only 17. I am panicking. His girlfriend was very upset."

In the Ahu Hetman hospital, Suzanna Beckford, from Birmingham, received
treatment with her grandchildren, Alex and Louis. She said: "Why have they done
this to us? We have done nothing. Who are these people?"

None of the Britons has life-threatening injuries. Police said that early
examination of the minibus on which they were travelling suggested that the bomb
had been placed under a seat. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office updated its
travel advice to include news of the bomb attacks, and said that initial reports
from Antalya indicated that no Britons were among the fatalities or casualties
there. The injured included people from Germany, Jordan, Iran, Israel and
Russia.

Witnesses said that the blast in the Mediterranean resort had caused panic, with
bloodied people fleeing the scene, glass and debris flying through the air and a
fire breaking out.

One of those who died was thought to be a pastry vendor who was set alight when
the bomb exploded near him.

Sir Peter Westmacott, the British Ambassador to Turkey, who visited Marmaris,
said: "I'm afraid this event shows that there are no countries in the world
where we can be guaranteed to be safe from terrorist attacks.

"It is something we're all in together and it can happen in all sorts of
different countries. Alas it has happened here before. A year ago I was at
Kusadasi, where there was a very similar bomb attack on a minibus which took the
life of one British subject, and that was very distressing too.

"But I think people seem to have a great resilience. They are determined to get
on with their holidays and they know sadly that these days you can't be safe
wherever you go."

Kurdish rebel groups aligned with the PKK had claimed responsibility for an
explosion in a tourist area 60 miles (95km)east of Antalya in June this year,
which killed four people. They have also been accused of starting some of the
forest fires that destroyed hundreds of acres of woodland this month.

The PKK, which began its armed struggle 22 years ago for a separate Kurdish
homeland in southeast Turkey, has languished, apparently demoralised and
divided, after the capture and imprisonment of its leader, Abdullah Ocalan, in
1999.

But for the past year or so at least one wing of extremists has been making the
group's presence felt with a series of attacks. Reports have also been rising of
clashes in the southeast, where the PKK has been waging a campaign against the
Turkish Army in a battle that has claimed about 30,000 lives.

The Turkish Government and military have long complained that the PKK rebels
have found a fruitful training environment in mainly Kurdish northern Iraq since
the US-led invasion. Military officials suspect that the PKK has access to some
of the weapons flooding Iraq, including remote-controlled explosives, and
smuggling them into Turkey.

Ankara has clashed with Washington, which it accuses of not doing enough to
clamp down on the guerrillas. It has even threatened a cross-border incursion.
The latest attacks coincided with the appointment of a new hardline chief of
staff of the Turkish Army.

The wave of bombings suggests a return by separatist terrorists to a tactic last
tested in the 1990s, targeting one of the biggest earners in the Turkish
economy.

Then, a series of resort bombs, combined with the Gulf War, left the Turkish
tourist industry in despair. Even a temporary hitch to the short summer season
can have a devastating effect. The tourist industry's target of $20 billion (£
11 billion) in revenue this year looks to be in jeopardy.

Although the panicked scenes of Sunday night were quickly replaced by business
as usual in the restaurants and streets of Marmaris, and holidaymakers crowded
the beaches as they had done all summer, local tradesmen and tourist officials
were worried about the long-term impact of the explosions.

"The cowardly PKK cannot succeed in their aims," a defiant Fatih Karatepe wrote
in an e-mail to the Hurriyet newspaper. "We, the people of Marmaris, are now
linked ever closer to our country and to our people, and tourists are also part
of this warmth and closeness."

A suspected member of the PKK was detained yesterday for planning an attack in
the port city of Izmir. Others were detained for helping the suspect, and police
seized plastic explosives in the operation.

Additional reporting: Sean O'Neill and Karen McVeigh

Turkish bombs: latest news and pictures

RECENT BOMBINGS

Aug 5, 2005 Five Turkish soldiers die in bomb attack blamed on the PKK in
Hakkari province

July 16 Helen Bennett, of Co Durham, is among five killed when a PKK bomb
explodes on a bus in Kusadasi

July 10 At least 20 people, including 2 tourists, injured by PKK bomb in Cesme

May 17, 2004 Four small bombs explode outside branches of HSBC in Ankara and
Istanbul before Tony Blair's visit to Turkey

Nov 20, 2003 Blasts outside British consulate in Istanbul and local HSBC
headquarters kill 27 people, including Roger Short, the Consul-General. Al Qaeda
and Great Eastern Islamic Raiders' Front claim responsibility

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           August 30, 2006 Wednesday

Tourists warned of Egypt terror attack

SECTION: A MERGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 69 words


ISRAEL today warned its citizens not to travel to Egypt's Sinai peninsula
because of fears that a terror attack there is imminent.

Acting on "concrete" information that militants plan attacks in Sinai,
Jerusalem's counter-terrorism department instructed tourists to avoid the area -
a popular destination for Israelis - or leave immediately. More than 120 people
have been killed in terror attacks in Sinai since 2004.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                            August 31, 2006 Thursday

Search for missing 300 after terror attack

SECTION: BYGONE

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: Bolton


10 YEARS AGO From the Evening News April 20, 1995: RESCUE workers were today
frantically combing through the wreckage of the bombed Oklahoma office block in
a desperate search for up to 300 missing people.

The outrage is the biggest act of terror in US history, overtaking the 1993
explosion at the World Trade Centre in New York City which killed six people and
injured 1,000 others.

GAMBLERS Anonymous today called for health warnings to be printed on National
Lottery scratch cards in an effort to prevent players becoming addicts.

The call for action comes after a reformed Bolton gambler revealed he had fallen
back into his old ways and was spending a staggering £120 a week on the National
Lottery.

25 YEARS AGO

From the Evening News

April 19, 1980

TWO Bolton lads, one a past and one a present student at Bolton Technical
College, scooped top awards presented by the North West region of the National
Federation of Building Trades Employers.

Jeffrey Briely, aged 21, of Hastings Road, Chorley New Road, Bolton, won a total
of £65 and two certificates after being chosen as the North-west's top
apprentice and top bricklayer. Sharing the accolades was 19-year-old Christopher
Clarke of Larch Road, Leigh - the region's best young plasterer.

A GANG of youths left a trail of destruction behind them last night as they
vandalised Westleigh Park, Leigh.

Seats were thrown around, childrenís swings tied together, the pavilion broken
into and a large hole dug in the middle of the bowling green.

50 YEARS AGO

From the Evening News

April 20, 1955

THERE will be no production by Bolton  Air Theatre during Bolton holiday week.

Bolton Entertainments Committee has been told that none of the plays in the
programme for the current season is suitable for open-air presentation.

IN the hope that Boltonians and Ukrainians now living in Bolton will get to know
and like each other, an Anglo-Ukrainian Social Organisation was formed a few
months ago.

The 500 or so Ukrainians in the town welcomed the Association, but so far the
response from Boltonians has not been encouraging.

100 YEARS AGO

From the Evening News

April 20, 1905

THE newly-constructed tramway route from Tyldesley to Boothstown was opened to
the public this morning and a ten minutes service of cars from Atherton to the
last-named township will be maintained during the day.

The new tramway is an extension of the South Lancashire Company's branch from
Atherton to Tyldesley and runs to the boundary of Worsley and within a mile of
St Mark's Church.

With the exception of a break of about two miles between Boothstown and Winton
there is now a through tramway system from Manchester to Liverpool.

THE new Turton Conservative Club is now in full use, though the furnishing of
the interior etc is not yet completed.

A caretaker is in residence and there are now nearly one hundred members.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 400 DOCUMENTS


               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                            August 31, 2006 Thursday

Top Muslim cop attacks anti-terror laws

BYLINE: Local London Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: This Is Local London


SCOTLAND Yard's top Muslim police officer will today warn that Muslims are being
discriminated against by anti-terrorism laws and enforcement agencies.

Met assistant commissioner Tarique Ghaffur will warn that there is a real risk
that ethnic minorities could be criminalised in the war on terror at home.

He will also call for an independent judicial review into why some young British
Muslims turn to extremism when he addresses the National Black Police
Association conference in Manchester, according to the Guardian newspaper.

"Not only has anti-terrorism and security legislation been tightened across many
European countries with the effect of indirectly discriminating against Muslims,
but other equally unwanted practices have also emerged, including 'passenger
profiling' as well as increased stop and search and arrest under terrorism
legislation," he will reportedly say.

He will also say that the increase of stop and searches by police tended to be
based "more on physical appearance than being intelligence-led."

"There is a very real danger that the counter-terrorism label is also being used
by other law enforcement agencies to the effect that there is a real risk of
criminalising minority communities," he will say.

"The impact of this will be that just at the time we need the confidence and
trust of these communities, they may retreat inside themselves.

"We therefore need proper accountability and transparency round all policy and
direction that affects communities."

Mr Ghaffur will reportedly propose a judicial inquiry into what caused the
"anger and resentment" of young British Muslims that lay behind the July terror
attacks.

"We must think long and hard about the causal factors of anger and resentment.
In particular, we need to adopt an evidence-based approach to building
solutions."

He will also tell how discrimination had affected his own career: "I have been
deliberately excluded from groups, processes and decision-making on occasions. I
have had creative ideas turned down, only for them to then be subsequently
suggested by colleagues and accepted."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 400 DOCUMENTS


              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                            August 31, 2006 Thursday

Family pledge to help other victims of terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: The Northern Echo


THE family of a North-East terrorism victim are hoping to put a horrendous year
behind them by helping victims of future attacks abroad.Sunday will mark the
first anniversary of a bomb blast in Turkey that claimed the life of 21-year-old
tourist Helyn Bennett, from Spennymoor, County Durham, while on a family
holiday.Miss Bennett's mother, Sharon Holden, now plans to focus on improving
support for people affected by  future terrorist attacks.Mrs Holden, 42, will
advise the Foreign Office how to deal with families facing the same horror her
own went through last July.She said: "We were told Helyn had died by a holiday
rep in a car park. We should have been taken aside as soon as they knew our
family was involved and told in private. "I'll be advising the Foreign Office
about training workers so things can be done differently to make it easier for
families to cope."Unfortunately, there will be more terrorist attacks but we
will feel better knowing we've tried to help other people like us."Miss
Bennett's fiance, Stephen Stables, and four other members of her family were
injured when the bomb exploded on a bus in the resort of Kusadasi.On Sunday,
they and other relatives and close friends will mark the first anniversary of
the tragedy with a private service to unveil a memorial bench at Jubilee Park,
in Spennymoor.There are plans to create a sculpture in Helyn's memory at the
University Hospital of North Durham, where she worked as a trainee chef with her
mother and aunt.

Mrs Holden said: "It has been awful and I can't really say I'm moving on. "Some
weeks I just want to curl up and hide away."Everything has been an uphill
struggle - losing Helyn, the others' injuries, paying for medical bills and
getting memorials sorted."Stepfather Tom Holden added: "It has been a horrendous
year for the whole family, trying to cope with what happened then the aftermath
with hospital visits. "But people have been very supportive and we try to think
of the good times we had with Helyn."*A man has been arrested in connection with
the bombing and awaits trial in Turkey.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Worksop Guardian

                                August 31, 2006

Armed terror attack on Retford school guards

LENGTH: 230  words


SECURITY guards on night duty at a school building site in Retford were
assaulted and detained by two men carrying weapons while others attempted to
steal property.

The two local men were supervising the site of the new school building off
Babworth Road when they were assaulted in the late night attack last Thursday.

One of the security guards, aged 32, received an injury which required hospital
treatment but he was released from Bassetlaw Hospital a short time later.

The other security guard, who is aged 19, did not require hospital treatment.

Police believe that the two men had accomplices who were driving vehicles, which
were possibly transit-style vans or flat back lorries.

A local resident said the site was 'swarmed' with police cars and officers who
were preventing any access to the school.

Now, police are appealing to the public for any information, in particular any
sightings of vehicles in or around the site between 10pm on Thursday 24th August
and 2am on Friday 25th August.

Det Sgt Bird, who is investigating the incident, said: "The security staff are
local men who were doing their job protecting the new school facility being
built for our children."

"I believe someone within our community will have information or knowledge of
the offenders and I would appeal to them to come forward."

l Anyone with information is asked to contact Notts Police on 0115 967 0999.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                                August 31, 2006

Strip-search detention of terror suspect attacked

LENGTH: 307 words


A lawyer last night attacked the conditions in which the alleged airliner bomb
plot suspects were being held as police were granted a further seven days to
question them.

Khalid Elahi said his client Muhammed Usman Siddique, 24, had been subjected to
daily strip-searches and suffered both physically and psychologically from long
detention.

He was speaking as police were given a further seven days to question five
people over the alleged plot to assemble bombs on transatlantic jets.

It is the first time suspects have been held into a fourth week under new
anti-terror laws, which came into force earlier this year, allowing terror
suspects to be questioned for up to 28 days.

Earlier yesterday, three others appeared in court charged with involvement in
the alleged plot.

Mr Elahi said his client had had a "very difficult" 21 days in police custody.
"During this time he has been questioned continuously on a regular basis under
extremely difficult conditions," he said.

"These conditions have not been made easier by the fact that the police deem it
necessary to strip-search him a number of times on a daily basis and the fact
that he has been detained in a police station which is not adequate nor designed
for long-term detention.

"If my client is subsequently released without charge or is acquitted by the
courts after being charged, the memory of Paddington Green is likely to haunt
him for the remainder of his life.

"This lengthy investigation process has affected both his physical and
psychological wellbeing and I am minded to take this matter up with the IPCC
(Independent Police Complaints Commission).

"I appreciate that the Terrorism Act is a new piece of legislation and everyone
is still coming to grips with it, however I do not feel that it is justified for
the police to be given a further seven days to question my client."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            September 1, 2006 Friday

Terror at Our Lady's;
Pensioners attacked at gunpoint as masked raiders swoop on parish club

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 318 words


THIS was the terrifying moment when gunmen burst into a church social club and
threatened to shoot its elderly customers.

Three balaclava-clad men were caught on CCTV as they entered the building and
confronted two women who were about to leave the premises.

One of the women an 83-yearold was was knocked to the floor, losing her shoes in
the process, then dragged back into the lounge room at gunpoint. The woman's son
witnessed the struggle. He, too, was threatened and had to join the other
customers and staff around ten in total in the lounge area.

There they were told to sit down and put their hands behind their heads.

The raiders two of them brandishing guns screamed at staff: 'Give us the cash.'
The manageress of the club, Lynn Goulding, tried to fight off the gang as a gun
was pointed around the lounge area and fired twice.

She was punched in the face by one of the robbers.

Bundles of notes, amounting to Pounds 970, were put into plastic bags and one of
the gunmen fired a shot which hit a pile of cardboard boxes and then again at a
glass casing on the wall. The gang escaped in a black 4x4 vehicle, leaving those
inside the club shaken and in tears.

Yesterday Mrs Goulding, 54, recalled her ordeal at Our Lady's Parish Club in
Childwall, Liverpool.

'It was the most horrific experience of my life and I can't believe I was inches
from a man pointing a gun at me.

'I screamed at them to not hurt us and leave my staff alone. I'm still shaking
when I think about it.' The robbers entered the club at 1am on Tuesday as
customers finished their last drinks. One member of staff, aged 19, is a police
community support officer, but was powerless to stop the gang.

Mrs Goulding added: 'The sound of the guns going off was like a firecracker.

I just grabbed one of the men through sheer panic and tried to get hold of his
shoulders, but he hit me on the chin.' Police are still trying to track down the
raiders.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE 83-YEAR-OLD AND HER FRIEND COWER IN TERROR AFTER THE GUNMEN BURST
INTO THE CLUB THE WOMAN IS GRABBED BY A ROBBER A SECOND RAIDER MANHANDLES THE
OAP THE VICTIM PLEADS FOR MERCY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           West Sussex Country Times

                               September 1, 2006

Simulated terror attack

LENGTH: 245  words


WISTON House, near Steyning, was used as the scene of a simulated terrorist
attack on Tuesday.

Soldiers, armed police, paramedics and firefighters all had to co-operate,
rehearsing how they would deal with a sarin nerve gas attack on guests and staff
at the Foreign Office owned conference centre.

They also had to cope with unexpected developments during the day, especially
when one of the 'injured' people turned out to be the 'suspected terrorist'.

The exercise was intended to reveal any weaknesses in the emergency services'
procedures, as well as giving workers a chance to practise using specialised
equipment in a realistic setting.

A large team of observers, from Sussex Police and other forces across the
country, came along to see what lessons could be learned.

With Wiston House staff standing in as the casualties, the exercise began with
an ambulance being called around 9am.

At that stage, they knew only that some conference guests were unwell.

An ambulance crew arrived to be told that everyone in the building was suffering
from breathing difficulties and pain in their eyes - common symptoms of a
chemical attack but hard to treat without knowing what substance was involved.

The two paramedics were told that they had now been contaminated, and would
spend the rest of the exercise as casualties.

At this point, the emergency services declared a major incident, cordoned off
the house and sent for a chemical decontamination unit.

Full story in the County Times.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          September 2, 2006, Saturday

1000S OF MUSLIMS IN BRITAIN ARE BACKING TERROR BOMB ATTACK;
POLICE CHIEF'S CHILLING WARNING TERRIFYING THREAT OF HOME-GROWN KILLERS

BYLINE: By Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 337 words


THE number of British Muslims suspected of plotting deadly attacks runs into
thousands, the UK's top anti-terrorist cop has claimed.

The shocking revelation about the scale of active support for terror strikes and
the numbers of suspects being monitored is made by the head of Scotland Yard's
Anti-Terrorist Squad.

In a BBC2 documentar y screened tomorrow night, Deputy Assistant Commissioner
Peter Clarke says: "What we've learned since the attacks in America on 9/11 is
that threat is not something simply coming from overseas into the United
Kingdom.

"What we've learned and what we've seen all too graphically and all too
murderously is that we have a threat which is being generated here within the
UK."

Asked how many Muslims he thought were involved in planning attacks or helping
terrorists in Britain, he says: "I don't want to go down the numbers game, I
don't think it's helpful.

"All I can say is that our knowledge is increasing and certainly, in terms of
broad description, the numbers of people we have to be interested in are into
the thousands."

On the BBC2 documentary Al Qaeda - Time To Talk?, he adds: "That includes a
whole range of people, not just terrorists, not just the attackers but the
people who might be tempted to support or encourage or assist."

The programme also looks at the cases of foreign terrorists based in Britain
recently.

They include French Algerian Idris Bazis, an Afghani-trained jihadi warrior, who
lived in Manchester for two years before blowing himself up in Iraq.

Asked if he thinks there is a "pipeline" feeding fundamentalists from Britain
into Iraq, Clarke says: "What we see is individuals who, with connections,
managed to facilitate people's travel.

"There's probably a collection of individuals who are happy to organise the
travel of others."

And asked if the police know their identities and are watching them, Clarke
replies: "We know who some of them are, yes. We investigate, we carry out
surveillance on a lot of people."

Al-Qaeda -Time To Talk? is on BBC2 tomorrow at 9 pm.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NIGHTMARE: The wrecked bus targeted in the Tavistock terrorist bomb in
July 2005. Top cop Peter Clarke, inset, says thousands of Muslims back a similar
attack' PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 3, 2006 Sunday

Turkey: Seven soldiers martyred in terrorist attacks since 1 September

LENGTH: 158 words


Text of report by Turkish commercial NTV television on 3 September

Seven soldiers have been martyred in terrorist attacks in Hakkari, Sirnak, Van
and Diyarbakir. A group of terrorists attacked the military unit that provided
security for the Findik Base with remote controlled explosives on Friday [1
September] evening. Three soldiers were martyred in the attack. In Hakkari, the
guard posts of the Gendarmerie Battalion Command Headquarters in Koprulu in
Cukurca District were attacked with long-barrel arms and rocket launchers. Two
soldiers were martyred and two others were wounded in the clash that took place
when the security units fired back. One soldier was martyred when a patrol was
fired on from the Iranian border in Van. An expert sergeant was killed when a
mine was detonated by a remote control while a military convoy drove through
Diyarbakir's Dicle District last night.

Source: NTV television, Istanbul, in Turkish 0400 gmt 3 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 3, 2006 Sunday

Philippine police use three-tier defence system to prevent terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 391 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Philippine Star website on
3 September

The Philippine National Police (PNP) has started enforcing a new three-tiered
defence system to prevent terrorist attacks.

PNP chief Director-General Oscar Calderon said the security measure, dubbed "PNP
3-TDS", was set up as security forces prepare for the commemoration of the 11
September 2001 terror attacks in the United States.

PNP spokesman, Senior Superintendent Samuel Pagdilao said the 3-TDS anti-terror
measure involves heightened intelligence, target-hardening and incident
management.

He said heightened intelligence refers to the deployment of more intelligence
agents to monitor movements and activities of suspected terrorists; target
hardening means the case build-up to gather harder evidence against suspected
terrorists; while incident management will be activated in the event of a terror
attack to help and assist victims and others directly affected by the incident.

"This is a pro-active response against terrorist threats. This is a proven and
effective way in deterring foreign and local terrorists from launching their
planned terroristic activities," Pagdilao said.

He said the police have not received any specific terror threats in connection
with the fifth anniversary of the US terror attacks.

"Although there is no direct or imminent threat of terrorism on a specific
target, we must remain vigilant and always on alert against an unseen enemy,"
Pagdilao said.

The PNP Operations Centre has directed all police regional commanders and all
police support units to impose the new anti-terror security measures.

Intelligence reports indicate that the Abu Sayyaf, the Raja Solaiman Movement
(RSM), and the Indonesian-based Jemaah Islamiyah terrorists are planning to
conduct attacks to celebrate the fifth anniversary of the 11 September attacks
in the US.

Unconfirmed reports also claimed that two RSM members who have undergone
bomb-manufacturing training in Mindanao are now in Metro Manila.

Sources said the clandestine training, supervised by Jemaah Islamiyah bomb and
demolition experts, was conducted in the mountains of Lanao del Sur sometime in
April.

RSM is a small group of Islamic converts with reported links to the regional
terrorist network Jemaah Islamiyah.

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 3 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            September 3, 2006 Sunday

Your home in Turkey can always survivethe bombers;
Why last week's terror attacks are unlikely to dent the country's appeal to Brit
buyers

BYLINE: CATHERINE MOYE

SECTION: PROP 04; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 679 words


Until last weekend, Turkey was undeniably on the rise. Its stunning scenery,
wonderful climate and vibrant culture drew more than 1.8million British tourists
last year.

Many have bought property, especially around the Turquoise Coast in the
south-west between Marmaris and Antalya. The bank holiday bombs there will
inevitably call the property market's stability into doubt.

It is easy to see why second-homers and investors have been attracted to Turkey
over more traditional markets such as France and Spain.

Prices start at about Pounds 55,000 for a two-bedroom apartment and rates of
appreciation are impressive, with prices having risen by 20 to 25 per cent in
the past three years, according to agents Colliers International.

In 2004, international property investment accounted for nearly half of all
foreign funds flowing into the country and remains a key factor in the Turkish
economy, which is one of the world's fastest growing.

The boost that second-home ownership and tourism brings is the reason the
Dalaman and Gocek regional government at the Marmaris end of the coast has
released 7,000 acres of land for tourist development, plus a vast new marina
near Dalaman.

This is part of a major Turkish investment strategy designed to increase
visitors from 10million in 2000 to 40million by 2020.

Unfortunately, tourism's importance to Turkey, earning it Pounds 10.5billion a
year, makes it a target.

Last week's bomb blasts in Marmaris, including one on a minibus carrying British
tourists, and the attack in Antalya the next day that killed three and injured
many, may have severely dented the market.

With foreign holidaymakers the target of a sustained terrorist campaign by
Kurdish separatists and scenes of carnage broadcast around the world, potential
purchasers must be wondering whether Turkey is still a sensible place to buy
property.

'It is very concerning but, apart from the established European countries, you
have to ask yourself where in the world is not now subject to some kind of
outrage either by separatist movements or religious groups,' says Jonathan
Salsbury, of Colliers CRE International Homes and Investment, which is selling
several schemes in the Dalaman region.

'Even Thailand and Bali, marketed as fantasy places, have their outrages.'

Thus far, Salsbury has not had any clients pulling out of purchases. 'If the
Turkish market were dominated by investors, I would be more worried about it,'
he says.

'But until the mortgages and finance become available for pure investors, the
majority of people buying there do so because they love the place for holidays.'
It remains to be seen whether that love will cool due to outrages by groups
demanding independence for the predominantly Kurdish southeast of Turkey.
Furthermore, last weekend was not an isolated incident.

Terror attacks in Turkey have been continuing at a steady rate for the past four
years and an increasingly large number have been aimed at foreign holidaymakers.

Last year, a British woman was killed in one attack and this year alone, six
have died and more than 100 have been injured by at least eight bombs that were
detonated by Kurdish terrorists.

'If I were a developer, it would make me worried in the sense that the
consequences are likely to be very immediate,' says Amar Sodhi, of agents Avatar
International, which has properties for sale around Bodrum. 'If I was in the
process of building or marketing a scheme, even a little blip like this could
have big consequences.' Buyers should remain calm for now, however. Sodhi
insists one should be more sanguine about the long-term picture.

'You only have to look back at the records over the past 15 years,' he says.

'There have been Kurdish separatistattacks before and it hasn't affected demand
or the rise in prices.' And bad news can even be advantageous.

'Sometimes this is the best opportunity for a buyer to get a better deal out of
a developer,' he adds.

. Avatar International, 0870 7282 827, www.avatar-international.com; Colliers
CRE International Homes & Investments, 020 7487 1978,
www.ccreinternationalsales.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POPULAR: THE VIBRANT CULTURE OF THE TURQUOISE COAST, ABOVE, HAS
ATTRACTED BRITISH TOURISTS AND SECOND-HOME OWNERS TARGET: THE TURKISH BOMB
BLASTS WERE AIMED AT FOREIGN VISITORS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 4, 2006 Monday

Algerian militia group member reportedly killed in terrorist attack

LENGTH: 168 words


Text of report by Madjid T. headlined "Boumerdes: A patriot assassinated in
Bordj Menaiel", published by Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 4 September

A patriot [member of a government-sponsored self-defence group] was assassinated
at midday the day before yesterday [2 September] in Bordj Menaiel by a terrorist
group from the Salafi Group for Call and Combat [GSPC]. The attack occurred at
about 1300 [local time] in the community of Ain El-Hamra 5 km north of Bordj
Menaiel. According to our sources, the victim, a 61-year-old patriot, was shot
dead outside his home by a terrorist group made up of three armed elements who
immediately fled towards the neighbouring wooded area. This attack occurred at
almost the same moment as another which targeted a group of Self-Defence Group
[GLD] [members] in Chabet El-Ameur, and which wounded a member of the
self-defence group in charge of security and the monitoring of a gas pipeline
crossing the region.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 4 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 4, 2006 Monday

German federal state minister: Terror attack risk increased by Lebanon mission

LENGTH: 242 words


Excerpt from interview with Bavarian Interior Minister Guenther Beckstein by
Michael Backhaus entitled "Lebanon mission increases danger of terrorist attacks
in Germany" published by German newspaper Bild am Sonntag on 3 September

[Backhaus] Mr Minister how great is the danger that Germany will become the
target of a terrorist attack?

[Beckstein] The abstract danger is very, very great, even though we do not know
of any current plans for attacks. Militant Islamists see Germany entirely as
part of the Western world, which they are fighting against in every way
possible.

[Backhaus] Will Germany's military involvement in the Middle East increase the
danger of terrorist attacks?

[Beckstein] It makes us even more visible to the respective fundamentalists. The
Bundeswehr is supposed to prevent arms shipments to the Hezbollah by sea. As a
result, the danger of terrorist attacks in Germany keeps increasing. However,
this cannot and will not prevent us from fulfilling our international
obligations.

[Backhaus] How great is the danger for the Pope, when he visits his homeland
this week?

[Beckstein] I can give you the gratifying news that we do not have any knowledge
about danger emanating from any extremist groups. Neither leftwing extremists
nor rightwing extremists make the Pope's visit an issue. Nevertheless,
everything will be done to ensure the safety of Pope Benedict XVI. [passage
omitted]

Source: Bild am Sonntag, Hamburg, in German 3 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                     September 5, 2006 Tuesday 10:57 AM GMT

India PM says threat of terror attacks still serious

LENGTH: 200 words


NEW DELHI (XFN-ASIA) - Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said the threat of new
terrorist attacks in the country remains serious and called for the public to
join hands in combating the menace.

Singh issued the call in talks with state security chiefs that came almost two
months after a series of train blasts in Bombay killed 183 people. Muslim
militants have been blamed for the blasts.

Intelligence reports 'suggest terrorist modules and sleeper cells exist in some
of our urban areas, all of which highlight the seriousness of the threat,' the
Press Trust of India quoted him as telling the state chiefs.

'A major effort is necessary on our part to sensitise the public into becoming
allies in this war ... who could report on any kind of unusual activity,' he
said.

Singh also urged better intelligence-gathering in wide-ranging deliberations on
how to counter terror threats from Islamic militants, Maoist rebels and
northeastern separatists.

State officials should pay 'more attention to improving the software needed for
the maintenance of peace,' Singh said.

'I mean by this improving intelligence generation and collection as also the
overall strengthening of your intelligence mechanism,' he said.

afp

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2006 AFX News Limited

                              209 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 5, 2006 Tuesday

Philippine military steps up intelligence operations to thwart terror attacks

LENGTH: 617 words


Text of report by Jaime Laude and Cecille Suerte Felipe entitled: "AFP boosts
intelligence, info gathering ahead of 9/11", published in English by Philippine
newspaper The Philippine Star website on 5 September

The military has stepped up intelligence operations to thwart possible terrorist
attacks ahead of the fifth anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the
United States. Security has also been tightened at malls, bus terminals, ports,
churches and other possible terrorist targets, said military spokesman Maj-Gen
Jose Angelo Honrado. "We are pretty much aware that terrorism is the scourge of
all countries, so we can't say that there is no threat, and we are not taking
this lightly," Honrado told a press briefing. Other government agencies aside
from the Philippine National Police [PNP] should pitch in to help prevent
terrorist attacks, he added.

Although additional troops may be deployed to urban centres, Honrado said the
most effective anti-terrorist weapon is intelligence monitoring. "When you
address terrorism, especially threats, you don't call in the tanks, you don't
call in the helicopters and you don't call the navy ships, you increase your
intelligence information gathering assets," he said.

Security forces were earlier put on alert amid fears of bombings linked to the
fifth anniversary of the 11 September attacks. However, security officials were
left embarrassed following reports that an unidentified anti-terrorism security
specialist, hired to assess the country's airport security, was able to smuggle
a bomb aboard a domestic flight from Davao City to the Manila domestic airport.

Despite that, Philippine National Police [PNP] chief Director General Oscar
Calderon assured the public of the safety of air travel. "I would like to assure
our public, our commuters, (that) it is safe to travel by air and by land. And
we are continuously working to improve and strengthen the security for the
safety of the riding public," he said.

Calderon, however, acknowledged the need to improve airport security and has
ordered Chief Superintendent Andres Caro, head of the PNP's Aviation Security,
to do something about it. "We have to talk again with our personnel manning the
checkpoints and inspection areas to reinvigorate their ability to search
travellers and pieces of luggage," he said.

Calderon added the airport security assessment should not have been made public.
"I felt bad about the incident but it would serve as an eye opener. The report
is very dangerous, they should have considered its impact to tourism and to the
credibility of security personnel at the airport." A veteran intelligence
officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the report should have been
made public after remedial measures have been put in place.

Security forces were put on alert earlier after a confidential Philippine
security assessment report had warned that two explosives experts from an
Al-Qa'idah-linked group have arrived in Metro Manila. The government report,
seen by The Associated Press, said the two experts belong to the Rajah Solaiman
Movement, a small group of Filipino converts to Islam which has been linked to a
number of deadly assaults, including a 2004 bombing that gutted a passenger
ferry in Manila Bay, killing 116 people.

The group has worked with other Al-Qa'idah-linked groups, such as
Indonesia-based Jemaah Islamiyah and the Abu Sayyaf, in plotting attacks and
undertaking joint terror training in Mindanao, according to Philippine military
officials. However, Defence Secretary Avelino Cruz assured there was no imminent
threat of a terrorist attack in Metro Manila or elsewhere.

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 5 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 6, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Ulster Edition

Terror attack alert costs BA pounds 40 million

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 239 words


MORE than 1,000 cancelled flights and pounds 40 million in lost revenues is how
British Airways measured the cost of August's national terror scare.

The firm said it was forced to cancel 1,280 flights during the alleged bomb plot
that prompted a security clampdown at airports across the UK.

Flights were grounded between August 10 and 17 in the aftermath of an alleged
plot to blow transatlantic flights out of the sky.

As well as the loss of fares, the company said it also faced additional costs
through hotels and catering for passengers and recovering lost baggage.

Bookings for the rest of the year were recovering but remained below levels seen
before the terror scare and subsequent changes to security at airports in the
UK, including restrictions on hand luggage.

"Since the disruption, there has been some impact on forward bookings," said a
spokesman. "The overall level of bookings has returned to levels experienced
last year, but is still weaker than the trend of the past few months."

Despite the disruptions caused to the industry, BA managed to increase its
payload with 3.15 million passengers carried compared with 3.1 million in August
last year when operations were hit by the Gate Gourmet dispute, which saw
hundreds of flights grounded as caterers and ground staff at Heathrow staged
wildcat strikes.

The company has yet to decide whether or not to seek compensation from the
Government or from the airport operator BAA.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Century Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Mansfield Chad

                               September 6, 2006

KNIFE ATTACK TERROR IN BACK GARDEN

LENGTH: 376  words


SHOCKED Mansfield man Kris Hooton is recovering this week after he was brutally
attacked in his own garden by a knife-wielding thug.

He suffered slash injuries to his arms and hand in the savage attack, which
happened after he confronted the masked intruder at his Beck Crescent home at
around 3.15am last Wednesday.

The 26-year-old former police officer was assaulted just moments after going
into his garden to investigate a loud bang and why his security light had been
activated.

Speaking from his home on the town's Ladybrook estate yesterday, Kris described
the terrifying moment when he came face-to-face with the balaclava-wearing
attacker -- who hit the stunned householder with possibly a Stanley or craft
knife.

"I raised my arms in defence and it felt like I had been punched," he said.
"This happened two more times before I realised that it was actually a blade
slashing at my arm."

Kris, who is training to become a plumber, says he can remember falling back
into his house in a daze, but cannot remember seeing what happened to the thug
who attacked him.

And Kris' devastated mum Linda told Chad she was horrified to hear her son
calling for her help as she lay in bed upstairs.

"I suddenly heard a voice shout 'mum' and call for help," she said. "I went
downstairs and all I could see was Kris covered in blood -- it was all over the
door and dripping onto the floor. I could see the cuts into his arm and one was
really deep."

Her partner John Williams immediately wrapped tea towels around Kris' badly cut
arms before he was eventually taken to King's Mill Hospital, where he had nine
stitches in his arm and three to his hand.

The shaken family say it is the third time that yobs have attempted to break in
to the family home -- with Kris attacked last year after discovering an intruder
in an out-building.

Police yesterday confirmed they were investigating last week's 'brutal' attack
and appealed to anyone with information to contact them immediately.

Officers say they are still not sure if the attacker is male or female, but have
confirmed that the intruder is around 5ft 1in tall, of small build and was
wearing dark trousers with white stripes down either side.

*Anyone with information should contact Pc Richards on Mansfield 420999 ext
3262.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               September 7, 2006

UK Government: Memorial Service to commemorate Britons killed in terrorist
attacks abroad

LENGTH: 587 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-SEPTEMBER 7, 2006-UK Government: Memorial Service to commemorate
Britons killed in terrorist attacks abroad ©1994-2006 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The 13 British victims of Sharm el-Sheikh, Kusadasi and Doha bombings are to be
commemorated later this month at a national memorial service.

The service will be held on Wednesday 20 September at 2.00 pm in Southwark
Cathedral in London. It will remember those who died in, and those who survived
last year's terrorist attacks in Sharm el-Sheikh (Egypt), Kusadasi (Turkey) and
Doha (Qatar). The service has been organised by the Department for Culture,
Media and Sport on behalf of and in consultation with the bereaved families. The
families will be joined at the service by representatives of faith communities,
the affected countries and relief agencies which have provided assistance.

The Culture Secretary, Tessa Jowell, is responsible for supporting the UK
victims of terror attacks. Ms Jowell said:

"Terrorist attacks last year, both at home and overseas, devastated the lives of
those who were caught up in them and those who were left behind. On 20 September
we will remember and pay our respects to the thirteen people whose lives were so
tragically cut short in Egypt, Turkey and in Qatar. And we will also remember
those who were survived the attacks and those who were bereaved. Last year
bombers turned family holidays into terror and death. It is important that we
all take time to reflect and remember the victims of these terrorist
atrocities."

The service will be led by the Dean of Southwark, the Very Reverend Colin Slee.
The Bishop of Lincoln, the Right Reverend Dr John Saxbee, will preach a sermon,
reflecting the large number of bereaved families from Lincolnshire. During the
service the names of the 13 victims will be read aloud, and 13 candles will be
lit. A bereaved relative will give a reading, as will Ms Jowell.

Notes to editors:

Background to the attacks:

* One Briton, Jonathan Adams, was killed by a bomb in Doha, Qatar on 19 March
2005, when a car bomb exploded outside the Doha Players' Theatre.

* One Briton, Helyn Louise Bennett, was killed and six British nationals from
one extended family group were injured when a tourist minibus was destroyed by a
bomb in the resort of Kusadasi, Turkey on 16 July 2005.

* On 23 July 2005 11 Britons were killed by three blasts in the Egyptian resort
town of Sharm-el-Sheikh. Additional background on the attacks attached. They
were: Leslie Ayers, Alan Bentley, Noleen Bentley, Valerie Bracci, Keri Davies,
Matthew Fulham, Charith Jayawardena, Jeremy Lakin, Annalie Vickers, Hannah Lloyd
and David Sayer

The 7 July Assistance Centre - which provides support for those affected by the
7 July London bombings - also offers support to the bereaved families and
survivors of these attacks. The centre provides face-to-face contact with
trained counselors and support organisations, and is funded by DCMS.

Further details on the service:

The service starts at 2pm and is expected to finish at 3pm. Further details of
the contents of the service will be issued shortly before the event.

Public Enquiries: 020 7211 6200 Internet: http://www.culture.gov.uk

Department for Culture, Media and Sport 2-4 Cockspur Street London SW1Y 5DH
http://www.culture.gov.uk

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2006 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              213 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            September 8, 2006 Friday
                                 1 Star Edition

IAN HUNTLEY TERRORISED AND SEXUALLY ATTACKED ME WHEN I WAS JUST 11..NOW I'LL
BRING HIM TO JUSTICE..;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: BY JEREMY ARMSTRONG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1358 words


NINE years ago, Hailey Giblin's childhood was destroyed by a sickening sex
attack at the hands of Soham murderer Ian Huntley.

She was an innocent 11-year-old lured by the monster from his then girlfriend's
house with a promise to teach her to climb trees.

After her terrifying ordeal, he threatened to kill her if she told police. She
finally plucked up the courage to report the assault nine months later, but
officers never followed it up - despite three other rape claims against him.

Now, Hailey is determined to bring her attacker to book by launching a private
prosecution that could see her come face to face with Huntley in court. And she
is furious he tried to escape justice by taking an overdose in another suicide
bid.

Hailey, 20, said last night: "I would like to have my day in court and see
justice done. I am angry that the prison service has failed again and not
prevented this latest suicide attempt.

"I don't think there should be any easy way out for people like Huntley.

"He should be made to serve his time for the rest of his life.

"Huntley has ruined lives, he took the lives of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman,
and now I am going to ensure that he pays for what he did to mine.

"He told me he would kill me if I went to the police and would use his knowledge
of martial arts to make sure I died without anyone knowing.

"He said he would get the pressure points behind my ears.

"I was a very, very immature 11-year- old, I was still playing with my Barbie
dolls and Cabbage Patch dolls and I believed his threats."

Central to Hailey's case will be a harrowing 90-minute video recording of her
interview with Humberside police after the 1997 attack in Cleethorpes, which she
has managed to obtain.

She tells officers how the 23-year-old Huntley led her away from the home of his
lover Katie Webber - then Hailey's best friend. He then viciously assaulted her
as he stifled her screams with his hand over her mouth.

Her voice quaking with emotion, brave Haile says: "I ran to the back of the
orchard and he touched me and everything, you know in a way that makes you feel
scared.

"I started screaming and he put his hand over my mouth, I managed to get his
hands away... over the fence there were builders drilling but they had these
things over their ears like earphones and they couldn't hear me screaming.

"He kept doing things to me and I kept screaming and telling him no, that I
should not have come here and what he was doing was really, really wrong.

"Then he put his hand over my mouth again. "I told him that my mam worked in the
Grosvenor pub nearby and that I had agreed to meet her there and he finally let
me go. Sorry if I was lying about that, but I just wanted to get away from him.

"I ran out of the pub and across the road and jumped into a front garden then
hid behind a wall.

"When I looked round, a woman was looking at me through the window, so I ran off
again towards the school.

"I ran as fast as I could but I got a stitch and could not run any more.

"When I looked round again I saw Ian running towards me.

"I tried to run but he was too fast and caught up with me outside the gym doors
near the pond.

"I could see some cameras on the wall and a car parked in the school car park
and some boys playing footie on the field.

"He grabbed my hair and did them things to me again and then these boys walked
past and looked at us and he let hold of me.

"I didn't know them, but I lied again and said they were my mates and that I had
better get home. He grabbed my arm and started shouting and swearing and then
said I could go home.

"I want to get him prosecuted because what he's done to me to try to prevent it
happening to other people. If he does get prosecuted, I hope it makes him
realise what he's done is wrong."

DRESSED in a white blouse and black trousers with her hair in a pony-tail, the
youngster shows a woman officer how Huntley put his hands around her throat and
threatened to strangle her if she told police.

Hailey, the youngest surviving victim of the sex beast, had nightmares for weeks
after the attack, crying herself to sleep.

But her pleas to have him stopped were ignored. Her case was one of a string of
blunders by Humberside police that allowed Huntley to roam free and carry out a
series of sex attacks on other girls in his home county.

The mistakes also allowed him to get a job as a caretaker at a school in Soham,
Cambridgeshire, where he murdered 10-year-old friends Holly and Jessica.

Hailey, now happily married and living in Lincolnshire with husband Colin, has
raised pounds 60,000 of the pounds 125,000 she has been told she will need for a
private prosecution.

She is prepared to spend everything she has saved to nail Huntley for his attack
on her.

Hailey said: "My day in court will be worth every penny to see justice being
seen to be done. For me, that is priceless.

"You can summons witnesses to appear in a civil case, and I will do that, if
necessary.

"Huntley was living in a caravan at the time of the attack and he used my
friendship with Katie to get me."

Her case will open the way for other victims to launch civil actions against
Huntley, who is recovering from his second suicide attempt at Wakefield prison,
West Yorks.

She is being advised by Manchester-based solicitor Richard Scorer and a
barrister.

They meet next week to finalise the details of their case. Mr Scorer said: "The
police interview is a truly harrowing account.

"She is a young girl desperate to get some one to listen to her. If only her
warnings had been heeded.

"We now know that by the time she gave her statement, Huntley had already been
investigated for three rape allegations made against him.

"The key for Hailey now is to get him into court to be brought to account for
what he did to her.

"We have several ways of doing that. We can bring a private criminal prosecution
using the evidence we now have, as the Stephen Lawrence family did.

"Or we can bring a case against him through the civil courts.

"That would be an action for damages. Potentially, we could do both. Hailey was
left in a position where her allegations were not taken seriously and she wants
Huntley to to recognise his guilt for what he did to her.

"If he denies the attack, he will be in court again."

The tape of Hailey's police interview will be run before a judge and jury in
open court.

Hailey and Mr Scorer had a 90-minute meeting with Constitutional Affairs
Minister Harriet Harman, solicitor-general Michael O'Brien and her local MP
Shona McIsaac, as they prepared their case against Huntley.

Hailey, who did not give evidence at the Soham murder trial, does not want to
involve Humberside police because of their bungled inquiries into the killer,
including his attack on her.

They launched a second probe when he was jailed for murdering Holly and Jessica,
but she claims they lost documents and failed to go through her claims
thoroughly.

EARLIER this year, Ms Harman asked the force to explain why their inquiries
yielded nothing, even though they received other complaints about Huntley's
relationship with under-age girls at the time.

Hailey and Colin celebrated their second wedding anniversary in the summer. He
has supported his wife throughout her legal bid to bring Huntley for justice.

The couple met when she was just 15. Telling him she was 19, they fled to Hull
and set up home in 2001.

Their disappearance sparked a hunt which made headlines nationwide and it was
only when the police came looking for them that Hailey was forced to tell the
truth about her age.

Huntley was taken to hospital in Wakefield after being found collapsed in his
cell earlier this week.

He spent time in intensive care while the nation waited to see if he had been
successful.

But yesterday, the killer was pictured in the Mirror leaving hospital in a daze
on a wheelchair that was chained to a warden and being taken back to his cell,
where he is serving a minimum 40 years.

There are many who hoped this suicide bid would succeed. But for Hailey the fact
he survived is good news.

She can at least continue with her quest for justice against the man who left
her shattered and destined for years of horrific nightmares.

jeremy.armstrong@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KILLER: Huntley leaves hospital in wheelchair after failed suicide bid'
BRAVE: Terrified youngster Hailey relives her ordeal in harrowing video of her
police interview after she was attacked by murderer Ian Huntley. Left, telling
of her new quest for justice yesterday Pictures: ANDY STENNING and PHIL SPENCER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                               September 9, 2006

Go-Ahead feels pain from bills and terror attacks

LENGTH: 137 words


Transport group Go-Ahead yesterday said it had been hit by rising fuel bills and
the effect of last year's terror attacks as it reported a dent in full-year
profits.

The Newcastle-based company, which runs buses, trains and offers airport
services across the UK, saw pre-tax profits for the year to July 1 slip 4 per
cent to £91.9m.

Chairman Sir Patrick Brown said the group had managed to achieve a "creditable
performance" against a "challenging background".

He said: "The year started with the pressure of high fuel costs in our bus
division and the events of July 7 and July 21 putting pressure on rail division
volumes."

Go-Ahead, which saw annual revenues rise to £1.5bn from £1.3bn, warned it still
faced tricky times.

Mr Brown said: "Risk factors remain, particularly the pressure on energy prices
and terrorist activities."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 10, 2006, Sunday

MAD MOGGY TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 80 words


A FAMILY walking their dogs landed in hospital after being attacked - by a
crazed CAT.

The fierce moggy tore into Laura Lewis's feet as she tried to protect pets
Bailey and Milly.

The black and white cat also ripped Bailey's ears. Laura, 20, who was with her
boyfriend and mum Michelle, needed treatment and jabs.

Michelle said: "She was bleeding and we all ended up at hospital."

The cat, which has made other attacks at Maldon, Essex, has not been caught.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.

                              216 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 11, 2006 Monday

Polish parliament pays tribute to victims of 2001 terrorist attacks in USA

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report in English by Polish news agency PAP

Warsaw, 10 September: The Sejm [lower house of parliament] paid tribute to the
victims of 2001 terrorist attacks in the USA with a minute of silence on Friday
[8 September] evening. "There were our countrymen among them. We honour their
memory," read a resolution adopted by the deputies on the fifth anniversary of
the tragedy.

"The 11 September 2001 attacks were aimed not only against the USA but against
the whole western civilization and its basic values," the resolution read.

"Poland has many times expressed the conviction that the decision to join the
struggle against international terrorism was right and though it claimed many
lives it should be continued," the deputies wrote in the resolution.

Source: PAP news agency, Warsaw, in English 1520 gmt 10 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 11, 2006 Monday

Kosovo commemorates anniversary of 9/11 terrorist attacks against US

LENGTH: 197 words


Text of report in English by independent internet news agency KosovaLive

Prishtina [Pristina], 11 September: The representatives of the Kosova [Kosovo]
institutions said today that even after five years of terrorist attacks in the
United States, continues to promote peace and democracy in the whole world.

These comments came out today during a ceremony organized under the patronage of
Kosova Prime Minister Agim Ceku in cooperation with the President's Office,
Ministry of Culture, and the Prishtina Municipal Council.

Minister of Culture Astrit Haraqia said that this event shows once again the
strong solidarity of Kosovars with the American people.

"Even today, America is proving to be promoter and protector of the world
democracy," said Haraqia.

Haraqia said that Kosovar institutions have taken several initiatives to build
an obelisk in honour of the 11 September victims.

On the other hand, Prishtina Mayor Ismet Beqiri evaluated that this event is
even more painful having in mind that it has been addressed against a country
which has done so much about Kosova and the accomplishment of the will of the
Kosovar people.

Source: KosovaLive website, Pristina, in English 11 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           September 11, 2006, Monday
                                 First Edition

PERSPECTIVE: New York - it's still a wonderful town;
Five years after terrorist attacks on New York shocked the World, Birmingham
Post reporter Emma Brady recalls her experience of 9/11 and how it affected her
relationship with 'the city that never sleeps'

BYLINE: Emma Brady

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1012 words


I had fallen in love with the Big Apple long before I arrived at JFK Airport.

By the time I had cleared customs I couldn't wait to enjoy the sights, sounds
and smells of this iconic city that had become so familiar to me through films
and television shows.

So the next day, as I followed hundreds of commuters out of Grand Central
Station to grab a cab downtown, I thought nothing of their constantly ringing
mobile phones.

After all, this was New York.

I was en route to Chelsea Harbour to do the tourist thing, catch the 9am Circle
Line boat trip to admire the Manhattan skyline.

But as I got out of the yellow cab at 12th Avenue, I could not believe my eyes.

Smoke billowed from the World Trade Centre's (WTC) north tower, and within
minutes - at 9.03am - a plane flew into the south tower causing a major
explosion.

Like thousands of New Yorkers I stared at the sky, tears in my eyes, unable to
comprehend what I had just witnessed.

"This can't be happening," I thought, unaware that worse was to come.

It was as if we were caught up in a disaster movie, but when a convoy of
ambulances sped past stunned daytrippers, we all realised the boat was not going
anywhere. This was always going to be a day to remember, but the events of
September 11, 2001 will never be forgotten.

Tourists, staggered by what they had just seen, stumbled into the nearest bar,
diner or restaurant in search of solace and someone to talk to.

As I arrived at Mr Bigg's Bar and Grill, about five blocks from the Circle Line
jetty, a crowd of diners were listening intently to one worker, covered in white
dust, who had contemplated jumping out of his office window in the WTC south
tower to save himself.

Then there was a audible intake of breath, followed by a chorus of "Oh my God"
and profanities as the bank of television screens showed the same footage.

The south tower collapsed like a house of cards, it was 9.59am. The barman
offered everybody free drinks as people screamed and sobbed, uncertain whether
their friends or family were safe.

About 50,000 people worked in each tower, and less than half an hour later the
north tower fell to the ground. New York was locked down. All bridges were
closed, the subway, rail and air networks were also no-go.

I gradually ambled back uptown, from bar to bar, to meet my uncle at St
Patrick's Cathedral, where every candle was light and every pew filled with
people in prayer.

With nowhere to go, people gathered in front of television sets, clutching
comforting beers, to watch the tragedy unfold and to find out why terrorism had
found its way to the Big Apple, the metaphorical heart of America.

Within hours "Missing" signs appeared on lampposts, mailboxes, but the biggest
notice boards were at Grand Central Station and around the WTC site. Faces
trapped in time - and cellophane - waiting to be recognised by passing
strangers.

One year on from those atrocities many of the signs, now laminated or sealed in
plastic files, were still there. It was an eerie reminder that many families
were still desperately searching for loved ones, or at least answers.

I had returned to New York, with a delegation of West Midlands Fire Service
personnel who were to meet their firefighting "brothers" of Ladder 23 and Engine
30 Vinegar Hill, in Harlem, for the first poignant anniversary.

I had not gone to "the Pile", as emergency services called it, in the immediate
aftermath of 9/11 although I wanted to because it felt wrong to watch the rescue
efforts like a voyeur. But 12 months later, I stood shoulder-to-shoulder with
grief-stricken families and sobbing firefighters, police and paramedics.

I was there in my own professional capacity, as a journalist, but when Mayor
Rudy Guiliani, Robert de Niro and other assorted dignitaries read the list of
the dead or missing I could not help but join in the communal grief.

Although I was not mourning for a friend or relative, I feared New York would
never be the same again.

While most New Yorkers fought back, to show the world they would not be beaten
or bowed by terrorism, there was a nasty underbelly who were trying to cash-in
on the tragedy. One 9/11 survivor was charging $911 for an interview, tacky
salesmen sold 'souvenir albums' filled with pictures of the devastation close to
the WTC site, while others who claimed they lost loved ones were exposed as
fraudsters.

It all left a bitter taste in the mouth, which lasted longer than a freshly
ground Americano.

As much as I loved the Big Apple, I still felt it was wrong to take a bite out
of it for myself, to have fun and be frivolous.

This trip had been about paying my respects and honouring the dead.

It was not until my third trip to New York, last November, that I felt I could
really enjoy being in the city. Well as much as you can during a marathon.

Running through the five boroughs from Staten Island, Brooklyn, the Bronx,
Queens and Manhattan was always going to be an emotional experience.

The mood was upbeat, as tan-noy systems blasted out Bruce Springsteen's Born To
Run and Sinatra's New York, New York. I had forgotten it could be like this -
entertaining, exciting, vibrant.

Manhattan was built using bricks and mortar but it is the people who make this
city - and they lined almost every mile of the route.

Not wanting to forget the events of 9/11, I now wanted to achieve something in
New York, to remind me that it was not all bad.

In the agony and ecstasy of crossing the finish line in Central Park I found
myself hugging random strangers and crying uncontrollably. But this time they
were congratulatory hugs and tears of joy.

Five years on from that fateful September day, I still find it difficult to
watch the numerous documentaries and memorials to the fallen heroes and brave
survivors.

And, in my opinion, it is still too soon to watch multi-million dollar Hollywood
re-enactments of the tragic events that claimed more than 3,000 lives.

But despite the terrorist attacks, the devastation they caused, and the wave of
fear it triggered around the world, I - like New York - refuse to be beaten,
which is why I will always love the Big Apple.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: People run from the dust and debris as the Twin Towers come crashing
down Picture, SUZANNE PLUNKETT/AP' Smoke, flames and debris erupt from one of
the World Trade Center towers after a plane strikes it

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Blackpool Gazette

                               September 11, 2006

'Arson attack' terror at flats

LENGTH: 379 words


FIREFIGHTERS rescued nine people from a terrifying blaze at a block of holiday
flats.

People were "screaming for help" as emergency crews arrived at the four-storey
property on Dickson Road in North Shore, Blackpool, just after 3.30am today.

It is believed the blaze was started when the front door of the property was
deliberately set on fire.

Craig Blamire, 25, who is visiting the resort from Cumbria, was one of those who
became trapped inside.

He said: "It was absolutely terrifying. It looks like someone has put rags up
against the front door and set them alight.

"I was in the ground floor flat and a neighbour woke me up banging on the
window. I managed to get out that way and someone passed a baby out to me before
getting out themselves.

"There were windows exploding all over the place. In some of the rooms upstairs,
there were people with young children and one of the girls on the first floor is
heavily pregnant."

A dozen firefighters went inside to help occupants to safety as the blaze tore
through the part-terraced premises.

Ian Alder, watch manager at Blackpool Fire Station, said: "When firefighters
arrived they found one person hanging from a first floor window and one from a
second floor window.

"Smoke was pouring out from behind them.

"Another two were on the roof.

"When crew members were sent around the back they found another three people
screaming for help.

"We're just getting reports in of another fire at the same address a couple of
days ago and are currently looking into that."

Of the 16 people inside the building, paramedics treated 15 at the scene for the
effects of smoke inhalation, but released them all without further treatment.

As fire chiefs investigate a link between today's fire and one at the same
address two nights earlier, Blackpool Council officials attempted to find
alternative accommodation for seven occupants left homeless.

One man has been arrested on suspicion of arson.

A spokesman for Blackpool Police said: "As a result of inquiries at the
premises, one man has been arrested on suspicion of arson.

"The Chief Fire Officer on scene has deemed premises unsafe due to the fire
tripping out the electrics.

"We are currently liaising with Blackpool Council to find emergency
accommodation for seven occupants from the premises."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           September 11, 2006 Monday

THE WORLD REMEMBERS;
Five years after 9/11 terror attacks

SECTION: A MERGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 60 words


Silent tribute: the scene at New York's Ground Zero today, five years after
terrorists flew into the Twin Towers, killing nearly 3,000 people.

'Moments of silence' were also held at the other crash sites at Pennsylvania and
the Pentagon. In London and other major cities, thousands of workers remembered
colleagues killed in the atrocity See Pages 2, 18 & 19 END

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEE STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                     September 12, 2006 Tuesday 4:56 PM GMT

London shares end near day's highs as Wall St shrugs off Syrian terror attack

LENGTH: 252 words


LONDON (AFX) - Leading shares closed just below their session highs today, with
upbeat broker comment, bid talk and a positive morning by Wall Street helping
the market recover from this morning's attempted terror attack in Syria, dealers
said.

The FTSE 100 closed 16.3 points higher at 5,867.1, while the FTSE 250 was up
44.9 points at 9,568.5.

Volume was better than of late, with 2.8 bln shares changing hands in 333,658
deals.

US stocks enjoyed a positive morning on Wall Street as investors ignored strong
trade data and focused on corporate news, with strong earnings from Goldman
Sachs and management changes at Bristol-Myers Squibb and Hewlett Packard lifting
sentiment, traders said.

By London's close, the DJIA was up 62.51 at 11,459.35, while the Nasdaq was
ahead by 20.28 points to 2,193.53.

Oil was lower again, showing little reaction to this morning's thwarted attempt
to bomb the US embassy in Damscus, Syria.

Crude was down 55 cents at 65.06 usd a barrel on Nymex.

On the economic front, the US trade deficit came in at a record 68 bln in July,
up 5 pct from June as surging global oil prices pushed America's foreign oil
bill to the highest level in history.

newsdesk@afxnews.com

gl/slm

COPYRIGHT


Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.

The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News Content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.

AFX News and AFX Financial News Logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2006 AFX News Limited

                              222 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 12, 2006 Tuesday

Philippines safer five years after terrorist attacks on US - security adviser

LENGTH: 731 words


Text of report by Paolo Romero headlined: "RP safer five years after terrorist
attacks on US, says Gonzales" in English by Philippine newspaper The Philippine
Star website on 12 September

Helsinki:The Philippines is safer now since the September 11 World Trade Centre
bombings five years ago, National Security Adviser Norberto Gonzales said
yesterday.

Gonzales, who is with the presidential party, said authorities have been able to
thwart several bomb and other terror attacks in Metro Manila and other key areas
since the government intensified its anti-terrorism campaign in 2001.

President Arroyo strongly pushed for interfaith dialogue before 38 Asian and
European leaders here at the 6th Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM).

"At the 5th anniversary of 9/11, the world has become painfully aware that the
solution to terror cannot be found exclusively in military might or a bigger
treasury," she told a closed ASEM session on "Dialogue among Cultures and
Civilizations."

Mrs Arroyo said terrorism does not distinguish between rich and poor, and weak
and powerful nations.

"Thus governments and individuals had turned to interfaith and intercultural
initiatives designed to foster mutual respect, tolerance and friendship between
peoples, cultures and religions," she said.

Mrs Arroyo expressed pride that the Philippines has been practicing and
advocating interfaith dialogue even before it became a "popular thing to do."

The president cited the success of the Bishops-Ulama [Islamic teachers]
Conference, a dialogue forum of Catholic bishops, Muslim religious leaders and
the National Council of Churches in the Philippines, which led to the increasing
number of peaceful and stable communities in Mindanao.

At 10:30 a.m., the ASEM delegates observed a moment of silence to commemorate
the thousands of victims of the 9/11 attacks.

"Our country is safer now because of our ongoing campaign against terrorism," he
said. "Our ongoing operations in Sulu are the latest and one good example of how
we have preempted attacks and plans to kill many innocent people."

Gonzales was referring to the four-week old military offensive against the Abu
Sayyaf and Jemaah Islamiyah leaders in Sulu.

Reportedly holed up in the island of Jolo is Abu Sayyaf chieftain Khadaffy
Janjalani, who carries a 5m-dollar reward from the US government, and two
most-wanted JI bombers, Dulmatin and Umar Patek.

The two JI bombers were reportedly responsible for the 2002 Bali bombings in
Indonesia that killed more than 200 people.

Umar Patek and Dulmatin carry a 1m dollars and 10m dollars reward from the US
Department of Justice.

Both the Abu Sayyaf and the JI are linked to Usamah Bin Ladin's Al-Qa'idah
terrorist network.

In Congress, Sen. Ramon "Bong" Revilla Jr sees the urgency of passing the
Anti-Terrorism Bill, taking into consideration individual freedoms as enshrined
in the Bill of Rights.

"The lessons of 9/11 incident proved a lot of things regarding security," he
said. "First, terrorism can happen anywhere, that safety and security is
everybody's concern, and that terrorism changes our way of lives from then and
now."

Revilla also called for measures to safeguard entry points to the country,
especially the so-called backdoor to prevent terrorists from slipping.

"We should put up blockades and take heightened security measures because of the
possibility of these men with evil intentions seeking refuge in the country," he
said.

Revilla said the entry of terrorists would endanger the community and threaten
the people's security.

"There should be no letup in our security efforts to allay fears that our people
could very well be interacting with terrorists," he said.

Revilla said if this happens, it would again cause a blackeye to the country's
faltering image.

"We should not allow our country to shelter terrorists, and to supply terrorists
at that," he said.

"This has a dangerous effect. It already happened, plotting and hatching plan in
our midst, worse they even recruited militants to use for their ends. We need to
make this country safe for the Filipino people."

Revilla called on civilians to report to authorities any suspicious
personalities and activities which they have observed.

"The strength of our fight against threats to our peace and freedom lies in the
cooperation and understanding between authorities and civilians," he said.

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 12 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 400 DOCUMENTS

                              Eastern Daily Press

                               September 12, 2006

Servicemen at an American airbase yesterday prayed in remembrance of the
terrorist attacks on the New York Trade Centres - followed by a minute's silence
to reflect on the tragic event five years ago.

BYLINE: HANNAM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 250 words


Servicemen at an American airbase yesterday prayed in remembrance of the
terrorist attacks on the New York Trade Centres - followed by a minute's silence
to reflect on the tragic event five years ago.

RAF Lakenheath stopped to think back to the terrorist attacks, which killed
2,793 after planes were hijacked and flown into New York's World Trade Centre.

A memorial service was held at 11am where military personnel sung hymns and said
prayers before a minute's silence was held across the base.

Base chaplin, Capt Timothy Moermond , said: "Yesterday was a time for prayer and
remembrance for what took place, which still plays on the minds of people
throughout the world.

"The service was an opportunity to remember September 11 and the minute of
silence involved everyone across the base."

A spokesman for RAF Lakenheath, said: "What happened on September 11, 2001, is
still very much in the hearts and minds of everyone at the base."

Meanwhile the 48th Fighter Wing at the airbase has deployed more than 165
aircraft maintainers, and support personnel to southwest Asia in support of
Operations Iraqi and Enduring Freedom. In total more than 800 Airmen assigned to
the wing were deployed.

A spokesman from RAF Lakenheath said: "Each wing Air Force-wide is required to
provide and assign Airmen and equipment to various AEF rotations throughout the
year.

"The AEF concept is designed to complete the mission downrange and still
maintain the mission at home."


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

                    Copyright 2006 Eastern Daily Press (EDP)

                              224 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           September 12, 2006 Tuesday

TERRORIST ATTACK ON US EMBASSY;
Guard killed in gun and grenade Damascus raid

BYLINE: MARTIN BENTHAM

SECTION: A MERGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 159 words


THE United States embassy in Damascus came under terrorist attack today.

Heavy gunfire was heard around the building.

Grenades and small arms were reportedly used in the attack, at about midday
Syrian time.

Black smoke could be seen pouring out of the embassy compound as US marines and
Syrian troops delivered volleys of gunfire at the assailants.

One Syrian guard was killed but there were no early reports of any American
casualties.

The attack comes the day after the fifth anniversary of 9/11 as President Bush
warned that the fight against terror must go on.

The British Embassy is only 400 yards from its American counterpart. A Foreign
Office spokesman said: "There seems to be a direct attack involving small arms
and grenades on the US embassy. They think it's now over after half an hour of
firing."

Witnesses said at least two armed men were involved in the attack. One blew up a
car before exchanging fire with American troops guarding the embassy.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           September 12, 2006 Tuesday

Terrorists attack US embassy in Damascus

BYLINE: MARTIN BENTHAM; NICHOLAS CECIL

SECTION: B MERGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 508 words


FOUR terrorists shouted religious slogans as they tried to launch a car bomb
attack on the US embassy in Syria today.

Three of the attackers were killed and the fourth was wounded in a shootout with
Syrian guards after the explosives failed to detonate.

Television footage of the scene showed a van packed with gas canisters with
detonators taped to them, as well as blood stains on the pavement and cars
burned out and riddled with bullet holes.

"I saw two men in plain clothes and armed with grenades and automatic weapons,"
said Ayman Abdel-Nour, a Syrian political commentator who saw the attack.

"They ran toward the compound shouting religious slogans while firing their
automatic rifles."

The attack, shortly before midday local time, came a day after the fifth
anniversary of the September 11 atrocities and only hours after President George
Bush warned the American people they were facing a "struggle for civilisation".

Syria's interior minister, General Bassam Abdel Majid, said Syrian security
guards had fought off the attackers as they mounted a "terrorist operation"
using home-made bombs and automatic weapons.

"Three terrorists were killed and one was wounded. One was captured, injured,
and investigations may reveal where they came from or their backgrounds," he
said.

He added that one car bomb had exploded, but that a second had failed to
detonate. There were no reports of US casualties, but a Syrian soldier was said
to have been killed.

A Chinese diplomat who was standing on the roof of Beijing's nearby embassy was
injured after being hit by a stray bullet. The British embassy is only a few
hundred yards away and was immediately placed on a state of high alert. There
was no word on the identity of the attackers, but Syrian forces have clashed
with Islamist militants several times in recent months.

Last night President Bush warned the American people that the war on terror is a
"struggle for civilisation". In an address from the White House, Mr Bush said
the nation was facing a fight between "tyranny and freedom".

He added: "If we do not defeat these enemies now, we will leave our children to
face a Middle East overrun by terrorist states and radical dictators armed with
nuclear weapons. We are in a war that will set the course for this new century
and determine the destiny of millions.

"The war against this enemy is more than a military conflict. It is the decisive
ideological struggle of the 21st century and the calling of our generation."

Calling for unity, the president said: "Our nation has endured trials, and we
face a difficult road ahead. Winning this war will require the determined
efforts of a unified country. And we must put aside our differences and work
together to meet the test history has given us."

Mr Bush also promised that America would not pull out of Iraq until democracy
had been firmly established.

He said: "Whatever mistakes have been made in Iraq, the worst mistake would be
to think that if we pulled out, the terrorists would leave us alone.

They will not leave us alone.

They will follow us."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOOTOUT: THE SHATTERED WINDSCREEN OF A SYRIAN SECURITY VEHICLE IN
DAMASCUS. A SYRIAN SOLDIER IS BELIEVED TO HAVE DIED

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                           September 12, 2006 Tuesday

Anti-war rally marks anniversary of New York terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 409 words


The fifth anniversary of the September 11 attacks on New York was marked in
Exeter last night by an anti-war rally.

The city's Stop the War Coalition invited an Iraqi academic and the mother of a
Westcountry soldier to speak about their experiences of life since the "war on
terrorism" began.

The meeting, at the Mint Methodist Church in Fore Street, was called so people
could debate if the attacks on Iraq and Afghanistan had stopped the kind of
terrorism which led to the attacks on the World Trade Center  in New York and
Pentagon building in Washington.

Andrew Burgin, from the national Stop the War Coalition; retired academic Dr
Adnan Al-Daini, from Iraq; and Dani Hamilton-Bing, from Military Families
Against the War, all addressed the 60-strong audience.

Exeter Stop the War spokeswoman Lizi Alnatt began the meeting by calling for two
minutes' silence to remember those killed on September 11 and in Afghanistan,
Iraq and Lebanon since.

"The things predicted by Stop the War when the Government announced they would
invade Iraq have all come true," she said.

"The Government lied to us."

Dani, an early learning lecturer from Cornwall, whose 18-year-old son James is
currently serving in Iraq, said she was horrified by what he had told her about
the country. She said: "He is frightened by the American soldiers because they
are so gung-ho.

"He has told me he thinks troops are wrecking the country and nobody in Iraq
wants them there.

"The Government is making him into a killing machine."

Dani said she speaks to her son, a tank driver, on his mobile phone every day or
every other day.

"The phone bills are around £400 a month but it's worth it just to hear his
voice," she said.

"I speak to James so often just to see if he is still alive."

Dani said her military family, including cousins who are commandos and her
father who was a Navy commander, were horrified when she joined Military
Families Against the War, an organisation which has growing support from parents
all over the country.

Dr Al-Daini, who now lives in Britain, told the audience how his brother and
nephew were killed in Iraq last year.

"By criminals, terrorists - we are not sure," he said.

He claimed the only way there would now be peace in Iraq was if the coalition
forces left the country.

"Society there will never recover while troops are in Iraq," he said. "If they
went the country might come back from the abyss. But there is absolutely no hope
if the military doesn't leave."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                           September 12, 2006 Tuesday

Anti-war rally marks anniversary of New York terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 409 words


The fifth anniversary of the September 11 attacks on New York was marked in
Exeter last night by an anti-war rally.

The city's Stop the War Coalition invited an Iraqi academic and the mother of a
Westcountry soldier to speak about their experiences of life since the "war on
terrorism" began.

The meeting, at the Mint Methodist Church in Fore Street, was called so people
could debate if the attacks on Iraq and Afghanistan had stopped the kind of
terrorism which led to the attacks on the World Trade Center  in New York and
Pentagon building in Washington.

Andrew Burgin, from the national Stop the War Coalition; retired academic Dr
Adnan Al-Daini, from Iraq; and Dani Hamilton-Bing, from Military Families
Against the War, all addressed the 60-strong audience.

Exeter Stop the War spokeswoman Lizi Alnatt began the meeting by calling for two
minutes' silence to remember those killed on September 11 and in Afghanistan,
Iraq and Lebanon since.

"The things predicted by Stop the War when the Government announced they would
invade Iraq have all come true," she said.

"The Government lied to us."

Dani, an early learning lecturer from Cornwall, whose 18-year-old son James is
currently serving in Iraq, said she was horrified by what he had told her about
the country. She said: "He is frightened by the American soldiers because they
are so gung-ho.

"He has told me he thinks troops are wrecking the country and nobody in Iraq
wants them there.

"The Government is making him into a killing machine."

Dani said she speaks to her son, a tank driver, on his mobile phone every day or
every other day.

"The phone bills are around £400 a month but it's worth it just to hear his
voice," she said.

"I speak to James so often just to see if he is still alive."

Dani said her military family, including cousins who are commandos and her
father who was a Navy commander, were horrified when she joined Military
Families Against the War, an organisation which has growing support from parents
all over the country.

Dr Al-Daini, who now lives in Britain, told the audience how his brother and
nephew were killed in Iraq last year.

"By criminals, terrorists - we are not sure," he said.

He claimed the only way there would now be peace in Iraq was if the coalition
forces left the country.

"Society there will never recover while troops are in Iraq," he said. "If they
went the country might come back from the abyss. But there is absolutely no hope
if the military doesn't leave."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday

Russia: Dagestani police discuss preventing terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 356 words


Text of report by Dagestani television RGVK TV on 13 September

[Presenter] A meeting of the operational headquarters coordinating the work of
the Dagestani law-enforcement agencies was held at the republic's Interior
Ministry today. Opening the meeting, [Dagestani Interior Minister] Adilgerey
Magomedtagirov spoke about the reasons for the emergency meeting.

[Magomedtagirov] There is information, a telegram from Moscow, from the head of
all operational headquarters [which says:] taking into account information
available about the intentions of the leaders of bandit groups, Rappani Khalilov
and Abuzkerim, to carry out terrorist attacks including [using] RAF or Gazel
vehicles stuffed with explosives, the operational headquarters of the republics
of North Ossetia-Alania, Ingushetia, Dagestan and Chechnya must plan a complex
of organizational prompt measures aimed at preventing the terrorist attacks.

[Presenter] The minister noted that because of that, checkpoints would again be
operating in the republic. A working group from the Russian Interior Ministry
has recently arrived to help the Dagestani power-wielders. Today's meeting was
attended by leaders of all Dagestani law-enforcement agencies and operational
subunits of the Interior Ministry. The meeting objectively assessed the
operational situation in the republic. The crime rate in Makhachkala, Buynaksk,
Khasavyurt, and Untsukulskiy, Buynakskiy, Khasavyurtovskiy and
Karabudakhkentskiy districts was described as the highest.

Nogayskiy [District] was also added to the list recently. According to
information available, bandits of the Nogayskiy battalion under the command of
Takhir Batayev are now hiding there. The hard-core members of the band were
involved in the recent events in the village of Tukuy-Mekteb in Stavropol
Territory. The Interior ministry believes that this group is preparing a number
of terrorist attacks in northern Dagestan. After hearing all reports, those
present discussed all possible measures to prevent terrorist attacks and
attempts on life in our republic.

[Video showed the meeting]

Source: RGVK TV, Makhachkala, in Russian 1530 gmt 13 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday

The terror attack that brought the U.S. closer to Syria

BYLINE: MICHAEL THEODOULOU

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 563 words


SYRIAN guards foiled an attempt by terrorists to blow up the American Embassy in
Damascus yesterday.

The day after the fifth anniversary of 9/11, four gunmen drove up in a car and a
van packed with explosives and tried to storm the building.

Shouting 'Allahu Akbar' (God is Great), they opened fire with automatic rifles
and attempted to lob grenades over the perimeter wall.

Syrian sentries returned fire, killing three of the attackers and wounding a
fourth.

One Syrian guard was killed in the daylight raid which came a day after Al
Qaeda's deputy leader, Ayman al-Zawahiri, released a videotape urging new
attacks.

Syria's robust defence of the embassy brought rare praise from the United
States, which has dire relations with Damascus.

U.S. Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice, said: 'I do think that the Syrians
reacted to this attack in a way that helped to secure our people and we very
much appreciate that.' It was too early to say who was behind the attack, she
added.

But Syria's ambassador to the United States, Imad Moustapha, said an Al Qaeda
offshoot, Jund al-Sham, was suspected. It has been blamed for several attacks in
Damascus in recent years.

The gunmen did not even get the chance to engage American marines on guard
inside the embassy.

It was effectively a suicide mission because the terrorists had very little
chance of escaping even if they had been successful. The U.S. Embassy, located
in a leafy, residential district that is home to several diplomatic missions and
government buildings, is one of the most heavily defended parts of the Syrian
capital.

A car belonging to the gunmen blew up in the attack, although it was not clear
if this was because it was hit by crossfire or it had been detonated by the
terrorists.

Syrian television broadcast footage of a potentially more lethal vehicle that
did not detonate a white van loaded with several propane gas canisters, each
rigged with what appeared to be pipe bombs.

One report said the vehicles in the attack had Lebanese licence plates.

Britain's ambassador to Syria, Peter Ford, said he doubted the attack was a
'major Al Qaeda-type operation', speculating it was the work of a smaller group.
Syrian commentators condemned the attack but blamed American policies for
stoking anger in the region and causing instability.

Such attacks are rare in Syria, which is a police state with pervasive security
forces.

However, there have been several attacks in recent years by Islamic militants
opposed to both the U.S. and the secular regime of Syria's president, Bashar
al-Assad.

In June, Syrian antiterrorism police fought militants near the Defence Ministry
in a shootout that left five dead.

In Al Qaeda, the U.S. and Syria share a common enemy.

In the wake of the September 11 attacks, Syrian intelligence was said to be
among the best providers of information to Washington on Al Qaeda.

But relations between the U.S. and Syria have deteriorated badly since then.

Assad opposed the U.S.led invasion of Iraq, while Washington accuses Syria of
sponsoring terrorism through its support for Hezbollah and militant Palestinian
groups.

Pope Benedict invited Muslims yesterday to join a dialogue of cultures based on
the premise that the concept of an Islamic 'holy war' is unreasonable and
against God's nature.

He was speaking at a lecture at Germany's Regensburg University where he taught
theology between 1969 and 1977.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHARRED: THE GUNMEN'S CAR EXPLODED IN THE ATTACK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday

Trapped Tube passengers thought it was terror attack

BYLINE: DICK MURRAY

SECTION: B MERGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 423 words


PASSENGERS stranded in a Tube tunnel for almost three hours feared they were
caught up in a terrorist attack.

They accused Tube staff of failing to give them any explanation as to why they
were trapped, as temperatures inside the carriages hit 110F. Their ordeal began
at around 5pm yesterday when a woman jumped in front of a train at Hyde Park
Corner, shutting down much of the Piccadilly line.

The incident affected 900 commuters - 500 were stuck between Knightsbridge and
Hyde Park Corner and 400 between South Kensington and Knightsbridge.

Tube bosses have launched an inquiry.

One passenger, Henry Wrong, said travellers on his train were sent into panic by
their driver's "total failure" to explain what was happening.

Mr Wrong, 76, a former director of the Barbican, said: "The thought that kept
going through our minds was that this was another terrorist attack.'' Just after
5pm the train stopped between Hyde Park and Knightsbridge stations, he said.

"The driver kept saying there had been an incident, but would not explain what
it was. He said he could not contact his controller, then he said: 'I don't know
what is happening, but we are going to be here for a long, long time, maybe six
hours. It was very hot and very dark. We had no idea what was happening and it
was frightening. One man was so hot he took all his clothes off and stood in his
underpants," he said.

"After two hours, the driver told us the delays were caused by a woman throwing
herself under a train. Until then we had no idea. He did not seem to have any
training to deal with the situation. He did walk through the train with water,
but he only had a single bottle.''

Power to the rails was turned off as rescue teams attended the woman, who was
still alive but seriously injured, under the train. It took an hour for her to
be removed and taken to hospital. A London Underground spokesman said: "We offer
our full and sincere apologies to all involved." He said an investigation had
been launched.

Brian Cooke, chairman of TravelWatch, London's passenger watchdog, condemned
Tube chiefs for taking so long to get passengers out of the stranded trains.

He said: "This appears to be yet another example of London Underground not
following the correct procedures and arranging for passengers to be removed as
soon as possible.''

.Hundreds of terrified commuters had to be led from a train that derailed at
Epsom station yesterday. Commuters reported a "severe jolt" and a horrendous
noise on the 7.09 pm Waterloo to Effingham Junction service. No one was injured.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

£15,000 pub heist bandits in terror attack

BYLINE: By Joanne Parkinson and Linda Richards, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 392 words


Raiders are believed to have made off with up to £15,000 in a robbery at a
Tyneside pub.

A Securitas guard was targeted by two men who sprayed an unknown substance into
his eyes and snatched the cash box he was carrying.

The brazen attack happened at 10am on Monday outside The Green pub off the A184
in Wardley, Gateshead.

It is not known if it is linked to a series of earlier chemical spray attacks on
security guards across Tyneside and Wearside.

Duty manager Tony Clarke said the pub had been buzzing with speculation since
the robbery but staff did not feel unsafe.

He said: "This is the first time anything like this has happened in the four
years I've been here.

"We think they've taken up to £15,000 but I think the cash box in question is
one of those which releases dye when it is forced open.

"It happened just round the back of the pub outside the kitchen doors.

"I'm surprised the chefs didn't hear anything.

"The manager on that day thinks they must have been hiding behind his car.

"The first I heard of it was today when I started my shift but lots of people
have been talking about it."

After the attack, the robbers made off on foot towards the underpass of the
Felling Bypass.

They are described as being white, 5ft 8ins to 6ft, of medium build and in their
20s.

Police are probing a spate of spray attacks on Securicor and Securitas guards
this year.

The raids took place

:NJanuary 26, at South Gosforth Service Station, Benton Park Road, Newcastle;

NJanuary 28, outside Domino Pizza, Durham Road, Gateshead;

NJanuary 30 Gala Bingo, Middle Engine Lane, Wallsend;

NFebruary 16, Nisa Food Market, Beacon Lough Road, Gateshead;

NFebruary 27, Leam Lane Social Club, Fewster Square, Gateshead;

NApril 3, again outside the Nisa Food Market, Beacon Lough Road, Gateshead;

NSeptember 8, outside Blockbusters, Sunderland Retail Park.

Acting Det Insp Gary Attewell, of Gateshead CID, who is investigating Monday's
robbery, said: "We are looking at the previous cases to see if there is any link
but at the moment there is nothing to suggest it was the same people
responsible.

"A substance was used but is not believed to be ammonia because the guard did
not suffer any injury.

"Clothing will be forensically tested to an attempt to determine the substance."

Anyone with information can call (0191) 454 7555 extension 64652 or 64126, or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday

Terror attack on U.S. embassy foiled

BYLINE: Virginia Wheeler

LENGTH: 192  words


Bid to 'celebrate' 9/11 in Syria

TERRORISTS tried to blow up a US embassy yesterday - in a sick bid to
"celebrate" 9/11.

Four gunmen screaming Islamic slogans jumped from an explosives-rigged van and
stormed the building in Damascus, Syria. The men - strapped to detonators -
tried to blow up the embassy gate but experts dismantled the explosives.

The extremists then tried to storm the embassy in a booby-trapped Mitsubishi
Lancer and shot at security guards - killing at least one.

Guards shot three of them dead and wounded the fourth as they fired mortars into
the building. The mid-morning attack could have killed hundreds of embassy
staff.

Witness Ayman Abdel-Nour said: "Two plain-clothes men armed with grenades and
automatic weapons ran towards the compound shouting religious slogans while
firing." An embassy spokesman said the assault was meant "to mark the
anniversary of 9/11".

The men were named as members of Takfiri, a group which calls for the killing of
non-Muslims. US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice praised Syrian guards for
repelling the attack. In the past the US has blasted Syria's links with
terrorism.

v.wheeler@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                         September 13, 2006, Wednesday

Terrorists killed in US Embassy attack

BYLINE: Nicholas Blanford in Beirut

SECTION: OVERSEAS NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 262 words


Suspected Islamist militants launched a bold daylight attack yesterday on the
American Embassy in Damascus, firing rocket-propelled grenades and machineguns
at the heavily guarded building.

The assault began shortly after 10am when four men stepped out of a car beside
the white-walled embassy compound in the Ain Roumeineh district of Damascus,
shouted "Allahu akbar", Arabic for God is greatest, and opened fire at Syrian
security guards.

"It was like a movie. I couldn't believe what was happening here in the most
secure zone in all of Damascus," Ayman Abdel-Nour, a Syrian MP and reform
campaigner who witnessed the gun battle, told The Times. "They opened fire and I
saw a security man fall to the ground covered in blood. I knew then it wasn't a
movie and started to run."

Mr Abdel-Nour said that the battle lasted about 15 minutes and that he heard
several explosions. "They were firing rocket-propelled grenades. I could see
smoke coming from behind the embassy wall and a couple of broken windows."

The attackers were chased down the street by Syrian security forces, who killed
three of them. "A terrorist operation targeted the US Embassy. Security forces
have brought the situation under control. Three terrorists were killed and one
was wounded," General Bassam Abdel Majid, the Interior Minister, said.
"Home-made bombs and automatic weapons were used during the terrorist attack,"
he added.

The state news agency also reported that Syrian security forces also thwarted a
car bomb attack, defusing explosives packed into a vehicle parked in front of
the mission.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           September 15, 2006 Friday

I was happy when I heard of Sept 11 attacks, terror suspect tells court

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 735 words


ONE of the leaders of a group of British Muslims allegedly planning a bomb
attack on a shopping centre and nightclub told a court yesterday that he was
happy when he heard about the September 11 attacks.

Omar Khyam, of Crawley, West Sussex, told the Old Bailey of his involvement with
Islamic fighters after a family holiday in Pakistan.

When asked about the attacks on America five years ago, Khyam, 24, said: "I was
happy because America was and is the greatest enemy of Islam and because they
put up puppet regimes in Muslim countries through which to secure their
interests.''

As the defence opened in the case, which has been running for almost six months,
Khyam was asked if he believed in a cause. He replied: "The freedom of Muslim
lands from occupation.''

Khyam said there were people around the world and in Pakistan who were still
working for "the cause'' and he would not give details about all of their
meetings.

"I still believe in that cause and I don't want them arrested,'' he added. It is
claimed that the gang of seven was planning to use half a ton of ammonium
nitrate stored in a lock-up in north-west London to blow up the Bluewater
shopping centre in Kent or the Ministry of Sound nightclub in central London.

Khyam said his grandfather had fought with the British Army in the Second World
War and joined the Pakistani army after independence before moving to Britain in
the 1970s.

Growing up in Crawley, Khyam said he went to the mosque every evening after
school between the ages of five and 11 to learn the Koran in Arabic.

His parents divorced when he was 10 and Khyam was sent to a mainly white school
in Crawley where he did well academically.

But he achieved disappointing GCSE results and began to take his religion more
seriously, praying five times a day, the court heard.

He moved to a college in Redhill to take his A-levels and became involved with
the radical group al-Muhajiroun, which showed him videos of Muslims being killed
in Bosnia and Chechnya.

That summer, aged 17, he went on a family holiday to Pakistan. He visited a
marquee run by a Kashmiri group called al-Badr Mujahideen, where a senior member
of the group urged him to go to Kashmir for military training. However, he was
also told to "look like a Muslim and start learning my religion because the way
I came across was ignorant''. Khyam returned to Britain but fled in January
2000.

He went to Pakistan and told a taxi driver: "Take me to the mujahideen office.''
He said he spent the next three months in the mountains of Kashmir training with
weapons, before his group received a radio message saying his grandfather was
waiting for him at the bottom of the mountains with the Pakistan security
service.

Although his mother was not pleased, Khyam said he received a hero's welcome
when he got home: "Some of my younger cousins were standing in two rows and they
threw flowers at me as though I was getting married.''

He was sent to work with his father in Belgium but the following summer, in
2001, instead of taking his A-levels, he flew back to Pakistan and crossed into
Afghanistan to meet the Taliban.

"They were soft, kind and humble to Muslims and harsh to their enemies,'' he
said.

On his return to west London, Khyam set about raising funds for Afghanistan.

He said Britain was not considered a target until after the invasion of Iraq.
"Before, myself and others may have made excuses, now people were silent,'' he
said. "When they said the UK needed to be attacked, there would be no defending
the UK.'' But he denied he had been told to attack Britain.

"I believe we should be working in our countries, Muslim countries, to establish
Muslim states.''

In 2003 he said his younger brother, Shujah, was sent to join him from Crawley
because he had been vandalising cars near a mosque.

Khyam said he sent his brother to a training camp on the Afghan border.

Khyam and his brother Shujah ud din Mahmood, 19, along with Jawad Akbar, 22, his
cousin Nabeel Hussain, 20, and Waheed Mahmood, 34, all from Crawley, West
Sussex, as well as Anthony Garcia, 24, from Ilford, Essex, and Salahuddin Amin,
31, of Luton, Beds, all deny conspiracy to cause explosions.

The trial continues.

Atilla Ahmet, 42, from south-east London, appeared at City of Westminster
magistrates' court yesterday accused of encouraging people to murder those who
do not believe in Islam. He was remanded in custody until Sept 29 to appear at
the Old Bailey

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           September 15, 2006, Friday

I WAS HAPPY AT 9/11 ATTACK ON USA;
TERROR TRIAL CLAIM

BYLINE: By Richard Elias

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 385 words


A MAN accused of plotting to detonate bombs in Britain said the September 11
attacks had made him happy.

He also acknowledged receiving weapons training in Pakistan.

Omar Khyam, who is stand-ing trial along with six others at the Old Bailey,
denies conspir-ing to cause an explosion.

Taking the stand in his own defence, Khyam, 24, was asked about his reaction to
the 9/11 attacks in the United States.

He told the court: "I was happy. America was, and still is, the greatest enemy
of Islam.

"They put up puppet regimes in Muslim countries like Saudi Arabia, Jordan and
Egypt.

"I was happy that America had been hit because of what it represented against
the Muslims. But obviously 3000 people died, so there were mixed feelings."

He said he later decided the attacks had been a tactical mistake.

Khyam said: "I think we would be working better in our own countries, trying to
establish an Islamic state."

He and the other suspects were arrested in 2004 during an operation in which
police seized 600 kilos of ammonium nitrate fertiliser.

Prosecutors say the men planned to set off bombs, and had drawn up a list of
possible targets that included Britain's electricity network, one of London's
biggest nightclubs and a major shopping centre.

Khyam said that, as a teenager, he began attending meetings organised by the
now-banned radical Islamic group al-Muhajiroun.

In 2000, he attended a mountain camp in Pakistan, where "they taught me
everything for warfare, including using weapons and firing rocket-propelled
grenades".

Khyam, Salahuddin Amin, 31, Anthony Garcia, 24, Nabel Hussain, 20, Jawad Akbar,
22, Waheed Mahmood, 34, and Shujah ud Din Mahmood, 19, deny conspiring to cause
an explosion.

Khyam, Garcia and Hussain deny a second charge of possession of ammonium nitrate
fertiliser for possible use in terrorism.

British-born Khyam and Shujah ud Din Mahmood, who are brothers, also deny a
charge of possessing aluminium powder for possible use in terrorism.

The trial continues.

Six men arrested in a terror raid, including a former spokesman of jailed
radical cleric Abu Hamza al-Masri, appeared in court yesterday.

Atilla Ahmet, known as Abu Abdullah, 42, of London, was remanded in custody
along with five others arrested in raids that targeted an alleged network of
terrorist recruiting and training camps in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DENIALS: Khyam

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 15, 2006, Friday
                              North Wales Edition

BRITAIN: Terror suspect 'happy' at attack on Twin Towers

BYLINE: SHENAI RAIF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 394 words


A BRITISH terror suspect told a court yesterday that he felt happy when he heard
of the September 11 attacks on the Twin Towers in New York.

Omar Khyam, 24, said he was glad because America was the biggest enemy of Islam.

Asked by his barrister what the impact of September 11 had been on him, he
replied: "I was happy".

Earlier, Khyam had told the Old Bailey how he grew up in Sussex and been captain
of his school cricket team, before finding religion as a teenager.

Khyam said: "America was, and still is, the greatest enemy of Islam."

He added: "I was happy that America had been hit because of what it represented
against the Muslims, but obviously 3,000 people died so there were mixed
feelings."

Khyam said that after a few months of discussions with others and considering
views of Islamic leaders, he had come to the conclusion that it had been
"tactically unwise".

Khyam and six other Britons were arrested in 2004 after fertiliser explosive was
found in a storage depot in west London.

The prosecution allege they had al Qaida links and were planning a bombing
campaign of Britain, targeting utilities, nightclubs and the Bluewater shopping
centre in Kent.

Khyam, a former university student and the first to give evidence in his
defence, said his grandfather had fought in the British Army in World War II and
came to the UK in the 1970s.

Khyam became interested in religion as a teenager at college in Surrey,
attending meetings locally of a radical group, Al Muhajiroun.

On a visit in 1999 to his family homeland of Pakistan, he spoke to groups active
in the Kashmir struggle for independence from India, he said.

The following year, he ran away from home at the age of 17 to Pakistan and found
his way to a training camp for foreigners who wanted to receive military
training for Kashmir.

Khyam, his brother Shujah Mahmood, 19' Waheed Mahmood, 34' and Jawad Akbar, 23,
all from Crawley' Salahuddin Amin, 31 from Luton, Bedfordshire' Anthony Garcia,
24, of Ilford, east London' and Nabeel Hussain, 21, of Horley, Surrey, deny
conspiring to cause explosions likely to endanger life between January 1, 2003
and March 31, 2004.

Khyam, Garcia and Hussain also deny a charge under the Terrorism Act of
possessing 600kg (1,300lb) of ammonium nitrate fertiliser for terrorism.

Khyam and Shujah Mahmood further deny possessing aluminium powder for terrorism.

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sunderland Echo

                               September 15, 2006

Terror of brothers in coach attack

LENGTH: 279  words


TWO schoolboys today told of their fear when they were ambushed by angry Leeds
fans after Sunderland's win at Elland Road.

Brothers Michael and Jamie Reid had rocks thrown at their coach after the team's
3-0 victory.

The pair, from Keighley Avenue, Downhill, watched in horror as the window in
front of them was smashed.

Michael, 16, said: "We were in the seat behind when the window just cracked. The
poor bloke who was sitting there jumped out of the way."

Police made eight arrests as violence erupted outside the ground after
Wednesday's game.

Michael, a sixth form pupil at St Robert of Newminster RC School, added: "We
were all waiting on the coach as it was preparing to leave the car park.

"The atmosphere had been tremendous throughout the whole game but then, all of a
sudden, it seemed to turn nasty."

Police with dogs tried to keep rival fans apart as Sunderland supporters
clambered on the buses.

Jamie, 14, and Michael, who were on their first visit to Elland Road, were told
to stay seated until order was restored.

Steve Shinfield, 43, had been acting as steward on one of the coaches when he
found himself in the firing line.

The season ticket holder, from Witherwack, Sunderland, said: "I'd just been
trying to get on one of the coaches when I was pushed up against a bus by the
police.

"My 14-year-old son was bitten on the backside and leg by one of the dogs. I had
to take him to get a tetanus shot yesterday.

"Meanwhile, the Leeds fans were throwing ball-bearings at the buses. We weren't
doing anything. We just wanted to get home."

Earlier, inside the ground, two furious Leeds supporters had lunged at new
Sunderland boss Roy Keane only to be held back by stewards.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                               September 15, 2006

Terror suspect 'happy' at attacks on Twin Towers

LENGTH: 741 words


US enemy of Islam, says bomb plot accused

A British terror suspect told the Old Bailey yesterday that he felt happy when
he heard of the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York.

Omar Khyam, 24, said he was glad because America was the biggest enemy of Islam.

Khyam and six other Britons were arrested in 2004 after fertiliser explosive was
found in a storage depot in west London.

The prosecution alleges they had links to the al-Qaida terror group and were
planning a bombing campaign of Britain, targeting utilities, nightclubs and the
Bluewater shopping centre in Kent.

Asked by his barrister about the impact of September 11 on him, Khyam replied:
"I was happy".

Earlier, Khyam had told the court how he grew up in Sussex, and been captain of
his school cricket team, before finding religion as a teenager.

He then began to support opposition to the invasion of Muslim land, he said.

Khyam said: "America was, and still is, the greatest enemy of Islam.

"They put up puppet regimes in Muslim countries like Saudi Arabia, Jordan and
Egypt."

He added: "I was happy that America had been hit because of what it represented
against the Muslims, but obviously 3,000 people died so there were mixed
feelings."

Khyam said that after a few months of discussions with others and considering
views of Islamic leaders, he had come to the conclusion that it had been
"tactically unwise".

"I think we would be working better in our own countries, trying to establish an
Islamic state," he said.

Khyam, a former university student and the first to give evidence in his
defence, said his grandfather had fought in the British Army in the Second World
War and came to Britain in the 1970s.

Although his family were Muslims, he had been brought up in a secular household
with his mother and brothers.

"They did not pay much attention to religion," he said.

He had non-Muslim friends and was sent to a secondary school which was
predominantly white, he said.

He played football and cricket at school and at club level.

He became more interested in religion as a teenager at college in Surrey,
attending meetings locally of a radical group, Al Muhajiroun.

On a visit in 1999 to his family homeland of Pakistan, he spoke to groups active
in the Kashmir struggle for independence from India, he said.

The following year, he ran away from home at the age of 17 to Pakistan and found
his way to a training camp for foreigners who wanted to receive military
training for Kashmir.

He had told his mother he was going to France to study and got a friend to post
a letter from there for him.

"They taught me everything for warfare," he said.

This had included firing weapons, including rocket-propelled grenades, the jury
was told.

Khyam said he was at the camp from January to March 2000, when members of his
family, who were in Pakistani military intelligence, traced him.

"They were very quickly able to find out where I was," he said.

He received a radio message to go down the mountain where he was greeted by his
grandfather.

Khyam added: "He was pleased but just wanted to tell me where I had gone. They
were worried about me being killed."

After returning to Crawley, he read newspaper reports quoting an uncle about his
horror and concern about the teenager.

Khyam said most of his family, except his mother, were happy about what he had
done.

He then went to Belgium to help run clothes shops owned by his father who was
divorced from his mother, the court heard.

After returning to East Surrey College, he failed to take his final exams and
was advised to take a foundation course, enrolling in 2001 at the Metropolitan
University in north London.

But before his course, he went again to Pakistan for a friend's wedding -
crossing to Afghanistan to visit the Taliban before returning to England.

Khyam told the court: "Over the years, I supported the cause of the freedom of
Muslim lands from occupation."

Khyam; his brother Shujah Mahmood, 19; Waheed Mahmood, 34; and Jawad Akbar, 23,
all from Crawley; Salahuddin Amin, 31 from Luton, Bedfordshire; Anthony Garcia,
24, of Ilford, east London; and Nabeel Hussain, 21, of Horley, Surrey, deny
conspiring to cause explosions likely to endanger life between January 1, 2003
and March 31, 2004.

Khyam, Garcia and Hussain deny a charge under the Terrorism Act of possessing
600kg (1,300lb) of ammonium nitrate fertiliser for terrorism.

Khyam and Shujah Mahmood further deny possessing aluminium powder for terrorism.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 16, 2006 Saturday

Saudi Arabia condemns failed terror attacks in Yemen

LENGTH: 167 words


Text of report in English by Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sanaa, 15 September: Saudi Arabia condemned on Friday [15 September] the terror
attacks, which targeted oil and gas facilities in Yemen.

The security forces foiled the two attacks targeted the oil exporting port in
Dhabah area of Hadhramawt and the second targeted oil refinery and gas producing
unit in Ma'rib.

In his phone call with President Ali Abdallah Salih, the Saudi Arabian Crown
Prince and Deputy Premier Sultan Bin-Abd-al-Aziz expressed his condemnation for
two terror attacks, which aim at threatening security and stability of Yemen. He
pointed out to strong ties between Yemen and Saudi Arabia.

President Salih expressed thank and appreciation for position of the Crown
Prince. He said that the Yemeni and Saudi peoples have strong brotherly
relations. The crown prince also expressed sorrow on victims of stampede took
place in electoral rally in Ibb governorate.

Source: Saba news agency website, Sanaa, in English 1801 gmt 15 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                          September 16, 2006, Saturday
                                 First Edition

Powell attacks President over terror Bill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 236 words


Facing a Republican revolt in the Senate, President George Bush yesterday urged
Congress to back legislation to spell out strategies for interrogating and
trying terror suspects, saying "the enemy wants to attack us again".

"Time is running out," Bush said in a Rose Garden news conference. "Congress
needs to act wisely and promptly."

Bush denied the United States might lose the high ground in the eyes of world
opinion, as former Secretary of State Colin Powell suggested.

"It's unacceptable to think there's any kind of comparison between the behaviour
of the USA and the action of Islamic extremists who kill innocent women and
children to achieve an objective," said Bush, growing animated as he spoke.

A Senate committee is defying Bush with its approval of terror-detainee
legislation that the US President has vowed to block.

In an embarrassment to the White House, Colin Powell, Bush's first secretary of
state and the nation's top general during the first Iraq war, announced his
opposition to his old boss, claiming US troops would be at risk.

"The world is beginning to doubt the moral basis of our fight against
terrorism," Powell, a retired general who was chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff during the 1991 Iraq war, wrote in his letter.

Powell said Bush's Bill, by redefining the kind of treatment the Geneva
Conventions allow, "would add to those doubts. Furthermore, it would put our own
troops at risk".

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colin Powell

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 16, 2006, Saturday
                                 Staffs Edition

Man jailed after terror attack on woman

BYLINE: Ron Warrilow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 196 words


A MAN who dragged a "terrified" woman into his home after he took a cocktail of
drink and drugs was jailed for seven years by a court.

Tanya Miller, who was waiting for a friend, suffered a serious leg injury when
she kicked in a window as she struggled to escape.

Judge Michael Dudley told 27-year-old Mustafa Ghulam her life was saved by the
prompt arrival of emergency services adding: "That was no thanks to you."

He said Miss Miller - a complete stranger to Ghulam - was waiting for a friend
when he suddenly pounced.

"You dragged her from the street," said the judge and as she fought back she
managed to dial 999 on her mobile.

Ghulam then got her in a bear hug and as she battled to get free, her leg went
through a window causing a wound that bled profusely.

She was rescued, said the judge, by the young man she was due to meet and he
acted "with considerable bravery and presence of mind."

Ghulam, of Glebe Street, Caldermore, Walsall, denied wounding Miss Miller and
false imprisonment.

But he was convicted by a jury at Wolverhampton Crown Court on both charges.

James Ward, defending, told the court Ghulam's life had been badly affected by
his abuse of alcohol and drugs.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 18, 2006 Monday

Italian security sees terror group's threat of attack on Vatican as credible

LENGTH: 639 words


Text of report by Fiorenza Sarzanini entitled "'The army of Muhammad will
destroy the Vatican'" published by Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera website
on 17 September

Rome: The threat is direct, is complete with details, and comes from a group
which has already claimed responsibility for attacks which have been made
against coalition troops in Iraq. That is why it is being regarded as
"credible". The security apparatuses are alarmed by the communique from the Army
of the Mujahidin, the Iraqi fundamentalist group which has announced: "In the
name of the God of the Universe, their cross in the centre of Rome will be
destroyed. Rome will be conquered by the Army of Muhammad. We swear before the
God of Muhammad that this will be done. They will witness the destruction of
their Vatican. They will see the Pope and the patriarch weep."

The Pope's statements regarding Islam are continuing to inflame the Arab world,
and Italy has returned to the centre of the international stage. After having
boosted the Vatican City security forces, a new directive has been issued by the
Viminale [interior ministry] which is aimed at raising the level of vigilance
involving all the possible targets of the fundamentalist movement, with special
attention to places of worship, and to Castel Gandolfo [Pope's summer
residence], where this morning at 1200 [Pope] Benedict XVI will recite the
Angelus [Sunday prayers] in the courtyard of the Palazzo Apostolico. There are
top-security measures also for military installations abroad, especially in
Afghanistan, where for weeks now there have been reports of a situation of very
high risk, and which could now become a scenario for new attacks.

The extremist group's proclamation was spread via the Internet yesterday
morning, and was picked up on by a number of Sunni fundamentalist sites, before
the Pope voiced his "sadness" [Italian: dispiacere] over what is happening. It
accused the Pope of trying to "refute the religion of God". It accused "Zionist
Christianity and the Crusaders of hostility" of having backed "the Jews in
Palestine in order to control Jerusalem" and of not having reacted to the
"Communist crimes, helping them to kill the Islamic peoples in the Balkans,
raping women, destroying mosques, as well as the destruction of Afghanistan and
of Iraq, all of them killed by the traitorous knife of the cross", because, it
states, "it is their nature, they are the enemies of our religion".

The Anti-Terrorism Department at the Viminale immediately went into action, it
contacted the intelligence officers at the SISMI [Intelligence and Military
Security Service], and constantly informed the interior minister [Giuliano
Amato] regarding the way the situation was developing. The Army of the Mujahidin
has never claimed responsibility for actions carried out outside Iraq, but this
is no reassurance. Because the fear is that the protests which are spreading
across all Arab countries may trigger reactions in our country too, with street
demonstrations, or even with a spectacular gesture of fanaticism. And perhaps it
is no coincidence that the UCCOI [acronym as received: the reference is to the
UCOII, the Union of Islamic Communities and Organizations in Italy] itself,
which had triggered such a row by comparing Israel to the Nazis, and which had,
for that reason, been in danger of being thrown off the Islamic Council, should
now be urging "the Islamic world to calm down, by accepting the clarifications
provided by the Pontiff", and that it should refer to it as "an incident which
should be forgotten as soon as possible". This stance, experts are claiming, is
a further symptom of the fact that Muslims also greatly fear the possible
degeneration of a situation which is already highly critical as it is.

Source: Corriere della Sera website, Milan, in Italian 17 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           September 18, 2006, Monday
                                 First Edition

Terror attack victims' anger 'justified'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 173 words


The anger felt by victims of the July 7 terrorist attacks towards the emergency
response was "justified", a Cabinet minister said yesterday.

Speaking ahead of an official Government report into the experiences of
survivors and victims' relatives, Tessa Jowell said failures were understandable
but excuses "cut no ice".

The report, based on interviews by Ms Jowell and Home Secretary John Reid, is
expected to list a series of shortcomings in the response to last year's London
attacks which claimed 52 lives.

Ms Jowell, the Culture Secretary and minister responsible for liaising with
survivors and bereaved relatives, said: "I think that the anger that people feel
is justified.

People feel that after they have been an innocent victim, they feel outraged by
what has happened and I think that sometimes for some people insensitivity,
unintended insensitivity, has made that worse. What is very clear is that if
people feel they have not been properly helped within the first few hours
nothing is likely to change in their subsequent view."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           September 18, 2006 Monday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Terror ordeal for sex attack woman;
Police appeal for help after assault

BYLINE: By Sian Powell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 202 words


A BEDWORTH woman was chased into fields and sexually assaulted as she walked
through the town.

The woman was walking in Royal Oak Lane towards Bedworth town centre last night
when she was attacked.

She had reached a point between Newlands Lane and the pub shortly after 10pm
when a car stopped and a man got out.

The victim ran towards fields near to the road and was assaulted.

After the attack the man was seen to return to the vehicle, which sped off. A
police spokeswoman said: "The victim is deeply shocked and traumatised by what
happened and is being dealt with by specially trained officers."

The attacker is described as being Asian, in his early to mid 20s and between
5ft6 and 5ft9.

The man, who is of slim to medium build, had short black hair and was wearing a
blue/black sweatshirt and black jeans.

Police are eager to trace what they describe as an 'old-style' red Vauxhall
Astra which was seen driving in Royal Oak Lane towards Bedworth shortly after
the incident, and also a small white vehicle seen travelling along Royal Oak
Lane towards Coventry.

Anyone with information is urged to contact Bedworth CID on 024 7664 1111,
extension 3446, or Crimestoppers, which is free and anonymous, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                          September 19, 2006, Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Bomb survivor attacks terror game 'you can play with granny

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 327 words


A survivor of the July 7 bombings has described the creation of a board game
about the war on terror as "beyond belief.

TerrorBull Games, based in Cambridge, announced the release of "War on Terror:
The Board Game" on the fifth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks.

The company says the game - which it plans to sell on the internet for pounds 30
- is a "fun, family game to be played with granny on Boxing Day".

A press release on the company website says: "When a board game includes
'Suicide Bomber' cards, 'Dirty Bombs', 'Nuclear Weapons' and a balaclava with
the word 'Evil' stitched across the forehead, you know you're in for a quality
evening's entertainment."

Jacqui Putnam, of Huntingdon, Cambs, who survived the London bombings 14 months
ago, said she was amazed.

"If someone had told me that barely a year after the London bombings someone
would create a boardgame like this, I wouldn't have believed them. It is beyond
belief," she said.

"In fact, I can't imagine what kind of people would think about buying it. Not
people you would want living near you."

Neither the US embassy in London nor London Underground wished to comment on the
game.

The game was created by web designers Andrew

Sheerin and Andy Tomp-kins, both 30, and of Cambridge, who run the company
publishing it.

Mr Tompkins said the game was designed to make people consider serious issues
around terrorism such as "who the terrorists really were".

Mr Tompkins said publishing the press release announcing the game on September
11 was "coincidental" and added: "We didn't notice the date until we'd done it."

The press releases says: "Designed as a serious challenge to the
counterproductive pursuit of the so-called War on Terror', but also as a fun,
family game to be played with granny on Boxing Day."

It adds: "The actual War on Terror costs billions, has no end and has taken
thousands of lives.

"Luckily this Long War' can be fought in an evening, with minimal casualties and
costs just 30 quid."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 19, 2006 Tuesday

Ethiopia condemns Somalia terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 457 words


Text of statement issued in English by the Ethiopian Ministry of Foreign Affairs
on the assassination attempt on the president of the Transitional Federal
Government of Somalia in Baidoa, published by the ministry's website on 19
September

The government of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia [FDRE] condemns
the terrorist assassination attempt on the life of the president of the
Transitional Federal Government of Somalia [TFG] which caused the loss of lives
of many patriotic Somalis who have dedicated their lives to the restoration of
the Somali state and the revival of Somalia. .

This act is intended to wreak havoc and bring more instability not only to
Somalia and its fledgling transitional federal institutions, but also to the
entire region of the Horn of Africa. Ethiopia has no doubt that not only those
directly involved in this heinous crime but also those behind it, would be
brought to justice.

The Ethiopian government is relieved that the perpetrators of the suicide
bombing and the parties behind the heinous crime did not succeed in causing harm
to the President of the TFG who was obviously the prime target.

Ethiopia reaffirms its solidarity with the president and the transitional
federal institutions of Somalia and wishes to express its deepest condolences to
the families of those who lost their lives in this barbaric terrorist attack.
The people and the transitional federal institutions of Somalia would not be
intimidated by this un-Somali inhuman attack and would not be distracted from
their efforts to bring lasting peace and stability to their country.

The president and the prime minister of the FDRE have sent messages to the
president and the people of Somalia expressing their commitment to continuing
with their support of the TFG and its institutions and the people of Somalia.

It is Ethiopia's sincere conviction that this act should alert the international
community that the enemies of the TFG and the transitional federal institutions
have no interest in peace and stability not only in Somalia but also in the Horn
of Africa region in general. The TFG is seen as an obstacle to their evil
design. This explains why such barbaric act was perpetrated against the TFG and
its officials.

Ethiopia takes this opportunity to reaffirm its solidarity with the TFG and the
transitional federal institutions and will continue to be committed to do
whatever is necessary to ensure that Transitional Federal Government will
proceed to discharge its responsibilities to the people of Somalia in accordance
with the Transitional Federal Charter.

[Issued by] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the FDRE

Addis Ababa

19 September 2006

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Addis Ababa, in English 19 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                          September 20, 2006 Wednesday

Men hunted after sex terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 132 words


Two men are being sought by police after a woman was attacked as she walked
through Burton.

Officers said the 20-year-old victim was "terrified" after being grabbed as she
walked across the town's Trent Bridge.

One of the men, who were both of Asian appearance, twice touched the woman in an
inappropriate manner and both made sexual comments to her.

Now, police are appealing for help in catching the duo, who struck between
8.20pm and 9pm on Saturday.

One was about 5ft 7in tall, of slight build, with black hair, clean shaven, with
a round face and wore a red short-sleeved shirt and blue jeans.

The other man was about 5ft 10in tall, skinny, with short black hair, spiked on
top.

He was clean shaven with a hooked nose and was wearing a green T-shirt with a
white collar and cuffs and blue jeans.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                          September 20, 2006 Wednesday

Men hunted after sex terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 132 words


Two men are being sought by police after a woman was attacked as she walked
through Burton.

Officers said the 20-year-old victim was "terrified" after being grabbed as she
walked across the town's Trent Bridge.

One of the men, who were both of Asian appearance, twice touched the woman in an
inappropriate manner and both made sexual comments to her.

Now, police are appealing for help in catching the duo, who struck between
8.20pm and 9pm on Saturday.

One was about 5ft 7in tall, of slight build, with black hair, clean shaven, with
a round face and wore a red short-sleeved shirt and blue jeans.

The other man was about 5ft 10in tall, skinny, with short black hair, spiked on
top.

He was clean shaven with a hooked nose and was wearing a green T-shirt with a
white collar and cuffs and blue jeans.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                          September 20, 2006 Wednesday

Service for 13 Britons killed in foreign terror attacks

BYLINE: MARTIN BENTHAM

SECTION: A MERGE; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 177 words


A MEMORIAL service for British victims of overseas terror attacks was being held
today at Southwark Cathedral.

The ceremony, organised in consultation with the bereaved families, follows the
deaths of 13 Britons in terrorist bombings in Egypt, Turkey and Qatar last year.

The biggest loss of life was in the Egyptian resort of Sharm-el-Sheikh where 11
Britons died, while a week earlier another Briton died after a minibus was
bombed in the Turkish town of Kusadasi. The other British fatality was in March
last year when a car bomb exploded in the Qatari capital Doha.

The service was being led by the Dean of Southwark, the Very Reverend Colin
Slee, and a sermon was being read by the Bishop of Lincoln Dr John Saxbee in
recognition of the large number of bereaved families from Lincolnshire.

The 13 Britons who died were: Jonathan Adams in Qatar, Helyn Bennett in
Kusadasi; and Leslie Ayers, Alan Bentley, Noleen Bentley, Valerie Bracci, Keri
Davies, Matthew Fulham, Charith Jayawardena, Jeremy Lakin, Annalie Vickers,
Hannah Lloyd and David Sayer in Sharm-el-Sheikh.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Cheshire

                          September 20, 2006 Wednesday

Family left in terror as attacks continue

BYLINE: Vivien Kandel

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 323 words

DATELINE: Northwich Guardian


A NORLEY family are living in fear after having three bricks through their
window in the past few weeks.

Tom Munro claims police are not doing enough and believes his home is being
deliberately targeted due to his 17-year-old stepson's past.

The terrifying ordeal started last month when a huge stone was thrown through a
bedroom window at 11.30pm on August 13 as the family slept.

Tom, 59, said: "It was a terrible shock.

"I rang the police and someone arrived at 2.30am.

"My stepson said he was willing to name names of the people who were involved.

"A community bobby came on the Wednesday but never took a statement from him."

Then at 3am on Friday, September 9, a brick was thrown through another window.

Tom said: "I rang the police again. They took details again but didn't come
round.

"I was very angry with them because they hadn't contacted my stepson to get
details."

On the Sunday night at 11.30pm, a four-and-half-pound brick came through the
window shattering shards of glass everywhere.

Tom said: "I'm living in fear. I have got a baseball bat by the back door.

"I can't sleep. I'm alert and listening for the sound of cars slowing down.

"I'm expecting more bricks. We can't live like this. It is escalating and it has
to stop.

"I'm not happy with the way it's being handled."

PC Steve Turner, from the Frodsham CAT team, which covers Norley, said:
"Significant progress has been made in respect of this investigation.

"One suspect has been eliminated and efforts are now being made to trace and
question a man who we believe can help develop things further.

"It is important to bear in mind that a great deal of effort goes into this type
of work and there is always lots going on behind the scenes to ensure our
enquiries are thorough.

"People do not see this side of our work and understandably they may feel things
are not moving forward as they do take time, however I'd like to reassure people
this is not the case."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LIVING IN FEAR: Tom Munro wants action to be taken to stop the
vandalism. His home has come under repeated attack for more than a month and he
says he is now living in fear.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday

Five servicemen killed in terrorist attack in Chechnya

LENGTH: 81 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Interfax

Groznyy, 21 September: Five servicemen have died in Groznyy as a result of a
terrorist action.

A source in the law-enforcement agencies told Interfax that the terrorist attack
took place on Thursday [21 September] at the Shkolnaya bus stop in
Staropromyslovskiy district.

"Four people have died at the scene and another one has died on his way to a
hospital," the source said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0919 gmt 21 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday

Lebanese writer views reasons behind British Pakistani terror attacks

LENGTH: 971 words


Text of article by Muhammad al-Sammak headlined "Who is responsible for the
making of terror?", published by Lebanese newspaper Al-Mustaqbal website on 18
September

What is the secret behind the fact that most of the terrorist operations or
terrorist attempts that took place in or targeted Britain were carried out by
Pakistanis?

In July last year, four British of Pakistani origin carried out the terrorist
attack against the transportation system in London which resulted in the killing
of 52 innocent citizens and passers-by.

On the anniversary of this tragic terror act, another group of Britons of
Pakistani origin tried to carry out a series of bombings against British and
American passenger planes flying over the Atlantic between London and
Washington. The British security authorities arrested 22 people and began the
trial of 12 of them.

The question is: Why do British Pakistanis from the second and perhaps third
generation do such things? Why don't British of Indian, Costa Rican, or African
origin, for example, carry out such attacks? Do British Pakistanis engage in
such actions because they are unable to integrate into British society, even
though some of them were born and educated in this society and have mastered its
language and perhaps lost every connection with Urdu, the language of their
fathers and forefathers? What is said about the Pakistanis here can be said
about millions of Asian and African immigrants who settled in Britain and
obtained its nationality. They, too, suffer from racial discrimination and a
lack of integration in public life.

Or do they - the British of Pakistani origin - carry out such actions because
they are Muslims who resent the Anglo-Saxon (American-British) policy, which
appears to be absolutely hostile to the causes of the Muslim world, from
Palestine to Iraq to Afghanistan to Kashmir?

And why does this resentment, in its expressions, goes beyond political actions
and mass protests and takes the form of terrorist acts that target innocent
people, although Islam views the killing of one innocent man as a crime against
all humanity? The Koran says: "Whosoever killeth a human being for other than
manslaughter or corruption in the earth, it shall be as if he had killed all
mankind." [Koranic verse]

These questions cannot be answered without returning to the reality of the
Pakistani society, a reality that raises questions of another kind compared to
the reality in India.

Pakistan and India were one country. Indians and Pakistanis are one people,
although they follow different religions. When the major separation took place
in 1947 after a series of crimes based on affiliation, three countries emerged:
Pakistan and Bangladesh separated by India.

This means that the three countries came out of the umbrella of one occupation,
the British occupation. They were born from the womb of horrible sectarian
massacres. But while India adopted a political system based on democracy
allowing coexistence among Muslims, Hindus, and Sikhs (which does not mean that
sectarian incidents do not take place from time to time in this or that state in
vast India) Pakistan has been ruled by generals since its creation. The country
witnessed a series of military coups, with the latest bringing President Pervez
Musharraf to power.

And while Pakistan, very regrettably, sinks in further militarism on the one
hand and in religious extremism on the other, leading to further poverty, India
has become the biggest democracy in the world. It leads developing countries in
terms of economic growth. Between 1980 and 2002 it achieved an annual growth
rate of 6 per cent. And from 2002 until today the annual growth rate rose to 7.5
per cent. The middle class increased four fold. This means that 1 per cent of
poor Indians climb to the middle class every year.

It is true that both India and Pakistan are nuclear countries, but Pakistan
complains from destitution while India is the world's fourth biggest economy
after the United States, the European Union, and Japan.

India and Pakistan cannot be compared on the basis that one of them is a Hindu
state while the other is a Muslim state. The true comparison is based on the
fact that India is ruled by democrats while Pakistan is ruled by the military.
As a result, the Indian society flourishes and prospers while the Pakistani
society grows more fanatic and extremist, creating a fertile soil for the
production of individuals who can be recruited to carry out terrorist operations
and groups that can provide cover and embracement for such individuals.

Naturally, it is not only poverty that produces this culture. Many extremists
are wealthy (such as Bin-Ladin). And it is not only ignorance that causes
extremism to thrive. Some extremists are highly educated (such as Dr
Al-Zawahiri). And it is not only the militarily repressed societies that
graduate extremists (some extremists graduated from comfortable societies such
as Saudi Arabia and Kuwait and from free societies like Lebanon and Morocco, and
they all participated, in one way or another, in terrorist operations). There
are many factors that under certain conditions can produce such extremists.

The most important condition is the existence of a stupid, provocative policies
such as the ones pursued by the administration of US President George Bush.
Through its slogans and practices in Iraq, Afghanistan, Lebanon, and Palestine,
these policies appears closer to hostility towards Islam than to stupidity, and
closer to strategy than to tactics.

Hence, if there is fascism, it is not Islamic fascism; rather, it is Bushist
fascism. And it is this fascism that makes a society like the Pakistani society
a producer of extremist elements from which Islam complains more than all
others, ahead of them Britain.

Source: Al-Mustaqbal website, Beirut, in Arabic 18 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday

Tony Blair was slammed for deserting British tourists maimed or killed in terror
attacks abroad

LENGTH: 73  words


TONY Blair was slammed for deserting British tourists maimed or killed in terror
attacks abroad.

The PM had pledged to set up a compensation scheme after victims were left
broke.

But after 12 months of dithering, the families of 13 Brits killed in foreign
atrocities in the past year may never get a penny.

Trevor Larkin, whose son Jez, 28, died in an Egyptian suicide bombing, said: "Mr
Blair must get this sorted."

g.pascoewatson@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           September 22, 2006 Friday

Teacher in knife terror attack 'after e20 bet';
Teens lay in wait and punched victim

BYLINE: SANDRA MURPHY

SECTION: ED IRE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 622 words


A DUBLIN teacher was subjected to a terrifying assault after being surrounded by
teenagers wielding a knife.

The three teens lay in wait for the teacher as he left Coliste Dhulaigh in
Coolock during the first week of term.

According to eyewitnesses, the startled victim was threatened with a knife when
he tried to defend himself.

None of the teenagers involved are from the secondary school on Dublin's
northside.

'The lads punched him a number of times, and when he went to defend himself they
drew a knife,' said one eyewitness.

The attack was spotted by a number of young students who saw one of the
teenagers approach the teacher and punch him in the head.

The terrifying incident happened just days before a separate serious assault on
a 16-year-old student.

And there are fears that the unprovoked attack, believed to be by two brothers
and a friend from Coolock, could have been the result of a bet made between two
friends, one of whom is believed to attend the school.

'He got paid E20 to do it from someone who didn't like the teacher,' a source
said.

Another eyewitness confirmed the teacher received a blow to the face.

Just days after the incident, on September 5, a teenager was assaulted outside
the school's library. Two youths attacked him and left him with injuries to his
face and body. The boy's mother contacted gardaI and local officers are carrying
out an investigation.

With 12 per cent of teachers subject to violent and threatening behaviour on a
regular basis, teachers' unions last night called for measures to be taken to
protect their members.

Coliste Dhulaigh principal Mary Ward declined to comment on the attack on the
teacher and referred all queries to the VEC headquarters in Ballsbridge, Dublin.

A spokesman for the Department of Education and Science said any alleged
criminal act was a matter for the gardaI to investigate.

In a profession that is very aware of the effects of harassment on pupils and
the need to take action, they warned that teachers were increasingly becoming
victims of violent attacks.

Teacher's Union of Ireland assistant general secretary, Declan Glynn, called for
major reforms to clamp down on the culture of violence blighting many of
Ireland's schools.

'There is a worrying trend of teachers having to break up fights in the
schoolyard between pupils and outsiders,' he said. 'With the dangerous position
many find themselves in, this is a matter of extreme concern, but we have no
guidelines on how to deal with these social problems.' Mr Glynn added: 'A recent
survey showed one-in-eight teachers were subjected to some kind of assault
everyday in the classroom.

'This is unacceptable and the Department's outdated policy on violence in
schools is totally inadequate.' He called for a register in a bid to stop
victims being dissuaded from making a formal complaint, or pursing the matter
with the authorities for fear that a school would be labelled as 'failing'.

While the attack in Coolock has been reported to An Garda SIochna, he said
underreporting of incidents of assault is a concern across the public sector.

The ASTI teachers union echoed those sentiments, and added that a national
register would enable the scale of the problem to be identified, and appropriate
protective and preventative measures to be introduced.

Spokesman John White said bullying in schools was not just confined to the
playground.

'Staffroom bullying is a very serious matter which must be tackled by managers
in schools, colleges and universities before teachers and lecturers quit due to
stress, depression and anxiety,' he said.

'Unfortunately, bullying has a destructive effect on the confidence, morale and
health of the bullied person, and potentially has a knock-on impact on their
students.'

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                           September 22, 2006 Friday
                                   Edition 1

Pledge over terror attacks

BYLINE: By John Brophy, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 309 words


The Government claims it is acting on shortcomings in the emergency response to
the July 7 London bombings.

An official report published today highlights the need for suitable venues, such
as schools, sports centres and churches, for use as reception centres where
victims and families can meet as well as improved communications.

This follows complaints the Metropolitan Police phone lines were jammed with
calls. Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell said there would be improvements to the
casualty bureau system to reduce distress for relatives, better communications
underground and faster action to deal with compensation claims.

"All these are very specific aspects of the practical response that we feel is
the very least we owe to the families who shared their experience with us and
the thousands of survivors, whose lives will never be the same again," she said.

She was speaking ahead of the report following a Home Office inquiry which
concludes that inadequate preparations for dealing with a terrorist attack
exacerbated the trauma for many victims. Hundreds of wounded were forced to make
their own way home from the four suicide bombing sites without medical treatment
and many have never been traced.

Relatives also suffered the stress of wandering from hospital to hospital with
photos of their loved ones, trying to recognise descriptions of people in
intensive care.

The report, Lessons Learned, is one of two published today on the attacks on
three London Underground trains and a bus which killed 56 people, including the
four bombers.

A separate inquiry by the London Resilience Forum, set up in the wake of the
September 11, 2001, attacks in the United States, was also being released today.
Its findings cover issues specifically relating to London, while the Home Office
report is intended to help to prepare the country as a whole for an attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                           September 22, 2006 Friday

I'm living in terror after brick attack

BYLINE:  Jessica Williams

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 398 words


Terrified Dominic Machin has had a brick hurled through his window for the third
time in two years.

The latest vandal attack happened at his property in Brakespeare Street,
Goldenhill, at about 12pm on Sunday. The 33-year-old, who has learning
difficulties, lives in a Staffordshire Housing Association property.

In October 2004, The Sentinel reported that when he first moved into the area,
the association forked out £1,200 to repair damage caused in repeat attacks. It
was believed that Mr Machin was being targeted by a group of yobs, and at one
point he fled to stay with relatives because he was so intimidated.

Acceptable behaviour contracts were imposed on the culprits, who were also
causing problems for other residents.

Both police and Mr Machin say the orders were successful at the time, but two
years on, it appears the problem has resurfaced. It's thought the vandals
climbed into the back yard and used a drain pipe to catapult the missile.

He said: "I was sitting watching television when I heard a loud bang. I went to
investigate and discovered a brick had been thrown through my back window.

"I called the police, but they didn't even come out. I phoned my local
councillor, Lee Wanger, and he called around the next day to reassure me.

"I was up until 5am that night because I was too afraid to go to bed. My
girlfriend has been staying with me since it happened. If it wasn't for her, I
would be too afraid to stay."

Inspector Phil Fortun, commander of Northern Neighbourhood Policing Unit, said:
"The community beat officer will be calling on Dominic to investigate. The
orders were successful in the past in overcoming the problems Dominic was
experiencing. I only hope that this is not the start of further trouble.

"Across the city there is a lot of mindless criminal damage, and windows being
broken is one of the prime examples."

Mr Wanger said: "When Dominic first moved to the area he had problems with a few
people, but these have now been resolved. As far as I am aware, he has not
experienced any problems over the last two years. I would hate to think that
someone is picking on Dominic again. I think it is possible the brick was thrown
through Dominic's window by a potential burglar. Dominic is a really likeable,
intelligent  person, and very easy to get on with.

"I visited people in the area when he first had problems. I will not have
anybody bullied in my ward."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           September 22, 2006, Friday
                              Valleys Echo Edition

Lessons of terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 49 words


There are 'still lessons to be learned' from the emergency services response to
the London bombings, an official Government report on the July 7 terrorist
attacks said today.

It called for better information sharing, more communications and for reception
and assistance centres to be established.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 23, 2006 Saturday

No danger of imminent terrorist attack, says Czech premier

LENGTH: 186 words


Excerpt from report in English by Czech news agency CTK

Prague, 23 Sept: [Czech] Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek (ODS) told journalists
today that there is no immediate danger, in connection with the threat of a
terrorist attack in Prague.

He said the government believe that the security measures taken and the fact
that the public have been informed of the danger will eliminate the risk.
Topolanek told journalists that Interior Minister Ivan Langer (ODS) assured him
that the whole security operation is proceeding smoothly.

"I will neither confirm it nor refute it," Topolanek reacted to a question
whether the risk is connected with Jewish targets.

Topolanek said he had informed President Vaclav Klaus, the heads of the two
houses of parliament and the chairmen of the parties in parliament about the
situation. [Passage omitted]

Police patrols and members of special units guard tens of buildings in the city,
including Ruzyne airport. Policemen in black suits wearing bullet-proof vests
and sub-machine guns can be seen in the streets. [Passage omitted]

Source: CTK news agency, Prague, in English 1334 gmt 23 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 24, 2006 Sunday

Prague faces "unprecedented" risk of terrorist attack, says Czech minister

LENGTH: 276 words


Excerpt from report by Czech independent Prima TV on 24 September

[Moderator Petr Simunek] [Passage omitted] [Czech] Police officers armed with
sub-machine guns are patrolling [Prague's] Old Town Square, St. Vitus'
Cathedral, Prague Airport and other buildings. Minister, what threat does - or
did - Prague actually face?

[Czech Interior Minister and Civic Democratic Party, ODS, Deputy Chairman Ivan
Langer] We have received information that in terms of its seriousness and
specificity is unprecedented in the history of the Czech Republic. It is
information that defines a heightened risk of a terrorist act in the capital
city of Prague [and is] also connected with developments in the security
situation abroad. Faced with this real threat we have been forced to take
action. [Passage omitted]

[Moderator] Minister, according to Czech Social Democratic Party [CSSD] Chairman
[and former Prime Minister Jiri Paroubek] the information on the impending
danger was three weeks old. The CSSD chairman is basically disparaging what you
are doing and [saying that] it is unnecessary.

[Langer] I am absolutely shocked by that statement, because tens and hundreds of
people are currently putting their lives on the line in order to protect the
security of others. And instead of showing allegiance to this nation and
interest in the safety of those people, along comes someone with a speech that
casts doubt on everything that has been done, disparages the quality of the work
of intelligence officers and police officers, and puts his own private political
opinion above the interests of the state. [Passage omitted]

Source: Prima TV, Prague, in Czech 1100 gmt 24 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 24, 2006, Sunday

COP THAT;
EXCLUSIVE BILL STAR TELLS OF TERROR AS THUGS ATTACK SHOOT

BYLINE: By STEVE HENDRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 447 words


THE BILL star Lisa Maxwell told yesterday how a trip to film the cop show in
Romania turned into a battle of Bucharest.

The actress and co-star Scott Maslen got caught up in danger and extortion -
behind the scenes.

Things got hairy when she and Scott - probing sex traffickers as Sun Hill
detectives Sam Nixon and Phil Hunter - filmed at a market.

Lisa, 42, said: "Two big drunk guys chucked a bottle at us.

"One Romanian actor turned round and said, please don't do that, we're just
trying to make a film.

"One of the guys punched him in the face. He had to do half his scenes with a
black eye. "I think this guy thought if he disrupted filming, we might make him
an offer to go way.

"That happens here in the UK as well - but we've yet to have anyone throw a
punch or a bottle.

"Another time we were filming at the back of the market and there were rats
falling out of trees.

"It was pitch black so you couldn't see much but then something would go 'thud'
next to you - that wasn't pleasant.

"And outside our hotel, there were eight year olds carrying four year olds
asking for money.

"The poverty shocked me, especially as Bucharest is one of the wealthiest areas
in Romania.

"It's a very edgy place, far removed from anything in the UK."

But Lisa has no regrets about taking her daughter Beau, seven, on set for the
final week's filming.

She said: "Beau and my partner Paul came across. It was the first time I had
left her so I was just delighted to have her.

"Some said Romania wasn't an ideal place to take children but our priority was
to be together.

"The poverty was an eye-opener for her. But she learnt a lot and kept a diary
for her school."

In the episodes, the detectives end up in Bucharest when an asylum seeker's wife
goes missing.

But as they get deeper into the investigation, they find themselves in mortal
danger.

It leads to action-packed scenes with guns and fast cars - much to Lisa's
delight.

She said: "I got a little carried away. In one scene I jumped behind the wheel
of the car and I literally flew - the car took off.

"There were some unscripted moments - like Scott saying in a panic, 'What are
you doing?'

"I think the camera man in the back made a few noises as well."

Lisa also had to do love scenes with Scott, 35.

She said: "We were protected from any embarrassing moments - apart from the fact
that Scott had to run across the room and switch from a blanket to a pair of
trousers. "I got a fit of the giggles and we had to do it again - but I didn't
see anything, honest."

The Bill's Romanian episodes are on ITV1 on Wednesday and Thursday at 8pm.

'Bucharest is a very edgy place, far removed from anything in the UK, Lisa
Maxwell

SUNDAY EMAIL

s.hendry@sundaymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Targeted: Lisa, left, came under attack from thugs while on location in
Romania' Scenes: Lisa and Scott Maslen, right, with Romanian Zoltan Butuc

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                     September 24, 2006 Sunday 2:32 PM GMT

BARLOW'S TERRORIST ATTACK TRAUMA

SECTION: MUSIC

LENGTH: 188 words


Ex-TAKE THAT star GARY BARLOW is still shocked he survived the terrorist attacks
in London last summer (07JUL05), after witnessing the immediate aftermath of the
carnage.

The British singer was travelling on an underground train alongside one of the
three trains that were bombed on the fateful day, when an explosion threw him to
the ground.

The BACK FOR GOOD hitmaker is still affected by how close he came to death that
day, insisting he is still traumatised by what he saw.

Barlow recalls, "Next to us was what looked like another train, but it had no
roof or side. The seats were exposed and although it was dark I could see bodies
lying across them.

"I began to understand how lucky I had been. I counted seven bodies, and as a
woman was carried out on a stretcher, I prayed she would be alright. I made it
home on adrenaline, I guess, and for the next three hours I was glued to the
news.

"I don't know why there or why then, but I began to cry in the shower. My mind
kept returning to that woman. I could have been in her place.

"Thank God I'm still here. I can't stop kissing my children. I have never been
so happy to be alive."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2006 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 25, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended

(Corr) Kenyan police probe "terrorist link" in attack on police

LENGTH: 342 words


(Correcting source details)

Text of unattributed report entitled "Terrorist link in city attack probed"
published by Kenyan newspaper Daily Nation website on 25 September

Police are investigating an assassination link in last week's grenade attack on
city police officers.

Initial investigations also suggested that the attackers had links to
international terror groups. A meeting of top police chiefs at the weekend
[23-24 September] ruled out that the attackers were ordinary gunmen.

The attackers were on a mission to assassinate a high profile person, police
believe. Detectives attached to the anti-terrorism police unit are handling the
matter and constantly briefing police commissioner Hussein Ali, who is on a
mission abroad.

The gang was targeting a VIP whose residence is guarded round the clock by armed
officers, police further believe. Detectives recovered a national identity card
they suspect belongs to a gang member.

The 10.30 p.m. Friday [22 September] attack at a police roadblock on Waiyaki Way
in Westlands left six policemen injured. Before tossing the grenade, the gunmen
also showered the policemen with machine-gun fire. Police said the attackers
were about 10 and had five AK-47 assault rifles, but only one was recovered.
Also recovered were four hand grenades. About 150 bullets were fired in the
attack.

The officers were on duty when they flagged down a car which had suspicious
looking people, according to police. A second vehicle, believed to be carrying
their accomplices, arrived and stopped on the other side of the dual carriageway
next to the local district officer's [DO] office. Five men stepped out and
opened fire on the officers.

Most bullets ricocheted off the wall of the nearby All Africa Council of
Churches compound.

Police said a hand grenade, which failed to detonate, was also thrown into the
DO's compound.

Nobody had been arrested in connection with the attack by yesterday noon, but
undercover detectives had launched a massive hunt for the gangsters.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 25 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 2006



CORRECTION: (Correcting source details)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Blackpool Gazette

                               September 26, 2006

Attack terror on Fylde streets

LENGTH: 506 words


A KNUCKLEduster, a piece of concrete and even a BMX bike were used as weapons
during a spate of violence.

Officers were called out to numerous reports of fights in the street, glass
attacks and unprovoked assaults across the Fylde coast.

At around 2.30am on Saturday, a 22-year-old from Bradford was walking with his
girlfriend along Exchange Street, North Shore, when they were accosted by two
BMX-riding teenagers.

The riders shouted abuse at the couple but, when they were ignored, stepped up
their taunts and launched into a violent attack. Sgt Brian Stanley, of Blackpool
Police, said: "One of the youths got off his bike, slipped a knuckleduster on to
his hand and punched the victim in the face.

"The man retaliated by hitting the teenager back but was set upon by the other
youth, who used his bike as a weapon and swung it into the back of the victim's
head."

The pair then rode off, leaving the man injured on the ground and his girlfriend
in hysterics.

The victim was taken to Blackpool Victoria Hospital where he was told he needed
emergency surgery to correct a fracture in his cheekbone.

Around the same time, in a park off Birley Street, Kirkham, a 62-year-old IT
consultant was attacked by up to six teenagers, all thought to be no older than
15.

The man was goaded by the group as he cut through the park before one of them
attacked him.

Once he was knocked over by his assailant, the man was set upon by the others
and kicked unconscious.

Later that morning, at around 3am on Park Road in St Annes, a 37-year-old man
was attacked with a lump of concrete by two strangers.

He was treated at hospital for cuts to the front and back of his head.

On Saturday night, at around 11.20pm, security staff at Club Sanuk, on North
Promenade, ejected a group of around seven men who had been fighting and causing
trouble inside.

Sgt Stanley added: "They were ejected on to the Promenade, where they emptied a
bottle bin and began pelting the doorstaff with glass before escaping to a
nearby car and speeding away."

And on Sunday, a man was mugged at knifepoint by a gang of youths as he walked
through St Annes.

The 47-year-old man was on Park Road at around 8pm when four teenagers - three
boys and one girl - stopped him.

One of the gang, all thought to be aged 15-16, demanded money, then pulled out a
small knife and held it to the man's stomach.

The victim froze while a second boy rifled through his pockets, taking his
wallet and £70 in cash.

The boy with the knife was white with short blond hair. He was wearing a dark
blue tracksuit top, dark blue pants and dark trainers.

His accomplice, who searched the victim, was white with short dark brown hair
and a pale complexion. He wore a dark tracksuit and had a ring on his little
finger.

The girl with them was white with blonde, shoulder-length hair, a pale
complexion and an earring in her right ear. She was wearing a pink T-shirt and
dark tracksuit bottoms.

Anyone with information should contact police on (01253) 293933 or Crimestoppers
on 0800 555111.

ben.rossington@blackpoolgazette.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                           September 26, 2006 Tuesday

Terror attack on club girls

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 353 words


Express: "Then all hell broke loose. One of them punched Charlie. She fell to
the ground, but when she got up they hit her with what looked like a perfume
bottle."

Charlie, 18, said: "Sarah got between me and the girls, but they said, 'Either
way, you're getting this glass in your face.' Then out of nowhere these two guys
came up and offered us cocaine."

The girls refused the cocaine, but then the man grabbed Charlie's hair and said
he was going to set it alight. She begged him to stop, but the gang just laughed
at her.

Charlie added: "I tried to dial 999 on my phone while it was still in my pocket.
He saw what I was doing and punched me in the face. Then the police phoned me
back, and I ran off. We saw a couple, and they tried to help, but the gang
threatened them."

Sarah said: "Then Charlie was hit with a rubbish bag. It must have had something
heavy in it, because she fell to he ground and was losing consciousness."

"We got away, up to Ellacombe park, but about 20 guys came towards us. We walked
the other way round the park, and one of the guys approached us."

Charlie said: "He wanted my phone. He said he'd stab me if I didn't give it to
him. I handed it over, and then the girl in the couple flagged down a passing
taxi and we got in.

"I saw blood on me and thought I had been stabbed. I couldn't breathe. I was
hysterical. Sarah was fantastic. She had put herself between me and the
attackers. She put my life before hers.

"If the cab-driver hadn't come along, it doesn't bear thinking about. We went
home and the police came and then we went to hospital."

Charmaine Hayler, Charlie's mother, said: "I felt physically sick when they told
me what happened. These people have got to be stopped. I don't want this to
happen to someone else."

Cheryl Mann, Sarah's mother, said she was desperate for the thugs to be caught
before someone else becomes their victim.

The police are looking for a white man, aged about 17, approximately 5ft 8ins
tall, of slim build, with dark brown hair and who was wearing a baseball cap.
Anyone with further information should contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111,
quoting FT068706.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Western Mail

                          September 26, 2006, Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Attacker knew full well that car-bomb attack would kill, terror trial told

BYLINE: ALAN ERWIN AND IAN GRAHAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 656 words


Alleged Omagh mass murderer Sean Hoey was 'fully aware' the terrorist bomb plot
against the town would result in deaths, a court heard yesterday. As the
electrician went on trial accused of massacring 29 people, prosecutors claimed
they had enough DNA and forensic evidence, and expert voice analysis, to convict
him of the outrage and a series of other strikes on civilian, police and army
targets.

Hoey, 37, sat impassively in the dock at Belfast Crown Court, flanked by two
prison wardens, as Crown QC Gordon Kerr accused him of being at the heart of the
worst single atrocity in 30 years of violence in Northern Ireland.

Mr Kerr said, 'He was fully aware that the persons concerned were placing
explosives and had an active role in the preparation of the devices.

'The evidence will suggest that he contemplated the use of the devices in such a
way that injury up to and including death would occur, and agreed to that.

'In the case of Omagh, it will be submitted that those involved in placing a
device in a busy public street at a prime shopping time were aware and must have
known that an explosion in those circumstances would kill or at least seriously
injure those in the vicinity of the explosion.

'It will be submitted that in this case an analysis of the warnings given when
compared to other warnings using the same code word suggests that the warnings
were not and could not have been meant to be effective.

'In those circumstances the prosecution case is that those responsible at law
for the bomb in Omagh should properly be found guilty of murder in relation to
the persons who were killed on August 15 1998.'

Relatives of some of those killed in the August 1998 Real IRA attack on Omagh
were in the public gallery as the trial, which is expected to last for three
months, got under way.

Others had gathered 70 miles away in Omagh where a closed-circuit video link
facility has been set up for a trial that is expected to last three months.

They had been frustrated earlier this month when the case was adjourned because
senior defence counsel Orlando Pownall was too unwell to proceed.

But yesterday the QC assured Judge Mr Justice Weir he was ready to take the
non-jury case.

At one stage the names and ages of all those killed at Omagh were read out in
the hushed courtroom. They included three generations of the same Co Tyrone
family - an 18-month-old girl, her mother who was pregnant with twins and a
66-year-old grandmother.

Wearing a beige jacket, striped shirt and jeans, Hoey, of Molly Road,
Jonesborough, south Armagh, showed no emotion as the victims were listed.

He denies a total of 58 charges, which the prosecution alleges were part of a
violent campaign waged by dissident republicans before and after the Good Friday
peace deal was signed in April 1998.

All but two of the bomb attacks in the case used Mark 19 timer power units
(TPU), Mr Kerr told the court.

From that it could be concluded, he said, that the devices were all built by the
same person.

'The prosecution will say that both DNA evidence and fibre evidence connecting
the defendant to this series of attacks will show his involvement in them and
that the totality of the evidence will persuade the court of his criminal
involvement in the connected series of explosions,' Mr Kerr said.

At 2.29pm on the day of the Omagh attack, 35 minutes before the explosion, a
telephone warning said a 500lb car bomb had been placed outside the town's
Courthouse and would explode in 30 minutes, Mr Kerr said.

But this was followed within minutes by two further warnings giving conflicting
information, Mr Kerr said.

Mr Kerr said the court would hear from police officers sent to evacuate shoppers
away from the Courthouse.

They were urged to move down Market Street where the bomb exploded. Mr Kerr also
detailed other attacks Hoey is allegedly linked to in the months before the
carnage. The Mark 19 TPU was the common denominator, the court heard. The trial
continues.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 27, 2006 Wednesday

Romanian intelligence report warns of risk of terrorist attack

LENGTH: 822 words


Text of report by Alexandru Macoveiciuc, "SRI studies interest groups",
published by Romanian newspaper Adevarul on 21 September; subheadings as
published

The Romanian Intelligence Service (SRI) followed President Basescu's
instructions and paid special attention to interest groups in its 2005 activity
report. The service claims that it has identified actions carried out by those
groups, but it gives no concrete examples. The Romanian Intelligence Service
report specifies that the interest groups tried to influence the act of justice,
attempted to affect the capital market, and caused losses to the Romanian state.

The document specifies that the "SRI identified and signalled the carrying out
of illegal actions, including acts of corruption, by interest groups that are
active in various fields, with a view to obtain advantages in competition or
illegal benefits likely to affect the functioning of the administrative
institutions and the actions of the justice system." The interest groups tried
to obtain favourable court decisions by ignoring the evidence on file or by
altering proof in favour of defendants. They tried to gain control of the power
supply of thermal power stations linked to the National Power System, including
by engaging in acts of corruption. The SRI also identified "business groups"
implicated in the production and sale of sheet iron, crude oil, and wood that
endangered the fulfilment of Romania's commitments assumed in view of its EU
integration.

Spies targeted decisionmaking and economic zones

The SRI report indicates that spies who acted on Romanian territory mainly tried
to influence decisionmaking and economic zones in order to get information about
privatization operations or to be awarded important contracts on advantageous
terms.

Hostile intelligence services have consistently tried to promote the economic
interests of their own countries by consolidating their relations in areas of
interest, especially in decisionmaking circles.

Terrorist organizations look for bases in Romania

The SRI's activity report mentions that Romania's potential for risk is due to
the interest of some terrorist structures in collecting information on targets
located on the national territory. The SRI says some fundamentalist Islamic
terrorist organizations see Romania as an ally of "aggressor and invading"
countries. "The proselytism activities specific to transnational fundamentalist
Islamic groups have intensified," the SRI report also mentions, warning that
some terrorist organizations intend to create support bases in our country.

SRI monitored ethnic separatist groups

Last year, the SRI monitored some radical groups that promoted ethnic separatist
ideas, initiated propagandistic actions with a view to recruit new members, and
wanted to modify legislation in order to reach their goals. The document
specifies that those groups resorted to "provocative actions" and called for the
modification of the legislation in order to reach their separatist goals, under
the pretext of wanting to create a "European-type legislative framework."

Large-scale trafficking operations

The Romanian intelligence service says it identified large-scale smuggling and
tax evasion operations in our country last year, as well as attempts to create
"bridgeheads" for drug trafficking networks in Romania. The report indicates
that organized crime groups from the former Soviet Union, acting in connection
with Romanian citizens, are changing the names and quality of the oil products
that they trade.

Another conclusion in the report is that illegal VAT recovery continues to be an
important source of illicit income.

Stan accuses CSAT of breaking law

PSD [Social Democratic Party] Deputy Ion Stan, secretary of the Parliament's
Commission for the Control of SRI Activity, accuses the Supreme Defence Council
of the Country (CSAT) of having violated no less than six laws with the decision
on declassification it passed in July. Stan characterized as "unprecedented" the
fact that a constitutional authority officially asked the SRI and other
institutions in the national security system to break the law and become
"instruments of political dispute."

Ion Stan also said the declassification of certain files that can affect the
security interests of some of Romania's allies should only be possible after
consultation with the respective allies, even if they meet the legal
requirements. Stan estimates that the CSAT is not legally authorized to create
or assign classification categories, and therefore it is also not authorized to
declassify the files referred to in July. "I am asking the permanent bureaus of
the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate to examine the situation, decide on the
measures necessary to restore the seriously violated constitutional order, and
prevent the illegal use of the SRI for purposes of political revenge," Stan
writes in his letter.

Source: Adevarul, Bucharest, in Romanian 21 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                          September 27, 2006 Wednesday

Boy, 8, in dog attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 0

LENGTH: 468 words


A launderette  "looked like a  slaughterhouse"  when an  eight-year-old  Torquay
boy sought  refuge there after being bitten by a dog  on Babbacombe  Road.

The dog, an Alsatian-collie-cross, was  put down 24 hours later  as the boy
underwent  an operation to mend  the serious facial injuries he suffered.

He has since undergone another operation  as well as a skin graft  in the wake
of the traumatic ordeal.

The youngster, who  has not been named,  had been with an older  friend outside
the  Clean n Dry launderette when the dog  bit him in the face,  causing
injuries to his  top lip and left eye.

One of the first on the  scene was launderette  cleaner Bert Bunch  who said:
"My neighbour heard someone  screaming and I ran  out.

"I saw the woman  with the dog who I  knew very well. She  was up against the
wall  with the dog, and surrounded by a gang of  young men who  seemed to be
gunning  for her. It wasn't her  fault."

Mr Bunch, who was  82 on the day of the  attack on September  17, added: "The
boy  was taken into the  launderette for his own  safety. Inside looked  like a
slaughterhouse.  There was blood everywhere.

Comfort

"I had to leave my  mop in bleach  overnight after cleaning up."

He was able to comfort the dog walker  with a cup of tea in his  maisonette
after the incident.

"It was not her dog.  She was walking it for  the owner, who had  him destroyed
the following day," said Mr  Bunch.

Neighbour Amanda  Beard, 29, said: "It was  the worst thing I had  ever seen.
The launderette went from being white to red. There  was a massive chunk of  lip
clinging on to his  face. Everybody was  rushing around helping."

She added: "A man  was comforting the boy  and calming him down.  I didn't know
him but  he did a brilliant job  while we waited for the  ambulance.

"When they took the  lad away I just cried  because it could have  been my
seven-year-old  daughter. The boy's  mother was afterwards  very grateful to
everyone who helped."

The youngster was  rushed by paramedics  to Torbay Hospital  where he was
detained  overnight before undergoing the first of  three operations.

Emergency services  were called to the scene  just before 6.25pm on  the Sunday.
Details of  the drama have only  just emerged.

Earlier this week a  five-month-old baby  was mauled to death by  two
rottweilers at a pub  in Leicester after being  dragged from her cot  by one of
the guard  dogs.

Both dogs were later  destroyed.

A police spokeswoman said the Torquay  victim spent several  days in hospital
before  being allowed home.

"It's understood the  lad asked the woman  walking the dog if he  could stroke
it. When  he bent down to do so  he was bitten on the  lip," she said.

She confirmed that  the owner of the dog, a  local woman in her late  50s, had
contacted police to confirm the dog  had been put down.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 28, 2006 Thursday

Italian commander in Kabul sees propaganda motive for rising terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 353 words


Excerpt from report interview with Colonel Mario Giacobbi, commander-in-chief of
the Italian contingent in Kabul, by Marco Nese, headlined "They want to blow up
Kabul, the political heart of the country", published by Italian newspaper
Corriere della Sera website on 27 September

"They are people who want to go back to the Middle Ages." Col Mario Giacobbi,
head of the Italian contingent in Kabul, puts the terrorists down as
"reactionaries who are afraid of modernization".

[Corriere della Sera] But why are they now hitting Kabul, which was spared for a
long time?

[Giacobbi] Because Kabul is the political heart. It is clear that we are
witnessing an increase in tension here in the capital. And I believe that at the
source of this phenomenon there is the desire to take aim at target able to
attract a lot of attention. For the terrorists, making themselves look active in
Kabul is a form of considerable propaganda.

[Corriere della Sera] Is it your feeling that the number of terrorists in the
Kabul area is increasing?

[Giacobbi] Let us say they are striking with greater virulence. In my opinion,
they are not just Taleban. Also other groups which, as I was saying, want to
prevent the Karzai government from stabilizing Afghanistan. They want to
maintain a feudal type system.

[Corriere della Sera] The attacks are now being carried out with roadside bombs,
a technique thought up by the Iraqi terrorists.

[Giacobbi] But here they do not need to learn from others. They are resorting to
techniques tried in the past against the Soviets. It is just that they are
adapting, figuring out more refined systems. [Passage omitted]

[Corriere della Sera] There has been a lot of talk about the possibility that
the Italians, in particular the special forces, may be used in the south in the
war against the Taleban.

[Giacobbi] We do not consent to the use of the Italian troops in the south in
deference to what was the government decided. Nor, moreover, has there been any
request so far to deploy Italian special forces in the southern area. [Passage
omitted]

Source: Corriere della Sera website, Milan, in Italian 27 Sep 06

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                          September 28, 2006, Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Families of terror attack victims to sue NatWest over charity funds

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 252 words


FAMILIES of victims of terror attacks in Israel are set to sue NatWest over
claims it has allowed supporters of Hamas to raise funds on its website.

The UK-based charity Interpal, which is also known as the Palestinian Relief and
Development Fund, has rejected the link.

But it was named as a "specially-designated global terrorist" by the US
government in 2003.

And now NatWest, which is owned by the Royal Bank of Scotland, has lost its bid
to have relatives' claims for compensation thrown out of a US court.

The case was first filed by 15 American families in a federal court in Brooklyn,
in January. The group claimed that NatWest enabled Interpal to raise funds on
its website - knowing it was breaking US anti-terrorism laws which defined the
charity as a terrorist organisation.

But NatWest said when the case was filed that the British Charity Commission had
found Interpal had done nothing wrong.

US District Judge Charles Sifton said the bank's arguments, including that
transactions took place long before any attack occurred, were not strong enough
to dismiss the case. He said: "Because each attack was preceded by at least one
relevant transaction by NatWest, plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged that each
attack was proximately caused by NatWest." The claimants include relatives of
victims of a suicide bomber on a bus in Jerusalem on August 19, 2003.

A spokeswoman for NatWest said: "It is important to remember that Interpal has
been fully cleared following investigations by the UK Charity Commission."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                     September 29, 2006 Friday 12:58 PM GMT

Al-Qaeda and Iraqi were behind Madrid terrorist attacks: report

LENGTH: 249 words


MADRID (AFX) - The war in Iraq and Al-Qaeda provided the stimulus for the March
11, 2004 terrorist attacks in Madrid which left 191 dead and 1,900 injured,
according to a Spanish secret police report quoted on Friday by El Pais.

'The thinking (behind the Madrid attacks) is the same as that followed by the
Al-Qaeda strategists and those behind the war in Iraq,' the 443-page report from
the intelligence agency said.

The report recalled the threats made by 'Al-Qaeda leaders like (Osama bin
Laden's right-hand man Ayman) al-Zawahiri' in 2003 against the countries which,
like Spain, were taking part in the international military coalition led by the
United States in Iraq.

'Spanish troops in Iraq and Spanish interests outside Iraq were chosen as
targets for terrorist attacks,' the report said, recalling the threats made at
the time against Spain by bin Laden.

The attacks took place three days before Spanish general elections on March 14,
2004 and contributed to the surprise win by the opposition Socialist party led
by Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero against the incumbent conservative party led by
Jose Maria Aznar, an ally of US President George Bush.

newsdesk@afxnews.com

afp/wj

COPYRIGHT


Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.

The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News Content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.

AFX News and AFX Financial News Logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2006 AFX News Limited

                              271 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                     September 29, 2006 Friday 8:00 PM GMT

McAVOY PASSED OUT FILMING TORTURE SCENE AFTER TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: MOVIE

LENGTH: 200 words


Actor JAMES McAVOY was so traumatised when he filmed a torture scene for new
movie THE LAST KING OF SCOTLAND on the same day suicide bombers hit London's
transport system, he passed out.

The star had to shoot the graphic sequence, in which his character appears to be
hanged from his nipples by meat hooks, in the UK just after hearing about the
tragic events of 7 July 2005, in which 52 innocent people lost their lives.

McAvoy says, "The torture scene was the hardest day of the shoot really because
we had a bombing in London and nobody could get through to families and friends
and loved ones.

"It was terrifying and at the same time we had to film this ridiculous torture
scene which felt so wrong at the time but we had to do it so we did it.

"When we did the first take I passed out completely. In the script it says
Nicolas refuses to scream even though he's been tortured. So I thought how could
I not scream? If I don't breathe because I'm in so much pain then I won't be
able to actually scream because there's no breath to vocalise with so I did that
(held my breath) and I just did that a little bit too long.

"And with the whole hysteria of the day and the chaos of that day it made me
pass out."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2006 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                               September 30, 2006

Girl, four, in park dog attack terror

LENGTH: 59 words


A girl aged four has been attacked by a Staffordshire bull terrier while walking
with her mother in a park.

Two brown Staffordshire bull terriers, which were not on a lead, ran up to her
in the park in Dibden Purlieu, Hampshire, earlier this week but only one jumped
at her face causing injuries. The injuries were minor and did not require
hospital treatment.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday

Radiation alert stations axed despite fear of terror attacks

BYLINE: VIC RODRICK

SECTION: HI 04; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 322 words


AN early-warning network of radiation detectors has been axed - because of cash
cutbacks.

All 32 Scottish local authorities joined the Local Authority Radiation
Monitoring Network shortly after fallout from the 1986 Chernobyl power plant
disaster in Ukraine contaminated large areas of the country.

The sampling stations were designed to give warning of radiation clouds from
similar nuclear accidents or 'dirty bomb' attacks by terrorists, so danger zones
could be evacuated.

But Tony Reynolds, the Local Government Association official in charge of the
UK-wide network, admitted last night: 'That capability has now gone.' He added:
'This wasn't just an early warning system. It also helped to ensure that
councils had the right knowledge and experience to deal with incidents involving
radioactive material.

'We thought it was important that the emergency protection people had that sort
of expertise and the capability for advance warning, but radiation is very low
down on the list of priorities at the moment.'

The South of Scotland, a large area around the Black Isle in the North-East, the
island of Arran and parts of Central Scotland are still covered by sheep
restriction orders imposed after the Chernobyl disaster.

Animals are tested twice a year by government scientists and those with
radioactive contamination above 1,000 becquerels are marked to ensure they do
not enter the food chain.

In February, 13,600 sheep on ten farms were still covered by the emergency
rules.

Glasgow City Councillor David Stephenson, chairman of Nuclear-Free Local
Authorities in Scotland, claimed he had been 'fobbed off' by officials in
Westminster and Edinburgh when he asked for cash to keep the network operating.

He said: 'Ministers are talking about potential terrorist attacks on nuclear
power stations and we've seen events like the 7/7 attack on London, yet for the
sake of Pounds 100,000 a year we've got to shut this network down.' END

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 2, 2006 Monday

S Korean paper decries "terror attack" on chairman, vows not to remain silent

LENGTH: 317 words


Text of report in English by South Korean newspaper Choson Ilbo website on 2
October

The terror attack against Chosun Ilbo honorary chairman Bang Woo-young is a
reminder of the state of the society we live in, and of the environment in which
the press must carry out its mission to make the truth public. In today's South
Korea, terrorists calmly fade into the landscape after attacking an elderly
couple in their late 70s on a busy street corner in the suburbs of Seoul in
broad daylight. They shattered the car window made of 5mm-thick tempered glass
with a brick, the shards of glass scattered in the car testifying to their
lethal intent.

Violence against the press in the authoritarian era was mainly carried out by
henchmen of the state. But the current ruling class use violent language to
abuse and malign media critical of it, and their weapons are the harsh
terminology and institutional violence of unreasonable legislation, wielded in
an attempt to alienate readers from critical dailies. The pro-government media
and groups fan the blind hatred of the critical press, the most constant target
in a politics of hatred whereby the administration stokes the fires of class
conflict by dividing society into "us" and "them", causing one side to throw
stones at the other. The extreme result was the attack against Bang Woo-young.

The objective of terror against the press has ever been to gag it. The attack on
Bang was a frantic threat against the Chosun Ilbo, because this newspaper will
not remain silent in the face of verbal attacks, manipulation of public and
wrongful legislation. Whatever the danger, we will not stop calling right what
is right and wrong what is wrong. Because the moment the media stops saying what
it should for fear of violence and terror, the press will be forsaken by its
readers and the truth will be blacked out.

Source: Choson Ilbo website, Seoul, in English 2 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            October 2, 2006, Monday

Putin raises stakes in spying row with attack over 'state terrorism'

BYLINE: Tony Halpin

SECTION: OVERSEAS NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 742 words


Russian President accuses Georgia of acting like Stalinists with the arrest of
four soldiers, writes Tony Halpin

PRESIDENT PUTIN of Russia accused Georgia of "state terrorism" yesterday and
said that its leaders had behaved like Stalinists as relations between the two
countries worsened over a spying row.

Mr Putin said that events surrounding the arrests of four Russian soldiers in
Georgia last week reminded him of Stalin's notorious henchman Lavrenty Beria,
who ran the secret police at the height of the Soviet leader's purges.

Mr Putin's remarks were calculated to be highly insulting because Beria, like
Stalin, was Georgian. The KGB chief routinely had people killed or arrested on
trumped-up charges at Stalin's behest.

He was also notoriously violent and would cruise the streets of Moscow looking
for young women to rape and occasionally kill.

The remarks were the first by Mr Putin since Georgia arrested the men for
suspected espionage last Wednesday. A court in Tbilisi formally charged the four
with spying on Friday, and ordered them to be detained for two months, along
with seven Georgian citizens accused of treason.

Under Georgian law, espionage is punishable by up to ten years in prison.
Georgian officials have broadcast videotapes that they say showed that the
servicemen were intelligence agents gathering information about military
installations, a charge dismissed by Moscow.

Russian ministers and media have reacted furiously to what they regard as the
latest in a series of provocations by President Saakashvili.

Moscow recalled its Ambassador to Tbilisi and evacuated scores of diplomats and
their families in an emergency airlift on Friday.

Russia has blocked the issue of any new visas for Georgians and advised Russian
citizens not to travel to the former Soviet state. Mr Saakashvili has accused
the Kremlin of hysteria, saying that there was no threat to the security of
Russians in Georgia.

Sergei Ivanov, the Russian Defence Minister, has accused Georgia of using the
crisis to create a pretext for regaining control by force of two breakaway
regions, Abkhazia and South Ossetia, which are patrolled by Russian peacekeeping
troops. Many of the people in both regions have Russian passports.

Mr Ivanov has also compared the events in Georgia to the Stalinist terror
campaigns, saying that they reminded him of 1937, the year in which thousands of
people were sent to the labour camps.

The dispute has plunged relations between Georgia and Russia to their worst
level since Mr Saakashvili was swept to power in the Rose Revolution of November
2003.

He has clashed repeatedly with Moscow since then in his pursuit of pro-Western
policies, including membership of Nato that are intended to pull Georgia out of
the Russian orbit.

Mr Saakashvili has accused Russia of trying to overthrow his regime and of
supporting the separatists in Abkhazia and South Ossetia. World leaders have
urged both sides to exercise restraint. Russia has appealed to the UN Security
Council to condemn Georgia, but the United States and Britain have objected to
the wording of its resolution.

Georgia is vulnerable to economic pressure because it depends on Moscow for gas
supplies. Russia's electricity monopoly controls much of the power grid.

Gela Bezhuashvili, the Georgian Foreign Minister, said that Moscow was
attempting to exert pressure to secure the transfer of money from Georgians
working in Russia.

An estimated one million Georgians in Russia send £ 1 billion a year to
relatives at home, helping to keep its impoverished economy afloat.

The Russian military has responded to the crisis by halting moves to withdraw
troops from its Soviet-era army bases in Georgia, which are due to close in
2008.

* AN INSULT FROM HISTORY

* Lavrenty Beria, left, was born on March 29, 1899, near Sukhumi in the
Abkhazian region of Georgia. He became the most enthusiastic torturer and
executioner that Stalin had

* During and after the Second World War he was in charge of Soviet intelligence
and counter-intelligence and the Gulag camp system

* In those years about half the 20 million non-military victims of the Stalin
era died, including most of the Soviet intelligentsia. Without Beria, many would
have survived

* He was "tried" and shot dead in an army bunker in suburban Moscow on December
23, 1953

* The Kremlin ordered Beria to be expunged from history. Entries in each Soviet
encyclopaedia were replaced with an entry on the Bering Sea provided for the
purpose

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 3, 2006 Tuesday

Bomb attack shows "law of terror" rules Kosovo - Serbian Coordination Centre

LENGTH: 300 words


Text of report by Serbian independent news agency FoNet

Kosovska Mitrovica, 2 October: The terrorist attack against Zecir [Zeqir]
Zurapi's family in Gornje Rapce village in Gora municipality, in which his house
was destroyed by a large quantity of explosives, is a fresh message to the
international community that law of terror over all non-Albanians rules in
Kosovo-Metohija, the Coordination Centre for Kosovo-Metohija has said.

Ethnic Gorani [Albanian speaking Muslim Slav] Zecir Zurapi, a former adviser for
minority communities to the chairman of the Coordination Centre for
Kosovo-Metohija, was a carefully chosen target by the top echelon of Albanian
separatist and terrorist, a statement says.

The statement notes that as the coordinator for Gora municipality, but also
before this, Zurapi resisted attempts by the Albanian authorities in Pristina to
annul the Serbian Ministry of Education curriculum in Gorani schools. He enjoyed
supported by the majority of his fellow Goranis in this.

The statement adds that because of this primary and secondary schools for the
Goranis have been under a unique blockade for a month due to a decision by the
Education Ministry in [Kosovo Prime Minister] Agim Ceku's government, who
intends in this way to force the inhabitants of Gora to cut off all their ties
with Belgrade.

The attack last night, like the previous ones, shows that only lip service is
paid to the proclaimed concept of multi-ethnicity in Kosovo-Metohija, the
statement adds.

The coordination centre warns the international community to assume
responsibility for events in Kosovo-Metohija, as well as for securing basic
conditions for life, for respect of human rights and liberties of Serbs and
non-Albanians in Kosovo-Metohija.

Source: FoNet news agency, Belgrade, in Serbian 1559 gmt 2 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   vnunet.com

                             3 October 2006 Tuesday

US internet 'highly resilient' to terror attack

BYLINE: Robert Jaques

LENGTH: 465 words



HIGHLIGHT: Simulation shows resilience even if key nodes were knocked out


The internet infrastructure in the US would still be able to function even if
terrorists were able to knock out key physical network hubs, researchers have
claimed.

According to academics who have completed a simulation of a major attack on the
US internet infrastructure, it would be "very difficult" to cause major
disruptions across the country.

However, the research reveals that the destruction of some key elements could
"seriously degrade" internet quality.

"When it comes to the internet, there is strength in numbers," said Morton
O'Kelly, co-author of the study, and professor of geography at Ohio State
University.

"There are so many interconnections within the network that it would be
difficult to find enough targets, and the right targets, to do serious damage to
internet reliability nationwide."

O'Kelly conducted the study with Hyun Kim, a graduate student at Ohio State
University, and Changjoo Kim, assistant professor of geography at Minnesota
State University.

The results were published in a paper entitled Internet Reliability With
Realistic Peering in a recent issue of the Environment and Planning B journal.

The researchers developed computer simulations in which they studied a
simplified nationwide internet network.

In order to make the study more manageable, the researchers used just five of
the more than 30 major commercial internet backbone providers, and three of the
nation's major public access points in Chicago, Dallas and San Francisco.

They then simulated disruption or failures of parts of the network to see what
would happen to internet connectivity between 946 pairs of cities.

The researchers assumed that not all the backbone providers in a network node
would be disabled at once, and that peering agreements would allow at least some
internet traffic to continue flowing.

As would be expected, results differed greatly depending on the number and
specific parts of nodes that were disrupted in the simulations, O'Kelly said.

For some city pairs, disruptions in nearly a dozen specific nodes would not make
much difference in internet reliability, but a disruption in a single critical
node would cause major problems.

And such critical nodes may be different for any particular pair of cities. That
was largely because there were many separate paths for internet traffic to
travel between the two cities, O'Kelly said.

Moreover, traffic could be routed through any of three of the major hub cities,
all of which were highly reliable because of the peering agreements between the
internet backbone providers.

"There is a rich web of connections in these internet nodes, and a hit on a
single city node or even several of them is not likely to wipe out internet
connectivity," O'Kelly said. "Major damage could still be done, but it would be
very difficult."

LOAD-DATE: 06 October 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2006 VNU Business Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Lynn News and Advertiser

                                October 4, 2006

Kids' terror as ex attacks mum

LENGTH: 366  words


TWO young children were left terrified in their own home when their mum's
jealous ex-boyfriend smashed his way in and attacked her.

Derek Foster (22), c/o 63 Westmark, Fairstead, Lynn, kicked down the kitchen
door and grabbed Susie Neilson before throwing her on the floor in front of her
daughter, aged eight, and two-year-old son.

He was sentenced to 18-weeks in prison, suspended for two years, and ordered to
complete a domestic abuse programme when he appeared before Lynn magistrates on
Wednesday.

The teary-eyed call centre worker was also ordered to pay £642 compensation for
Miss Neilson's injuries and damages to her house, as well as £200 costs.

Foster originally denied assaulting Miss Neilson in her Lynn home on May 3, but
changed his plea to guilty on the day of his trial last month. He also admitted
criminal damage and threatening behaviour.

Prosecuting, Richard White said although Foster believed they were still
together, Miss Neilson told police they split up two months previously.

On the night of the incident, she was at home with her children and a male
friend when Foster came around and let himself in the back door.

When the defendant saw the friend he tried to punch him but missed. Miss Neilson
managed to get Foster outside and bolted the back door, but moments later he
started chucking the children's toys at the house.

"He was saying he loved her and that he was sorry, but when she refused to let
him back in he started kicking the door down," said Mr White.

He continued until the door ripped off its hinges, and then leapt back inside.

A statement from Miss Neilson said: "My children were terrified. He started
pushing me about and kept saying 'sorry' and 'babes'."

He pushed her to the ground twice, leaving her badly bruised on the arms. He
only stopped when she said she was going to call police.

Her statement to police said she felt "vulnerable and scared", and now suffers
panic attacks and nightmares and has to take anti-depressants.

In mitigation, Jackie Upton said the situation had got out of control but Foster
takes full responsibility for what happened.

"He is extremely remorseful and is thoroughly ashamed of his behaviour," she
said.

amy.collett@lynnnews.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Mansfield Chad

                                October 4, 2006

Yobs launch 3-hour night-time terror attack on social club duo

LENGTH: 229  words


FURIOUS bosses at a Mansfield social club have slammed the thugs who caused up
to £1,000 worth of damage and left a trail of destruction during an
early-morning attack yesterday.

John Prescott and his finance Hilary Hutchenson say they sheltered in their flat
above Newgate Lane Social Club as the vandals subjected them to a terrifying
three-hour ordeal -- which saw the gang daub paint across the property and smash
windows with bricks.

Yesterday Mr Prescott told Chad that the thugs did leave the scene after
beginning their wrecking spree at around 2.30am, but returned to continue before
eventually leaving at 5.30am.

"They put one window through which woke us up, but then they went away because
they knew that we would call the police," he said. "They then came back on
several occasions throughout the night to do another window or throw more
paint."

The couple say the club has been targeted by thugs on three separate occasions
since Hilary's dad Lyn Deakin took over the business in January this year -- but
Mr Prescott said they were determined not to be beaten and hope to fit CCTV
cameras to improve the situation.

"What's upset us most about the attack is that we have worked non-stop to bring
the club forward this year," Mr Prescott told Chad.

"We have built up a really good client base but there is always someone out
there who wants to spoil things for everyone.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sunderland Echo

                                October 4, 2006

Student's attack terror

LENGTH: 386  words


A TEENAGE girl was kicked, punched and bitten in a vicious, unprovoked attacked
by a man and two women as she walked down a street near her Sunderland home.

Michelle Cuthbert. 17, was walking along Neville Road, Pallion, with friends, on
Monday at about 9.30pm, when a woman in her 20s, who she didn't know, came
running out of a house shouting and swearing.

Michelle, a health and social care student at Bede College, said: "The next
thing I knew she had just jumped on me and started hitting me."

With the help of her friends the teenager broke free, but as she was trying to
run away a man and a woman, both believed to be in their 40s, came out of the
same house and grabbed Michelle, pinning her down and beating her.

She said: "They were nipping and biting me and pulling chunks out of my hair.
They were kicking my face and head and the man was punching me in the stomach as
well."

Eventually Michelle managed to break free from her attackers and run for her
home in Cossack Terrace.

Her mum Lynn, a domestic nurse at the Royal Hospital, said: "She was in
hysterics. She was crying and her eye make-up was running over her face. I was
terrified about what had happened to her."

Michelle, a former Pennywell schoolgirl, said: "It was a terrible ordeal and I
am still very shaken by it and in a great deal of pain. It didn't sink in at
first what had happened, but by the time I got in the house I started being sick
and was dizzy."

The teenager was taken to hospital and had to undergo numerous x-rays because
doctors thought she may have suffered severe head injuries.

Michelle, who has a twin sister, Amanda, and two brothers, Gavin, 15 and
10-year-old Callum, was left with cuts and bruising, bite marks, a chunk of hair
missing, and a stiff neck.

Lynn said: "It is frightening when you can't even walk around without getting
attacked. Michelle will probably be too scared to go out now and I'll be even
more worried when she does."

Lynn said she has lived in the Pallion area for more than 30 years and used to
love it, but over the past few years it has become an awful place to live.

Michelle said she has no idea why the trio attacked her, but she believes they
had been drinking.

A spokesman for Northumbria Police said: "We can confirm that we have received
an allegation of assault and are making inquiries into it."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 5, 2006 Thursday

Two Algerian policemen said wounded in terrorist attack

LENGTH: 209 words


Text of report by Madjid T.: "Two policemen wounded: Attack in Naciria
(Boumerdes) published by Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 5 October

Two policemen were wounded the day before yesterday [ 3 October] at about 2200
hours in an attack committed by a terrorist group from the Salafi Group for Call
and Combat [GSPC] on the edge of the city of Naciria 30 km east of Boumerdes
[some 35 km east of Algiers]. As their targets the terrorist group, made up,
according to our sources, of three armed elements who had come on board a white
vehicle, took policemen on duty at a roadblock set up by the side of the highway
on the eastern edge of Naciria. According to witnesses, two citizens were also
slightly wounded while they were trying to flee.

The intervention by reinforcements from the security forces forced the
terrorists to beat a retreat before fleeing under cover of night. The two
wounded policemen were transferred to Tizi Ouzou's hospital, and their days are
not in danger, our sources added. Moreover, it has been learned that two
terrorists have surrendered these past three days, with weapons and luggage, in
Dellys, and another terrorist was captured by the security forces in Sidi Daoud.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 5 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                 New Scientist

                                October 7, 2006

Fortress America?;
Despite spending a fortune on biodefence, the US appears as vulnerable as ever
to a concerted terrorist attack. More effective defences could be developed and
deployed, but not without a change of strategy by the federal government

BYLINE: Debora MacKenzie

SECTION: NEWS; Special Report; Pg. 18-21

LENGTH: 2335  words


IT was the nightmare many had been expecting. Five years ago, hard on the heels
of 9/11, someone sent anthrax spores through the US mail to journalists and
politicians. Five people died, and at least 17 more got sick. The culprit was
never caught.

This relatively unsophisticated attack confirmed fears, already growing in the
US, that with a bit more effort a determined bioterrorist could spread disease
and mayhem across the nation. To combat the threat, the Bush administration
launched an unprecedented biodefence effort. To date it has spent $44 billion -
three-quarters of it aimed at protecting civilians - on new organisations,
training, and buying existing remedies such as the classic smallpox vaccine.

Has this massive spending made Americans any safer? According to experts at the
Center for Biosecurity at the University of Pittsburgh, the answer is no. Last
month, they announced that the US remains unable to defend itself against any
anthrax attack involving more than a few envelopes. So what has gone wrong?

The centrepiece of the administration's biodefence effort is Project BioShield.
Launched in 2004, it is designed to turn drug companies into defence
contractors, delivering products to counter potential bioweapons. Project
BioShield has $5.6 billion to spend by 2014 on drugs to be stored in what is
known as the Strategic National Stockpile. Yet, contrary to expectations, the
pharmaceutical industry has not beaten a path to Project BioShield's door. The
sluggish response has prompted a bill in Congress, expected to pass this year,
that attempts to make BioShield more industry friendly .

Missing the point

Yet many biosecurity specialists say these adjustments do nothing to alter the
fact that Project BioShield may be missing the point. They see problems in two
crucial areas: the limited range of pathogens that BioShield is targeting, and
inadequate plans for deploying the countermeasures it does have.

On the face of it, BioShield's underlying strategy seems sensible. Normally
companies don't make remedies for the rare diseases thought most likely to be
used as weapons, as there is no profit in it. So BioShield promises companies
that it will buy particular drugs and vaccines for the threats it fears most, in
theory giving the companies an incentive to do the rest.

Why, then, has the response so far has been so unimpressive? Project BioShield
has awarded contracts for seven products, worth $2 billion. Two are for
antibody-based therapies for botulism and anthrax. One is for 10 million doses
of the military's existing anthrax vaccine - a concoction of bacterial debris
whose alleged side effects have led some soldiers to prefer court-martial to
vaccination. The single biggest slice of funding, $878 million, has been pledged
to VaxGen of Brisbane, California, for 75 million doses of a purer,
new-generation anthrax vaccine. An order is also expected for 20 million doses
of an improved smallpox vaccine from the Danish firm Bavarian Nordic, while
Project BioShield has provided $4 million to universities to fund basic pathogen
research.

This is new territory for a government agency, which may explain the slow start.
"The government has never done anything like this before," says Brad Smith of
the Center for Biosecurity. The Department of Homeland Security must first
decide what "designated threats" to target - and then the Department of Health
commissions drugs or vaccines designed to protect against them. So far the
diseases it has picked extend to anthrax, botulism and smallpox.

This targeted "one bug, one drug" approach is, however, seen by some biodefence
specialists as fundamentally misguided. Ken Alibek, head of the Soviet and then
Russian bacterial weapons programme until 1992, says it allows attackers to
create pathogens that evade or resist each remedy as fast as it is developed.
"Based on the former Soviet model, it takes three to four years to engineer a
drug-resistant or more virulent pathogen," he says. "It takes 10 to 15 years to
develop a vaccine and have it approved." Jonathan Tucker of the Center for
Nonproliferation Studies, a think tank in Washington DC, agrees. "It is myopic
to focus on the designated threat organisms," he says, "especially when the
bigger threat is probably from natural disease."

A better approach, these critics say, would be to aim for broad-spectrum
remedies that work against many different bacteria or viruses. That would be
more cost-effective, offer a blanket defence against terrorists whatever their
choice of bioweapon, and come with the huge additional benefit of protecting
against natural diseases too. "If something works for flu and for bioweapons as
well, why not do that?" says Tucker.

BioShield has not pursued broad-spectrum remedies, partly because it is not
allowed to fund anything that might be profitable in its own right. But
according to Tucker, drug firms aren't making broad-spectrum antivirals
precisely because they don't see them as profitable. "This is the sort of market
failure that governments are supposed to step in and remedy if it is in the
public interest," he says.

The Department of Defense, which provides biodefence for soldiers rather than
civilians, seems less inhibited. This year it started awarding research grants
under the new Transformational Medical Technologies Initiative, which aims to
attack the common structures and functions of pathogens. That should lead to
remedies effective against many organisms, including emerging diseases or
genetically modified bioweapons.

James Joyce of Aethlon Medical in San Diego, California, which makes a device
that removes viruses from blood, hopes this signals a new direction for Project
BioShield. "The DoD's recent shift to broad-spectrum post-exposure therapeutics
will set the tone for changes in BioShield, or perhaps new legislation," he
says. Some companies already involved in BioShield seem to agree. PharmAthene is
merging with Siga Technologies, based in New York City, which is developing
broad-spectrum antibacterials as well as a promising smallpox drug.

Whatever countermeasures are developed, they will be pointless unless they can
be delivered in a timely and effective way. This is the second area where
critics say Project BioShield falls short. While the federal government buys and
stockpiles biodefence remedies, more than 3000 separate state, city and tribal
administrations are expected to deliver them to the US population in an
emergency, and the public health agencies they rely on to do the job have been
underfunded for decades. The chaotic response to hurricane Katrina last year
showed how easily state and local resources can be overwhelmed in the absence of
help from Washington.

The Center for Biosecurity estimates that state public health departments have
received an extra $4 billion since 2001 to equip labs and hire epidemiologists
and "bioterrorism coordinators". Similar amounts have gone to hospitals and
local governments for bioterrorism "preparedness". Despite this, it says
hospitals' capacity to absorb an unexpected surge of patients from an attack -
or an epidemic - has not improved, because relatively little money has been
spent on that aspect.

Research by Tucker and Andrew Grotto of the Center for American Progress,
another Washington DC think tank, shows far more effort is required. "Only seven
states and four cities have the capability to administer stockpiled vaccines on
a large scale," Tucker says. More than half of all Americans live in states that
have no plans for dealing with large numbers of casualties from any cause, he
adds, and only two states have plans for encouraging medical personnel to report
for work during an outbreak of contagious disease.

The bill now before Congress attempts to address some of these problems. It
creates a new assistant health secretary for public health, improves planning
and equipment for medical emergencies, and provides $1 billion a year funding.
But this may not be enough to solve the delivery problem, or give hospitals the
capacity to deal with a surge in patients.

An additional problem is that most vaccines have to be given well before any
outbreak or bio-attack. Yet vaccinating the general population against every
likely bioterror agent is a prohibitively expensive non-starter, Alibek says. So
vaccines developed under BioShield - one for Ebola is likely - would probably
only be used after an attack, to keep the disease from spreading to uninfected
people. That means planning in advance where to go and who to vaccinate, and
having enough people on the ground to do it - preferably people who are
themselves vaccinated. None of these conditions is met by any of the US's
overburdened public health agencies, for any of the diseases considered the most
likely to be exploited in a bio-attack. An effort to create such a corps of
responders by vaccinating healthcare workers against smallpox failed in 2003 (
New Scientist , 23 August 2003, p 6).

Any vaccine also carries some risk, however small, of side effects. If a
vaccination drive were to be launched against a threat that failed to
materialise, people who suffered side effects might feel they had been damaged
needlessly, and sue the vaccine maker. That happened after 1976 when thousands
of Americans were vaccinated against a swine flu epidemic that never occurred.

With this in mind, at the end of last year Congress made a last-minute addition
to a big defence bill that would require anyone filing a lawsuit against
manufacturers of biodefence medications to prove deliberate negligence - a more
stringent test than for most such suits. To make up for this, the law also
introduced an entitlement to compensation for people damaged by such products.
What it has not done, however, is set aside money for the compensation fund, and
that, Tucker says, could discourage people from accepting BioShield treatments.

All is not lost. The bill now before Congress mandates research into new tools
and methods for developing drugs and vaccines, not just the drugs and vaccines
themselves. That may go some way to moving Project BioShield's focus away from
the "one bug, one drug" strategy and on to a broader spectrum of remedies. But
it does little to solve the problems of how to get any remedies out to the
potential victims of a bioweapons attack. Nor does it mandate stronger safety
trials that might help identify side effects of any new therapies, and so give
the public a better idea of the risks and benefits of the drugs and vaccines on
offer. For now, the authorities appear bent on building a stockpile of silver
bullets against imagined enemies that may not work or may never be needed.

Into the valley of death

Debora MacKenzie

Though underpinned by government contracts, Project BioShield was conceived as a
model of free-market economics. The financial risk is borne by commercial
contractors, while the government pays only when it gets the goods. That model
now looks to be failing.

For the big pharmaceutical companies, funding ought not be a problem. They have
the financial resources to back long, expensive drug development, especially if
they know there's a buyer at the end of it. Yet the big guns have been ignoring
BioShield.

The reason, say industry analysts, is that even with a promise of government
purchase, biodefence drugs are only ever a one-time sale into a stockpile, or at
most a few sales of replacement drugs to keep it topped up. That's small
potatoes compared with an asthma or impotence drug that can be sold at a high
price to millions.

Small firms, by contrast, are happy for any business they can get, and so far
all BioShield's contractors have been small, innovative biotech firms. The $878
million contract for anthrax vaccine, BioShield's biggest so far, went to
VaxGen, a company that has never sold a product. From a technical standpoint,
this is not a problem, as start-ups are often where the real innovation is.
Financially, it can be a different matter.

It can take years and hundreds of millions of dollars to bridge the gap between
early blue-sky research, funded by research agencies, and the pay-off from sales
- a gap dubbed the "valley of death" by the industry. "I can assure you, the
valley of death is real, and it is long and treacherous," Lance Ignon,
vice-president of VaxGen, told New Scientist . The company ran into difficulties
with its anthrax vaccine formulation, and solving the problem pushed back its
delivery date a year. Then BioShield hit it with new requirements for testing,
Ignon says. All this has made finding finance for the tests ahead harder, and
the company is now seeking a higher product payment to compensate for the extra
work.

Bridging the gap

Not all companies have had the same searing experience. "We have never
experienced a valley of death," says John Langstaff, chief executive of Cangene,
based in Winnipeg, Canada. His firm has already sold US authorities
antibody-based treatments for side effects from the smallpox vaccine, and in May
won a BioShield contract to supply 200,000 doses of an antibody that combats
botulinum toxin. The company got late-stage development funding from the US
Centers for Disease Control and other sources.

A provision of the new BioShield bill aims to help others in a similar way, via
a new Biodefense Advanced Research and Development Agency (BARDA). This will
bring the Department of Health closer to the way the Department of Defense does
business through its DARPA research agency, which famously gave birth to the
internet. BARDA will be a council of experts that will coordinate the
development of biodefence measures. It will help contractors through the valley
of death by paying them for reaching certain milestones, such as getting the
product to clinical trials. BioShield has already begun to embrace that
approach: in its contract with Maryland-based PharmAthene it has promised an
initial $35 million for the first clinical trials of its anti-nerve gas drug, as
well as the eventual purchase of 90,000 doses.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


 Copyright 2006 Reed Business Information, UK, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                            October 8, 2006, Sunday

RAPIST STRIKES DAYS AFTER BEING RELEASED;
EXCLUSIVE TERROR OF TEEN VICTIM ATTACKED BY SEX FIEND FREED FROM JAIL EARLY

BYLINE: By CHARLES LAVERY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 482 words


A RAPIST attacked a young girl less than 48 hours after release from jail.

John McDougall terrorised his victim after serving just five years of a 15-year
sentence for raping another teenager.

He plied his most recent victim, who was 15, with cannabis joints then told her
he would stab her if she screamed.

The serial sex attacker only fled when the girl's screams alerted passers by.

McDougall, 25, of Irvine, Ayrshire - where he carried out his previous attack -
was jailed for a year last week after pleading guilty to a heavily-reduced
charge of seizing the girl and placing her in a "state of panic".

McDougall's victim, now 16, had been living at Dalrymple Drive children's unit
in Irvine at the time.

He had originally been charged with attempting to kiss her and repeatedly
threatening to stab her, covering her mouth, trying to drag her into bushes and
attempting to abduct her.

Sheriff Iona McDonald said she was reducing the sentence from 15 months to a
year because of his guilty plea to the reduced charge.

His victim, who could not identify McDougall, told Kilmarnock Sheriff Court a
man approached her and offered to buy her cigarettes and cannabis. She said they
walked in the grounds of the Irvine campus of Kilmarnock College.

But the man wanted to go round the back so the CCTV camera would not see them.

The girl added: "I was getting freaked out by him wanting to go round the back.
I wanted to go home."

She said he tried to kiss her as she fended him off and went on: "I said, 'What
are you doing?' And he said, 'What do you think I'm doing? If you scream I'm
going to stab you right through the side'.

"He wanted to pull me into the bushes but I didn't want to be raped. Once I
started screaming, he took off."

The court heard McDougall, a father of one, had been released from Peterhead
jail just two days earlier.

He had served just five years of a 15-year sentence for raping a 19-year-old
woman in November 2000.

The factory worker pounced on the teenager after an all-day drinking binge on
Buckfast.

He picked his victim in the town centre and marched her behind a garage at
knifepoint. He pushed her against the wall and forced her to perform a sex act.

He then raped her and forced her to commit another sex act at knifepoint.

Local MP Brian Donohoe last night said he was horrified McDougall had carried
out the attack two days after being released early from prison.

The Irvine MP said: "This is a man who should not be out on the streets.

"I despair that our system has let another innocent victim down."

A Victims Support spokeswoman said: "We are becoming increasingly alarmed at the
early release of dangerous prisoners into our communities.

"The courts are leaving the door open for even more law-abiding citizens to
suffer horrifically at the hands of people who should be behind bars."

'I despair.. our system let her down'

MP BRIAN DONOHOE

SUNDAY EMAIL

c.lavery@sundaymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Scene of terror: The campus where monster McDougall enticed his latest
victim

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           October 12, 2006, Thursday

TARTAN ARMY IN SKINHEAD TERROR;
NEO-NAZIS LAUNCH ORGANISED ATTACK IN KIEV FANS DEFY VIOLENT THUGS TO PARTY ON

BYLINE: By Craig McDonald

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 455 words


THE Tartan Army came under a hail of bricks and bottles on their way to last
night's game against Ukraine.

Local skinheads pelted Scots fans in what appeared a planned attack in Kiev an
hour before kick-off.

The Tartan Army's unofficial standard bearer, Spud the Piper, was hit by a brick
in the attack.

He was piping about 1000 Scots fans to the stadium when the attack happened.

Spud, 40, of Aviemore, said: "I was piping away when I was knocked off my feet.

"I looked around and saw these guys armed with two bottles each throwing them at
us.

"The missile hit me on the side of the head.

"I believe if it wasn't for the bearskin hat it could have killed me.

"The police arrived minutes later and the Ukrainians ran off.

"The group that attacked were skinheads out looking for violence but the
majority of the people here are friendly and have welcomed us.

"We are all a bit gutted after losing the game but won't let that get in the way
of a party before we fly home."

Another Tartan Army member said: "It happened out of the blue as we were walking
to the game.

"Around 100 neds started launching bricks and bottles at us. At least one fan
seemed to go down and take a few kicks.

"It's a bad shock. But the Scots fans kept singing throughout it and launched
into a chorus of 'We're only here for the football'."

About 3000 Scotland fans were in Kiev's 83,000-capacity Olympic stadium for the
Euro 2008 qualifier.

After the match, locals sickened by the thugs' attack applauded the Scots as
they were escorted by riot cops from the stadium to the city centre.

Many spoke of disgust at what had happened and Scots and Ukrainians then mingled
in bars buying each other drinks.

Earlier, Scots fans refused to shift when police tried to force them from Kiev's
Independence Square. Pubs and kiosks were closed as cops feared a repeat of
violent scenes the night before.

But the Tartan Army returned with carry-outs and partied on.

One fan said: "We kept the party going. The locals love us anyway. They were
taking pictures of us in our kilts. The bagpipes were playing and it was great."

Meanwhile, more details emerged of Tuesday night's violent ambush on Scots fans.

One Scotland fan said: "It was a well planned assault.

"We hear the gang just thought it would be a high-profile way to give publicity
to their nonsense.

"They were just idiots out to try to make a name for themselves."

Another said: "There's a problem with neo-Nazis in this country, who tend to
attach themselves to football teams and it's not the first time visiting fans
have come under attack."

Derek Kirkwood, security adviser to the SFA, said: "The Scotland fans were
magnificent and did not react to the provocation."

'It happened right out of the blue as we were walking to the game'

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCUFFLES: A Scotland fan gets caught up in clashes with Ukrainians
before the game. Earlier, Scots supporters were set upon in Kiev's main square'
NAZIS: Gangs went for the fun-loving Scots fans, far left ROB CASEY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Suffolk Free Press

                                October 12, 2006

Rottweiler in terror attack on runner

LENGTH: 247  words


A terrifying attack by a Rottweiler left a runner badly shaken and bleeding
during a sporting event.

The large dog bit into the runner's arm as he took part in a trail race running
through Polstead from Stoke-by-Nayland.

The man was rushed to hospital to have the wound seen to.

Despite his ordeal, friends say he does not want the dog destroyed.

John Carter was running with fellow Colchester Harriers Athletic Club member
Gary Abbott when the attack occurred.

Mr Abbott said: "A man was walking his two Rottweilers when they came running
towards John. The owner tried to call them back but they wouldn't listen.

"We were running on a public path and they were big dogs. They looked a bit
terrifying running along. One of them managed to get past a fence and bit John
on the arm, piercing his skin.

"He was in shock after it and had to go to hospital."

Mr Carter, a professional upholsterer, was taken to a walk-in medical unit in
Colchester and treated against tetanus.

"John was badly shaken but he said he didn't want the dog destroyed," said Mr
Abbott.

The attack follows much publicised tragedies involving the breed. In one, a
five-month-old baby in Leicester died after being savaged by two Rottweilers.

Suffolk Police confirmed the attack took place on a public footpath near Bell's
Corner in Polstead on Sunday morning.

A spokeswoman said: "We have been told who the owner is and believe it happened
on a public footpath.

"We will make contact with him and our investigations are ongoing."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 13, 2006 Friday

Pakistan police arrest "militant suspect" planning "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 161 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 13 October

Lahore: Police on Thursday [12 October] arrested a militant suspect who was
allegedly planning terrorist attacks here on the eve of Id ul Fitr.

A Model Town Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) team arrested Muhammad Umar
Abdullah Sindhi, who allegedly has links with Al-Qa'idah, as he got off a bus at
Lorry Adda. He was carrying four hand grenades.

A special police team headed by DSP Umar Virk was deployed to Lorry Adda in
plainclothes after police received a tip that a militant was arriving from Wana
with a plan to carry out bombings in Lahore.

Initial interrogations established that Sindhi, 29, is from interior Sindh and a
resident of Dadu district. Sindhi also reportedly gave police the addresses and
names of accomplices in his plot for attacks in Lahore on the eve of Eid. Police
conducted raids at several places but found nothing.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 13 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 13, 2006 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

FANATIC ADMITS BOMBS FRENZY;
Muslim terror boss plotted attacks in UK and America

BYLINE: by BILL MARTIN

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 396 words


A MUSLIM who plotted to cause terror in the UK by planting "dirty" bombs in car
parks has admitted conspiracy to murder.

Indian-born Dhiren Barot, 34, intended to pack limousines with explosives and
radioactive material.

He then planned to blow them up in underground car parks, causing "injuries,
fear and chaos".

He also plotted to slaughter thousands in the US by orchestrating a series of
bomb attacks.

The targets were the IMF and World Bank buildings in Washington, the New York
Stock Exchange and Citigroup buildings in New York and the Prudential building
in Newark.

The plans were discovered on computers seized after the arrest of Barot and
others on August 4, 2004.

Prosecutor Mr Edward Lawson QC told Woolwich Crown Court, south London, that the
UK plot was aimed at affecting 500 civilians.

It involved packing three limousines with gas cylinders and explosives.

He said: "The radiation project, if carried through, would have been unlikely by
itself to cause death as opposed to causing considerable fear, panic and social
destruction."

But he said of the targets in America: "These were plans to carry out explosions
and they were plainly designed to kill as many innocent people as possible."

Barot, with a short beard and wearing a cardigan and polo shirt, pleaded guilty
to one count of conspiracy to murder.

In a statement after the hearing, Patrick Stevens, for the Crown Prosecution
Service, said outside court: "Barot's plans were to inflict damage, destruction
and death on a vast scale.

"He has pleaded guilty to one of the most serious criminal offences and he will
now have to face an equally serious sentence. This guilty plea reflects the
strength of the case put together by the Anti-Terrorist Branch, counsel and the
Crown Prosecution Service's Counter-Terrorism Division."

Other terror charges, including one count of conspiracy to commit a public
nuisance and 11 other charges under the Terrorism 2000 Act, were ordered to be
left on file.

The other 11 charges included possession of computer files, notebooks, DVDs and
videos that related to terrorist activity. Barot will be sentenced later.

Mr Justice Butterfield said:"Mr Barot will become the first Muslim terrorist to
be sentenced for so grave an offence as conspiracy to murder.

"It is likely to attract very considerable debate and discussion."

Seven British nationals are awaiting trial on similar charges.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MASTERMIND: Dhiren Barot

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            October 13, 2006 Friday

News: Dirty bomb was part of plot for terror attacks in UK: Man pleads guilty in
court to planning mass murder: Attacks in Britain and US included car bombings

BYLINE: Rosie Cowan, Crime correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 707 words


A British Muslim yesterday admitted plotting mass murder through a series of
terrorist outrages in the UK and the US that were "designed to kill as many
innocent people as possible".

In one of the few major successes for anti-terrorist investigators since
September 11, Dhiran Barot, 34, also admitted planning to use a radioactive
dirty bomb in the UK that would have caused "injury, fear, terror and chaos", a
court heard.

Among the other targets for the synchronised bombings were landmark financial
institutions in New York and Washington.

Another of his plans involved blowing up three limousines, packed with flammable
gas cylinders and explosives, in underground car parks somewhere in Britain. The
locations were not specified.

Prosecutors told Woolwich crown court how Barot, of Willesden, north-west
London, was arrested in August 2004 and how details of the plans to target a
series of high-profile buildings were found on a computer. Edmund Lawson QC, for
the crown, said the buildings included the International Monetary Fund and World
Bank buildings in Washington, the New York stock exchange and Citigroup
headquarters in New York, and the Prudential premises in Newark, New Jersey.

"These being plans . . . to carry out explosions at those premises with no
warning, they were basically designed to kill as many innocent people as
possible," said Mr Lawson, outlining the basis of Barot's plea.

The plan to detonate limousines full of explosives and gas cylinders - the "gas
limos project" - was to form the "main cornerstone" of a series of attacks in
the UK, added the prosecutor.

Kenyan-born Barot, who moved to Britain with his Indian parents as a child and
is believed to have converted to Islam as an adult, also wanted to set off a
dirty bomb made up of radioactive material.

Mr Lawson said that, according to expert evidence, this would have been unlikely
to cause fatalities by itself, but was designed to affect about 500 people, and
raise widespread panic and social disruption.

"The project was, on its face, designed to achieve a number of further and
collateral objectives so as to cause injury, fear, terror and chaos."

Mr Lawson said three additional projects, including the dirty bomb plan, were
designed to be executed in a "synchronised, concurrent and back-to-back way"
with the main gas limos project. "The gas limos project was supplemented by
three other projects which were presented for consideration, the first being as
it was described the 'rough presentation for radiation or dirty bomb project',"
said the QC. "The defendant's expressed preference was that the radiation
project was designed to be an independent project on its own."

The crown did not dispute claims from the defence that no funding had been
received for the plots, nor had any of what would have been the necessary
vehicles or bomb-making equipment been acquired.

Armed police stood guard outside the courtroom and prison officers surrounded
Barot as he appeared in the dock behind high transparent screens.

He had a short beard and was wearing a khaki-coloured zip-up sweater, black
shirt and jeans.

The court clerk said: "On count one of this indictment you are charged with
conspiracy to murder. The particulars of the offence being that on diverse days
between January 1 2000 and August 4 2004, you conspired together with other
persons unknown to murder other persons. Do you plead guilty or not guilty?"

Barot stared intently ahead and showed no emotion as he answered: "I plead
guilty." Mr Lawson said Barot had indicated that he pleaded guilty in respect of
count one against him, which concerned both the US and the UK.

Barot had also faced 12 other charges: one of conspiracy to cause public
nuisance, seven of making a record of information for terrorist purposes, and
four of possessing a record of information for terrorist purpose.

Following the defendant's guilty plea, the judge, Mr Justice Butterfield,
ordered all 12 to lie on file. He will sentence Barot at a later date.

Mr Lawson said that by pleading guilty, Barot "makes no admission with regard to
the involvement of any of his seven co-defendants in the conspiracy". Seven
other men, who deny all charges against them, are due to face trial next year.

guardian.co.uk/terrorism>

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           October 14, 2006 Saturday

BACK TO PEAK FORM;
When TV reporter FRANK GARDNER was paralysed in a terrorist attack, he had just
one goal: to take his children skiing again. Here is how he did it . . .

BYLINE: FRANK GARDNER

SECTION: ED 1ST STH; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 1362 words


FOR THE long months that I lay in hospital, recovering from my Saudi bullet
wounds with tubes and catheters sprouting out of me like a porcupine, I
harboured a dream: I would go skiing with my children.

They had been so young when we first took them with us to the Bavarian Alps just
weeks before the terrorist attack that cost me the use of my legs.

Melissa had been six and had charged undaunted down the nursery slopes of
Garmisch; Sasha had been five and had never ventured out of the little snow
garden.

But when I finally emerged from hospital, we decided we could not let what had
happened to me prevent us from going skiing as a family. There was nothing for
it, I would have to learn paraplegic or 'adaptive' skiing.

At first sight, it looked completely daunting. A picture in a disability
magazine showed a young man squashed into a contraption shaped like a bucket
balanced on a single ski. He seemed to be on the verge of toppling over on his
side but in each of his hands he gripped an outrigger, a mini-ski on the end of
a mini ski pole. These appeared to be keeping him upright but it was hard to
tell; his smile looked a little forced.

So where to learn the art of legless skiing? The charity BackUp offered courses
in Sweden and Colorado, while another, Disability Snowsport UK, suggested I join
them in Andorra.

Instead, I opted for an obscure training course run by the British Army at its
Adventure Training Centre at Sonthofen in Bavaria. Once a year, the centre runs
a course for civilian disabled skiers, specifically for a dozen blind and
partially blind Irish from both sides of the border.

BLIND skiing? Surely not, I thought, this must be a windup. In fact, it was an
inspiration. After a cautious start, the blind Irish were throwing themselves
down the blue slopes, guided only by the occasional shout from their guides who
skied just behind them. 'Left! Turn left!

Tree coming up on your right!' The only time I saw one of them wipe out
spectacularly in a snowdrift she was laughing so hard she couldn't get up.

'Will you just stop yakking and get me out of here!' she called out to her
guide.

By night, they drank and sang until the small hours. I thought: well if they can
ski without seeing where they're going, then my getting down the slope in a
'sit-ski' should be a walk in the park.

My instructor was Andrea, and she was blonde, Bavarian and paraplegic. An
extreme ski enthusiast, she had broken her back on a near vertical slope a few
years ago but had resumed her racing career without the use of her legs.

Now she sat beside me on the snow, perched in her own sit- ski as the first
snowflakes of an incoming blizzard blasted on to our cheeks.

'First you must find your balance,' Andrea said. I was feeling distinctly
claustrophobic, strapped in as I was into this high-tech bucket. 'You must think
of yourself as being in a giant ski boot,' she went on.

'The tighter the fit, the more control you will have.

'It helps to be fit for this sport,' she added. Leaning on one of the
outriggers, Andrea windmilled her other arm to get the muscles working.

'We call these outriggers " flikflaks",' she explained. It was a clever device:
her elbow slotted into a loose brace while her hand curled round a grip that had
a string attached. When she tugged on the string, the mini-ski on the end folded
up flush with the ski pole so she could then use it to propel herself up the
slope.

'Are you ready to try out the slope?' she asked. I was. Off we went, slowly
picking up speed as our monoskis slid unseen beneath us. I could hardly believe
it: I was skiing again!

Before I knew it, I had reached the bottom of the slope and the drag-lift.

But now came the hard part: negotiating the lift.

At the front of the sit-ski was a strap, which I now handed to the lift operator
who hooked it over the T-bar on the lift. This way I could be pulled up the
slope, using the flik-flaks on either side to keep me upright.

All right, but what would happen at the top?

On the side of the sit-ski was a quick release catch. I had to reach forward and
bang this catch hard, releasing the strap and allowing me to slide away.

It didn't always go smoothly.

When the lift operator wasn't paying attention and failed to slow the draglift,
I was seconds away from being dragged up the mountain had it not been for Pete
May, the commandant of the Adventure Training Centre.

He rescued my dignity by launching himself in a flying rugby tackle and
unhooking me.

AFTER a couple of runs down the slopes of Bavaria I made a welcome discovery. I
could actually turn quite effectively with my body, by stretching out an arm,
planting a pole then flicking my hips sideways to carve an edge with the ski.

As I had been given a very short ski - just 150cm long - I found I could turn
quickly and my only problem was turning too far up the slope then sliding
gracefully backwards downhill.

By the end of the week I had tackled the red slopes, encouraged by an ex-SAS
sergeant with an infectiously can-do attitude.

I returned from Germany with a newfound confidence and a ridiculous Bavarian
felt hat, awarded to me in the bar on the last night for demonstrating a degree
of cojones on the slopes I didn't know I had.

'It's a tradition here,' said the instructor with a grin. 'You have to wear it
all the way home, even through Stansted Airport.' Now I was trained up, we were
ready for our family ski holiday but where to hire the equipment?

Having booked a last-minute week at Klosters with friends I found there was not
a sit-ski to be found in the whole resort.

Through Mike Browne, the paraplegic founder of the outdoor clothing company Snow
& Rock, I finally tracked down a source in Surrey. Bob Greig was an RAF
parachute jump instructor whose chute had failed to open properly back in 1988
and has been in a wheelchair ever since.

An avid paraplegic skier, he did not seem like a man who let his disability
bother him. In his Guildford garage, he rented me a brand new Praschburger, a
state-of-the-art Austrian sit-ski that fitted like a glove and which Swiss
International Air accepted onboard as cargo without complaint.

I have to say that going skiing in a wheelchair is quite a business, and it is
not something I would ever attempt without help. Just the simple business of
hauling the sit- ski into the airport is not something you can manage from a
wheelchair.

When we emerged from Zurich airport, my worst fears were confirmed: despite the
travel agents' assurances that there would be suitable transport on arrival, I
now stared at a leviathan of a coach.

We asked the Swiss driver how I was supposed to get up the steep steps into it
if I couldn't walk, but he just shrugged and strolled off for a cigarette.

My two friends had to take either end of me and drag me up.

At the resort we were in for another surprise. The Hotel Alpina in Klosters is
delightful but it is by no stretch of the imagination a ski-in, ski- out resort.
To access the family ski slopes, we had to wait for a bus, which I had to be
tipped up into in my wheelchair, then tipped up again into the cable car for the
750m ascent to the slopes.

It felt pretty odd to be in a wheelchair on a ski slope but we soon had me
transferred into the sit-ski or 'bobski' as they called it in Switzerland.

After just six days training, I felt like an old hand at this.

I threw myself at the slopes while our children went to ski school. Then, on the
final day, it all came together. Under a cloudless Alpine sky, our family
cruised down the slopes together.

To ski once more, with my daughters now on either side of me, was like a dream
come true.

It had been a long hard journey from intensive care to Klosters, but at that
moment it was worth every ounce of effort. Life does go on after spinal injury.

TRAVEL FACTS

FOR more information, contact: Disability Snowsport UK (01479 861272;
disabilitysnowsport.org.uk); Disabled ski hire bobgreig@ impossibledream.org.uk;
Swiss Ski School (00 41 814 102828; sssk.chn).

Frank Gardner's book, Blood & Sand - a personal account of his 25 years of
Middle Eastern experiences, culminating in his being shot by Al Qaeda in Saudi
Arabia - is published by Transworld.

Get great ski deals at thisistravel.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COOL IN KLOSTERS: FRANK GARDNER (ABOVE WITH DAUGHTER MELISSA) DID NOT
LET DISABILITY PREVENT HIM FROM SKIING

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           October 14, 2006 Saturday

Comment & Debate: An explosion of delight: Mobile clubbing is more than a fad:
it delivers a joyous mirror image of a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Geoff Dyer

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 638 words


Everyone who was there - the dancers, the commuters; even, I suspect, the police
- would agree that this week's mobile clubbing event at Liverpool Street station
in London was magical. I'd heard about these happenings, and I loved the idea of
hundreds of people freaking out to their own personal stereos - and their own
choice of music - at a certain time and place, in silence. For one reason or
another I'd never been able to get along to one, but on Wednesday things worked
like a dream. An email instructed us to arrive at 7.15pm and then, as the clock
struck 7.24, to start dancing "like you've never danced before". On Wednesdays I
go to Norwich and get back to Liverpool Street at about 7pm, so I was a
perfectly placed double agent: a signed-up mobile clubber and an authentic
commuter.

By 7.05 there was already a subtle excitement in the air - or was it just me? In
Backward Glances, his history of gay cruising, Mark Turner writes about the
illicit thrill of gliding through the city, stealing glances at strangers,
looking for a reciprocal sign that someone else is out for the same thing.
That's how it was on Wednesday. Plenty of people had iPods, but that's normal.
I'd dart a glance: were they here for it or were they just catching trains? And
they'd look at me - that skinny, middle-aged, grey-haired guy with the rucksack?
No, not him.

7.18: the station was definitely busier than usual. The proportion of people
with headphones had risen. So had the number of young people wearing bright
T-shirts. 7.20: half of those on the concourse were fiddling with their iPods,
cueing up tracks. 7.21: I saw some of my friends. 7.23: everyone was looking at
the clock. And at 7.24 the whole place went completely crazy.

Any worries about feeling self-conscious were obliterated by having your
favourite music turned up sound-system-loud and by the fact that there were
hundreds of others doing the same thing. I assumed that everyone was dancing to
the same music as me - I'll keep that detail secret - but they could have been
rocking out to Hendrix, Shostakovich or James Blunt. It really was like being in
a nightclub - until you took off your headphones and saw that all these people
were gyrating, smiling and jumping in virtual silence.

Mobile clubbing is an offshoot of flash-mobbing, a fad that was predicated on
its ingenious pointlessness. The point of mobile clubbing is that an activity
normally reserved for special occasions and places - parties, nightclubs -
infiltrates daily life so thoroughly as to be indistinguishable from it. It has
the guerrilla quality of illegal raves but is totally legal.

It is, in short, a force for good. This has become more pronounced since the
London bombings last year. Stations are prime terrorist targets. You are going
about your business and, in an instant - boom! - everything is changed terribly
and irreparably. Mobile clubbing is a mirror image of a terrorist outrage. It's
organised with similar precision, the feeling of conspiracy is palpable, and at
the allotted time there is a detonation. Of joy.

Bystanders innocent of the plotting were caught up in this week's event at
Liverpool Street to the extent that some with personal stereos joined in. Others
looked on, bewildered but delighted. Quite a few missed their trains, but no one
was inconvenienced. A shockwave of happiness spread through everyone in the
vicinity. Most bizarrely of all, a few people danced without headphones.

It was still going strong when I had to leave at 8pm. I walked off, and within
seconds I was just a guy walking home, listening to his iPod. A few friends
stayed longer, but by 9pm it was all over. There was no mess to clear up. You
could have been forgiven for thinking that nothing significant had happened.

Geoff Dyer's most recent book is The Ongoing Moment dyergeoff@hotmail.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            October 15, 2006 Sunday

Muslim cleric assaulted in race attack at mosque;
Terror as man burst in armed with stone

BYLINE: ALLAN CALDWELL

SECTION: HI; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 460 words


AN Islamic cleric yesterday said he feared for his life after a racist attack at
his mosque.

Mohammed Shamsuddin, a religious Imam at the Dawatul Islam centre in Glasgow,
was left with head, leg and body injuries.

He was in his office and speaking to a female neighbour and her two children
when a man, described as white and in his late 30s, stormed in holding a rock.

He shouted at the cleric, asking why Allah would allow people to be stoned to
death in punishment rulings.

The man fled after the neighbour shouted for help. But he returned a short time
later when the woman had gone upstairs in the three-storey building in Oakfield
Avenue, Hillhead, which is also the Iman's home where he lives with his family.

He then ranted at the 53-year-old Imam before punching and kicking him. The
religious leader fell to the floor as his attacker continued the vicious assault
before fleeing.

The Iman called out for help and others in the building, who were making meals
following a religious fast, came to help him.

An ambulance took him to the Western Infirmary where he was treated for his
wounds.

Strathclyde Police confirmed they were treating the incident as 'racially
motivated'.

Yesterday Imam Shamsuddin said: 'I don't know why he would do this. I am okay
and my door will remain open. I don't want to think it will happen again but
some people do.' Worshippers who had gone to the mosque to break their fast
during Ramadan were said to have been horrified by the attack.

The mosque, established by members of the Bangladeshi community, is close to the
Glasgow University campus and is used by Muslim students.

The incident comes after a suspected fire-raising attack last week on a mosque
in Falkirk that caused Pounds 100,000 worth of damage.

The Imam said he did not believe the attack was political.

Speaking with his daughter at his side, he said: 'This was racial.

'This man was not happy with our religion.

'Some people were on the ground floor making food.

' I was in the office with my neighbour and her children when this man came in.
He shouted something about Allah and stoning.

'My neighbour was there and the man ran out but came back when I was alone and
started to punch me on the head and face.

I fell then he lifted a large banana box and threw it at me, hitting me on the
head.

'I fell again and he started kicking me on the body and head.

'Then he took a chair and tried to beat me but I was under the table and he
couldn't hit me. I started shouting and he ran.

'I do not think it was political but racist. I was frightened but it will not
affect my faith.' The attack happened around 6pm on Friday.

The attacker is described as about 5ft 8in tall, aged 35-45 with short, greying
hair.

He was wearing a blue jacket with a cream-coloured jumper and blue jeans.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORRIFIC: THE IMAM'S INJURIES FEARED FOR HIS LIFE: IMAM MOHAMMED
SHAMSUDDIN WAS SHOCKED BY THE ATTACK WHICH HE SAYS WAS CLEARLY RACIAL AND NOT
POLITICAL. ;RIGHT: POLICE OUTSIDE THE GLASGOW MOSQUE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 16, 2006 Monday

Top Philippine officials urge public to be vigilant against terror attacks

LENGTH: 369 words


Text of report by Paolo Romero entitled: "Public urged to be vigilant against
terror" in English by Philippine newspaper The Philippine Star website on 16
October

Following renewed threats of terror attacks, Malacanang [presidential palace]
called on the public to remain vigilant.

National Security Adviser Norberto Gonzales and Press Secretary Ignacio Bunye in
separate interviews stressed public vigilance is the nation's "first line of
defence" against terrorist attacks and criminality.

"If you see something (suspicious), say something," Gonzales said. "You can save
lives and property."

Bunye said the fight against terrorism is not played solely by the government
but all sectors affected by the threats.

He said the government is also increasing security in potential terror targets
that include civilian infrastructures.

"We all know that the most important linchpin in the fight against terror is the
vigilance of the people themselves," Bunye said.

"Let us not put more lives at risk when we can do something about the threat
posed by terrorists now," he said.

Bunye cited the case of the recent bombings in Cotabato and Sultan Kudarat where
the civilian population exerted all efforts to minimize the damage left by the
terror attacks.

Bunye also called on the business sector to actively cooperate with the
authorities in the fight against terrorism.

Bunye stressed there is no need to overreact on the reported terror threats. "We
must be alert but remain calm and sober," he said.

Gonzales also urged the public to heed the alert level system.

He explained the alert levels should remind the people of the degree of
vigilance required from them and accordingly take the necessary precautions on
the possible terror threats.

The government has implemented since last month four alert levels -low,
moderate, high and extreme.

Authorities have raised the alert levels in Mindanao to extreme while Metro
Manila alert remains moderate.

The military, however, implemented a red alert status on its troops in Metro
Manila against the possibility of a spill over of the bombings in Mindanao
attributed to the al-Qaeda-linked Jemaah Islamiyah and the Abu Sayyaf.

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 16 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 16, 2006 Monday

Russia: Official says international terrorists behind last year's Nalchik attack

LENGTH: 396 words


Text of Marina Yuryeva's report on The Caucasus Times website

Kabarda-Balkaria, 13 October: International terrorist organizations were behind
the attack on Nalchik on 13-14 October last year. This statement was made by the
first deputy head of the department to fight organized crime and terrorism of
the Russian Interior Ministry, Yuriy Kokov, at a conference at the republican
Interior Ministry to mark the anniversary of the terrorist attack.

"The leaders of the religious extremist bandit underground stuck to their plans
to use terrorist attacks as an instrument of pressure on the country's
leadership. They are continuing their war against us. On 14 September, the head
of the Cherekskiy District Interior Ministry department, Police Col Mustafa
Konakov, was brutally murdered, and on 23 September, a member of the UBOP
[department to fight organized crime] of the Kabarda-Balkar Interior Ministry,
Police Lt-Col Ali Tlekhugov, was seriously injured when his vehicle was blown
up," he said. At the same time, Kokov noted, not everyone can or wants to give a
principled assessment of the activities of the militants who attacked a peaceful
town.

"Other people prefer to see these events as a just public protest against the
oppression of worshippers by the authorities and, in particular, the
law-enforcement bodies. Some people want to impart a local character to the
planned large-scale terrorist attack and not to link the attack on Nalchik with
international terrorist centres who are operating against our country," Kokov
stressed. Meanwhile, he recalled, responsibility for the terrorist attack has
been openly assumed by international terrorist [killed Chechen field commander
Shamil] Basayev. The lieutenant-general stressed that international terrorist
organizations see the North Caucasus region as a bridgehead to destroy our
country's territorial integrity. It is they who are financing the terrorist
underground and forming its infrastructure in southern Russia and also helping
to spread extremist ideology in other parts of Russia.

Last year about 200 militants attacked 18 facilities of the power-wielding and
law-enforcement structures in Nalchik. Some 35 members of the law-enforcement
bodies and 12 innocent civilians were killed in the fighting and about 100 were
injured. Some 92 militants were killed.

Source: Caucasus Times, Prague, in Russian 13 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday

Threat of imminent terrorist attack in Czech Republic almost over - cabinet

LENGTH: 383 words


Text of report in English by Czech news agency CTK

Prague, 17 October: The security measures introduced by the government in
connection with intelligence reports that a terrorist attack may be threatening
will be gradually reduced, outgoing Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek told
journalists after a meeting of the National Security Council today.

The measures will no longer be as comprehensive as before, but they will last,
Topolanek said, adding that the risk of a terrorist attack in the Czech Republic
was probably over.

"At the moment, there is no immediate threat, but no-one will tell this exactly
because this would be very irresponsible," Topolanek said.

On 23 September, Topolanek's government had a special meeting at which it
approved reinforcement of security measures in Prague. They were prompted by
intelligence reports about a planned terrorist attack.

Police patrols and special units members have guarded dozens of buildings and
sites in Prague and monitored the situation in the streets.

According to the media, the terrorists wanted to seize Jewish hostages in
synagogues in Prague.

"We have said in the initial information that along with security character, the
measures were also preventative," Topolanek said. The police armed with
automatic rifles patrolling Prague streets were to deter attackers from their
intention. This was achieved, he added.

Interior Minister Ivan Langer (Civic Democrats, ODS) said that flat security
measures are being withdrawn but measures that protect individual sites remain
in force. He said the measures had changed already before, in accordance with
the information the government received about the potential threat.

Police spokesman David Kubalak said that the number of the police in Prague
streets would be lowered. "The police are reducing the amount of the forces and
means they have set aside for the police measure," he said. The information
available to the police has also revealed that the danger of a terrorist attack
has lowered, Kubalak said. "However, indispensable measures protecting Praguers'
health and property will be in force in the following days, too, and their
specific form and intensity will correspond with the assessment of security
situation," Kubalak said.

Source: CTK news agency, Prague, in English 1355 gmt 17 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday

Poll indicates rising fear of "terror attacks" in Germany

LENGTH: 220 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp

Allensbach: According to a poll, the fear of terror attacks in Germany is
greater than ever before. A poll by the Allensbach opinion research institute,
published on Tuesday, showed that 61 per cent of the population fear that
Germany could also become a target of international terrorism. On the other
hand, only one out of four (25 per cent) see no danger; 14 per cent were
undecided.

By contrast to the attacks in New York in September 2001 and in Madrid in March
2004, when the feeling of threat subsequently had abated, after the third
largest terrorist attack on the West, the attack on the London subway system in
2006, this feeling had remained, the poll shows. According to Allensbach data,
after the attacks in Madrid, the worry about attacks had reached a climax with
57 per cent and had dropped to 27 per cent by April 2005. But since then, fears
among the populace have risen continuously.

Moreover, the majority of the population (58 per cent) has the impression that
terrorists in Germany can go underground especially well. Almost half of all
Germans (46 per cent) opine that more must be done to "prevent terrorist
attacks." Between 1-13 September [2006], Allensbach polled 2,028 citizens of age
16 and older.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1243 gmt 17 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday

UK warns of further terror attacks in southern Philippines

LENGTH: 769 words


Text of report by Pia Lee-Brago, Aurea Calica and AP entitled: "Britain: RP
terror plot may be in final stages", published in English by Philippine
newspaper The Philippine Star website on 18 October

The British government warned yesterday that terrorists may be in the final
stages of plotting more attacks after a series of bombings in the southern
Philippines, and advised its citizens against travelling to the region. New
Zealand also warned its nationals against travelling to Mindanao and urged
vigilance against possible attacks elsewhere, including Metro Manila, as the
military and police tightened security across the area and nearby cities and
towns.

Local police have blamed Al-Qa'idah-linked militants belonging to the
Indonesian-based Jemaah Islamiyah and the local Abu Sayyaf groups for three
bombings in the south last week, including an 10 October attack that killed six
people and wounded 29 others during a town fiesta in Makilala, North Cotabato.
The US, British and Australian embassies had cautioned against travel to
Mindanao shortly before the attacks, citing credible information that terrorists
could strike.

Renewing their warning, British officials said more terror attacks could be
staged soon. "We believe that terrorists are in the final stages of planning
further attacks," a British embassy advisory said.

It said that "there is a high threat from terrorism throughout the Philippines
and the British government continue to receive reports that terrorist groups are
planning further attacks and believe that they have the capacity and the intent
to mount indiscriminate attacks at any time and anywhere in the country." It
added there was the risk of kidnappings of foreigners in resorts and terrorist
attacks "to all forms of public transport: road, rail, sea and air".

New Zealand's Foreign Ministry and Trade issued an updated travel advisory last
13 October urging its citizens to exercise caution when travelling to the
Philippines, including Manila. "There is extreme risk to your security
throughout Mindanao and the Sulu Archipelago including Basilan, Sulu and
Tawi-Tawi island groups. We advise against all travel there," the advisory said,
also citing the recent North Cotabato attack.

"There is some risk of terrorism and kidnapping and we advise caution. New
Zealanders should be very careful about personal security. New Zealanders should
exercise heightened caution and security awareness when travelling in the
Philippines."

Although some arrests of suspected terrorists have been made and the government
remains committed to combating terrorism and improving security, New Zealand
said terrorism continued to remain a threat. "We continue to receive reports
that terrorists are planning attacks that could occur at any time, anywhere,
especially in the southern Philippines and Metro Manila," it said. New Zealand
said extreme caution should be exercised especially in public places that are
vulnerable to possible attacks.

Japan also updated its travel advisory on the Philippines and asked Japanese
nationals to avoid unnecessary travel to Mindanao. Those already in the country
were advised to avoid crowds, public areas and places frequented by foreign
tourists.

Police in Metro Manila went on alert Tuesday and President Arroyo urged the
public to help report suspicious people and activities. "The authorities are on
top of the situation but they need the active support of the community to
safeguard the perimeters of peace and order," she said in a statement. "The
strong cooperation between vigilant public and our security forces will deny the
terrorists any room to carry out sinister plots," the president said, urging
local officials to tap neighbourhood barangay security men or tanods to prevent
terrorists from moving freely.

"I call for broader alertness in reporting suspicious activities, even as
calmness and sobriety mark our everyday work and livelihood," Mrs Arroyo said.
"Let us make this fight a responsibility and duty of one and all."

More checkpoints would be set up on roads, and security would be tightened at
malls and other public places, Defence Assistant Secretary Ricardo Blancaflor
said. Brig-Gen Mohammad Ben Dolorfino, commander of military forces in Metro
Manila, said two bomb makers from the Rajah Solaiman Movement (RSM), a group of
Christian converts to Islam, were believed to be hiding outside of the capital
and making bombs. The two were reportedly taking orders from the Abu Sayyaf and
were trained in bomb-making by the Abu Sayyaf and Jemaah Islamiyah, he said.

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 18 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 19, 2006

Simulated terrorist attacks for the Clyde

BYLINE: By GORDON THOMSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 130 words


SUICIDE bombers on jet skies race across the Clyde towards a nuclear submarine
which has just slipped out of the Faslane naval base.

It could be a dramatic scene from the television spy series Spooks, but it will
be a huge air and sea military exercise off the west coast of Scotland involving
4000 soldiers, sailors and airmen from 11 countries.

Operation Neptune Warrior will be held over two weeks. A fleet of warships,
three submarines, 11 helicopters and 32 fighter jets will also be used in the
military exercise to test systems and promote team working.

The countries taking part are the UK, America, Germany, Canada, France, Greece,
Turkey, Italy, Norway, Belgium and Denmark.

The exercise begins next Monday with simulated terrorist attacks on ships and
submarines on the Clyde .

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              298 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Leigh Reporter

                                October 19, 2006

'Scarface' clue to sex attacker after woman's late-night terror

LENGTH: 209 words


Two men who carried out a sex attack on a woman in a town centre street are
being hunted by detectives.

The 35-year-old had been for a night out and was walking home along Factory
Street in Tyldesley, when she was sexually assaulted by two men.

One of her attackers had a scar on his face and police hope this might help to
identify him.

They are appealing for witnesses and information to the incident which happened
at around 1.50am on Sunday (October 15).

The woman was walking home along the road when she was suddenly approached by
two men.

They grabbed her and sexually assaulted her before running off.

She has been able to give police a detailed description of one of her attackers
and police hope that someone may recognise his description.

He was white, 5ft 9in tall, in his late 20s or early 30s, with a bald or shaven
head and had a distinctive scar on his right cheek.

The man was wearing blue jeans, trainers and a brown and blue horizontal striped
jumper. He spoke with a local accent.

His accomplice was white, slightly taller and had short dark hair.

Anyone who has any information about the incident or recognises the description
of the offenders is asked to contact police on 0161 856 5307 or to call
Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Post Magazine

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday

Aviation - Flights of fancy.;
Aviation insurers have recently agreed to cover terrorist attacks such as dirty
bombs. Rachel Gordon asks if this will improve the market outlook.

SECTION: Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1214  words

DATELINE: UK


Fear of flying affects a fair proportion of air passengers. However, it seems
fear of talking to the press is an affliction affecting most of the aviation
underwriting market.

As one source says: "Since the sector was hit by an European Union investigation
over alleged cartel practices - which are thought to have occurred after 11
September - hatches have been battened down and most underwriters are refusing
to speak to the press."

Attempts were made without success to speak to Global Aerospace, Atrium,
Cathedral, Aspen and QBE, which, among others, are understood to write this
business, while others such as Beazley and Omega said they were not carriers.
However, it was recently revealed that aviation insurers will now provide cover
against terrorist attacks involving weapons of mass destruction or dirty bombs -
but only with a limited write-back - which means many insurance buyers will most
likely be seeking clarity in what they purchase. Whether they will meet a wall
of silence as well is unknown.

This war cover has been completed by the Aviation Insurance Clauses Group, a
group of market experts, and drafts of the new clauses are on its website, from
which it is also requesting consultation from interested parties. The group was
set up following the European Commission investigation. In 2005, its launch
statement said: "Leading European aviation insurers have undertaken to reform
their practices as regards the operation of aviation insurance in order to
promote more competition and transparency. The reforms foresee inter alia
greater transparency in key industry committees based in London, including one
that establishes standard wordings for aviation insurance policies and clauses."

Inclusive working

The AICG has been busy producing the new war clauses, which appear complex to
outsiders. However, according to Nicolas Hughes, senior partner with Barlow Lyde
and Gilbert's aerospace department, who is also on the AICG, this group has
promoted a more inclusive way of working.

"Representatives of buyers and the London Market Brokers' Committee have
effectively 'sponsored' draft clauses for consideration and participated in a
detailed review with AICG," Mr Hughes comments. "This has provided a more
transparent way for the development of standard form aviation insurance clauses
than was previously the case."

He adds: "The clauses may, from the viewpoint of third parties, represent
something of a landing point for buyers and insurers for the purposes of
distilling what cover is likely to be available in the market. The clauses can
define the risk in standard form but not the financial limit or sub-limit of
cover. The clauses, therefore, do not provide for any particular financial limit
or sub-limit of liability, this being a matter for the parties to negotiate, but
clearly the implementation of these clauses may define any requirement for
government schemes of insurance or other indemnity or for further industry
solutions.

"There will also have to be acceptance, subject to the limits of cover available
with these clauses, of the terms of write-back by those providing excess
third-party war cover. The availability of the wording will ascertain insurers'
appetite for financially limited cover for WMD risks, whether at all or for any
of them, and if so whether in a capacity sufficient for buyers."

If the AICG is a plus point for transparency, many of the goings on in the
industry remain opaque. However, Steve Doyle, a manager in the aviation and
aerospace division at Aon, is one of the few prepared to talk about the market.

He explains the new clauses were expected: "This has been a work in progress for
some time. We knew what was happening, and they won't be a shock to the market
or buyers. They will not probably come into force until 2007 and we won't know
the impact for another 12 months but, at this stage, they appear reasonable and
make sense."

He adds that insurers must impose damage limitation: "If you had a detonation at
a major airport, for example, you could well have large numbers of people
affected. It could be viewed as an attack against the state and insurers know
that and realise this is something they could not cover."

With Heathrow's Terminal Two being recently forced to evacuate passengers, it
would appear that there could be a market for some type of business interruption
insurance to cover for delays to flights. However, Mr Doyle says as yet there is
no demand for this.

The heightened sense of terror attacks has done nothing to dampen insurers'
appetites to write business, and, like so many other classes of insurance, the
aviation market is soft. According to Mr Doyle: "There is certainly no panic in
the market that an attack is imminent. The threat may be heightened but we are
more prepared. There is vastly improved security screening, better training for
airline staff and planes may also have sky marshals. This has been good news for
underwriters."

Safety record

If improved security is bringing benefits, insurance buyers are also spoilt for
choice in terms of the number of providers. New arrivals include insurance CV
Starr, which has set up Syndicate 1919 at Lloyd's and will be managed by
Marlborough Underwriting Agency, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway. QBE has
also launched an aviation syndicate within its Limit managing agency.

Max Re Capital has recently set up a dedicated aviation insurance unit,
operating from Dublin, and Lancashire Insurance Company recently obtained
authorisation from the Financial Services Authority. Finally, Inter Aero is open
for business, a managing general agency on behalf of Arch Insurance Company.

Airline insurance is profitable business and this is fuelled by the industry's
excellent safety record. According to a spokesman from broker Jardine Lloyd
Thompson: "Although accidents have happened, none have seriously affected the
balance sheets of either the direct market or their reinsurers."

As Mervyn Sugden, senior underwriter with Hardy Group, says: "The basic facts
are that there is too much capacity and significantly large rate reductions,
which will make it a sector that capital providers should be careful about.
Underwriters keep saying there will be no more reductions next year - but next
year never comes."

AVIATION INSURANCE - TRENDS FOR 2007

Barlow Lyde and Gilbert notes that new technology may make it possible for
mobile phones to be used on aircraft and current prohibitions to be lifted.

Airlines may also be paying more attention to in-flight employee health and
safety after a case in Hong Kong found Cathay Pacific Airways liable for an
injury to a member of cabin crew after a drawer of a bar cart fell on her knee.

Negotiations are taking place to find less expensive ways to cover the new
Airbus A380, the so-called 'super-jumbo'. Combined loss-of-life claims resulting
from a major disaster involving an A380 carrying 450 to 650 passengers could
exceed the current maximum $2bn (£1.08bn) payout offered by insurers, airlines
fear. It is believed that $3bn of cover will be required. Airbus 380 carriers
will include Singapore Airlines, Qantas and Emirates.

According to broker Jardine Lloyd Thompson: "The black cloud at the back of
underwriters' minds must remain the war market, where the greatest
unpredictability lies."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright 2006 Timothy Benn Publishing Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                October 19, 2006

Gang terror warning as boy attacked

LENGTH: 308 words


RELATIVES of a teenager left needing surgery after being attacked as he walked
home are warning of gangs of youths roaming a Sheffield suburb looking for
potential victims.

The family of the 15-year-old boy claim gangs in Hillsborough are well known and
have been responsible for a number of unprovoked assaults.

They fear some parents may not be aware of the problem and their children could
also be at risk.

Officers are investigating the incident involving the teenager, who needed an
operation to re-set his nose at the city's Children's Hospital, but claim random
assaults are not a common problem in the area.

The youngster was set upon by a gang of four youths shortly after getting off a
tram at Hillsborough Corner with a friend.

His grandmother said: "There are gangs of youths, like the one that attacked my
grandson, roaming the streets of Hillsborough night-after-night when it turns
dark.

"We are not talking about late at night either, we are talking about 8pm and
9pm, when there are teenagers still out and about who could find themselves
becoming their next target.

"It is as though they are just looking for one victim after another and don't
care who they end up beating up.

"My grandson said they only stopped attacking him when a police car drove past.
We dread to think what might have happened if it had lasted any longer.

"We want other families with teenagers to be aware that this is happening."

Acting Inspector John Kirkham, from the Hillsborough and Upperthorpe Safer
Neighbourhood Team, said police patrols have been stepped up and officers were
working on the Operation Mischief initiative in the area aimed at cracking down
on anti-social behaviour over the traditionally busy Halloween and Bonfire Night
periods.

Anyone with any information about the attack on the teenager at around 9pm on
September 29 should call 0114 296 4912.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 20, 2006 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

DASH TO RESCUE VIV TOTS;
SOAPER STAR - Terror of attack No.2

SECTION: COLUMNS; 36

LENGTH: 237 words


PANIC-STRICKEN Viv Hope will be at the centre of a shocking baby drama.

The mum-to-be is rushed to hospital in a race against time to save the lives of
her unborn twins.

Terrified Viv has a massive panic attack after the Post Office is targeted by a
gang of teenage thugs.

And the stress causes her to collapse and go into an early labour.

Banished Eli Dingle (Joseph Gilgun, 22) finds Viv doubled up in agony on the
shop floor and calls an ambulance during emotional scenes to be aired next week.

Deena Payne, 52, who plays the postmistress, said: "Viv's in so much pain and
knows it's far too early for the twins to be born.

"She's desperate to hang on to them."

The drama unfolds as heavily-pregnant Viv tries to get over being held at
gunpoint in the recent robbery at the Post Office.

She's left traumatised by the raid and demands that husband Bob (Tony Audenshaw,
41) installs a panic button which she quickly sets about testing while she's on
her own in the shop.

She's startled by noises and thinks she's under attack again - but it's just
troublemaker Victoria Sugden (Isabel Hodgins, 12) and her pals throwing eggs at
the window.

An insider revealed: "Viv and Bob are terrified as they race to the hospital."

SEXY Lucy Pargeter shows why she's set to drive the Emmerdale fellas wild. Lucy,
27, who plays Chastity Dingle, lures Eli (Joseph Gilgun, 22) into a game of
strip croquet to make Carl King (Tom Lister, 26) jealous.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 20, 2006

Police closing in on 'taxi' man over sex attack;
Good response after woman's terror assault

BYLINE: By DEBORAH ANDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 211 words



HIGHLIGHT: The woman was attacked after leaving the ABC


POLICE were today closing in on a sex fiend who attacked a young woman in a car
believed to be a taxi.

Detectives are chasing a number of leads after a good response from people
determined to get the culprit off the streets.

As reported in Wednesday's Evening Times, the 29-year-old was sexually assaulted
after getting into what she thought was a private hire car after a night out.

The woman, who is 6ft and was wearing jeans and a grey top, left the ABC club on
Sauchiehall Street around 12.20am on Sunday and was driven to acar park on an
industrial estate in Kelvinside.

She awoke to find herself being sexually assaulted by an overweight, balding man
who she fought off before fleeing.

One possibility is that the attack is linked to a private hire driver from the
Drumchapel area who is known for abusive behaviour.

DC Lyn Ferguson today said: "There are a number of key leads and this could be
one. We've had a great response. We're still urging a couple who helped her to
come forward."

Detectives are trying to establish whether the vehicle was a private hire taxi
or another vehicle.

Kenny McLeod, secretary of the Greater Glasgow Private Hire Association, said:
"Our message would be that it's worth waiting an extra five or 10 minutes for
the car you have phoned."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              303 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                            October 23, 2006 Monday

Tourist area rocked by terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 860 words


Makeshift roadblocks have been set up along the Matara to Galle coastal road as
a safety measure after Tamil Tiger rebels launched a suicide bombing against a
key naval base.

One man, believed to be a naval officer, was killed and two civilians were
seriously injured in the early morning incident on Wednesday and 30 people have
been injured.

It is the first time the terrorists have struck the Sri Lankan south coast since
the war began 22 years ago.

I was here in Unawatuna, Galle, at the time of the attack with Different Travel
Company, founded by Torquay-born Adrian Yalland.

The Tigers were seen to come in by boat, from the same waters which took the
lives of thousands when the tsunami hit two years ago.

But the 15 suicide bombers, disguised as fishermen in working vessels, came
deliberately - to cause havoc at Galle harbour and Dakshina Naval Base.

They were seen to plough explosive-laden boats into Navy vessels and launched
grenade attacks on the port city.

The explosion has sent ripples along the popular tourist coast.

En-route South an armed military official pulled our vehicle into a sandy lay by
and asked our driver for identification.

Glancing around the bus filled with white faces he nodded - a sign we could pass
through the makeshift roadblock of barrels and boards.

Natives weren't so fortunate - I saw queues building up on both sides of the
blockade while uniformed officials struggled to scan identification cards with
torches.

The roads were deserted of vehicles; a sign of the clamp down in the wake of the
attack.

Heather Jennings, Different Travel Company country manager, said: "They are
checking everyone who comes through. They have to because the Tigers could be
anywhere in the area."

Gamini Chandrasiri, 59, our driver during our stay here, said: "This has not
happened here before; many people are a little concerned."

Concerned they may be, but their resilience and ability to smile in the face of
adversity is awesome.

Were it not for the trail of devastation and poverty the tsunami left behind,
which is still glaringly obvious, a tourist could be forgiven for thinking these
people were some of the happiest on earth.

And they host us here with open arms, despite their country being riddled by
war.

As a member of the group said: "The people here and the children are so humble
and appreciative, despite everything they have been through.

"They have nothing but are willing to give everything."

And I thought not only of the rebel attack, but of the monument in Peraliya,
near where the rebels hit. It marks the spot of a mass grave where many were
buried, unidentified, after the tsunami killed 1,270 train passengers and 249
villagers.

At Gamini's home, I was shown video coverage of the death, devastation and the
burial, which has never been broadcast in the Western world.

A bangle-clad arm was wrapped around two tiny children and body upon body lay
scattered across the streets.

Survivors, covering their faces with rags, stepped over the bodies of families
and friends, dazed and confused.

The pain and shock people here have been through here is unimaginable and this
week's Tiger attack can only rub more salt into their wounds.

As Jaspal Dhillon, 37, a holidaymaker with the DTC group, said after hearing of
Wednesday's attack: "These people have seen enough. This is the last thing they
need."

And amid the war and the poverty, one thing is clear - these people desperately
need our help.

However, there is no evidence of the millions of pounds raised through the
Tsunami Fund being spent here, as Steve Cragg, DTC country manager said: "We do
not know where the money is, whether is has gone or if it has been frozen in
bank accounts. But we do know there is no evidence of it here."

Which is why it is crucial for company's like DTC to exist. They offer
holidaymakers to work with those affected by the tsunami to better their lives;
from building houses to teaching orphaned children English; directly inputting
into their lives and cutting out the "corrupt" middleman.

This week the Foreign Office warned: "There is a high threat from terrorism in
Sri Lanka. There is an increasing risk of British nationals and other foreigners
becoming caught up in attacks. These attacks are not confined to North and East;
recent attacks have also taken place in central and Southern Sri Lanka."

It is no wonder, in the wake of the recent attack and the FO warning; Adrian
continues to defend his company and the tourism industry here in Sri Lanka.

One Tsunami victim at a DTC project, initiated by Adrian said: "Thank you for
all the work you have done for us."

It is appreciated and valued - feelings natives never associate with their
government.

But being in the thick of the danger I do not feel concerned - the warmth of the
people here leaves you feeling nothing but protected - instead I feel as if I am
surrounded by family.

And as I leave here I am aware I can turn my back on the poverty, terrorism and
devastation caused by the Tsunami, but the people here can't. Their only
escapism and hope comes via tourists and volunteers - you can both through DTC.
A company which a traveller described as "inspirational and unforgettable".

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 25, 2006 Wednesday

Indonesian Poso police chief says "terrorists" carried out church arson attack

LENGTH: 514 words


Text of report by Veronkia Kusuma Wijayanti headlined: "Burning of church in
Poso involved 20 motorbikes and Molotov cocktails"; published by Indonesian
Detikcom website on 25 October; subheading as published

Poso: Central Sulawesi is continually caught up in conflict. The latest incident
was an arson attack on a church. Police said the attack involved 20 motorbikes,
Molotov cocktails and even powerful bombs.

The Eklesia Church, which is an affiliate of the Central Sulawesi Christian
Church, on Jalan Pulau Seram in Gebang Rejo, Poso, Central Sulawesi, was set
alight on 24 October 2006 at about 0015 local time. There were no victims.

Below is an interview given by Poso Police Chief Assistant Senior Commissioner
Rudi Sufariadi when he was contacted by Detikcom on Tuesday (24 October) in
Poso:

Was there shooting in addition to the arson attack on the church?

Yes, gunshots were heard. They rode motorbikes while shooting.

How many?

There were a lot of them, about 20 motorbikes.

It's Lebaran and it still isn't safe?

It is safe. But at that exact time we weren't at that particular location, we
were securing other areas, and then the church was attacked. We didn't expect
it; there haven't been issues with the church. But that's terrorists. They had
Molotov cocktails. They also had powerful bombs.

Who were the perpetrators?

It certainly looks like the other group.

When did police learn of the incident?

We found out when the fire started. But there were no victims.

Is there a connection with an exchange of gunfire between residents and police
and Brimob [mobile brigade] from two days ago?

We are still looking into it. We are being cautious about making arrests because
opinion keeps changing at the moment. Whoever we arrest, we will be accused [of
bias].

Are they a terrorist group?

They are a group of armed people. They have automatic, home made and manual
weapons. [We know] the type of weapons from the sounds that were heard.

On Sunday 22 October, there was an exchange of gunfire between residents and
police and Brimob who were conducting a raid in kelurahan [administrative unit
below sub-district] Gebang Rejo in Poso, Central Sulawesi. One resident was
killed, while two residents and one police officer were injured. Police refute
reports that they stormed a pesantren [Islamic boarding school] in the area and
claim it was the residents who attacked them with stones, home-made bombs and
firearms.

Witnesses

Meanwhile, Central Sulawesi Police Spokesman Assistant Senior Commissioner M
Kilat gave a similar account in Palu. The following is taken from an interview
with him:

Is it correct that there was an explosion at the time of the arson attack on the
church?

Yes, there were witnesses who said they heard an explosion.

And there weren't police on guard?

There were Brimob on guard, but they are mobile.

Were witnesses questioned?

Witnesses have been questioned but I can't yet reveal the number of witnesses
because the [case] is still developing.

What condition is the church in?

The back section of the church is burnt.

Source: Detikcom website, Jakarta, in Indonesian 25 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                          October 25, 2006, Wednesday
                               City Final Edition

Is Cardiff prepared for another terror attack?

BYLINE: Lauren Turner South Wales Echo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 321 words


Emergency service authorities have slammed a survey that said Cardiff was not
properly prepared for a major disaster.

According to a Reader's Digest survey, none of the main cities in the UK are
ready to deal with a terrorist attack, natural disaster, major industrial
accident or pandemic.

Cardiff was criticised for not having a comprehensive city-centre evacuation
plan and came second to bottom in the poll of 10 cities, joint with Edinburgh,
Glasgow and Sheffield. Liverpool came bottom.

But a South Wales Police spokesman said: 'This survey is factually inaccurate. A
comprehensive and well-rehearsed evacuation plan does exist for the city centre,
so we are confident of our ability to respond efficiently and effectively to any
type of major incident. When dealing with such a critical issue there is no room
for complacency so together with our partners we constantly review the plans to
ensure their effectiveness.

'On this basis, we believe this is a superficial and inaccurate assessment of
emergency planning contingencies in place in Cardiff.'

The city has a readiness score of just 58 per cent - compared to 79 per cent
scored by Birmingham, which topped the table. The survey also said that Cardiff
didn't have enough information on evacuating elderly and vulnerable people.

Gavin Macho, principal emergency management officer at Cardiff council, also
said the survey was inaccurate.

He said: 'We have a city centre evacuation protocol, and are in the process of
taking that to the council to make sure it gets the full backing of all our
members.

'We have some of the best surveillance and security in the UK.'

Katherine Walker, editor-in-chief of Reader's Digest, said: 'Things have
improved significantly since 7/7, but this assessment shows that there are still
several major urban centres which might struggle to cope in the aftermath of a
large-scale disaster.'

The survey, used 11 indicators to assess preparedness.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           October 25, 2006 Wednesday

The Commons held a "dry run" for a terrorist attack yesterday

BYLINE: Chris Buckland

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 71  words


MOMENT of pure theatre in the Commons yesterday when the authorities held a "dry
run" for a terrorist attack. MPs sat in their seats and House Leader Jack Straw
was making a pretend speech when a masked man, really a Commons employee, burst
into the gallery and hurled a large bag of "poisonous powder" (flour) into the
chamber. Quite against plan, it very nearly knocked Straw's head off. But he
just managed to duck in time.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                October 25, 2006

City 'unprepared for terror attack'

LENGTH: 293 words


By Anne Alexander

Political Editor

Leeds is not ready to cope with a major disaster such as a terrorist attack, a
survey claimed today.

Not one of the country's major cities is fully prepared to deal with a major
incident more than a year after the London attacks carried out by West Yorkshire
suicide bombers.

The Reader's Digest survey used 11 areas to assess how prepared 10 high-risk
cities are to deal with a major natural disaster, attack, industrial accident or
pandemic.

Stretched

It found emergency planning in all of the cities fell down in at least one
respect.

Leeds got a score of 61 per cent in terms of readiness. Birmingham was
identified as the most prepared with 79 per cent and Liverpool the least
prepared with 55 per cent.

The survey looked at issues such as ambulance response times, communications
systems and emergency evacuation plans.

Katherine Walker, editor-in- chief of Readers Digest, said: "Things have
improved significantly since 7/7, but there are still several major urban
centres which might struggle to cope in the aftermath of a large-scale disaster.

"Police and ambulance services are stretched even on a normal day in half of the
cities, and not one of the 10 provides adequate information on evacuation for
the elderly and disabled."

London, identified as the UK's number one terrorist target, scored 70 per cent.
It was rated poorly on police capacity to cope with 999 calls and a shortage of
acute hospital beds.

Birmingham scored a maximum three-star rating, and scored poorly in only one
indicator: the quality of its online information for elderly and disabled
people.

The survey claimed Liverpool suffers from poor ambulance response times, a
stretched local police force and poor communications systems.

anne.alexander@ypn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 26, 2006 Thursday

Algerian civilian said killed, four soldiers wounded in "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 352 words


Text of report by Madjid T. headlined "Thenia: One person assassinated and four
soldiers wounded", published by Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 26 October

One citizen was killed and four soldiers were seriously wounded in a terrorist
attack that was perpetrated this past Sunday [22 October] in Gueddara, on the
heights of Thenia 15 km east of Boumerdes [some 50 km east of Algiers].

According to our sources, the four soldiers had been on board a taxi when a
terrorist group lying in ambush on a path targeted them, firing at the vehicle
with a hebheb (homemade mortar), seriously wounding its occupants. The four
seriously injured soldiers were evacuated to the Ain Naadja hospital in Algiers.
As for the taxi driver, Ali S., 58, and a native of Souk El-Had, he succumbed
yesterday to his injuries at the Tizi Ouzou hospital. So, more than 13 dead
(five soldiers, five municipal guards, and three civilians) and more than 18
wounded were reported this year during the Ramadan period in the province of
Boumerdes.

During Ramadan last year, 10 dead and 15 wounded were reported in attacks, most
of which were committed at night, that is, after the f'tour [fast-breaking
meal], unlike those this year which were perpetrated in broad daylight. The
security forces, for their part, killed three terrorists, one of whom was the
"emir" Djerrah, the man responsible for the Salafi Group for Call and Combat's
[GSPC] kidnapping operations, and broke up several support networks.

The terrorist groups, which have been increasingly weakened following the losses
they have sustained these past two years, want to make up for that deficit with
dramatic attacks which they have tried to organize in Algiers. But the times
have changed and the GSPC can no longer manage to find any new recruits among
young Algiers residents.

Citizens are also wondering about the real objectives that animate the GSPC's
current officials following its support for Al-Qa'idah, at a time when they have
benefited from numerous advantages in the charter for peace and national
reconciliation.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 26 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           October 26, 2006 Thursday

Scotland 'could not cope with attack by terrorists'

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 648 words


SCOTLAND is unprepared for a major disaster or terrorist attack more than a year
after the July 7 bombings, say researchers.

Injured victims would face an agonising wait for medical help if a major
incident hit the country, they warn.

And police, fire and ambulance staff would struggle to communicate with each
other if a terrorist attack took place tomorrow.

The disturbing assessment comes in a nationwide survey which evaluated emergency
planning in ten high-risk UK cities by scoring them on 11 key factors.

Edinburgh and Glasgow picked up some of the lowest scores in the UK, thanks
mainly to the slow response times of local ambulances.

The cities' councils are also criticised for failing to provide the public,
particularly pensioners, with information on what to do in an emergency,
according to the Reader's Digest survey.

But senior police officers and the Scottish Ambulance Service attacked the
findings and advised the public to ignore them.

Katherine Walker, editor-in-chief of Reader's Digest, said: 'Things have
improved significantly since 7/ 7, but this assessment shows there are still
major urban centres which might struggle to cope in the aftermath of a
disaster.' But the Association of Chief Police Officers in Scotland (ACPOS) said
a 'massive amount of work' had been done to prepare Scotland since the 7/7
attacks.

Chief Constable Peter Wilson, chairman of the ACPOS crime business area, said:
'This survey shows a complete lack of understanding about how the police and
other services would respond to an incident.

'The public should give little credence to analysis which seems to have little
basis in credible research.' The cities received ratings of between zero and
three stars on 11 categories such as emergency readiness, crisis communication
and medical response. These were converted to percentages to give each city a
score out of 100.

Two stars in each category was the 'pass mark' but both Edinburgh and Glasgow
were rated zero for their ambulance response times.

Reader's Digest researchers used figures contained in a Scottish Ambulance
Service report published in January this year.

These showed 61 per cent of lifethreatening calls in Edinburgh are responded to
within the national target of eight minutes. In Glasgow, the figure was 52 per
cent. Any city where the proportion was less than 70 per cent was given zero
stars.

But a Scottish Ambulance Service spokesman accused the survey of being 'very
simplistic'. He said: 'We were unaware the Reader's Digest were experts in
emergency planning.

' This takes no account of the special operations response teams around the
country trained specifically to deal with major incidents.' Edinburgh and
Glasgow were also awarded zero stars because their councils' websites contain no
help for people with special needs.

But Lothian and Borders Fire and Rescue service said a new alert website was
launched a fortnight ago.

The cities received one star signifying they have only partly met the required
standard for their efforts to tell the public what to do in an evacuation.

Edinburgh got top marks for its emergency response teams' ability to work
quickly and Glasgow for the ability of emergency services to talk to one
another.

A Lothian and Borders Police spokesman said: 'We are more than ready to cope
with any emergency situation.' Strathclyde Police said they were producing an
evacuation blueprint for Glasgow city centre.

The survey found not one major city is fully prepared for large emergencies and
six have 'disturbingly poor' crisis communication.

Birmingham came top with 79 per cent, followed by London at 70 per cent.

Edinburgh and Glasgow got 58 per cent while Liverpool was the least prepared
city, at 55 per cent.

A Scottish Executive spokesman said a review will examine Scotland's ability to
deal with simultaneous major emergencies, from terrorist attacks to extreme
weather.

s.johnson@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR: THE BUS BLAST AT LONDON'S TAVISTOCK SQUARE ON JULY 7 LAST YEAR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            October 27, 2006, Friday
                               News Extra Edition

Don't panic at sight of 'terror attack'

BYLINE: Greg Tindle South Wales Echo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 137 words


A major emergency training exercise is being staged at Cardiff's University
Hospital of Wales tomorrow and the public have been warned not to panic if they
witness the event. The exercise will involve ambulance, fire, police and
hospital staff in a full-scale operation designed to simulate a possible
industrial or terrorist incident. It will test the 999 services' ability to deal
with casualties from chemical, biological or nuclear contamination and is due to
start at the hospital at 10am and be finished by 12.30pm.

Clayton Blight, of the Welsh Ambulance Trust, said: 'We are letting the public
know in case they are alarmed by what's going on. 'It will be quite an
intimidating set-up. There will be a lot of people in full body suits. 'It won't
affect the running of the hospital but we don't want to frighten anyone.'

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            October 27, 2006, Friday

Attack on Met chief over terror

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 64 words


Sir Ian Blair, the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, was criticised for
"unnecessary political correctness" after saying that a terrorist plotter should
not have been described as a British Muslim in a police document. The phrase was
linked to a summary for members of the Metropolitan Police Authority regarding
Dhiren Bharot, 34, who admitted conspiracy to murder this month.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           October 28, 2006 Saturday

World - UN expert attacks US terror trials law

LENGTH: 430 words


The new US law authoritising military trials for terror suspects could end up
violating international treaties protecting detainees, United Nations human
rights expert Martin Scheinin warned on Friday.

Mr Scheinin, who is the UN expert on protecting human rights in the fight
against terrorism, said that the Military Commissions Act, which was signed into
law by US President George W Bush last week, contained provisions that are
"incompatible" with US obligations to adhere to treaties on human rights and
humanitarian law.

"One of the most serious aspects of this legislation is the power of the
president to declare anyone, including US citizens, without charge as an
'unlawful enemy combatant' - a term unknown in international humanitarian law,"
said Mr Scheinin, who is a legal expert from Finland.

As a result, he said, those detainees are subject to the jurisdiction of a
military commission, rather than a civilian court of law.

He also deplored the denial of the habeas corpus rights of foreigners, including
legal, permanent US residents, to challenge the legality of their detention, "in
manifest contradiction with" the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights, which the US ratified in 1992.

Another concern, Mr Scheinin said, is the denial of detainees' rights to see
evidence that could exonerate them if the evidence is deemed classified. That,
he said, "severely impedes the right to a fair trial."

US spokeswoman Brooks Robinson claimed that the new law had been written "in
consultation with and in response to concerns by our allies and partners."

The International Committee of the Red Cross, which is the guardian of the
Geneva conventions, has also raised "concerns and questions" over whether the
new law complies with the universally accepted rules on the conduct of warfare.

US Vice-President Cheney remarked this week that the use of simulated drowning
on terrorism suspects during interrogation was a "no-brainer," the Washington
Post reported on Friday.

Human rights campaigners complained that Mr Cheney was endorsing the use of a
terrifying technique known as waterboarding.

In an interview with conservative radio presenter Scott Hennen on Tuesday, Mr
Cheney agreed with Mr Hennen's assertion that "a dunk in water" may yield
valuable intelligence from terrorism suspects.

"Would you agree a dunk in water is a no-brainer if it can save lives?" Mr
Hennen asked.

"Well, it's a no-brainer for me," Mr Cheney said, "but, for a while there, I was
criticised as being the vice-president for torture. We don't torture. That's not
what we're involved in."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 29, 2006 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Schools would be ill-prepared for a terrorist nuclear attack

BYLINE: By Meg Milne

SECTION: NEWS; 25

LENGTH: 462  words


SCHOOLS across Scotland are "ill-prepared" to cope with a major nuclear
emergency such as a terrorist 'dirty bomb' attack, ministers will be warned
tomorrow.

Only five local authorities have any guidelines for primaries or secondaries
even though councils are supposed to have plans in place to deal with civil
emergencies.

MSPs will be told hundreds of schools could be left in chaos with only Argyll
and Bute, Dumfries and Galloway, East Lothian, Scottish Borders, and North
Ayrshire councils w ith any plans for nuclear incidents.

Two, Fife and Highland, have detailed emergency plans for schools, but not
specifically for a nuclear problem.

Alarmingly, no local authority has any specific procedures in place to deal with
an accident involving nuclear conv oys that regularly travel across Scotland by
both road and rail.

A petition outlining the research, from the Scottish Campaign for Nuclear
Disarmament, will be presented before Holyrood on Monday.

Ministers will be asked to review local guidelines on how to deal with pupils in
the event of such an emergency.

Report author, Anne Clarke, a member of Scottish CND's education committee,
yesterday called on the Executive to make the safety of children a main
priority. She said: "We are petitioning the Scottish Parliament to review the
preparedness of schools to deal with the consequences of a nuclear accident or
incident.

"We are also asking the Scottish Executive to introduce guidelines for local
authorities on how to deal with such emergencies.

"The majority of Scottish local authorities do not appear to have specific plans
for dealing with nuclear emergencies."

She added: "It might be more reassuring to the public to know that such
contingencies have been thought about and planned for."

Earlier this year it emerged that trains carrying tonnes of nuclear waste
travelled through heavily populated parts of Scotland with "minimal protection".

One route revealed in a report by Greenpeace was through Lockerbie, a community
still haunted by the Pan Am 103 disaster which killed 270 almost 20 years ago.

In October last year one cargo of nuclear waste sat unprotected for several
hours, 100 yards from a school, on the Dungeness to Willesden Junction route,
south of the Border.

Ahead of the Public Petitions Committee meeting, Ms Clarke also demanded
definitive guidelines on the use and distribution of potassium tablets, which
would protect the public against radioactive iodine poisoning.

The pills have already been stockpiled at secret locations around the country.

Ms Clarke said: "Should a major nuclear accident or incident occur, the effects
on the surrounding populations and beyond would be huge.

"In the worst case scenario, it is unlikely that any preparations would be
sufficient to counter the effects."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EXPOSED: Scotland's schools have few attack guidelines

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 30, 2006 Monday

Pakistan asks India to avoid "knee-jerk" reactions to terror attacks

LENGTH: 829 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI; ellipses as received throughout

Islamabad, 30 October: Asking India to avoid "knee-jerk" reactions to terror
attacks, Pakistan has said it is interested in improving ties but made it clear
that "two-way trust" has to be developed.

Citing National Security Adviser N.K. Narayanan's comments on the evidence of
Pakistan's involvement in the blasts, Foreign Minister Khurshid Mahmud Kasuri
told PTI that Pakistan leadership avoided knee-jerk reactions like blaming India
whenever a violent incident takes place in Pakistan.

"I have read with interest the statement of Narayanan on the quality of
evidence... We should avoid knee- jerk reactions. In Pakistan by and large when
an incident happens ...we try and not voice (it) and the president, the prime
minister and I avoid making (such) statements.

"We get lot of information through our own sources. But we do not go public
until we feel that we have clinching evidence. Otherwise it makes the case
worse," he said.

He said in the case of Mumbai blasts Pakistan had "unreservedly and very
seriously" condemned it but the Indian accusations have damaged the peace
process.

"See the damage that has been done. So many months down the road we are told
that evidence is not particularly good, "it is not clinching" to quote
Narayanan, he said.  To a question whether the two countries planned to
implement confidence building measures to further relations between the
militaries of both the countries, he said "they are discussing certain things.
It is not appropriate for me to speak".

"Pakistan is interested in general improvement of relations with India. If we
continue with the peace process it will happen in all areas not specially to
defence. I would make a general statement that in all areas there would be
progress," Kasuri said.

"Developing trust is two-way. It would be helpful if we continue our dialogue
and that is the only way we can develop trust. If we develop trust we can cover
all areas," he said.  On the anti-terror mechanism, Kasurti said he looked
forward to the foreign secretary-level talks in New Delhi next month to resolve
differences over its set-up.  "Pakistan is suggesting a mechanism headed by
additional foreign secretary as the Foreign Ministry is focal point in dealing
with any country whether on agriculture, defence or weather. It is basically the
ministry of foreign affairs that deals with other countries on all issues
relating to that particular country," Kasuri said.

"That is why I said that the mechanism should be headed by an additional
secretary of foreign affairs. Why did I say additional secretary and not at a
lower level as I wanted it to be a senior person with two persons from the
background".

On Narayanan's remarks that India wants a two-tier mechanism instead, he said
"let the two foreign secretaries meet on 14 November in New Delhi. I do not want
to harp on differences. I think in both the countries interest the joint
security mechanism is a success. Where as India has concerns, Pakistan also has
concerns and it is much better that we have a mechanism where both countries can
voice their concerns".

He said the Indian proposal hasn't been formally presented to them. "I think it
will only be presented at the time of the foreign secretary meeting.

Asked about Pakistan's assessment of three rounds of the composite dialogue
process which would be reviewed by foreign secretaries followed by the two
foreign ministers, Kasuri said the talks on a variety of issues including
Kashmir have taken the process forward. "The question is whether the glass is
half full or half empty. Considering the history of Indo-Pak relations a degree
of optimism is required otherwise you have so much bad news that unless you have
optimism you tend to loose confidence. I would evaluate as definitely taking
relations forward, not just on Kashmir and security. But also on people
relations and on trade," he said.

He said despite India's complaints about Pakistan not extending Most Favoured
Nation (MFN), a "lot more goods are coming from India. Volume of trade has gone
up. South Asian Free Trade Area (SAFTA) has been signed with the intention of
making it a success. I would not go into polemics on MFN. We are not able to
penetrate Indian market while we have penetrated Japan and Latin America,
American and EU markets."  "Hence we complained that look at realities. Our
trade is not increasing even though India has given the MFN. But volume of legal
trade from India with Pakistan has increased by 300 per cent even though
Pakistan has not given the MFN," he said adding a joint study group has been
constituted by both the countries to look into it.  "Hope they will submit the
report soon. May be the Indian tariff regime is not Pakistan specific. Pakistan
has historically open regime. Fact is we are not able to penetrate even the
areas where we had advantage," he added.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1050 gmt 30 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 30, 2006 Monday

Algerian gendarme, two civilians wounded in "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 226 words


Text of report by F. L. headlined "One gendarme and two people wounded: Attack
on a monitoring roadblock in Ain Zaouia (Tizi Ouzou)", published by Algerian
newspaper Liberte website on 30 October

Once again the terrorists have laid siege to the community of Ain Zouia located
some 50 km south of Tizi Ouzou [some 100 east of Algiers] Indeed the day before
yesterday [28 October], at about 2030 [local time], an armed group, whose number
has not been determined, according to our sources, attacked a combined forces
roadblock that had been set up a few tens of metres away from the headquarters
of that community's Municipal People's Assembly [APC].

During the skirmish, one gendarme was slightly wounded, whereas during the
exchanges of fire two people who were on board a vehicle that was passing
through at that time were also injured, but slightly. According to our sources,
the group that planned its act split up into three small groups posted on both
sides of National Road [RN] leading to Boghni. During the night, military
reinforcements launched off a huge search operation. As for the attackers, they
fled towards the Boumahni mountains.

This attack occurred not far from the spot where Rabah Aissat, the speaker of
Tizi Ouzou's Provincial People's Assembly [APW], was assassinated on 12 October.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 30 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday

Algerian security agency to "re-evaluate" plans following terror attacks

LENGTH: 719 words


Excerpt of report by Nissa Hammadi headlined "Double attack: Following the
attacks on two police stations, the National Security General Directorate
reacts: 'The security presence will be re-evaluated'", published on Algerian
newspaper Liberte website on 31 October - first paragraph is Liberte
introduction.

In an immediate reaction, the National Security General Directorate [DGSN's]
communications office has announced that the special security presence that was
recently put in place will be "re-evaluated."

The office has revealed that strict instructions have been issued so major
cities will gradually be made safe from any terrorist acts. There will not be
just a beefing up of the presence, but also a beefing up of the equipment
necessary to fight terrorism.

"The attacks the day before yesterday [29 October] on two police stations have
awakened those who were sleeping. A new presence is going to be put in place bit
by bit, and the equipment will also be reinforced. By way of an example, we have
fibre-optic cameras available in the capital city, but their number is
inadequate."

Asked what, specifically, was going to change in the fight against terrorism,
the spokesman responded: "What is going to change? Well, henceforth people will
be more vigilant. You should not think that we have won because the security
presence has been beefed up. Indeed the terrorists are taking advantage of those
unavoidable moments when we let down our guard.

They could not try anything during Ramadan because our agencies were constantly
on alert. But you know, the fight against terrorism is being taken care of by
the army's operational sector. The police are only one part of the security
presence. Our intervention is limited to the urban environment."

To return to the explosion of two booby-trapped cars, 10 minutes apart, on
Sunday [29 October] night into Monday morning in front of two police buildings
in Reghaia and Dergana respectively, the DGSN's authorized source responded that
they were due to "a problem of a drop in vigilance following a period of tension
during a month of Ramadan during which an impressive security presence was put
in place."

"We had been expecting an attack. About 10 days before the start of the holy
month, we were in a state of alert because of a vehicle from a Municipal
People's Assembly [APC] that was stolen. It was clear that it was going to be
used to plant a bomb. If this had been the doing of traffickers or car thieves,
it would have been more profitable for them to opt for a Mercedes, for example.
Fortunately the attacks that occurred the day before yesterday did not produce
many victims."

The spokesman revealed that one of the dead had been identified as being a
repentant: "It could prove to be that he was one of those who planted the bomb.
But for the time being, nothing is certain. The investigation is under way. Our
team of specialists has just returned from the scene and is supposed to conduct
its appraisal and, starting there, there will be trails."

In recent weeks the security agencies, led by the police and soldiers, have been
particularly targeted by the armed groups. The DGSN explained it this way: "This
is certainly a challenge. For the attacks the day before yesterday, they
targeted isolated police buildings that were close to the Boumerdes and Tizi
Ouzou maquis. That is where everything is happening."

Our source provided more detail about the new security presence that is going to
be put in place indicating that it would have to stave off terrorist attacks
more effectively: "One to two years ago, there were 11,000 policemen in Algiers.
Currently we are up to 15,000 policemen and in a year or two there will be
20,000 and it is not over. There are very strict instructions: We must quickly
manage to make the major cities impervious to the penetrations of the armed
groups."

The DGSN has ruled out the possibility of other terrorist attacks in coming days
in the capital city even if it said you could never tell. "Generally, when they
commit this sort of operation, they disappear for a long time. But it can
happen. In particular we must not let down our guard," was the conclusion at the
National Security communications office.

[Passage omitted: The DGSN's announcement on the attacks.]

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 31 Oct 06

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday

International: Tribal fury as Pakistan military kills 80 in religious school:
Attacked madrasa said to be terrorist training camp: Dead were children and
seminaries, say villagers

BYLINE: Declan Walsh, Islamabad

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 554 words


The Pakistani military launched its deadliest strike against Islamist militants
yesterday, with an attack on a purported terrorist training camp near the Afghan
border that killed about 80 people.

Helicopters fired missiles into a madrasa, or religious school, in Bajaur tribal
region just before dawn, flattening the building and widely scattering debris
and body parts. "It was being misused for militant activities," said a military
spokesman, Maj Gen Shaukat Sultan, who added that up to 100 men, aged between 20
and 30, were inside but no women or children.

However, angry local villagers said the casualties were not terrorists but
innocent children and religious seminarians.

Wailing men tugged corpses, including that of a seven-year-old boy, from the
rubble in Chingai village. Thousands of mourners attended mass burials.

Several thousand people marched through Bajaur's main town, Khar, chanting:
"Death to Musharraf" and "Death to Bush", in a protest against the Pakistan and
US leaders. Jamaat Islami, a hardline but influential Islamist party, condemned
the attack as "brutal and barbaric".

Siraj ul-Haq, a minister in the provincial government, resigned in protest.
"This is against Islam and the traditions of the area," he said. "This was an
unprovoked attack on a madrasa. They were innocent people."

Among the dead was Maulana Liaqatullah, a radical pro-Taliban cleric with links
to the al-Qaida terrorist network, said Gen Sultan, but the raid did not target
any prominent al-Qaida figures.

Instead, it was aimed at recalcitrant militants who had been warned to abandon
the madrasa, he said, adding: "They had been involved in activities in Pakistan
and probably Afghanistan too."

Bajaur has come under close scrutiny this year for its links to al-Qaida and
Taliban militancy. The rugged district is considered a potential hiding place
for al-Qaida's leader, Osama bin Laden, and lies across the border from Kunar, a
mountainous Afghan province where United States forces have concentrated their
hunt for fugitive terrorists.

Bajaur is considered the back door to Kunar. There have been several reported
sightings of Arab fighters crossing into Pakistan for supplies. They benefit
from considerable local sympathy.

In January a US drone aircraft rocketed a house in a village two miles from
yesterday's target, where al-Qaida's number two, Ayman al-Zawahiri, had been
expected. That attack missed the Egyptian militant but killed about 18 people.

Yesterday's strike marks the latest twist in Pakistan's struggle to quell
rebellious tribesmen at home and satisfy allies abroad demanding more results in
the fight against militant Islamists.

In September President Pervez Musharraf struck a controversial peace deal with
militants in North Waziristan tribal region by agreeing to withdraw his troops
to base. The military leader claimed the pact would cut cross-border
infiltration into Afghanistan, but critics said it could create a militant safe
haven.

A similar deal was in the offing in Bajaur and was due to be inked with tribal
elders yesterday, only hours after the attack. Instead it has been replaced with
an outpouring of grief and fury that will make any future compromise difficult.

Gen Sultan insisted that negotiations would continue. "The prospects for peace
are there," he said.

guardian.co.uk/pakistan >

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Leyland Guardian

                                November 1, 2006

Terror attack teen behind bars

LENGTH: 309 words


A TEENAGER who terrified a Leyland petrol station cashier with a knife will only
be released from custody when assessed as no longer a risk to the public, a
judge has told him.

Craig Norris, 18, of Mendip Road, Clayton-le-Woods, had no previous convictions
but, after drinking heavily celebrating his 18th birthday, he tried to rob the
petrol station near his home in March this year.

Judge Beverley Lunt said a probation report had assessed Norris as representing
a potential risk to the public of committing further offences as he had not
taken full responsibility for what he had done.

The judge said she had to regard him as a risk because he had no explanation for
committing such a serious offence other than being under the influence of
alcohol. She told him he would not be eligible to be assessed for release until
he has served two years.

Preston Crown Court prosecutor John Kelly said Norris walked into the Shell
station on Wigan Road, at 5am. He was known to the female cashier and spoke with
her about an incident at the garage the previous day.

An hour-and-a-half later he returned, produced a penknife with a three-inch
folding blade and held it close to the cashier's stomach.

In fear, she walked towards the office area where she knew a colleague was
working. Norris was asking about the safe when the second member of staff
appeared.

Norris left empty-handed and police were alerted. They arrested Norris, who was
sleeping in his bed at home, three hours later. He pleaded guilty to attempted
robbery.

Keith Thomas, for Norris, told the court: "If ever there was a case which
illustrated the demon drink this is it."

He had been drinking heavily, including amounts of vodka, to celebrate his 18th
and in a few seconds had, added Mr Thomas, "lost his good character and brought
shame on his family."

Norris worked as a packer at a Chorley factory.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 2, 2006, Thursday
                              North Wales Edition

MY HIV TERROR;
Paramedic's agony after bite attack Shocking scale of assaults on our 999 staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 8 words


SPECIAL REPORT ON A SERVICE UNDER SIEGE - PAGES 4&5

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Paramedic Dylan Evans, 48, was punched and bitten by a drug addict
Picture: RICHARD WILLIAMS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 3, 2006 Friday

USA warns its citizens of "possible terror attacks" from Somalia

LENGTH: 156 words


Excerpt from report by Somali independent Shabeelle Media Network website on 3
November

The USA has expressed further concern over the collapse of the Somali peace
talks, saying fighting could break out in the region. The USA warned its
citizens in Kenya and Ethiopia over possible terror attacks from fundamentalist
groups in Somalia.

The US State Department warned its citizens in the Horn of Africa to be vigilant
against threats of terror attacks from Somalia.

US embassies in Kenya and Ethiopia have issued warnings to their citizens of
possible suicide attacks on specific targets. The warning said some groups in
Somalia were planning to attack US citizens in Ethiopia and Kenya.

The spokesman of the US State Department, Sean McCormack, confirmed the warning
following the collapse of the peace talks in Sudan between the rival groups in
Somalia. [Passage omitted]

Source: Shabeelle Media Network website, Mogadishu, in Somali 3 Nov 06

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                November 3, 2006

Terror road rage attack

LENGTH: 352 words


A MOTORIST was smashed on the head with an iron bar and left for dead in a road
rage attack in Barnsley.

The victim confronted his assailant after he leapt out of a vehicle which had
been trying to overtake his car and twice struck the bonnet of his car.

His raging attacker then bludgeoned him to the ground before leaping into his
pal's Ford Fiesta which roared off.

The victim eventually managed to crawl into his car where he lapsed in and out
of consciousness for some time before being able to summon help.

He was taken to Barnsley hospital and kept in overnight after having 16 stitches
in a head wound.

The shocking incident happened on Grange Lane just before Stairfoot roundabout.
The dark Ford Fiesta Zetec, which had been driven aggressively along Rotherham
Road to Cundy Cross roundabout, finally managed to overtake the victim's car.

As it went past the front seat passenger waved a metal bar at the occupants. He
leapt out and attacked when the cars came to a halt.

DC Dave Preston said the assailant had a total disregard for life.

He added: "The victim was lucky not to have been killed. When you hit someone on
the head with a metal bar the consequences can range from one end of the
spectrum to the other - this could have been murder.

"As it is we are looking at grievous bodily harm with intent. The passenger has
a weapon which has been used to strike one heavy blow to the head, he was
clearly trying to hurt.

"The victim's memory is slowly returning but it would appear that he is
blameless. It seems the other motorist was driving like a lunatic.

"There were three other people in the Ford Fiesta, a male driver and two females
in the back so they know what happened.

"Grange Lane is a busy road so we would expect a number of people to have seen
what happened and I would appeal to them to come forward."

The attack happened at Stairfoot roundabout last Thursday night just after 11pm.
Police say the suspect is a white man, aged 19, about 6ft and wearing a dark or
black baseball cap, cream coloured zip up top and faded jeans.

Information to DC Preston on 01226 736551 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                            November 3, 2006 Friday

MSP's gang attack terror

BYLINE: Brian Lewis

LENGTH: 292  words


A SHAKEN MSP is calling for kids to be banned from the streets - after a gang of
60 teen yobs surrounded her car and smashed her windscreen.

The hoodies targeted terrified Helen Eadie's motor as she drove around
investigating complaints about their behaviour.

And after her ordeal, the 59-year-old said: "We must have zero tolerance of this
sort of behaviour. I certainly would be in favour of eliminating children under
15

from the streets at night." Labour MSP Mrs Eadie was attacked in Cowdenbeath,
Fife, on Friday evening after being called out by one of her constituents to see
for herself the trouble caused by local kids.

The yobs - aged between 12 and 20 - blocked the road and started rocking the
Renault Megane from side to side as the frightened politician tried to escape.

Mrs Eadie said: "I could see about 60 youngsters and I couldn't get through the
road. They put their hoods up and got inquisitive about why I was there.

"A group of them surrounded the car and the rest were only a short space away.

"They then started rocking the car and throwing some sort of missiles, one of
which broke the windscreen.

"It was very frightening. I felt isolated and anxious."

Dunfermline East MSP Mrs Eadie has since contacted Justice Minister Cathy
Jamieson about bringing in a curfew for kids. She said: "When youngsters mind
their own business then it's fine. But you draw a line in the sand when they
start to terrorise local people."

And talking about some of the complaints from her constituents about yobs, she
added: "There have been reports of them climbing on people's roofs, urinating in
gardens and a stick was thrown at a young baby as a mum pushed her pram past
recently.

"It's not appropriate behaviour for young people and it's not acceptable."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 4, 2006 Saturday

US advisory on "terror attack imaginary" - Kenyan Muslim body

LENGTH: 265 words


Excerpt from report by Kenyan television NTV on 4 November

[Presenter] The Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims [Supkem] has condemned the USA
for issuing yet another advisory on terrorism, accusing the USA of seeking to
use terrorism to exacerbate the situation in Somalia.

In a statement to journalists, the national chairman, Prof Abdulgafur
Al-Busaidy, said the council condemned USA for trying to tarnish the reputation
of the Islamic courts in Somalia. [Passage omitted]

[Al-Busaidy, in English] We, the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims, strongly
condemn the machination of the government of the USA in brainwashing the
international community to support an imaginary terror attack.

[Reporter] According to the council, the USA wants to tarnish the image of the
Islamic courts, which have succeeded in bringing about security in Somalia.

[Al-Busaidy, in Kiswahili] The Somali Council of Islamic Courts has tried and
has succeeded, to a large extent, to bring about peace, to foster cohesion and
to bring about governance in Somalia, which the US government and its allies,
the warlords, have failed to do in the past 16 years.

[Reporter] Supkem warned the government not to believe the advisory, which it
claimed was malicious.

US ambassador Michael Ranneberger, however, said that Kenyan officials had
already been informed about the possibility of a terrorist attack in the region.

[Ranneberger] We are also, of course, in very close contact with Kenyan
authorities about these issues.

[Reporter] And that is exactly what Supkem is does not accept.

Source: NTV, Nairobi, in Swahili 1600 gmt 4 Nov 06

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 4, 2006 Saturday

Rebels killed in south Russia said to have been planning terror attack

LENGTH: 264 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Interfax

Nazran, 4 November: The group of militants who were killed in the Ingush village
of Troitskaya this evening had intended to carry out a terrorist act in a town
in the North Caucasus on 9 November, Interfax was told by the public relations
section of the Federal Security Service [FSB] directorate for Ingushetia.

The agency was told that the group of militants had been spotted in a
residential house in Troitskaya this afternoon. In response to a call to lay
down their arms and surrender, they started shooting and were killed by
retaliatory fire. None of those taking part in the operation was hurt. Two
Makarov pistols, a Kalashnikov assault rifle and an F-1 grenade were seized at
the scene of the incident.

The FSB said the killed militants had already been identified - they were Muslim
Arzumkhanov, Rustam Magamadov and Rustam Mezhidov. They had been subordinate to
the leader of one of the bandit gangs, Isa Kustov, who was killed recently, the
agency was told.

The FSB stressed that the operation had involved FSB officers from the central
apparatus and from the directorate for Ingushetia and Chechnya, as well as
police officers.

"The operation was conducted in pursuit of a criminal case opened by prosecutors
in Groznyy's Zavodskoy district under Article 22 Section 3 of the Russian
Criminal Code," the agency was told.

The FSB stressed that "the operation is of great significance, as it prevented
possible terrorist acts which the bandit gang had been planning".

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1859 gmt 4 Nov 06

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            November 6, 2006 Monday

insurance Lloyd's tests insurers' ability to cover air terror attacks

BYLINE: Yvette Essen

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 345 words


LLOYD'S of London, the world's largest insurance market, is testing its
underwriters to see if they can withstand terrorist attacks on planes and
airports.

In its biggest such consultation for years, Lloyd's insurers are being asked if
they can pay out for attacks on up to five different airports along with damage
to 15 passenger aircraft.

The potential tragedies, known as Realistic Disaster Scenarios (RDS), will test
whether syndicates have adequate reinsurance cover to pay out for the damage
caused to the planes and buildings, the loss of thousands of lives and the
supposed interruption caused to businesses.

Rolf Tolle, franchise performance director at Lloyd's, explained: "Recent events
highlight the continuing interest in aviation interests as targets for
terrorism. This interim RDS exercise is designed to give Lloyd's insight into
the likely loss implications for individual syndicates and the market as a
whole, to a number of specified terrorist attacks.''

The evaluation is the first RDS in which Lloyd's has associated planes and
terrorism.

Managing agents, which run the syndicates at Lloyd's, are having to judge
whether underwriters can pay out for three scenarios. These are:

Attacks over sea on five large non-US flag aircraft resulting in destruction and
complete loss of life.

Bomb attacks at one airport on five aircraft affecting passengers and crew. Each
bomb causes destruction of the targeted aircraft and partial damage to two
neighbouring aircraft (15 affected aircraft in all). Airport property is also
significantly damaged and airport staff are killed.

As in the second scenario, but the attacks occur at five different airports.

Lloyd's introduced the RDS testing system in 1995, and has asked its market
participants to check they can pay out for storm damages, earthquakes and if two
planes collide over a major, but unnamed, city.

Each year, the scenarios are adjusted to reflect latest concerns, although
changes have tended to be limited to raising the prospective amount of damage
and basing the events in specific geographical locations.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                            November 6, 2006, Monday
                                   1 Edition

Briton 'plotted terror attacks'

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 82 words


A BRITISH al-Qaida terrorist plotted "massive explosions" in the UK and United
States designed to kill thousands of people, a court heard today.

Dhiren Barot, a 34-year-old Muslim from north London, led a conspiracy to commit
mass murder and was intent on, in his own words, "another black day for the
enemies of Islam".

Opening the sentencing against Barot at Woolwich Crown Court today, Edmund
Lawson QC, for the Crown, said: "The plan was to carry out massive explosions
here and in the USA."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 7, 2006, Tuesday
                                 Worcs Edition

Preparing for terror attack;
EMERGENCY: Go-ahead for pounds 1m centre to help firefighters

BYLINE: Jane Tyler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 194 words


THE West Midlands is to have a new pounds 1 million centre to train firefighters
to deal with the aftermath of a terrorist attack.

It will be built next to Bickenhill fire station close to Birmingham
International Airport.

Thirty new staff will be taken on to run the centre and train other
firefighters.

The Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) facility will teach crews the skills needed
to rescue casualties from bombed buildings.

Following the September 11 attack on the World Trade Centre in New York, the
Government led a review of Britain's capability of responding to such an attack.

It set up the New Dimension programme to supply fire brigades with money and
resources to improve their skills in searching collapsed buildings.

Planning permission for the USAR has been granted and the fire authority's
executive committee is due to give the final go ahead next Monday.

Currently the only West Midlands firefighters equipped with such skills are
volunteers who make up part of the UK Fire Service Search and Rescue Team.

They do it voluntarily and have to make themselves available to respond to
disasters anywhere in the world and have been deployed on several occasions.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PREPARED... firefighters in training with a simulated terror alert at
the National Exhibition Centre.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 7, 2006, Tuesday
                             Black Country Edition

Knife yob in terror attack;
Second woman robbed of cash

BYLINE: Steve Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 303 words


A DANGEROUS knifeman targeting defenceless young women has struck again in the
Black Country.

The hooded attacker has struck twice in six weeks in Blackheath and Oldbury,
threatening the terrified women with knives pressed to their throat and face.

Now detectives are issuing an urgent warning to lone women to be vigilant and
urged anyone who might know the knifeman to turn him in before he strikes again.

Det Con Ruth Edge, of the robbery team at Sandwell South CID, said that the
latest victim of the knifeman was a woman in her mid-20s.

She said the woman was walking along Birch Lane, Oldbury, at 8pm on Friday when
the man attacked her from behind.

He pressed his knife to the side of her face and threatened to stab her before
demanding money and her cashpoint PIN number. He helped himself to pounds 150
from her bank account.

Police are linking the latest attack with another terrifying knifepoint robbery
which took place outside Sainsbury's in Blackheath town centre on September 23.

A woman in her 20s was sitting in her car when the man grabbed her, holding a
knife to her throat and demanding her handbag and her PIN number. DC Edge said
that the two victims had both given similar descriptions of the attacker and
police were convinced the same man had struck twice.

"This man is a desperate, dangerous individual who has struck twice in just six
weeks.

"We would urge anyone who might know this man to turn him in before he gets
chance to strike again," she added.

The attacker is described as aged 22 to 26, 5ft 7in, slim, with a local accent.

He was wearing a baseball cap, a dark hooded top and a luminous yellow safety
vest.

The man, who had a slight moustache, was driving a white van.

Anyone with any information on the two incidents was urged to contact the
robbery team at Sandwell South CID on 0845 1135000.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 7, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Second Edition

British al-Qa'ida terrorist plotted wave of attacks to emulate September 11

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 773 words


A senior British al-Qa'ida terrorist plotted to emulate the 9/11 attacks and the
Madrid train bombings to kill thousands of people in London and New York, a
court has been told.

Dhiren Barot, 34, a Muslim convert, planned to use a radioactive "dirty bomb"
and explosive devices in a series of syn-chronised attacks to blow up luxury
hotels, a Tube train under the River Thames, or possibly the Heathrow Express
train.

Barot, who last month admitted conspiracy to murder in one of the most
significant terrorism cases to date, also carried out detailed video
surveillance in New York on financial institutions. Video footage from one trip
- made five months before the attacks on 11 September, 2001 - featured shots of
the World Trade Centre with someone making the sound of an explosion, Woolwich
Crown Court heard. It has not been suggested that Barot had any direct
involvement with the devastating suicide attacks on the twin towers. Barot, from
north-west London, made several trips to Pakistan where he met senior al-Qa'ida
leaders who sanctioned his plans. These include a "gas limo project" in which
limousines packed with gas cylinders would be detonated in underground carparks.
Details of the "gas limos project" were found on a computer seized in a raid by
authorities in Pakistan, in July 2004.

The court heard details yesterday of the prosecution's case against Barot,
before the judge sentences him today. Edmund Lawson QC, prosecuting, told the
court: "The plan was to carry out massive explosions here and in the USA, the
principal object being to kill hundreds, if not thousands, of innocent people
without warning. "There were plans for the detonation of a radiation-dispersal
device, more commonly known as a dirty bomb, the use of a petrol tanker to cause
an explosion, and an attack on Lon-don's rail or Underground network, including
the Heathrow Express, of an explosion on a Tube train while in a tunnel under
the River Thames."

The prosecution said Barot had written: "Imagine the chaos that would be caused
if a powerful explosion were to rip through here [London] and actually rupture
the river itself.

"That would cause pandemonium, what with the explosions, flooding, drowning etc
that would occur."

Other documents found on a computer at an alleged associate's address contained
details of some of Lon-don's top hotels and mainline stations which were
potential targets for a terrorist attack. The document listed websites for
several leading hotels in the capital, including the Berkeley, the Savoy, the
Hyatt Carlton Tower, the Marriott in Marble Arch and the Intercontinental.

The document also contained details of a parking arrangement at three of
London's biggest mainline stations - Waterloo, Paddington and Kings Cross.
Barot, who was arrested in a barber shop in north-west London following a police
and MI5 operation in August 2004, wanted to "emulate" the Madrid train bombings,
which killed almost 200 people, Mr Lawson told the court.

In his terror plot, Barot set out plans for co-ordi-nated back-to-back attacks
"as they were on 9/11". The targets in the US were the International Monetary
Fund and World Bank buildings in Washington, the New York Stock Exchange and
Citigroup buildings in New York, and Newark's Prudential building.

Mr Lawson said: "There were various methods of attack raised for consideration.
They included parking limousines packed with explosives next to or underneath
buildings, arson, by means of hijacked petrol tankers, or igniting gas cylinders
and even possibly the use of an aeroplane."

He said the Crown was not trying to suggest that Barot had "full knowledge" of
the 9/11 attacks. However, he said: "It does demonstrate a more than unhealthy
and violent interest in attacks on iconic buildings such as the World Trade
Centre and is notable surely for its macabre property."

Mr Lawson said the US "bombings" were initially planned in 2000 and 2001 -
before the 9/11 attacks. He said they were accessed or worked on as late as
February 2004. Seven other men are due to stand trial in April in connection
with the plots.

The targets

Barot plotted to destroy financial institutions in New York (the Stock Exchange,
bottom right), Washington and Newark by detonating limousines or hijacking
petrol tankers and setting them ablaze. He also considered planes.

He thought of flooding the Tube, bottom left, with a bomb under the Thames.

He planned synchro-nised attacks across London, which could have included a gas
attack on the Heathrow Express (top centre).

London hotels, such as the Savoy, top right, and transport hubs, such as King's
Cross, top left, were considered as targets.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                            November 7, 2006 Tuesday

Family terror in car brick attack

BYLINE: Paul Keaveny

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 344 words

DATELINE: The Bolton News


A FATHER-of-three says his family are lucky to be alive after yobs hurled a
brick at his car windscreen.

Their car was one of five vehicles attacked with bricks at about the same time
in the same area.

Saied Umarji's three terrified children screamed and cried as he slammed on the
brakes when the stone smashed into his windscreen at 9.15pm on Saturday.

The children - boys, aged seven, four and eight-months-old - were travelling in
the back seat of the car.

Mr Umarji and his family were on their way back home from a shopping trip in
Horwich when they came under attack in Moss Bank Way, near the Johnson Fold
roundabout.

Mr Umarji, aged 35, of Astley Bridge, said he noticed two youths out of the
corner of his eye as he was driving along the road but thought nothing of it.

"The next thing, I just heard this big bang. I ducked down and slammed my brakes
on," he said

Mr Umarji stopped the car and went back to find the youths, whom he believes may
have fled into a nearby house. "I didn't want to go after the troublemakers
because I had my family with me. The children were screaming, my family was
terrified. I called the police but they said they were too busy to come out."

The brick caused a large crack in the car windscreen, and also damaged part of
the bodywork.

"I just couldn't believe it. If we had been travelling any faster, they could
have killed us or we could have hit someone," Mr Umarji said.

"I'm just glad it hit the windscreen and not the side window because it could
have gone through and hit the baby."

A police spokesman said an investigation was under way following five complaints
on that part of Moss Bank Way between 9pm and 9.30pm.

He said: "We have had five reports of cars being damaged by youths throwing
stones or bits of concrete.

"Luckily, nobody has been injured but each one of these reports is a potentially
serious incident.

"Drivers could have lost control as result causing a serious injury or even a
fatality."

Anyone with information should call police on 0161 856 0963 or Crimestoppers,
anonymously, on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                           November 8, 2006 Wednesday

Armed forces use exercise to prepare for terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 216 words


A multi-national exercise in the North Atlantic has provided the perfect
opportunity to prepare armed forces for responding to terrorist attacks.

Plymouth-based HMS Northumberland is working closely with ships and aircrafts
from other nations as well as personnel from the RAF and the Army in exercise
Neptune Warrior.

The training is conducted in areas around the north-west coast of Scotland and
sees ships challenged with a variety of scenarios that the Royal Navy could
easily be called upon to perform anywhere in the world. These include responding
to asymmetric terrorist attacks and boarding merchant vessels.

Commanding Officer Tom Guy said: "Exercise Neptune Warrior sees us operating
closely with the RAF and Army as well as with ships and aircraft from the USA,
Denmark and Germany.

"This is a fantastic opportunity to further hone our operational capability in a
realistic and well-orchestrated exercise working with other members of the
British and foreign armed forces".

During these exercises the ship has recently hosted foreign naval officers from
the International Principal Warfare Officer's Course. This course, run by the
International and Commonwealth Training Unit, started in April 2006 at HMS
Collingwood and includes students from as far a field as South Africa and the
Far East.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 9, 2006 Thursday

Israeli attack on Bayt Hanun "state terrorism" - Yemeni president

LENGTH: 284 words


Text of report by Yemeni TV on 8 November

President Ali Abdallah Salih has telephoned the Palestinian president and the
chairman of Palestinian Liberation Organization, Mahmud Abbas Abu-Mazin.

President Salih sent a condolence message to the leadership and the Palestinian
people, on his behalf and on the behalf of the Yemeni people, following the
gruesome massacre carried out by Israeli soldiers on Bayt Hanun where many
innocent Palestinian children and women were killed.

The president condemned this massacre. He said what happened in Bayt Hanun and
other Palestinian occupied areas was a barbaric and terrorist Israeli aggression
which was against the international conventions and laws and was therefore
condemned by the International community.

He called on the Palestinian leaders and people to unite in order to face the
state terrorism practised by Israeli government against the Palestinian people.
He also called on the international community to protect the defenceless
Palestinians and to shoulder its responsibility in the face of this barbaric
Israeli aggression and terrorism.

He said the Israeli terrorist attack on the Palestinians was creating a
conducive environment for the spread of fundamentalism, which is already
affecting many countries including the USA, which was attacked on 11 September
[2001].

He said Yemen was standing with the Palestinian so that they could get their
independent state on Palestinian territory, with Jerusalem as its capital.

The Palestinian president thanked President Salih for his stances. He further
said the Palestinian people and movements would unite to face the Israeli
military might.

Source: Republic of Yemen TV, Sanaa, in Arabic 1800 gmt 8 Nov 06

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 10, 2006

200 terror groups are plotting UK attacks, MI5 head warns

BYLINE: ALAN MACDERMID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 257 words


AS MANY as 200 terrorist groups or networks are operating in the UK, the head of
MI5 said last night.

Dame Eliza ManninghamBuller also said the Security Service was dealing with up
to 30 alleged "mass casualty" terror plots against British targets in the UK and
abroad, warning that weapons of mass destruction could be used in future
attacks.

Some of them involved plans for suicide attacks and some were being directed by
al Qaeda from Pakistan. She saidMI5 and the police were tackling more than 1600
identified individuals in the UK who were "actively engaged in plotting or
facilitating terrorist acts". Dame Eliza's chilling assessment came in her first
public speech since the July 7 terror attacks last year, to an invited audience
of academics in east London.

"Today we see the use of home-made improvised explosive devices, but I suggest
tomorrow's threat will include the use of chemicals, bacteriological agents,
radioactive materials and even nuclear technology, " she said. According to the
BBC, Dame Eliza told her audience thatMI5's caseload of UK-based terror
sympathisers - many of them British citizens - had increased by 80per cent since
January.

She voiced concern that many of those involved were young men and teenagers as
young as 16, who were being radicalised by friends and by material viewed on the
internet.

Dame Eliza said: "More and more people are moving from passive sympathy towards
active terrorism through being radicalised or indoctrinated by friends,
families, in organised training events here and overseas."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              334 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday

Indian airports on high alert after US warning of possible terror attacks

LENGTH: 246 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Chennai/New Delhi, 12 November: In yet another security alarm, international
airports across India have been put on further heightened alert following input
by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) that flights from the country to
the United States or Europe could be the targets of terrorists.

Security at Chennai airport (in the southern part of the country) was beefed up
following information that a flight to either Europe or the US might be
hijacked, airport sources said.

Close on the heels of an anonymous letter in Tiruchirapalli airport recently
that warned of terror attacks on airports in south India, an Internet centre in
the US received an e-mail that said a flight emanating from India, bound for
either Europe or the US, might be hijacked.

They said police are checking vehicles round the clock and police officials were
moving around the airport complex in plain clothes.

The letter found in Tiruchirapalli airport had already led to tightening of
security at airports across the country.

The airports placed on high alert are Chennai [Madras], Kochi, Tiruchirapalli,
Thiruvananthapuram and Coimbatore, sources said.

The enhanced security measures include strict access control, heightened
surveillance, peripheral security, increased profiling, X-Ray and physical
checks of hand baggage and restrictions in carrying liquid and gels on board the
aircraft.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1725 gmt 12 Nov 06

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 13, 2006 Monday

Israeli police chief says "terrorist" groups planning attacks

LENGTH: 82 words


Text of report by Israel radio on 13 November

Police Commissioner Moshe Qaradi says that the relative quiet since the incident
at Bayt Hanun is deceptive, because the terrorist organizations are constantly
planning attacks against Israel.

Addressing senior police officers, Commissioner Qaradi told division commanders
to maintain their high level of deployment.

In Bethlehem, SWAT policemen arrested three Islamic Jihad [IJ] activists.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1600 gmt 13 Nov 06

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 13, 2006 Monday

Pakistan president visits army camp attacked 8 Nov; vows to fight terror

LENGTH: 204 words


Excerpt from report by Pakistan's PTV World television on 13 November

President Gen Pervez Musharraf has said terrorism in the country will be
eliminated at all costs. The president was addressing military darbar
[gathering] during his visit to Punjab Regimental Centre at Mardan. Gen Pervez
Musharraf expressed profound grief and sorrow over the martyrdom of 41 military
recruits at Dargai on the 9th [as heard, should be 8th] of this month in an act
of terrorism and said the army is with the families of the martyrs at this time
of sorrow and grief.

The president asked the military men not to be afraid of such incidents and keep
their morale high. He said war against terrorism is in full swing and extremism
along with terrorism will have to be eliminated, otherwise it will harm the
country. [He said] we have to save Pakistan from all turmoil either internal or
external.

The president said Pakistan was achieved after great sacrifices by our elders
and we will have to defend its independence. The president paid rich tributes to
the services rendered by Punjab Regimental Centre for the country.

[Passage omitted on other unrelated details of Musharraf's visit]

Source: PTV World, Islamabad, in English 1500 gmt 13 Nov 06

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Essex

                           November 14, 2006 Tuesday

Colchester: Father's terror at arson attack on home

BYLINE: Louise Sassoon

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 141 words

DATELINE: Gazette


A father today told of his terror after an arson attack threatened his home.

Ian Royal saw flames and smoke billowing from his garden as he returned from a
friend's house in the early hours yesterday.

Arsonists set fire to the fence at the bottom of the garden to his rented flat,
in Magnolia Drive, on Colchester's Greenstead estate.

Strong winds then whipped the flames across the garden in the direction of his
house - destroying a shed, melting guttering and ruining an external door in the
process.

Luckily his 15-year-old daughter, Laura, was not in the house at the time of the
blaze.

Now Mr Royal is pushing for a brick wall to be built at the end of the garden to
stop more incidents.

The 43-year-old said: "I was coming home at about 4am and saw the flames from
the bottom of the road. I couldn't believe it - it was quite frightening."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Aftermath Ian Roy in his garden where his shed stood before the fire.
Picture: ADRIAN RUSHTON (52731-1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                               November 14, 2006

Terror of stab attack victim

LENGTH: 397 words


TWO thugs who slashed a 26-year-old man in an unprovoked attack in dark Leeds
woodland are being hunted by police.

The victim was left with a puncture wound to his body and a lacerated arm, and
would have been more seriously injured but for his thick clothing.

The motive for the attack remains a mystery and police are seeking witnesses

The victim, who comes from the Gipton area, today told how he had set off to
visit relatives in Swarcliffe on Sunday evening. On the way he needed to relieve
himself and went into a small wooded area just off Swarcliffe Avenue.

He said: "I have known these woods all my life and never had any trouble there,
though I know they are used by drinkers. When I got to the top of the brow of a
hill there were two lads standing about six feet away from me.

"One of them said: 'Where are you going' and I explained I needed to relieve
myself. Then he said 'No you are not.' I then asked 'Do you own the woods?' and
the next thing I knew blood was pouring out of my arm. Then he stabbed me in the
stomach, but luckily I had thick clothing on and it did not go through very
far," said the still shaken victim.

"After stabbing me the two ran off down towards Elmet Towers high rise flats. My
sister-in-law's sister lives nearby and I went there and her boyfriend cleaned
up my wound and put a temporary dressing on it. Then I went to hospital and they
put stitches in it," he said.

"It was very shocking, but this is the day and age we are living in," he added.
" I think I must have interrupted the two doing something."

The attack happened between 8.40 and 9pm.

The man who wielded the weapon was described as being white, aged 17 to 20 and
about 5ft 9in tall. He was of thin build and wore a black hooded top with a
large skull emblem on the back and a second unknown symbol on the left breast.
He also wore dark blue jeans.

His accomplice was also said to be a white of a similar age. Around 6ft to 6ft
1in tall, he was of a stocky build. At the time he was wearing a blue speckled
baseball cap and his hair had been shaven at the sides. He also wore a white
zip-up tracksuit top with a blue horizontal line across the chest and grey
tracksuit bottoms.

Anyone who saw the attack or recognises the descriptions of the man's assailants
is urged to ring North East Leeds CID at Killingbeck Police Station on 0113
2413659 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday

Reid: Another terror attack 'is highly likely'

BYLINE: JOE MURPHY

SECTION: LL2 04; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 256 words


A STARK warning that a new terrorist attack is "highly likely" was issued by the
Home Secretary today.

John Reid also revealed that security chiefs now believe that atrocities are
being orchestrated from abroad by Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda terrorist
organisation.

This marks a major change in intelligence thinking since the report into the
2005 London bombings which concluded that the attack was a product of home-grown
terrorism.

The minister announced that he was considering a cross-Whitehall homeland
security agency to respond to terrorism.

The fight against terror and crime was at the heart of the Queen's Speech today.
In what is expected to be the last Queen's Speech before Tony Blair steps down,
the Prime Minister wants to establish reforms that will confirm his legacy long
after he leaves Downing Street.

On the No 10 website, Mr Blair writes that the Queen's Speech aims to tackle the
biggest issues of the day: "How Britain can continue to give the lead on climate
change; how we continue re-balancing the criminal justice system in favour of
the law-abiding majority; how we overhaul the pension system."

But splits between Home Secretary John Reid and Chancellor Gordon Brown over
counter-terror measures risked overshadowing Mr Blair's announcements, after Mr
Reid's idea of a security department was stamped on by Mr Brown at the weekend.

And Mr Brown will not be bound by a 10-year policy review ordered by Mr Blair.
His allies say that the Chancellor will want a fresh direction in order to take
on David Cameron's Tories.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday

NEW UK TERROR ATTACKS HIGHLY LIKELY, SAYS REID;
Stark prediction steals PM's thunder on day of his last Queen's Speech

BYLINE: JOE MURPHY

SECTION: B MERGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2216 words


A STARK warning that a new terrorist attack in the UK is "highly likely" was
issued by the Home Secretary today.

John Reid also revealed that security chiefs now believe "waves" of atrocities
are being planned from abroad by Osama bin Laden's terrorist organisation.

That chilling assessment marks a major shift in thinking since the official
report into last year's London bombings, which concluded that 7/7 marked a new
phenomenon of home-grown conspiracies.

"It is a very great threat," said the Home Secretary. "It means that a terrorist
attack in the UK is highly likely."

Mr Reid agreed with the head of MI5, Dame Eliza Manningham-Buller, that there
were at least 30 plots ongoing. They could no longer be viewed as "haphazard".

"They do look as though they are being directed from abroad, specifically by
elements from al Qaeda," he told BBC radio.

"Secondly, they look as though they are being prepared strategically - that is,
that they fit in to a pattern ... it looks as though there's a wave of such
things."

The minister spoke out as the Queen's Speech pledged to put counter-terrorism
"at the heart of " the Government's work.

Mr Reid stole the thunder on the day of Tony Blair's final programme of
legislation-which was hallmarked by the tamenessof the Bills announced.

The Prime Minister sought to stamp his legacy with a Climate Change Bill forcing
cuts in carbon emissions and pensions reform that will mean under-29s working
until they are 68.

Some 28 new or draft Bills include plans to test pay-as-you-drive road pricing
schemes, replace the Child Support Agency and clamp down on rogue estate agents.

But there was none of the rebel-rousing brinkmanship of previous years, when the
Labour leader risked his neck with university top-up fees and foundation
hospitals.

There was also speculation in Westminster over how much of Mr Blair's swansong
programme will make it onto the statute book. Although the package formally
lasts for a full 12 months, Mr Blair is expected to bow out in seven months. MPs
on all sides predicted that Labour's next leader, almost certainly Gordon Brown,
will unveil bolder proposals in the early summer.

But it was the Chancellor's great rival Mr Reid who was making the running today
- and fuelling speculation that he will stand for Labour's leadership.

The Home Secretary took charge of half a dozen pieces of legislation signalled
in the Queen's Speech, including a Counter-Terrorism Bill. He will pilot a
Criminal Justice Bill, another Bill to reform probation services, a Serious
Fraud Bill to enable some trials without juries and an Organised Crime Bill to
target crimelords.

Career criminals will face "serious crime prevention orders" modelled on
antisocial behaviour orders (ASBOs) which will not require a conviction.

Mr Reid made clear he intends to go further in his reforms at the Home Office,
saying the threat from terrorism required a "seamless" response. That was seen
as a hint that he favours a cross-Whitehall security body and perhaps a unified
budget for MI5, MI6 and GCHQ.

There has been speculation that he was drafting plans for a US-style department
of homeland security, although the idea is opposed by Mr Brown.

"The threat from al Qaeda is a seamless oneand we must have a seamless
response," Mr Reid said.

There was no mention in the Queen's Speech of whether the Government would push
for 90-day detentions without charge for terrorist suspects. Mr Reid kept the
option open in interviews.

Despite speculation of a go-ahead today, he postponed the decision by saying the
supporting evidence had yet to be put to him.

"If such a case is made to me, I will reveal it ... and take it to Parliament,"
he said. At present, suspects can be held for 28 days.

On the terror threat, Mr Reid said: "There are many other discussions,
conspiracies, what you could call plots going on.

"These 30 are the ones that they think are the most serious. They are ongoing
and they are working and they have the potential, although - without going into
great detail about them - some will be nearer preparation than others."

Shadow home secretary David Davis dismissed the plans. "They have had 59 Acts of
Parliament in the last nine years - that hasn't stopped violent crime rising,
that hasn't stopped terrorism, that hasn't stopped massive immigration
problems."

Downing Street called the package "a Queen's Speech for the aspiring majority,
the law-abiding, the victims of crime, the vulnerable and for the benefit of
future generations". Liberal Democrat leader Sir Menzies Campbell accused the
Government of being "addicted" to new laws.

"This is a Prime Minister trying to legislate his way into history," he said.

Friends of the Earth welcomed the Climate Change Bill but said it hoped it would
go further. Director Tony Juniper said: "We are delighted that a Climate Change
Bill was announced ... The next step is annual targets for reducing the UK's
carbon dioxide emissions."

By tradition, MPs were summoned to hear the Queen read the speech in the House
of Lords. There was laughter when Left- wing veteran Dennis Skinner answered the
summons by yelling: "It is her - or is it Helen Mirren?"

. Additional reporting by Paul Waugh, Jason Beattie, Nicholas Cecil, Pippa
Crerar and Martin Bentham.

Terrorism and security

A RENEWED anti-terror drive was today placed at the heart of the Government's
agenda - but it could be months before the details of legislation are decided.

Among the changes that may be included in a new terrorism bill are an increase
in the current 28-day limit for detaining terror suspects without charge.

Chancellor Gordon Brown has already signalled his support for looking again at a
possible 90-day limit, but Home Secretary John Reid has been more cautious and
emphasised today that he would need clear evidence of the benefits before
pressing ahead. A final decision is unlikely for several months.

Ministers are also considering legislation to beef up control orders after the
disappearance of two terror suspects and concern that curbs are insufficiently
robust to protect the public.

The final key reform could see intercept evidence allowed in trials. This is
backed by opposition parties, but Mr Reid has yet to decide whether to proceed
because of concerns voiced by the security services.

Immigration and borders

IMMIGRATION officers are to be given the power of arrest for the first time to
help them patrol Britain's borders.

The beefed-up laws will mean officers will be able to arrest false asylum
seekers looking for free state benefits.

They will also be able to detain anyone they suspect of crimes at ports and
airfields and seize cash and assets.

Currently, they are powerless to arrest unless they suspect someone of breaking
immigration laws.

The Borders and Immigration Bill will not allow officers to automatically remove
suspects from the country but it will make it easier to deport foreigners who
commit serious crime and will speed up the appeals process.

A Home Office insider said: "There's a clear need to give immigration officers
extra powers of arrest. They will be an invaluable new arm in the fight against
illegal immigration but also in major crimes like drug smuggling."

But the Tories, who first called for a dedicated border force with powers to
arrest and remove last year, claims the Government has not gone far enough.

Crime and justice

AN overhaul of the criminal justice system was announced with new measures to
deal with violent offenders.

One change will introduce "violent offender orders" to impose stricter curbs on
dangerous convicts released into the community.

Other measures are likely to cut the compensation for victims of miscarriages of
justice and moves to stop defendants being acquitted on legal technicalities.

There will be new powers to curb antisocial behaviour and reforms to increase
the ability of police and probation staff to deal with offenders without going
to court. Changes to ensure longer jail terms for the most dangerous offenders
will also be enacted.

An Offender Management Bill will allow private firms and voluntary groups to
take over supervision of freed offenders from probation staff.

A Serious Organised Crime Bill will target gangs and those who assist them.

Other legislation will remove juries in complex fraud trials.

Climate change

THE Climate Change Bill commits Britain to cutting its carbon dioxide emissions
by 60 per cent by 2050.

The legislation aims to persuade individuals and businesses to reduce their
"carbon footprint", the amount of CO2 they produce.

The Bill does not meet demands by green groups for year-on-year cuts, but
Environment Secretary David Miliband said he will consider "appropriate interim
targets".

Amid the threat of a Labour rebellion in favour of annual cuts, the Government
may compromise by setting fiveyearly as well as 10-yearly limits.

Central to the Bill will be an independent Carbon Committee to cut emissions
over time across the economy.

Many details have yet to be agreed on the Bill's precise makeup. Without being
specific, the Government promised to "create enabling powers to put in place new
emissions reductions needed to achieve our goals".

The Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs said "the science of
climate change is indisputable - climate change is an issue of critical
importance, and urgent action is needed both at home and internationally".

Digital television and privacy

OPPONENTS today expressed alarm at plans to give the BBC and television
companies access to the private records of millions of pensioners.

New legislation will allow the Government to hand over personal details to the
BBC so it can warn the elderly and the disabled about the switchover from
analogue to digital TV.

The move, which follows a trial switch-off in Bolton, comes amid fears that
millions of people do not yet realise that their old TV sets will become
redundant. The Bill will allow the Department for Work and Pensions to share
social security information and the Ministry of Defence to share pension files
with the BBC and private operators.

The Lib-Dems said they would be seeking reassurances that powers handed to the
BBC would not be abused. "Our concern is how long they will be able to retain
the data for and to make sure that it is not used for commercial purposes," a
spokesman said.

Estate agents

ESTATE agents will have to open up their books in a clampdown on unscrupulous
practices in their industry.

They will have to keep records of home sales and allow trading standards
officers to inspect these documents.

The Consumers, Estate Agents and Redress Bill aims to stop estate agents
knowingly inflating the value of houses and using aggressive sales techniques
such as refusing to leave a person's property until they agree to sell.

A cooling-off period will be introduced to allow homeowners to pull out of
agreements after a solicited sales meeting, as currently exist for unsolicited
visits.

The Office of Fair Trading will also be given greater powers to take action
against rogue agents.

In another move, energy and postal companies will have to join redress schemes
to resolve complaints and award compensation to customers given a dismal
service.

Consumer groups Energywatch, Postwatch and the National Consumer Council will
also be brought together in an attempt to create a more powerful body.

Mayor's powers

KEN LIVINGSTONE is to get new powers in a Greater London Authority Bill.

The London Mayor will get greater control over major building projects.

He will be able to boost the battle against climate change by pushing through
plans for new recycling centres and tram stations. Developers could also be
banned from building on parkland and "metropolitan open land".

In addition, Mr Livingstone will get more powers over housing in the capital.

The legislation aims to strengthen the Mayor's leadership and the GLA to meet
challenges, including the 2012 Olympics.

Other Bills

Child Support; Concessionary Bus Travel; Further Education and Training; Mental
Health; Draft Road Transport; Local Government; Statistics Reform; Northern
Ireland; Legal Services; Exchanges and Clearing Houses; Cultural Property During
Armed Conflict; Local Better Regulation Office; Corporate Manslaughter (carried
over); Crossrail (carried over); Welfare Reform (carried over).

Fertility treatment

FERTILITY clinics will no longer be able to refuse single women and lesbians
under the Tissues and Embryo Authority Bill.

Ministers have signalled that doctors will not be required to consider the need
for a father when considering the welfare of IVF babies.

But they have ruled out lifting the ban on human cloning, reversing donor
anonymity and an examination of the abortion time limit of 24 weeks.

A new regulatory authority will take responsibility for human tissues and cells.

Pensions reform

SWEEPING changes to the pensions system will be introduced under a new Bill.

The state pension age for both men and women will be gradually raised to 68 by
2046. The link between rises in pensions and earnings, rather than inflation,
will be restored but probably not before 2012.

Moves will be brought in to make it easier for women to get a full state
pension, even if they take time off work to bring up a family.

Currently, they need 39 years of pension entitlements and men 44. The period for
both sexes will be reduced to 30 years.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STATES VISIT: THE QUEEN, PICTURED ON HER WAY TO PARLIAMENT, IS TO VISIT
AMERICA NEXT YEAR, SHE ANNOUNCED TODAY. IT WILL BE HER FIRST VISIT THERE FOR 15
YEARS AND WILL MARK THE 400TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ARRIVAL OF THE FIRST
ENGLISH-SPEAKING SETTLERS IN JAMESTOWN, VIRGINIA, IN 1607

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                          November 15, 2006 Wednesday

BLAIR'S FINAL FIGHTBACK AS CAMERON ATTACKS LEGACY;
but Reid's stark terror forecast overshadows PM's last Queen's Speech

BYLINE: JOE MURPHY

SECTION: C MERGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2163 words


TONY BLAIR launched his final programme of new laws today with critics saying
his period in Downing Street was ending with a whimper rather than a bang.

The Prime Minister made a spirited defence of his record in the Commons as the
Queen's Speech ushered in some 30 measures revolving around security and crime,
curbing climate change and raising the state pension age to 68.

But he came under withering fire from Tory leader David Cameron, who said the
package contained reheated old promises and empty initiatives.

"The Prime Minister has simply given up on the causes of crime," scorned Mr
Cameron.

Parodying Neil Kinnock's famous anti-Militant speech, he used it to attack NHS
cutbacks by a Labour government " scuttling round the country handing out
redundancy notices to its own NHS staff ".

With MPs aware that Mr Blair will bow out months before the new laws are pushed
through, Mr Cameron saved his most aggressive fire for the man who will probably
take over - Chancellor Gordon Brown.

"The Chancellor is not the solution," he said, accusing Mr Brown of making empty
promises to create a "Britain Day" or stage a national listening tour.

"He is the biggest part of the problem," he added.

The Prime Minister sought to stamp his legacy with long-term reforms but the new
plans were seen as tame in comparison with the rebel-rousing brinksmanship of
vintage Blair years, when the Labour leader risked his neck with university
topup fees and foundation hospitals.

There were plans to test pay-as-you-drive road pricing schemes, replace the
hated Child Support Agency and crack down on rogue estate agents.

MPs predicted that Labour's next leader will unveil bolder proposals in the
early summer.

Mr Blair hit back at Mr Cameron, saying: "Hope, true hope, is about tough
decisionmaking and you have never taken a tough decision in your life." He then
challenged the Tory leader to say where he stood on nuclear power. "I'm in
favour of it," Mr Blair declared. "Where do you stand?" Mr Cameron made no
reply.

The PM told the Tory leader: "I may be going out but on that performance you're
not coming in."

He taunted Mr Cameron by saying he "won't be able to keep the lights on" if he
failed to decide on energy.

The show had been stolen by the Chancellor's biggest Cabinet rival, Home
Secretary John Reid, who will pilot around half a dozen meaty Bills on crime,
terrorism and immigration.

He began the day by issuing a stark warning that a new terrorist attack on
Britain is "highly likely".

Mr Reid revealed that security chiefs now believe "waves" of atrocities are
being planned from abroad by Osama bin Laden's terrorist organisation.

That chilling assessment marks a major shift in thinking since the official
report into last year's London bombings, which concluded that 7/7 marked a new
phenomenon of home-grown conspiracies.

"It is a very great threat," he said. "It means that a terrorist attack in the
UK is highly likely."

Mr Reid agreed with the boss of MI5 Dame Eliza Manningham-Buller that there were
at least 30 plots ongoing. They could no longer be viewed as "haphazard".

"They do look as though they are being directed from abroad, specifically by
elements from al Qaeda," he told BBC radio.

"Secondly, they look as though they are being prepared strategically - that is,
that they fit into a pattern ... it looks as though there's a wave of such
things."

The minister spoke out as the Queen's Speech pledged to put counter-terrorism
"at the heart of " the Government's work.

Stealing Mr Blair's thunder, Mr Reid made clear he intends to go further in his
reforms at the Home Office, saying the threat from terrorism required a "
seamless" response by the Government.

That was seen as a hint that he favours a cross-Whitehall security body and
perhaps a unified budget for MI5, MI6 and the GCHQ listening post.

Shadow home secretary David Davis dismissed the plans, saying: "They have had 59
Acts of Parliament in the last nine years - that hasn't stopped violent crime
rising, that hasn't stopped terrorism, that hasn't stopped massive immigration
problems."

Downing Street characterised the package as "a Queen's Speech for the aspiring
majority, the law-abiding, the victims of crime, the vulnerable and for the
benefit of future generations".

Liberal Democrat leader Sir Menzies Campbell accused the Government of being
"addicted" to new laws.

"This is a Prime Minister trying to legislate his way into history," he said,
calling for a bonfire of unnecessary laws.

Friends of the Earth welcomed the Climate Change Bill but said they hoped it
would go further with annual targets for reducing CO2 emissions.

By tradition, MPs were summoned to hear the Queen read the speech in the House
of Lords.

There was laughter when Leftwing veteran Dennis Skinner answered the summons by
yelling: "Is it her - or it is Helen Mirren?"

. Additional reporting by Paul Waugh, Jason Beattie, Nicholas Cecil, Pippa
Crerar and Martin Bentham.

Terrorism and security

A RENEWED anti-terror drive was today placed at the heart of the Government's
agenda - but it could be months before the details of legislation are decided.

Among the changes that may be included in a new terrorism bill are an increase
in the current 28-day limit for detaining terror suspects without charge.

Chancellor Gordon Brown has already signalled his support for looking again at a
possible 90-day limit, but Home Secretary John Reid has been more cautious and
emphasised today that he would need clear evidence of the benefits before
pressing ahead. A final decision is unlikely for several months.

Ministers are also considering legislation to beef up control orders after the
disappearance of two terror suspects and concern that curbs are insufficiently
robust to protect the public.

The final key reform could see intercept evidence allowed in trials. This is
backed by opposition parties, but Mr Reid has yet to decide whether to proceed
because of concerns voiced by the security services.

Immigration and borders

IMMIGRATION officers are to be given the power of arrest for the first time to
help them patrol Britain's borders.

The beefed-up laws will mean officers will be able to arrest false asylum
seekers looking for free state benefits.

They will also be able to detain anyone they suspect of crimes at ports and
airfields and seize cash and assets.

Currently, they are powerless to arrest unless they suspect someone of breaking
immigration laws.

The Borders and Immigration Bill will not allow officers to automatically remove
suspects from the country but it will make it easier to deport foreigners who
commit serious crime and will speed up the appeals process.

A Home Office insider said: "There's a clear need to give immigration officers
extra powers of arrest. They will be an invaluable new arm in the fight against
illegal immigration but also in major crimes like drug smuggling."

But the Tories, who first called for a dedicated border force with powers to
arrest and remove last year, claims the Government has not gone far enough.

Crime and justice

AN overhaul of the criminal justice system was announced with new measures to
deal with violent offenders.

One change will introduce "violent offender orders" to impose stricter curbs on
dangerous convicts released into the community.

Other measures are likely to cut the compensation for victims of miscarriages of
justice and moves to stop defendants being acquitted on legal technicalities.

There will be new powers to curb antisocial behaviour and reforms to increase
the ability of police and probation staff to deal with offenders without going
to court. Changes to ensure longer jail terms for the most dangerous offenders
will also be enacted.

An Offender Management Bill will allow private firms and voluntary groups to
take over supervision of freed offenders from probation staff.

A Serious Organised Crime Bill will target gangs and those who assist them.

Other legislation will remove juries in complex fraud trials.

Climate change

THE Climate Change Bill commits Britain to cutting its carbon dioxide emissions
by 60 per cent by 2050.

The legislation aims to persuade individuals and businesses to reduce their
"carbon footprint", the amount of CO2 they produce.

The Bill does not meet demands by green groups for year-on-year cuts, but
Environment Secretary David Miliband said he will consider "appropriate interim
targets".

Amid the threat of a Labour rebellion in favour of annual cuts, the Government
may compromise by setting fiveyearly as well as 10-yearly limits.

Central to the Bill will be an independent Carbon Committee to cut emissions
over time across the economy.

Many details have yet to be agreed on the Bill's precise makeup. Without being
specific, the Government promised to "create enabling powers to put in place new
emissions reductions needed to achieve our goals".

The Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs said "the science of
climate change is indisputable - climate change is an issue of critical
importance, and urgent action is needed both at home and internationally".

Digital television and privacy

OPPONENTS today expressed alarm at plans to give the BBC and television
companies access to the private records of millions of pensioners.

New legislation will allow the Government to hand over personal details to the
BBC so it can warn the elderly and the disabled about the switchover from
analogue to digital TV.

The move, which follows a trial switch-off in Bolton, comes amid fears that
millions of people do not yet realise that their old TV sets will become
redundant. The Bill will allow the Department for Work and Pensions to share
social security information and the Ministry of Defence to share pension files
with the BBC and private operators.

The Lib-Dems said they would be seeking reassurances that powers handed to the
BBC would not be abused. "Our concern is how long they will be able to retain
the data for and to make sure that it is not used for commercial purposes," a
spokesman said.

Estate agents

ESTATE agents will have to open up their books in a clampdown on unscrupulous
practices in their industry.

They will have to keep records of home sales and allow trading standards
officers to inspect these documents.

The Consumers, Estate Agents and Redress Bill aims to stop estate agents
knowingly inflating the value of houses and using aggressive sales techniques
such as refusing to leave a person's property until they agree to sell.

A cooling-off period will be introduced to allow homeowners to pull out of
agreements after a solicited sales meeting, as currently exist for unsolicited
visits.

The Office of Fair Trading will also be given greater powers to take action
against rogue agents.

In another move, energy and postal companies will have to join redress schemes
to resolve complaints and award compensation to customers given a dismal
service.

Consumer groups Energywatch, Postwatch and the National Consumer Council will
also be brought together in an attempt to create a more powerful body.

Mayor's powers

KEN LIVINGSTONE is to get new powers in a Greater London Authority Bill.

The London Mayor will get greater control over major building projects.

He will be able to boost the battle against climate change by pushing through
plans for new recycling centres and tram stations. Developers could also be
banned from building on parkland and "metropolitan open land".

In addition, Mr Livingstone will get more powers over housing in the capital.

The legislation aims to strengthen the Mayor's leadership and the GLA to meet
challenges, including the 2012 Olympics.

Other Bills

Child Support; Concessionary Bus Travel; Further Education and Training; Mental
Health; Draft Road Transport; Local Government; Statistics Reform; Northern
Ireland; Legal Services; Exchanges and Clearing Houses; Cultural Property During
Armed Conflict; Local Better Regulation Office; Corporate Manslaughter (carried
over); Crossrail (carried over); Welfare Reform (carried over).

Fertility treatment

FERTILITY clinics will no longer be able to refuse single women and lesbians
under the Tissues and Embryo Authority Bill.

Ministers have signalled that doctors will not be required to consider the need
for a father when considering the welfare of IVF babies.

But they have ruled out lifting the ban on human cloning, reversing donor
anonymity and an examination of the abortion time limit of 24 weeks.

A new regulatory authority will take responsibility for human tissues and cells.

Pensions reform

SWEEPING changes to the pensions system will be introduced under a new Bill.

The state pension age for both men and women will be gradually raised to 68 by
2046. The link between rises in pensions and earnings, rather than inflation,
will be restored but probably not before 2012.

Moves will be brought in to make it easier for women to get a full state
pension, even if they take time off work to bring up a family.

Currently, they need 39 years of pension entitlements and men 44. The period for
both sexes will be reduced to 30 years.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1.CAMERON ATTACKS LEGACY 2.STATES VISIT: THE QUEEN, PICTURED ON HER WAY
TO PARLIAMENT, IS TO VISIT AMERICA NEXT YEAR, SHE ANNOUNCED TODAY. IT WILL BE
HER FIRST OFFICIAL VISIT THERE FOR 15 YEARS AND WILL MARK THE 400TH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE ARRIVAL OF THE FIRST ENGLISH-SPEAKING SETTLERS IN JAMESTOWN, VIRGINIA, IN
1607

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 16, 2006 Thursday
                                 Fourth Edition

Home Secretary takes centre stage to warn of further terror attacks

BYLINE: Nigel Morris, Robert Verkaik, Richard Garner, Ben Russell and Colin
Brown

SECTION: THE QUEEN'S SPEECH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 3542 words


CRIME

John Reid kept options open on allowing police more time to question terrorist
suspects without charge as he warned an attack on Britain was "highly likely".

The Home Secretary took centre-stage in the Queen's Speech, announcing Bills to
tackle organised crime and antisocial behaviour and "rebalance" the criminal
justice system. He also looks certain to introduce a counter-terrorism Bill
within months, after a Home Office-led review of existing legislation.

Mr Reid gave a stark warning of the scale of threat Britain faces, saying the
security services believed a "wave" of plots were being co-ordinated by
al-Qa'ida. He agreed with Dame Eliza Manningham-Buller, director general of MI5,
that at least 30 terrorist conspiracies were active.

"They do look as though they are being directed from abroad, specifically by
elements from al-Qa'ida," he told BBC Radio 4. "They look as though they are
being prepared strategically; that is, they fit in to a pattern."

The Queen's Speech promised the fight against terrorism would be "at the heart"
of the Government programme over the next parliamentary year. Ministers will
plug any gaps exposed by the Home Office review, learning lessons from the
alleged airliner bomb plot thwarted in August. They are refusing to rule out an
attempt to increase from 28 days the period terrorist suspects can be questioned
without charge, although a bid to bring in a 90-day detention period was thrown
out by MPs last year. Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, is
leading renewed calls for the amount of time given to be increased.

Mr Reid said: "I have made plain that if it's put to me on the basis of factual
or evidential material that there is a requirement to go beyond 28 days, I would
be prepared to take that back to Parliament." The Prime Minister's official
spokesman said: "We've always said we believe 90 days is the right answer; we
did so on the basis of the advice we had from police at the time."

One possibility is a giant Bill bringing together Britain's anti-terror
legislation, which is now spread across four Acts of Parliament. It could
contain moves to toughen the "control orders" system and allow "intercept"
evidence in terrorist prosecutions. The Criminal Justice Bill follows concern
over crimes committed by offenders after release from prison and short sentences
for repeat criminals. Mr Reid plans to give judges the power to extend the time
served by the most serious offenders, change the law so courts cannot quash the
convictions of "plainly guilty" offenders on a technicality and insist parole
boards include a victims' representative. There will also be a new offence
making the possession of "violent and extreme pornography", such as images of
rape, punishable by up to three years' imprisonment. Police will also get the
power to shut "antisocial" premises, such as brothels, with just 48 hours'
notice.

The Offender Management Bill toughens supervision of criminals after release.
Probation officers will gain the discretion to increase the length or severity
of community punishments and private and voluntary sector or-ganisations will be
invited to tender for probation contracts in a bid to drive up standards.

The Organised Crime Bill introduces "serious crime prevention orders" (so-called
"super-Asbos") for gangsters who cannot be prosecuted for lack of evidence. They
could impose restrictions such as curfews and limited access to bank accounts.
David Davis, the shadow Home Secretary, accused Mr Reid of "grandstanding" after
a Home Office annus horribilis. He said: "We've had a year of meltdown in the
prison system, with foreign prisoners being released on the streets and
murderers let out on parole to kill again."

Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said: "This is panic,
push-button government at its worst. It is high time this frenzied law-making is
brought to a halt, with unnecessary and illiberal legislation."

Richard Garside, of the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies at King's College
London, said: "One of the legacies of Tony Blair's time in office is the
eye-watering number of crime-related pieces of legislation his governments have
introduced. The year-on-year legislation binge has bloated the system and made
it less fit for purpose."

Liberty, the civil liberties or-ganisation, accused the Government of promoting
"more rough justice through excessive criminal justice proposals".

Nigel Morris

PENSIONS

The state pension age is to be increased gradually to 68 under the Pensions Bill
aimed at tackling the rising cost of the elderly. The Government claimed raising
the pension age reflected increasing longevity and a trend towards people
working longer. But one of the key reasons for the change was the Turner report
to Gordon Brown last November warning that the rising cost of pensions could not
be supported. The pension age will rise from 65 to 66 between 2024 and 2026,
followed by a rise from 66 to 67 between 2034 and 2036. The final increase from
67 to 68 will take place between 2044 and 2046.

To sweeten the pill, the Government will restore the link between the basic
state pension and earnings under the Pensions Bill, which is aimed at answering
criticism of the Government's record on pensions before Mr Blair leaves office.
The Bill will reduce the number of years it takes to build a full basic state
pension from 44 years for men and 39 years for women to 30 years for both. It
will simplify state and private pensions, including abolition of contracting out
for private defined contribution schemes. The state second pension will be
simplified.

The Bill will modernise the contributory principle to ensure a fairer deal for
women and carers, said ministers, by recognis-ing caring contributions and
further enabling carers to build up a state pension. The private pension
regulatory system will be streamlined to make it easier for people to plan and
save for their retirement.

Ministers estimated that by 2010, 70 per cent of women reaching the state
pension age would have a full basic state pension compared with only 30 per cent
now. Many women fail to qualify because they have broken their national
insurance contributions by quitting work to care for children or parents.

Colin Brown

IMMIGRATION

The fifth and final immigration Bill of the Blair era follows the failure to
deport more than 1,000 foreign prisoners at the end of their sentences. The
fiasco cost Charles Clarke his job as Home Secretary six months ago and his
replacement, Mr Reid, has condemned the immigration system as "not fit for
purpose".

Under the Border and Immigration Bill, foreign prisoners will face automatic
deportation, with little right of appeal, and be kept in prison until their
removal. Immigration officers are being given new powers to seize cash and other
assets from illegal immigrants and impose tough reporting restrictions on visa
holders coming to work or study. They will also make further biometric checks on
new arrivals. A new status for asylum-seekers who commit serious crimes is being
created, after Afghan hijackers won a court battle to stay in Britain. The Bill
will create a "restricted status" for such offenders, barring them from housing,
benefits or jobs.

The Government also intends to create an independent Immigration Advisory
Committee, which will advise ministers on "optimum" levels of immigration. There
are plans to create a points-based system for economic migrants whose chances of
being granted a visa will depend on their age, qualifications and experience.

Danny Sriskandarajah, associate director of the Institute for Public Policy
Research think-tank, said: "We need efficient and flexible flows of workers and
not measures that stigmatise migrants, the overwhelming majority of whom come to
work and contribute to our economy."

Nigel Morris

JUSTICE

Opposition MPs and civil rights groups have accused ministers of embarking on a
programme of "rough justice" after they learnt that the Government was to press
ahead with plans to curb the right to a jury trial. Under the proposal in the
Queen's Speech, serious and complex fraud trials would be heard by a judge alone
after an application by the prosecution to the High Court and approval by the
Lord Chief Justice. Lord Goldsmith, the Attorney General, believes some fraud
cases are too complex and too long for jury trials.

Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat constitutional affairs spokesman, said: "The
principle of trial by jury is at the heart of our judicial system. There may be
some need for different procedures to deal with complex fraud trials, [but] the
final decision as to whether someone has been honest or dishonest in a serious
case should always be one for a jury." Shami Chakrabarti, the director of civil
rights group Liberty, said: "Tough talk brings rough justice. Rough justice if
you're evicted because your big brother's been in trouble, rough justice when
you're accused of serious crime and denied a jury trial, rough justice when
migrants are always equated with crime." The Government also set out details to
create a specific criminal offence of fraud, whether by false representation,
abuse of position or failing to disclose information.

Robert Verkaik

EDUCATION

A radical shake-up means further education colleges being given power to award
degrees for the first time. The move is designed to bring about a major
expansion of two-year foundation degree courses, available in subjects as
wide-ranging as business start-up, film technology and sports journalism.

The upheaval is the biggest in higher education since the former polytechnics
were awarded university status by the Conservatives in the early 1990s. The
drive is expected to help widen the take-up of degrees among young people from
poorer homes, and will help the Gov-ernment reach its target of getting 50 per
cent into higher education by the end of the decade. Traditionalists claim it
amounts to a dumbing down of degrees.

Sarah Teather, the Liberal Democrat education spokeswoman, described it as "a
small step in the right direction", adding: "Root and branch reform of further
education is desperately needed, not the tinkering around the edges so typical
of this Government's recent record in education."

John Brennan, chief executive of the Association of Colleges, said it would free
colleges to use existing links with employers to "tailor degrees" and "open up
higher education, capturing people who never thought they could attend
university".

Under the Bill, the Learning and Skills Council - the government quango
responsible for financing post-16 education - will be given new powers to remove
principals whose colleges are failing or even "not improving".

A government spokesman said: "It would provide for a step change in the delivery
of further education by establishing arrangements to ensure all provision is
either good or improving."

Richard Garner

CLIMATE

Tony Blair faced criticism from opposition parties and environmentalists over
the planned Climate Change Bill amid warnings that it lacked measurable targets.
Green groups praised the Bill as an important first step, but attacked ministers
for refusing to set annual targets for cutting carbon dioxide emissions, despite
the Prime Minister's insistence that binding year-on-year targets would be
impossible to police.

The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said the Bill would put
the Government's long-term goal of a 60 per cent cut in CO2 emissions by 2050
into law, but the Government would only "consider appropriate interim targets".
The Bill will create an independent carbon committee to help Government hit
emissions targets, and ensure ministers report to Parliament on progress.

David Miliband, the Secretary of State for the Environment, said: "We are
providing business with certainty over this Government and future governments'
intentions and reaffirming the UK's commitment to taking action to meet our
climate-change goals."

Tony Juniper, director of Friends of the Earth, praised the Bill as a "crucial
first step" in the fight against global warming. He added: "The next step is to
ensure the Bill delivers the cuts needed through introduction of annual targets
for reducing the UK's carbon dioxide emissions."

Phil Bloomer, director of campaigns and policy at Oxfam, said the Government was
"taking climate change seriously, but not seriously or urgently enough".

Andrew Pendleton, senior climate analyst at Christian Aid, said: "If the Bill is
underpinned only by a desire to hoard fuel stocks, we fear it will lack the
teeth it needs to bring down urgently the dangerous greenhouse gas emissions
that impact so savagely on poor people's lives."

Chris Huhne, the Liberal Democrat environment spokesman, warned: "We need a
government that proposes solutions, not just targets. If targets alone solved
problems, this would be the best-governed country in the world. Only the Liberal
Democrats are showing how to tax pollution not people and meet our agreed
targets, with the green tax switch."

Ben Russell

MENTAL HEALTH

The proposed Mental Health Bill aroused protests and a threat of a Labour
rebellion over measures to enforce supervised treatment for the mentally ill
even if they have not committed a crime.

The Government is reviving the legislation it proposed in a draft Bill in 2002
but abandoned in March, this year, in the face of sustained opposition by mental
health campaigners and charities. Campaigners said the plans to update England's
23-year-old laws would represent an abuse of civil liberties. But ministers are
insisting they have to balance the rights of the mentally ill with the need for
greater protection of people.

"If the Government pushes ahead with this it will mean people with mental health
problems have fewer rights than someone suspected of burglaries," said Jane
Harris, campaigns manager of Rethink, the mental health charity. "It will be an
abuse of our civil liberties."

The legislation was intended to answer disquiet in the wake of high-profile
cases, such as the murders by Michael Stone of Lin and Megan Russell in 1996.
Stone was regarded as a dangerous psychopath but an inquiry found gaps in his
care. Under the 1983 Mental Health Act patients can be sectioned, but only if
their condition is treatable.

The new law will propose three key changes: Supervised community treatment (SCT)
for patients discharged from compulsory treatment in hospital; a new definition
of mental disorder to scrap the "treatability test" and allow compulsory therapy
if "appropriate" treatment is available; and safeguards for patients who lack
capacity and are deprived of their liberty but are not covered by existing
mental health legislation. It will be taken through the Commons jointly by the
Home Office minister Gerry Sutcliffe and the Health minister Rosie Winterton.
The Labour MP Ian Gibson, a former chairman of the Commons Science Committee,
said: "There will be a big reaction to this legislation. I am very concerned at
the inability of the Government to come up with a patient-friendly Bill. There
is still too much emphasis on punishment."

Dr Tony Calland, of the British Medical Association, said mental health
legislation should not be used to detain people whom the authorities simply want
locked away Paul Farmer, chief executive of Mind, said: "We urgently hope that
the final process of this long-drawn-out saga will result in a piece of
legislation that is not a wasted opportunity. It must provide compassionate
treatment and care for people with mental health problems. The 1983 Act needs
updating. But it needs to provide care for people when they first need it, not
leave them to reach a crisis state, or scare them from seeking help by the
threat of compulsory treatment."

Colin Brown

CHILD SUPPORT AGENCY

Errant fathers who repeatedly fail to pay maintenance could face curfews,
electronic tagging and the suspension of their passports under measures to axe
the troubled Child Support Agency. The Child Support Bill will scrap the CSA,
which was accused of causing a bureaucratic nightmare for families. It will be
replaced by a streamlined body, and rules to encourage separated or divorced
parents to reach private settlements.

The CSA was set up by John Major's Tory government in 1993, but has been dogged
with complaints. It has a backlog of 300,000 cases with £1.2bn outstanding and
£1bn in uncollected payments already written off.

The changes, likely to win cross-party support, follow a review by Sir David
Henshaw. The details will be in a White Paper soon. It will be followed by a
consultation period before the Bill is taken through Parliament by John Hutton,
the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions. Under the Bill, deserted lone
parents left to bring up children will no longer be forced to make formal
claims, even if they have reached a private agreement with their ex-partners.
The legislation will allow more lone mothers or fathers to keep their
maintenance on top of state benefits. Now, those on benefits lose some or all of
their maintenance if payments take their income above the qualifying threshold.

The additional aid promised under the new Bill will be coupled with tougher
measures to pursue errant parents who pay little or nothing. Absent fathers or
mothers who refuse to pay for their children's upkeep will be pursued by private
bailiffs. Passports could be suspended. Existing laws allow courts to seize the
driving licences of parents who fail to pay maintenance but these powers are
rarely used because they claim they would destroy their work chances

Colin Brown

ESTATE AGENTS

Tough new regulations designed to crack down on rogue estate agents are to be
introduced. All agents will be forced to join a scheme to allow victims of bad
practice to claim compensation.

Agents will also have to keep full records of their work, and Trading Standards
officers will inspect their archives, under proposals in the Consumers, Estate
Agents and Redress Bill.

The Office of Fair Trading will also get increased powers to take action against
rogue agents. Energy and postal firms will also have to offer redress to
customers, and the Bill will also merge the National Consumer Council,
Energywatch and Postwatch into a single consumer watchdog. The Queen's Speech
declared that the Bill will "introduce the most wide-ranging reform of consumer
protection for many years."

Stephen Carr-Smith, the estate agents ombudsman, said: "This is very good news
for the consumer and also very good news for the industry because it means that
every single estate agent has got to have their activity judged against a code
of practice by an independent ombudsman. The estate agents who can't abide by a
code of practice will have to go to the wall, and good riddance."

But the Association of Residential Letting Agents (ARLA) warned the Bill would
not protect consumers against unlicensed letting agents. Its chief executive,
Adrian Turner, said: "This is a lost opportunity to protect the consumer in that
part of the private rented sector the professional bodies cannot reach."

Steven Gould, the director of regulation for the Royal Institution of Chartered
Surveyors, said: "This is a missed opportunity. RICS welcomes the Government's
commitment to introduce independent redress across this sector, but we feel
redress alone is insufficient.

"Consumers should have confidence when they walk into an estate agency that it
is a properly regulated business. The present proposals do not offer them this
option."

Ben Russell

What was left out

LORDS REFORM

Jack Straw was under pressure to bring forward a vote on reform of the House of
Lords before the end of the parliamentary year. The Queen's Speech pledged that
ministers would "bring forward proposals" for reform, but stopped short of
promising a vote during the next session.

The speech pledged that the Government would "continue its programme of reform"
and would "work to build a consensus on reform of the House of Lords and will
bring forward proposals".

Yesterday Mr Straw said he was in "intensive talks" with the other main parties
at Westminster and promised that MPs and peers would have a free vote on the
proposed make-up of a reformed upper house.

Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat constitutional affairs spokesman, urged
ministers to bring forward a White Paper before Christmas and arrange a vote
early in the new year. He said: "It is disappointing we do not have a commitment
to a vote. I hope a hope becomes a commitment. I am keeping the pressure on Jack
Straw on this issue."

MARINE PROTECTION

Ministers were sharply criti-cised over their failure to bring forward a Marine
Bill to protect the seas around Britain from damage. Campaigners had hoped for a
measure, which was promised in the Labour election manifesto.

Chris Huhne, the Liberal Democrat environment spokesman, said: "The
disappointment is that the Marine Bill has been dropped. It is desperately
needed to ensure protection of our seas from environmental damage. Marine
protection areas are crucial."

TRANSPORT POLICY

The Government decided not to bring forward a full Bill on transport policy.
Instead a draft Road Transport Bill will be published next year proposing
expanded powers to implement road-charging schemes to cut congestion.

Ben Russell

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           November 16, 2006 Thursday

Sex terror attack heard in 999 call

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 719 words


Baljit Singh could be deported to India after subjecting a married mother to a
serious sex attack as she tried to make her way home from a night out in the
city centre. KATE SKELTON reports

It should have been a simple journey home after a night out with friends in the
city centre.

The 33-year-old woman had left her car at the Phoenix Park park-and-ride stop
and set off to return to it, having had very little to drink, shortly after
midnight on March 5.

But the woman stepped on to the wrong tram at the Royal Centre stop and into the
path of Baljit Singh.

Singh, 24, whose legal status in the UK could not be proved in court, would
subject her to a terrifying assault that would leave her afraid to go out again.

The woman thought she was heading back to Phoenix Park, but in fact the tram -
the last of the evening - was bound for Hucknall.

She had thought she would be safe when the tram conductor gave her taxi numbers
and told her there was a police station around the corner from the tram stop in
Shipstone Street, New Basford.

In a move that would prove vital to the police investigation, Singh let her
borrow his mobile phone to call a taxi.

Steven Coupland, prosecuting  at Nottingham Crown Court, said: "He was being
over-friendly, speaking to her in an inappropriate way. It was clear to the tram
conductor that she was uncomfortable.

"She wanted to call a taxi while she was still on the tram and reluctantly
borrowed the phone of the defendant to do so."

Her own phone would not work on the tram. CCTV footage showed the woman getting
off the tram and walking towards Radford Road police station where she had
arranged to meet the taxi. The pictures also showed Singh following behind.

Mr Coupland told the court: "When she was almost outside the police station, he
began grabbing her around the waist and was trying to pull her in the direction
of a public house.

"She told him to get off and not to touch her. She tried to use the public phone
outside the police station - a phone for urgent contact.

"Sadly, the phone did not connect with anywhere inside the police station and
she could not get help."

Singh dropped to his knees in front of the woman and tried to put his head up
her skirt, grabbing at her legs.

"She again told him no, and to get off. She made it plain she did not want him
to do this. He kept coming back and she became even more frightened because his
actions appeared to be out of control."

Terrified of what Singh might do, the woman took her mobile phone from her
pocket and dialled 999. But he forced her to the floor and climbed on top of
her.

The recording of the 999 call revealed the horror of what happened next.

"One can hear the struggle still going on between them, the sound of the
complainant telling him to get off. What followed made it apparent that she was
very very distressed and almost hysterical," Mr Coupland said.

When he realised the woman had called police, Singh ran away from the scene.

Police contacted the taxi company the woman had called on her attacker's mobile
and traced Singh through his phone number.

He denied indecent assault but on the third day of his trial and changed his
plea to guilty, before his victim had given her evidence.

Stephen Lowne, representing Singh, said he was not used to drinking alcohol but
had a whole bottle of whisky on the night of the attack.

"He had recently received contact from family in India and was depressed," Mr
Lowne said. "This defendant knows what he did was not only illegal but also
wrong. He has had many sleepless nights over what happened on that particular
day."

Sentencing Singh to five years and three months in prison, Judge Simon Hammond
said: "It must have been the most terrible ordeal for that woman.

"It was late at night and she was on her own in the city when this complete
stranger came up to her and made a persistent attempt to attack her for his own
sexual gratification.

"She will never forget that ordeal and she has behaved in a very courageous
manner."

The court told the Home Office no record could be found of his legal entry into
the UK.

Singh, who has no previous convictions, will be deported at the end of his
sentence if he cannot prove he has a legal right to remain in the country.

A police spokeswoman said they could not say whether the public phone had been
working at the time.

kate.skelton

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Burnley Express

                               November 17, 2006

Terror Attack On Girl

LENGTH: 301 words


A TERRIFIED schoolgirl feared she was going to be set on fire after being doused
in liquid and chased along wasteland by a group of youths.

Detectives from the hate crime and diversity unit are now questioning a
15-year-old Nelson boy in relation to the incident.

He was detained after the 15-year-old girl claimed she was attacked on her way
home from school in Nelson, on Tuesday, but has now been released on bail
pending further inquiries.

The incident is said to have taken place at around 3-20 p.m. on a footpath that
runs between the bottom of Edge End Farm and the junction of Hibson
Road-Walverden Road, known locally as the Cinder Track.

The girl, who was walking along the path with a boy, alleges she was approached
by a group of youths of Asian appearance who threw liquid on to her clothing and
then chased her.

It is not known whether the liquid was flammable or whether it was water thrown
over her as part of a sick prank. However, her clothes have been seized for
forensic examination to ascertain exactly what kind of liquid was thrown and
officers have also made a search of the area.

Det. Sgt Graham Gallagher said: "A full and thorough investigation has been
launched following this incident and as part of that investigation a 15-year-old
schoolboy from Nelson has been arrested.

"In addition, the girl's clothing has been seized for forensic examination and a
search of the area where the incident is alleged to have taken place has been
conducted.

"Thankfully, the girl was not physically injured during this incident but she is
quite shaken. If anyone has any knowledge of this attack then I would urge them
to search their conscience and come forward."

Anyone with any information is urged to contact police on 08451 253545 or to
call Crimestoppers, free and in confidence, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              The Star (Sheffield)

                               November 17, 2006

Pub gun attack terror

LENGTH: 452 words


By Polly Rippon, Lucy Ashton and Richard Marsden

FOUR men were injured last night after a gunman fired shots through the door of
a Sheffield pub in a row between two rival gangs.

Shots were blasted through a glass door at The Beeley Wood pub on Middlewood
Road, Winn Gardens, at 7.45pm sending dozens of terrified drinkers diving for
cover.

The four men who were hurt suffered either gunshot wounds or injuries from
flying glass.

All were rushed to the Northern General Hospital.

Eye-witnesses reported seeing up to a dozen police cars swarm on the scene, and
the car park in front of the pub being taped off.

The pub is next door to the Winn Gardens estate and opposite the new Wadsley
Park estate. Hundreds of families live in the immediate area.

One shocked Wadsley Park resident, aged 31, said: "I would never have expected
something like that to happen around here, in a pub with two big estates next
door and hundreds of families around.

"Some of the houses on Wadsley Park are selling for almost £400,000 but I'm sure
new buyers will think twice about moving here now. It's upsetting because it
makes you feel nowhere is safe to live and free of crime."

Another resident added: "This is not something you want happening near you. Winn
Gardens has been a problem estate for a while but the police said they were
going to tidy it up - now this happens."

Police were alerted by a drinker at the pub who rang for an ambulance. Armed
officers sped to the scene and the police helicopter was scrambled to carry out
a search of the immediate area.

The pub and nearby shopping parade were sealed off as forensic officers
conducted a fingertip search. Police said they believed the shooting happened
after a row between two rival groups earlier in the evening.

"It then appears a shotgun has been discharged into the bar area," a police
spokesman said.

He said the bar was fairly busy with customer numbers in double figures.

The injured men, aged in their 30s, 40s and 50s, were released from hospital
last night. No arrests have yet been made.

Sheffield Hillsborough MP Angela Smith, whose constituency includes the Wadsley
Park estate, was shocked to hear of the shootings. "I will be talking to the
police about what this means for community safety as I am sure my constituents
will be very concerned and scared," she said. "People will expect me as their
MP, and the police, to do everything we can to reassure them."

Former owners of the pub include Jan and Jackie Brodie who quit Sheffield
altogether after being targeted by a vicious gang.

The couple, who had three children, suffered a terrifying ordeal after their son
was repeatedly attacked. The Brodies had to give up the pub after the gang
scared away staff and customers.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                            November 20, 2006 Monday

Cabbie knife attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 43 words


A Taxi driver was robbed at knifepoint in Bestwood.

He is the latest in a series of cabbies to be robbed by knifemen in the city
this year.

Today the victim, who handed over less than £50, said he thought he was going to
die during the attack on Saturday afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday

Young victim left in terror after attack

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 417 words


The mother of an 11-year-old boy, who has twice been the target of two teenage
thugs, said her son was now terrified of walking home from school, writes Carl
Eve, Crime Reporter.

Police are now investigating the two assaults and appealing to the public for
information on the youths before they commit more attacks.

The first assault on October 18 at about 4pm saw the young victim stopped by the
two yobs who pulled up behind him on their bikes outside the off-licence at
Archer Place on North Road West.

Without any provocation he was punched hard in the face, causing him a black
eye.

On November 13, also at around 4pm, but this time outside the Wyndham Inn in
Wyndham Square, the boy was with his friend when the pair of thugs arrived,
again on their bikes.

This time, the second thug initiated the attack, again punching the victim in
the face.

The mother - who has asked not to be identified to protect her son - said: "He's
given them no reason to do this, caused no animosity. The police think it's to
do with him having a different school uniform.

"My son just isn't the sort to get into scuffles or fights.

"They just rode off laughing the first time, then they came up to him further
down the street and said 'are you still crying' before riding off laughing
again.

"The second time the other boy hit him in the face. He had a gold ring on and it
caused another black eye.

"They're obviously getting a kick out of it, but it's unfair a youngster cannot
walk the streets without being assaulted.

"I'm obviously distressed because we've encouraged his independence and now I
feel I must escort him to and from school."

The mother said the boys had apparently been swearing and 'mouthy' towards her
son on the second occasion.

She said: "They were being blatantly nasty.

"On the second assault my son was with another boy but he ran off,
understandably frightened. They told my son 'if you move you're dead'.

"I was absolutely terrified. I'm just hoping the police can come up with
something."

The first boy was described as white, aged between 13 and 14, between 5ft 1ins
and 5ft 2ins. He had a spotty face and blond hair and wore blue jeans and a
black hooded top.

The second boy was also white, of a similar age and height. He had dark hair. He
wore a light blue hooded top.

Police believe both incidents were witnessed by people in the area and are
urging them to come forward.

Anyone with information should call police on 08452 777444 or Crimestoppers on
0800 555111 quoting crime reference number EC/06/11947.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 Evening Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 400 DOCUMENTS


               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Oxfordshire

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday

Family man killed in terrorist attack

BYLINE: David Horne

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: Witney Gazette


AN OXFORDSHIRE man has been shot dead in southern Iraq while working for a
private security firm.

Simon Hall lost his life in what is believed to have been a drive-by attack by
terrorists near a customs border point.

Three other people were wounded in the shooting.

Mr Hall, who was in his early 40s, was one of five people in a vehicle working
for Securiforce International, one of several firms providing convoys and
transport of supplies and equipment in Iraq.

Mr Hall, a former British Army regular serviceman, lived with his wife Sarah and
three children in a village near Chipping Norton.

The attack happened at 11am Iraqi time on Friday.

An inquiry into his  death is under way by Iraqi police and by Securiforce.

A spokesman for the company, Colonel Steven Thomas, confirmed from his office in
Kuwait yesterday that Mr Hall had been shot dead in the incident.

"There were also three other casualties among our employees.

"All five who were travelling in our vehicle were unarmed.

"I must stress that Mr Hall was not carrying any weapon. Some were clerical
staff having to drive from Kuwait into Iraq.

"He was killed by a gunshot wound just inside Iraq. I cannot say anything more
until we have carried out our inquiry into the incident and establish exactly
what went on."

A statement from the family said: "Following the awful shock of Simon's death,
his wife Sarah and all his family would like to thank everybody for their
concern and sympathy but asked that they be left in peace to mourn and remember
him."

Basra police have confirmed that there was a series of confused reports about
incidents over two days - last Thursday and Friday -  in southern Iraq.

Police Major General Ali al-Moussawi told news agencies that Iraqi customs
police were checking the papers of British security men near the border on
Friday morning.

A car drove by at high speed and opened fire, killing one Briton and wounding
others.

Mr Hall used to work for Crescent Security Group, which was also involved in
another attack just the day before when five of its employees were kidnapped.
The convoy they were travelling in was hijacked by gunmen wearing Iraqi police
uniforms, later understood to be Shiite militiamen.

The attack in which Mr Hall died happened near Safwan, a largely Sunni Arab city
in southern Iraq.

The British military still has about 7,000 troops in the Basra region. But
private security firms like Crescent and Securiforce are in  increasing demand
to provide back-up services for business and other agencies in the highly
dangerous environment.

Mr Hall and his wife Sarah formerly lived with their three children in
Charlbury, but moved several years ago.

He was a member of the Charlbury branch of the Royal British Legion whose
president Nick Potter said: "Everyone is in a state of shock about this. His
family only learned about his death on Sunday."

The Foreign Office yesterday said that Mr Hall's body was in the process of
being repatriated to the UK via Kuwait in the next few days.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                               November 21, 2006

Terror boss jailed over attack

LENGTH: 125 words


A loyalist terror boss turned special branch agent has been jailed for 10 years
for a merciless attack on a nightclub bouncer.

Ex-Ulster Volunteer Force commander Mark Haddock, 37, was sentenced for plotting
and carrying out a hatchet, hammer and knife assault on Trevor Gowdy outside a
social club in Newtownabbey, Co Antrim in December 2002.

Haddock is at the centre of a major inquiry into allegations of collusion
between loyalist paramilitary murderers and rogue special branch officers.

He grinned as he listened to the judge at Belfast Crown Court via a video
link-up from prison.

Mr Justice Weatherup said: "This was an act of conspicuous savagery and a
despicable act upon this man.

The judge added: "This type of gangland attack cannot be tolerated."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 22, 2006 Wednesday

German authority fears terror attacks during 2007 G8 summit

LENGTH: 178 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp on 22 November

Warnemuende: In the view of the Federal Office of Criminal Investigations [BKA],
there is the danger of terrorist attacks on the sidelines of the G8 summit in
Heiligendamm in 2007. "This is always an event that might also be interesting
for Islamist extremists," BKA President Joerg Ziercke said on the sidelines of
an international security conference that started in Warnemuende on Wednesday
[22 November].

Germany has long been the target of terrorists, which is proved by the
prevention of five attacks and the pending investigations of 220 cases in this
field since 11 September 2001. For the G8 summit, the federal and laender
[federal state] police forces are, therefore, preparing for one of the biggest
operations that Germany has ever seen, Ziercke stressed.

According to Ziercke, about 10,000 policemen will be on duty for the summit at
the beginning of June 2007. Between 50,000 and 100,000 participants are expected
to attend counter-events.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1513 gmt 22 Nov 06

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          November 22, 2006, Wednesday
                                 Worcs Edition

Mob terror of Bentley couple;
CRIME: Gang attacks hotelier's car to steal handbag

BYLINE: Neil Elkes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 270 words


A BIRMINGHAM hotelier and his wife were left trapped in terror as a gang
surrounded and kicked their pounds 25,000 Bentley car on a city street - all to
steal a handbag.

Nigel and Hazel Clarke were travelling through Sparkhill when the mob of about
20 young men and two girls swarmed around the car causing pounds 8,000 worth of
damage.

One of the group then opened the passenger door and stole the wife's handbag
before Mr Clarke could drive off.

He raised the alarm and the police reacted immediately, cornering the group in a
snooker hall and recovering the bag, without the mobile phone and purse.

Mr Clarke, aged 60, who runs the Dormy Hotel, in Hagley Road, said they were
driving along Walford Road, in Sparkhill, at about 8.15pm when two lads walked
slowly into the street forcing him to stop.

"They were blocking the road so I got out and asked them what they were doing.
They just turned and started kicking the car.

"Then a gang of them, including two girls, ran out of a snooker hall and joined
in. I got back in the car and tried to move off, that was when one opened the
door and grabbed the handbag.

"We were terrified, we didn't know if they had knives or anything. The police
were there within minutes and rounded up members of the gang, retrieving the
handbag.

"The police did a fantastic job, but I want to warn other drivers to be on their
guard in this area. You don't expect something like that to happen when you are
just driving past."

A police spokeswoman said that officers are now reviewing security camera
footage of the incident.

No-one has yet been arrested or charged following the attack, she added.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          November 22, 2006 Wednesday
                               City Final Edition

Dad tells of his carjacking terror;
'It's lucky the kids weren't with me when the attacker struck'

BYLINE: By Kerry Beadling

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 263 words


FATHER-OF-THREE Wayne Grayman has spoken off his horror after being threatened
by a would-be carjacker armed with a knife.

Mr Grayman, aged 23, of Villa Road, Radford, Coventry was driving his Mitsubishi
Shogun along Telfer Road when he stopped at the junction of Cheveral Avenue in
Radford, Coventry.

As reported in yesterday's Telegraph, a man holding a knife opened the 4x4's
door when Mr Grayman stopped at the junction.

But the quick-thinking dad forced the door back on the attacker's head and drove
off.

Speaking in the home he shares with his 24-year-old wife Lisa and their three
children, Marcus, aged seven, Callum, aged two, and Ashley, aged seven months,
he admitted he felt lucky that he was in the car alone.

The full-time dad said: "When I stopped the car suddenly my door started to open
and I turned around to see a man with a knife in his hand.

"I had my music on loud so I couldn't hear what he was saying.

"It's never happened to me before but it's lucky I was in the car by myself and
not with the children.

"I'm not sure if he was attracted to the car because it's a show car for an
off-road racing vehicle.

"I'll definitely be keeping my car doors locked now when I'm driving - it's the
first thing I do when I set off.

"It was a shock because I never expected something like this in my area."

The incident happened on Saturday at 10.30pm.

The attacker was described as a West Indian man in his early 20s, around 6ft
tall and was wearing black clothing, black gloves and trainers.

Anyone with information is asked to call 024 7653 9143 and ask for DC Kristian
Shore.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DS211106CAR_1' DS211106CAR_2 HORRIFIED... Wayne Grayman and his
Mitsubishi. Pictures: Darryl Smith.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 22, 2006

Congo: Atomic watchdog fears radiation leak or terrorist attack at reactor
storing enriched uranium

LENGTH: 1092 words



HIGHLIGHT: The IAEA fears a radiation leak or terrorist attack at Kinshasa's
nuclear reactor, protected by little more than a rickety gate and a single
padlock. Chris McGreal reports.


Amid the market stalls, hawkers and gridlocked cars on the road out of Congo's
capital and into the Kinshasa hills there is nothing to mark the way to a
nondescript clutch of buildings a few hundred yards down a side street.

The dilapidated concrete compound is protected by little more than a low-slung
rusted barbed-wire fence and a rickety gate sealed by a single padlock. It would
be easy enough to slip through a hole in the fence but there is no need, as the
main entrance to what is supposed to be one of the best-guarded sites in Congo
is often unmanned.

The armed police assigned to watch the compound were not to be seen at the
weekend as visitors wandered the corridors of what is Africa's oldest nuclear
reactor facility - and the storage place for dozens of bars of enriched uranium
- until finally challenged by a man in a tracksuit who called himself
"security".

The International Atomic Energy Agency has long viewed Kinshasa's experimental
nuclear reactor as a disaster in the making, either through an accident that
releases radiation into the city or because of lax security.

There are now three locks to gain access to the reactor and uranium rods,
because years ago the director handed over a set of keys to a stranger that
included the only key required to get to the heart of the atomic plant. That
carelessness is blamed for the disappearance of two rods of enriched uranium in
the late 1970s. One is believed to have turned up in 1998 on its way to the
Middle East via the mafia; the other was never found.

But new locks aside, there is little outward recognition of concern by the
world's nuclear watchdog and among western governments at the prospect of
Kinshasa's reactor catching the attention of terrorists scouring the globe for
the right ingredients for a "dirty bomb".

The US - which helped found the reactor because Congo provided the uranium used
in the atom bombs dropped on Japan - cut off the supply of spare parts to the
reactor nearly 20 years ago due to the plant's decline. Washington has recently
tried to persuade Congo to hand over the 98 bars of enriched uranium stored in
triangular rods about 60cm (2ft) long and kept submerged in a circular pool
underneath a padlocked metal grate or in the reactor.

But Congo's nuclear scientists hope to fire up the reactor again so that it can
be put to a range of uses from medical research to mine prospecting, eight years
after it was placed on standby because of war, poor maintenance and lax
security.

At least the facility has entered the computer age. Little more than a decade
ago it didn't have phones and technicians worked on blackboards.

"We had to shut the reactor down because of the war," said Alphonse
Thiband-a-Tshish, a member of Congo's atomic energy commission. "But now we have
had elections and the war is over we are very hopeful of starting it up again.
All the uranium rods are there. Now we have inspections from the International
Atomic Energy Agency. They find problems and tell us about them."

Congo's nuclear plant was installed at the University of Kinshasa in 1958. A
second reactor was built in 1972, the first one dismantled and its dozens of
uranium fuel rods stored at the site.

The newer reactor was put on standby in 1998 at the behest of the IAEA,
ostensibly because of the war with Rwanda. But the agency had watched the
reactor deteriorate for years .

Diplomatic sources said the IAEA feared that an accident could send radiation
into the city and contaminate the water supply. Agency officials have been
particularly worried that the reactor is built in an area known for subsidence.
Seven years ago one of the walls was pierced by a piece of metal that was
variously identified as part of a missile or having fallen from a plane.

There is also concern that the Kinshasa plant could make an easy target for
terrorists. While it would be difficult to use the uranium rods to manufacture a
nuclear device, they would be useful in building a more rudimentary "dirty bomb"
that would release radiation.

The disappearance of the uranium rods in the 1970s has never been fully
accounted for. The reactor's director, Professor Felix Malu Wa Kalenga, has said
that a rod recovered from the Italian mafia in 1999 was probably the one stolen
from Kinshasa. The Italian press reported that it was destined for an unnamed
Middle Eastern government.

For all the concerns, Congo's atomic energy commission sees a bright future.
This month it signed an agreement with a British firm, Brinkley Mining, for the
nuclear facility to be used in prospecting for uranium. Working conditions have
improved since the IAEA was given access for inspections and programmes focused
on safety. That has opened the way for funding from the agency for repairs and
new control rooms, which are now being put in place, and from foreign
universities for new laboratories.

But the IAEA's own reports say that Congo's atomic energy commission has failed
to meet every target on security and safety issues, such as radiation
protection. Mr Thiband-a-Tshish sees no security threat. "We have three keys
with three people to get into the reactor. No one knows who has those keys. The
building has walls one metre thick. I don't think anyone could get through
those," he said.

At a glance

* Uranium was first discovered in Shinkolobwe, in the south of what was then the
Belgian Congo, in 1915

* In 1939, Albert Einstein wrote to the then US president, Franklin Roosevelt,
warning of the danger of Nazi Germany getting its hands on Congo's uranium

* As the single richest deposit in the world, uranium from Congo was a primary
source for American research on nuclear weapons during the second world war

* The uranium was used in the atomic bombs dropped on Japan

* Congo's Belgian rulers shut the Shinkolobwe uranium mine shortly before
independence in 1960, flooding its shafts with water and capping them with
concrete

* In the chaos of the past decade of foreign invasion and civil war in Congo,
the mine has been reopened illegally

* Thousands of Congolese make a living by using shovels and their bare hands to
hack at the black earth. Primarily they are seeking cobalt, a mineral valuable
as a component in mobile phones

* Amid warnings that uranium is being distributed as a byproduct, the
international nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency, has
tried and failed to inspect the mine

* In 2000, Newsweek reported that a Kenyan middleman attempted to sell Congolese
uranium to Saddam Hussein but that the Iraqi leader was under too much
international scrutiny to buy it

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2006 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              354 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 23, 2006 Thursday

Georgia: South Ossetian authorities arrest "suspect in terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 185 words


Text of report by South Ossetian Press and Information Committee website on 23
November

[No dateline, as received] The republic's law-enforcement bodies have arrested a
suspect in today's terrorist attack in the capital of South Ossetia, the
interior minister of the republic of South Ossetia, Mikhail Mindzayev, has told
a Res news agency correspondent. Mindzayev said "7,000 lari [about 4,000
dollars] had been found in the suspect's house. We have information that the
victim herself was the perpetrator of the terrorist attack. At present we are
treating this version as the main one but we are also considering other
possibilities."

In the interests of the investigation, the name of the detainee has not been
reported.

[South Ossetia's press and information committee has quoted the Joint
Headquarters of the [Russian-led] Joint Peacekeeping Force as reporting that the
victim, Deniza Shartava, was from the mainly Georgian-populated Abkhaz village
of Nabakevi and was visiting her relatives in Tskhinvali.]

Source: South Ossetian Press and Information Committee website, Tskhinvali, in
Russian 23 Nov 06

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 23, 2006 Thursday

Germany: Terrorism suspect says planned attack on plane was a joke

LENGTH: 142 words


Excerpt from report by German news agency ddp on 23 November

Mainz/Frankfurt: According to a terrorism suspect from Mainz, the planned attack
on a passenger plane in Germany was only a "joke". They wanted to have some
"action", one of the suspects from Mainz told SWR's "Laendersache" programme.
They offered a friend, who works at Frankfurt airport, money for smuggling a bag
onto a passenger plane. This was not meant seriously but the police took the
matter seriously later, he said.

According to SWR, the Federal Prosecutor's Office insists the six terrorism
suspects are still under suspicion but the case is not urgent. Frankfurt
security expert Klaus-Dieter Matschke did not rule out that it might have been a
joke. At least, the way of action was "extremely amateurish". [Passage omitted]

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1708 gmt 23 Nov 06

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 24, 2006 Friday

Iran press: 'Terrorists' admit Khuzestan attacks, claim leaders outside Iran

LENGTH: 1509 words


Text of report entitled: "Complementary report of Siyasat-e Ruz on incidents
behind blasts in Ahvaz; Terrorists were active for six years"   by Iranian
newspaper Siyasat-e Ruz on 18 November

The terrorist organization responsible for the explosions in Khuzestan undertook
underground and hidden actions for six years. Last Thursday [ 16 November], the
Siyasat-e Ruz correspondent made a complete report on the confessions and
financial resources of this group. In continuation, he emphasizes: "The leader
of the terrorists responsible for the sabotage operations in Khuzestan provided
information on the underground and hidden activity of this group over the last
six years."

Ali Matirinezhad, known as Seyyed Naser, the criminal responsible for the blasts
and one of the three-member council of the group, stated: "Since 1379 [ 2000], I
was involved in the political-military activities of the military branch for the
organization known as Horrakeh Nezal al-Arabi, which was famous as Mohayyeddin
al-Naser." He added: "Our activities were completely secretive and under the
cover of security activities." Being very remorseful for leaving his family and
moving down this wrong path, he stated: "Our involvement in the blasts in
Khuzestan was very extensive."

He confessed to several terrorist acts, including the explosions in front of the
Office of the Governor of Ahvaz, at the Managing and Planning Organization in
Khuzestan, at the General Office for Housing and Natural Resources, at the oil
installation in Academics' Street of Ahvaz, at the Saman Bank of Ahvaz, at the
Offices of the Governors of Dezful and Abadan, and against the oil pipeline.
Then, he added: "We even forged driving licenses and identity cards in order to
perform these operations." Matirinezhad added: "We bought an old Fiat, made an
identity card in the name of Seyyed Reza Musavi, and used them for the operation
in front of the Office of the Governor in Ahvaz." He also confessed to forging
three driving licenses with three different names.

Duties of Group Members

The sabotage acts were planned within this terrorist group. From the security
point of view, the members always tried to be as careful as possible.

Our correspondent added: "Malek Banitamim, known as Abunazar, was responsible
for organizing and dividing responsibility among the terrorists." Abdollah
Soleymani, who was famous with the names Soleyman K'abi and Abujahad, was
responsible for organizing and dividing work among the terrorists after
Banitamim. Moreover, Khalaf Khanfari, known as Abutaroq, who was also
responsible for the blasts in the oil installations, was in charge of security
for the operations. He was also responsible for taking care of the members who
set the bombs. They also had special obligations towards each other! In the
explosion at the Saman Bank, he ordered Asakareh and Banitamim to kill the
members if they were caught!"

This correspondent continues: "Qasem Salamat, known as Abuali, was the person
responsible for the electronic devices. He was responsible for the teams that
installed bombs inside cars. He was responsible for the explosion of the Fiat in
front of the Office of the Governor in Ahvaz. Abdolreza Sovani, known as
Abukazem, was the person that created all the frameworks for the blasts in the
terrorist operations. He built the bomb for the explosions in front of the
Office of the Governor of Ahvaz. He created the means for the death of innocent
people with a pipe and some wielding. He is also believed to be responsible for
the blasts at the oil installation of Academics' Street in Ahvaz."

Abdolamir Farajollah Cha'b, known as Abuyaser, was one of the operational
members and was responsible for cleaning and transferring bombs inside
buildings. In the incident of the Office of the Governor of Ahvaz, he failed
because of the checks of security officials, but he was behind the blasts at the
Management and Planning Organization. He set the bombs at the Office of the
Governor of Dezful and the Office of Natural Resources of Khuzestan. He was also
involved in the robberies.

Mohammad Cha'bpur, known as Abuamar, was also one of the operational personnel
who had several responsibilities. He was responsible for filming the incidents.
He also planted the bomb at the Office of the Governor of Abadan. This is in
addition to the fact that he failed in his missions regarding the blasts of the
Neyshekar Development Company.

Others in this group, like Majed Albo'anbish, known as Abujalal, and Ali Reza
Asakereh, known as Abuhasan, were not only responsible for the operations, but
also the blasts at the Office of Housing and Construction and the Saman Bank in
Khuzestan.

Leader of Terrorist Group Is Being Pursued

This report also states: "The leading person responsible for designing and
leading the terrorists in the explosions in Khuzestan is being pursued by the
security forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Habib Bangan, known as
Abumohsen, the commander of the terrorist group of Mohayyeddin al-Naser,
contacted the members by telephone. He had contact with this group through Ali
Matirinezhad and his trace can be found in all the incidents.

In this regard, Abdollah Soleymani stated: "The final decision-maker was Bangan.
He was the person who was to authorize the mission. In the explosion in front of
the Office of the Governor of Ahvaz, he escorted Matirinezhad's car and filmed
the incident from his own car."

Malek Banitamim stated: "He was responsible for propaganda." He continued:
"Bangan brought several RPGs from Iraq. He also introduced me to the members for
the explosion at the Saman Bank. Since Bangan knew me, I had a meeting with
him."

It must be mentioned that a picture of Habib Bangan was broadcast by Khuzestan
television so that people would know him. In this regard, pictures of two other
criminals from this group have been broadcast. They are Ahmad Neysi and Habib
Farajollah Cha'b, known as Abusam, who are also being pursued by the police.

Images of Hallucination

The film "images of hallucination" which introduced the members of the
Mohayyeddin al-Naser terrorist group, deals with the leader of last year's
terrorist incidents in Khuzestan and pictures the dimensions of the traitorous
propaganda. According to our correspondent from Khuzestan, this group used to
film its operations in order to use them as propaganda later. This group
succeeded to film the three explosions in front of the Office of the Governor of
Ahvaz, at the General Office of the Natural Resources of Khuzestan Province, and
at the oil installation.

They also imitated some terrorist movements in the region. Under the leadership
of Habib Bangan, the person responsible for the group, they wore military
clothes and carried a flag in order to announce their identity. They even used
songs that were prepared and recorded in Iraq.

However, the most important matter is the lack of interest that the people of
Khuzestan, especially the Arab tribes, showed to such propaganda. This was in
such a manner that the terrorists were obliged to change plan and clothes in
order to avoid being detected."

We Were Deceived

One of the terrorists stated: " Mohayyeddin al-Naser, the leader of the
operational team, told us that we would be supported from outside." Mohammad
Cha'bpur added: "He told us that we could get asylum." He expressed remorse and
added: "We were deceived. We thought that if we undertook these operations and
hit the population of Khuzestan, a day would come when we could raise our flag
in the region." The member of the filming group, stated: "The people of our
province were not deceived. They know what we have done. Hence, no law and
religion can save us and we know that we were tricked."

Aliens Led Terrorists

"The terrorist actions should have been approved by our leaders outside the
country." These remarks were made by all the arrested members of the group.
Malek Banitamim, one of the three-member council for the military branch of the
Nezal al-Arabi movement, stated in his shocking confession: "Our terrorist
actions in Khuzestan were approved by our leaders outside the country at all
times."

Malek Banitamim, the son of Naser and known as Abunazar, was born in 1355 [
1976] and has a bachelor's degree in law. He was an effective member of the
Mohayyeddin al-Naser team. He was the one who gave Asakereh the suitcase of
explosives for the Saman Bank. He stated: "Our operations were always approved
by our connections outside the country. Ali Matirinezhad, known as Seyyed Naser
was connected with Bangan; he was the person who informed us of the operations."
Banitamin describes Matirinezhad as the leader of the terrorist group. He
stated: "Matirinezhad, Abdollah Soleymani, and I were the members of the
three-member council."

In regard to the blasts, Abdollah Soleymani, known as Abujehad, stated: "The
three-member council was responsible for studying the plans and making decisions
within its limitations. However, the plans were finalized from outside the
country."

Source: Siyasat-e Ruz, Tehran, in Persian 18 Nov 06 pp 1, 2

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           November 27, 2006, Monday
                                 First Edition

Selfridges on course to show solid profits despite 7/7 terror attacks

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 195 words


Department store group Selfridges is expected to reveal this week that the
London terror attacks of July last year failed to dent its profits.

The privately owned four-store business will also announce plans for a pounds
10m refurbishment of the ground floor of its flagship site in London.

The results are due to be filed at Companies House in the next few days and will
show trading profits rose by 14% to pounds 49m over the year to January 31,
2006. Sales increased by 2% to pounds 538m.

Paul Kelly, Selfridges' chief executive, said the solid figures for 2005 were
more pleasing because they included the period of the London terror attacks,
when many tourists were put off coming to the capital.

He said he had been 'overwhelmed' by customers' resilience in the immediate wake
of July 7, before a second scare kept people away until Christmas.

Sales in the current financial year are growing by double digits, which Mr Kelly
said had been achieved by a refusal to cut prices.

The company, which is owned by Canadian billionaire Galen Weston, is expected to
spend pounds 50m on its stores next year, including the pounds 10m refurbishment
of its men's accessories department.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 28, 2006 Tuesday

Croatian police prevent terrorist attack in portal town

LENGTH: 376 words


Excerpt from report by Croatian radio on 28 November

[Presenter] Zadar police prevented a terrorist attack last weekend. Two Croatian
citizens suspected of terrorism are detained. Zadar police administration head
Anton Drazina has revealed details at a news conference. Bozidar Kolega reports:

[Reporter] The police say that 32-year-old Tibor Furi and 32-year-old Nikola
Vejn arrived in Zadar in order to murder a certain person and at the same time
inflict much more serious damage and cause panic in Zadar area and Croatia.

According to the police, Nikola Vejn, on whom a bomb was found, should have
planted it under the car belonging to his target, whom the police refuse to name
in order not to compromise their investigation.

The bomb should have been activated with a remote control device, and because of
the size of the bomb, the blast should have destroyed the car and should have
been felt in a large area around the car.

The police did not confirm speculation that the bomb should have been activated
while the car was on a Zadar-Ancona ferry boat, which would have catastrophic
consequences and would kill a large number of people. The police said the action
should have occurred in the centre of Zadar. However, the police arrested Vejn
only a 100 metres from the dock where the Ancona ferry docks.

The police did not confirm that the target of the attack should have been
Vladimir Milosavljevic, one of the leaders of the so-called Zemun Clan and a
suspect in the assassination of Zoran Djindjic.

County prosecutor Ivan Galjovic said this today:

[Galjovic] Anti-state terrorism does not exclude mafia showdowns, but it
includes something much more significant. Activation of such an explosive device
in the town centre, I do not have to explain to you what possible consequences
would be.

[Reporter] All this was prevented thanks to vigilance of police officers, who
thought that Vejn acted suspiciously. When he was arrested with a bomb, his aide
ran in a Fiat Punto car, but was arrested at a road bloc near Obrovac. Both are
citizens of Croatia with addresses in Gracac area. [passage omitted]

Both will be taken to the investigative magistrate today on charges of
anti-state terrorism.

Source: Croatian Radio, Zagreb, in Croatian 1400 gmt 28 Nov 06

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            December 1, 2006, Friday

POOL TERROR AS KILLER WHALE ATTACKS TRAINER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 87 words


AN AUDIENCE watched in horror as a trainer was twice pulled underwater by a
killer whale during a live show.

The 39-year-old man, who has not been named, was dragged under by performing
whale Shamu.

It happened during part of the show at SeaWorld Adventure Park in San Diego,
California, where the trainer should emerge from the water on the whale's nose.

Instead, Shamu bit on to his foot and took him down. The whale eventually
released its grip and the trainer swam to the surface. He was recovering in
hospital last night.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARE: Shamu with a different trainer. Below, the hurt man is treated
at the pool

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday

Iran Press: War on terror US "pretext" to pursue global attacks Iranian daily

LENGTH: 995 words


Text of editorial by Iranian newspaper Jomhuri-ye Eslami on 28 November

Recently, a research centre in Europe has released a report about the last five
years; that is since the start of the US military expedition against Afghanistan
on the pretext of "war on terrorism." It has concluded that not only has
terrorism and the threat of it not been reduced or restrained, but it has grown
threefold and escalated to unprecedented dimensions. The report states that the
number of annual terrorist attacks prior to the attack on Afghanistan totalled
700 cases, while it has increased to 2,200 cases each year now.

The report is published at a time when criticism against the bellicose policies
of America from independent quarters and distinguished political and cultural
personalities in the world is reaching a climax. A famous Italian philosopher
has also strongly reproached Bush for his promotion of terrorism throughout the
world.

Moreover, according to an opinion poll undertaken in 30 countries of the world
some time ago, the people of those countries have decided that America's
military attacks on Afghanistan and Iraq have increased the chance of terrorist
attacks in the world tremendously. In this opinion poll, which was prepared by
the BBC World Network, on average 60 per cent of those taking part in the survey
said that the war that America waged in the aftermath of the terror attacks of 9
September 2001 provided fertile ground for the growth of terrorism throughout
the world. In the three countries involved in the war in Iraq directly, namely
America, Britain, and Iraq, the proportions of those expressing this view are 55
per cent, 77 per cent, and 75 per cent respectively.

The truth is that, in fact, the slogan and claim of "war on terrorism" is a
pretext and excuse for the American Government to pursue a military and
bellicose policy throughout the world, in order to attain its colonial and
imperialist objectives in the world. Given that militarism and imperialism forms
a great part of the arrogance's strategy for dominating the world, to achieve
this objective and justify its militarism, America needs to resort to a number
of excuses, among which the "war on terrorism" is one of the best and most
effective.

Each time throughout history, colonial powers have resorted to some kind of
excuse and justification for promoting their bellicose policies. By studying the
history of the past 100 years, we can discern many cases of military raids and
attacks, including on Cuba, Panama, the Korean Peninsula, Kosovo, and
Afghanistan and Iraq recently, each of which was waged under a pretext. There is
no doubt that terrorism is an ugly, despicable, and condemnable phenomenon, and
mankind is earnestly seeking to overcome and defeat this phenomenon. However,
the point is that many arrogant powers, especially the Western imperialists and
the United States above all, are not sincere in their campaign against
terrorism. This is because, if they were serious, before any other states or
governments they would have to blame themselves and their illegitimate child the
Zionist regime, together with their arrogant, bullying, and overambitious allies
that are the first-degree culprits and accused.

If the notion of terror means creating panic and undertaking massacres, today no
country can be found that is not panicked and frightened by the aggressive and
warmongering policies of America and its cronies. Under the definition Western
countries give of terrorism, which is a forged and distorted description, any
group or country that does not abide by their policies and contradicts their
illegal goals and policies is simply branded as, and called a, terrorist. Then,
the entire media and propaganda apparatus of the world arrogance launches a
devastating campaign against them.

When an usurper state like Israel, with its criminal past and brutal background,
is called a victim of terrorism, while a nation that uses the most rudimentary
and elementary resources for its defence against this bloodsucking enemy,
resists this brutal monster, and fights for the liberation of its homeland, is
called terrorist, this is a blatant forgery. It is a distorted and fallacious
description of terrorism. This is a reality of which global public opinion is
becoming aware day by day. By distancing itself from the phony claims of
Washington and its accomplices, world public opinion takes the former's version
of terrorism as ridiculous and makes fun of it. This awakening movement across
the world is fast gaining momentum; the entire world is becoming conscious that
all the claims of America are in line with its colonial and imperialist goals
and objective.

World public opinion looks at the record of the past six years of the Bush
administration, with its two cases of wayward and illegal military attacks
(outside the framework of the UN) against Afghanistan and Iraq, and its
unreserved support for the criminal regime of Israel, which has caused the
massacre of thousands of innocent people. Instead of bringing itself before the
International Criminal Court and trying it as the worst war criminal and the
worst kind of terrorist, it places itself in the seat of the judge advocate and
summons others to trial.

The first step towards fighting against terrorism is to offer a correct and
proper definition of terror and terrorism, which must be undertaken by
international bodies and assemblies before anything else; unless this task is
completed, any claim to fighting terrorism is worthless and a lie. It seems that
international organizations have not been allowed to interpret terrorism outside
the belief and view of arrogant powers. As long as this attitude and approach is
prevalent, there is certainly no hope that terrorism will be uprooted. The
phenomenon of terrorism will continue to remain an instrument in the hand of
dominant powers for the achievement of their colonial objectives.

Source: Jomhuri-ye Eslami, Tehran, in Persian 28 Nov 06

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday

REID: MY TERROR FEARS FOR 'UNSTABLE' SCOTLAND;
Reid raises spectre of terror attacks in a breakaway Scotland

BYLINE: MARK AITKEN

SECTION: HI 04; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 834 words


SCOTLAND would be vulnerable to attack from terrorists if it became an
independent nation, Home Secretary John Reid has warned.

In an outspoken interview with The Scottish Mail on Sunday, Mr Reid launched an
aggressive attack on the SNP and its claim that Scotland would be safer removed
from the foreign policies of this Labour Government.

Mr Reid, a potential candidate for Prime Minister, said he believed Scotland
could be left defenceless against terrorists without the protection of
intelligence and security forces, such as MI5 and MI6.

He accused the SNP of 'hiding' from the reality of terrorism and said an
independent Scotland would be 'disastrously unstable'.

His controversial comments will escalate the row over how an independent
Scotland would be governed. It is another sign of how concerned the Labour
hierarchy is about growing support in the opinion polls for the Nationalists
ahead of next year's Holyrood election.

Last night, SNP leader Alex Salmond labelled the Home Secretary 'a serial
offender in blundering' and, in Mr Reid's own words, 'not fit for purpose'.

Mr Reid said that funding for counter terrorism measures would be reduced if
Scotland broke away from the rest of the UK.

He added: 'Independence will damage the network of security services that
operate against terrorists. It will cause damage socially, economically and in
terms of resources to apply to counter-terrorism. In all those ways, Scotland
would be patently weakened.

'We are facing a threat from an enemy who is prepared to murder indiscriminately
in a mass fashion.

The naivety of those who believe that if you run away from terrorists they won't
come after you beggars belief.

'Seventeen people have been arrested in Canada in the last six months for a
massive terrorist plot.

Canada not only wasn't in Iraq, but opposed the intervention in Iraq.

'We have people saying that if you throw meat to the crocodile, the crocodile
might eat you last or if you hide away, the terrorists won't get you. Well, the
whole of history proves that wrong. There is only one way to stand up to a bully
and that is in a united fashion.

'I can't be specific when the terrorists will next attack, except to say that
they keep looking for opportunities to attack. The first attempt in Britain by
Islamic terrorists was outside of London, in Birmingham, and we know that they
will attack wherever they can.

'To think you can counter terrorism because the terrorists will distinguish
between Scots and English is woefully unfit for the challenges that face the
modern Scotland.' The Home Secretary, MP for Hamilton North and Bellshill, also
criticised SNP resistance to the introduction of identity cards, claiming they
are a vital tool in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and illegal
immigration.

Mr Reid claimed the war on terror would be aided by the introduction of identity
cards, which would carry fingerprints or eye scans.

He said: 'If anything ever displayed the lack of willingness of the SNP to make
the hard choices necessary to counter terrorism, counter organised crime and to
manage migration, it is their opposition to ID cards.

'You cannot have a system of managing fairly and effectively immigration into
the UK, or any part of the UK, without aiming to track who comes in, who is
leaving and who is here. Yet the SNP, like the Tories, are opposed to it.

'It is another example of being all things to all men and saying we'll will the
ends but we won't will the means.' Mr Reid's comments followed a previous attack
on independence at Labour's Scottish conference in Oban last week.

He said the fact that nearly half of all Scots had relatives in England would
mean that ' hundreds of thousands' of children and grandchildren would be forced
to choose which passport to hold in the event of independence.

He added: 'For the past 30 years, the Nationalists' main strategy and answer to
everything is separation.

That would render Scotland, in terms of our families, social life, political
life and economic life disastrously unstable.

'Separatism and the programme of the SNP has been chronically inadequate to face
the challenges of the last few decades and is even more inadequate to face the
new challenges of the coming decades.' Mr Reid's attacks on the SNP come in the
wake of opinion polls showing growing support for the Nationalists ahead of the
election, which is in May next year.

But Mr Salmond said: 'Not only has Mr Reid personally failed in his own duty to
protect the public, but his London Labour Government's war in Iraq has also
added to the security problems facing the country.

'That's why a recent poll showed that 78 per cent of Scots did not believe the
war in Iraq has made Scotland safer.

'It is this Labour Government which has failed to meet Scotland's security needs
and this Home Secretary who has presided over its most recent failures.

'The SNP will not be taking any lessons in preserving this country's security
from this London minister, who is, in his own words, not fit for purpose.'

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THREAT: HOME SECRETARY JOHN REID

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sunday Herald

                                December 3, 2006

Independent Scotland at risk from al-Qaeda, claims Reid;
POLITICS: TERRORISM;
Home secretary attacks SNP over 'fairytale politics'

BYLINE: By Paul Hutcheon Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 489 words



HIGHLIGHT: Briefing journalists on the SNP, the home secretary said independence
would make Scotland more vulnerable to terrorism, despite the SNP's opposition
to the war in Iraq Photograph: PA


THE home secretary, John Reid, has sparked a row with the Scottish National
Party by suggesting that independence would make Scotland more vulnerable to a
terrorist attack.

The Labour MP said the creation of a separate Scottish state would "weaken" the
UK's counter-terrorism strategy. He also said it was "fairytale politics" to
claim independence would reduce Scotland's chance of being targeted by Osama bin
Laden's al-Qaeda.

The home secretary's remarks were made on a visit to Scotland last week, during
which he briefed journalists on his thoughts about the SNP. They followed an
earlier attack on the SNP at the Scottish Labour conference in Oban last
weekend.

The Labour heavyweight, still viewed as a potential successor to Tony Blair,
blasted the SNP's policies as "inadequate" on terrorism and globalisation.

Asked whether independence would increase the likelihood of a terror attack in
Scotland, he said: "Independence will damage the network of security services
that operate against terrorists. And in terms of resources to apply to
counterterrorism, in all of those areas you would be weaker." Reid said
separation would hamper Scotland's ability to contribute to antiterrorism
efforts.

"Are they going to have border guards at the Tweed to stop the terrorists? Or,
are you just assuming the terrorists will say 'yes, we've been massacring
children as well as adults, we've murdered people who are Christians and
Muslims, yes we've slaughtered people from every background and every
nationality - but we won't touch the Scots?' This is fairytale politics, " he
said.

He also claimed the SNP's opposition to the Iraq war would not save Scotland
from making it on to al-Qaeda's list of targets. "The naivety of those who
believe that, somehow, if you run away from the terrorist that the terrorist
won't come after you, is illustrated throughout history. The last big arrests on
terrorism were in Canada, [but] Canada not only wasn't in Iraq, Canada opposed
the intervention in Iraq, " he said.

Reid added that no part of the UK was safe from terrorist attacks. "I can't
specify when the terrorists will next attack, except that they keep looking for
opportunities for the first attack. I can't guarantee any part of the UK will be
100-per cent safe." In the briefing, Reid also questioned whether an independent
Scotland would be able to join the European Union, and criticised the SNP for
their opposition to the government's identity cards scheme.

In addition, he pointedly refused to say whether he believed chancellor Gordon
Brown would make a good prime minister.

SNP leader Alex Salmond last night blasted Reid, saying: "It is this Labour
government which has failed to meet Scotland's security needs, and this home
secretary who has presided over their most recent failures. The SNP will not be
taking any lessons in preserving this country's security from this London
minister, who is, in his own words, not fit for purpose."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNHER


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              363 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday

Emergency radios only work for five hours in power cut Despite costing pounds
3bn, a new communications system could hamper rescue efforts during another
terror attack, say critics

BYLINE: TOM HARPER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 590 words


A NEW emergency services radio network would last only five hours during a power
blackout, raising fears about how it would cope during a terrorist attack.

Airwave, the digital communications system that has cost the Home Office pounds
3 billion, was fast-tracked after Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan Police Force
Commissioner, admitted that the old radios used by most emergency services
during the July 7 London bombings last year caused "significant problems''.

The official review of the attacks on the capital said the explosion at Russell
Square Tube station put Airwave radios out of action for 11 hours, severely
compromising efforts to help survivors.

Emergency workers underground were unable to communicate with colleagues on the
surface and had to make a 15-minute journey on escalators to relay information.

Survivors from the Edgware Road and Aldgate explosions also said that some
police, firemen and paramedics were standing around outside the stations,
hampered by what they believed was a lack of communication.

The new Airwave radios, which allow people on the surface to speak with others
underground, were supposed to solve those problems.

But they depend on a digital signal that is broadcast from 3,000 "base
stations'' dotted around the country. During a mains power blackout, these
transmitters would have to rely on back-up batteries that last only five hours.

The service is provided by O2, which intends to equip 35 per cent of all base
stations with emergency generators - enough, the Home Office believes, to give
national coverage. But this will not be completed until the end of 2007.

Airwave's limitations mean it fails to comply with the Government's guidelines.
The Cabinet Office recommends that companies have back-up enough power to last
at least 18 hours.

Sean Cassidy, 58, who lost his 22-year-old son Ciaran in the Russell Square
bombing, said: "This is atrocious news. You would think the Government would
spare the money for something that could save lives. Communication between the
emergency services during the London bombings was shown to be vital and, if it
had been better, might have saved Ciaran's life.

"You dread to think what could happen if terrorists struck again. I do not want
anyone else to suffer like my family has suffered.''

The London Assembly review into the London bombings, which killed 52 innocent
people plus the four bombers, found that "antiquated'' radio systems "had an
impact on the ability to effectively deploy the necessary vehicles, personnel,
equipment and supplies to the incidents''. It said that the lack of a robust
communications network for the emergency services was first "recognised as a
major weakness'' by the inquiry into the Kings Cross fire of 1987 and found it
"unacceptable'' that successive governments had failed to take action.

Patrick Mercer, the Conservative spokesman on homeland security, said the
revelations over Airwave exposed "a huge capability gap''.

"The London bombings clearly showed that improvements to radio communications
were needed and it is amazing that there has been no attention paid to Airwave's
back-up power system,'' he said. "I do not know what it will take to shake the
Government out of its complacency. It is known al-Qaeda is keen to attack energy
supplies.''

Glen Smyth, the chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said five hours
of back-up power was not enough.

A spokesman for the Home Office admitted the problem and said: "We have
committed an extra pounds 400 million to improve resilience and update the
system.''

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 4, 2006 Monday

Banned Pakistani militants to hijack helicopters for terror attacks - paper

LENGTH: 206 words


Text of report by Shahzad Malik entitled: "Militants plan helicopter terror
attack" by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 4 December

Islamabad: The intelligence agencies have unearthed a plan by banned militant
organizations to hijack helicopters used by courier services and welfare
organizations to carry out terrorist acts in Pakistan.

Daily Times has learnt that the intelligence agencies have submitted reports to
the Interior Ministry that warn that militants groups may also try to hijack
helicopters used by the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) and Maritime Security
Agency (MSA).

Banned militant groups have formed a squad tasked with hijacking a helicopter,
the intelligence reports warned. They also warn that militants continue to plan
to abduct and kill senior government officials, along the lines of incidents
reported in Iraq.

Copies of the reports have been sent to the defence secretary, who has directed
the CAA, MSA, welfare organizations and courier companies to step up security
around their helicopters, sources said.

The Interior Ministry has also directed the provincial home secretaries and
chief commissioner of Islamabad to step up security in their areas.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 4 Dec 06

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            December 4, 2006 Monday
                                  Eire Edition

PEOPLE WERE SHOUTING GET OUT OF THE WAY.. THEN A CRUNCH AS HE HIT THE DOOR;
TUBRIDY TELLS OF TERROR ATTACK HECKLER RAMS RTE HQ WITH CAR

BYLINE: BY DARREN BOYLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 657 words


CHAT host Ryan Tubridy last night told of his horror as Late Late Show heckler
Paul Stokes launched a car attack on RTE's headquarters.

The scientist ploughed into the building just as people filed out from the
Tubridy Tonight show.

Tubridy looked on in terror as the Nissan Micra hurtled towards him after
smashing through a security barrier.

Dozens of staff and guests had to jump out of the way as the car powered towards
its target.

It stopped only after it hit the revolving door at the main reception desk. The
toughened laminated glass cracked but did not splinter as the door was knocked
off its runners.

It is understood it will cost several thousand euro to repair.

A stunned Tubridy - who was only feet away - said: "It was a miracle that no one
was injured. I was shocked that it didn't make it through.

"To be honest it was like a car pulling up. But then there was mayhem and shouts
of 'get out of the way fast'.

"I could see the headlights coming through the revolving door in reception and I
actually thought that if this guy puts his foot down, he's going to come all the
way in. He drove into the revolving door and there was a crunch.

"It wasn't like the glass shattered like in a Hollywood movie. It wasn't that
dramatic, although the door almost folded in half. I did get a fright.

"There were people outside having a cigarette and there were others having a
beer. It really was a case of good fortune that no one was injured.

"Thankfully the security guys were there and dealt with it so swiftly."

Stokes, who had earlier been warned by a solicitor's letter against approaching
RTE, drove through the station's security checkpoint before powering his small
car towards the main building's revolving doors.

The 52-year-old inventor last week stormed the stage during the Late Late Show
where his daughter Aoife is a researcher.

During a short foul-mouthed tirade Stokes called Pat Kenny a censor and abused
road safety tsar Gay Byrne.

He said: "How dare you. Gay Byrne and you are insufferable a***holes. You're an
a***hole and a piece of s**t."

Stokes also tried twice to infiltrate the Grainne Seoige show and almost managed
to make his way on to the set of the afternoon programme.

In response, RTE demanded that Stokes - who has bombarded the station with
hundreds of emails - stop contacting the station.

In a strongly worded solicitor's letter the state broadcaster warned: "RTE must
request that you cease and desist immediately from attempting to gain entry to
any premises of RTE in any way whatsoever."

And it warned the station would take "any action deemed necessary" to protect
its employees.

The inventor claims he could slash the carnage on Irish roads by using his
system of a car which drives itself using a GPS transponder.

The Montrose attacker was caught by security guards and handed over to gardai.
Stokes was last night held at Donnybrook Garda station and is set to appear at
Dublin District Court today where it is believed he will be charged in
connection with the incident.

An RTE spokesman said the station would not be able to comment on the incident
because gardai are still investigating the case.

Former RTE Director General Bob Collins said live broadcasting was always risky
and during the Troubles there were numerous bomb threats.

He added he would not want to see shows such as the Late Late Show and Tubridy
Tonight being pre-recorded.

Speaking after his Late Late appearance, Stokes said his family were no longer
speaking to him.

He added: "I have no regrets - except for the fact that I know my daughter must
have been very embarrassed. That is the only thing about all this that really
hurts me.

"She is not talking to me yet but I'm hoping she will come around and see that I
just have an unconventional way of doing things.

"Nobody was hurt or injured, I have never laid a hand on someone in my life. I
just wanted to make a point about a very important issue."

Irish Mirror Comment: Page 6

news@irishmirror.ie

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NO ENTRY The damaged door at RTE headquarters' PROTEST Inventor Paul
Stokes wants to see 'self-guiding' cars' FRIGHT: Ryan Tubridy' WEAPON: Micra
like the one used in RTE attack' CRACK Toughened glass door shattered

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                December 5, 2006

City needle stab terror;
ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 37 words


A GLASGOW van driver fears he has been infected with HIV after being stabbed
with a syringe as he walked home.

Mark Campbell from Govan was repeatedly jabbed with the needle after being
approached by a hooded man in the street.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              367 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                               Carmarthen Journal

                           December 6, 2006 Wednesday

Gas terror attack fear

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 202 words


Protesters are battling to stop a massive gas pipeline project through
Carmarthenshire following an MI5 warning that terrorists are plotting a
devastating attack on Britain's energy plants.

Security services fear al-Qaeda plans to blow up electricity, oil and gas
centres in terror attacks on UK soil. Concern has been expressed about the
Milford Haven gas terminals.

Terror experts want them protected by police armed with machine guns.

Now protesters who staged a pipe sit-in at Trebanos in the Swansea Valley fear
above-ground block valve installations - including ones proposed for Llanwrda
and St Clears - could be at risk.

Llandybie community councillor and anti-gas pipeline campaigner, Meirion Bowen,
said: "We understand terrorists recently arrested in London had maps of gas
pipeline networks in their possession.

"We will be asking for armed guards on above-ground block valve installations."

National Grid spokeswoman Caroline Davidson said: "Safety is of paramount
importance to National Grid who carry out very stringent safety procedures.

"There are hundreds of above-ground installations owned by National Grid
throughout the country and we have had no problems."

For more on the pipeline turn to Page 25

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Carmarthen Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                   AFX - Asia

                     December 7, 2006 Thursday 10:29 AM GMT

US warns of possible Philippines terror attack as Cebu summit approaches

LENGTH: 227 words


CEBU, Philippines (XFN-ASIA) - The US embassy in Manila warned of a possible
terror attack in the central Philippine island of Cebu, which is hosting an
upcoming summit of Southeast Asian leaders from Dec 10-13.

In a wardens' letter to US citizens posted on its website, the embassy said it
had received information that a 'terrorist group may be planning to carry out a
terror attack in Cebu.'

It did not specify where, or whether it was specifically aimed at the summit of
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). It follows similar
statements from the British Foreign Office and Australia.

'We have not received any validated threat that would really show there (will
be) an (attack) attempt during the conduct of the ASEAN summit, or attempts
directly involved with the ASEAN summit,' military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel
Bartolome Bacarro said.

National police spokesman Senior Superintendent Samuel Pagdilao said that as far
as police were concerned, 'there (has been) no specific and direct terror threat
received in connection with the ASEAN summit.'

However, Bacarro said he could not discount the possibility that any group might
stage an attack during the ASEAN summit.

But he said security forces 'are all prepared and all contingencies have been
taken into consideration,' including possible attacks by sea or air.

afp/cgm/kw/sm/km/km

xfnrc/xfnkm

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2006 AFX News Limited

                              369 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 7, 2006 Thursday

British embassy in Philippines warns of possible terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 396 words


Text of report by Dario Agnote in English by Japanese news agency Kyodo

Mactan, The Philippines, 7 December: The British Embassy in the Philippines on
Thursday [7 December] warned of possible terrorist attacks in the central
Philippine province of Cebu, where leaders of 16 countries are due to gather
next week.

The embassy issued a travel advisory urging British nationals not to travel to
the province, saying terrorists "are in the final stages of planning attacks".

The embassy did not state the source of the information or details of the
supposed attacks.

Leaders from the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Japan, China,
South Korea, India, Australia and New Zealand will gather in the island
province, about 585 kilometres south of Manila, next week to attend the ASEAN
[Association of Southeast Asian Nations] and East Asia summits.

"We continue to receive reports that terrorist groups are planning further
attacks and believe that they have the capacity and the intent to carry out
attacks at any time and anywhere in the country," the advisory said.

"These attacks could be against civilian targets in public places, including
those frequented by foreigners. You should also be aware of the risk of
terrorist attacks to all forms of public transport: road, rail, sea and air," it
added.

The Philippine government has deployed at least 10,000 policemen and 3,000
soldiers in Cebu City and nearby Mactan Island, where the summits will be held.

Retired army general Leo Alvez, chief of security for the summits, said
anti-government protesters are already in Cebu.

"We are preparing for them in terms of demonstrations and other activities that
they may think of to disrupt or discredit the present administration," Alvez
said.

Asked about a possible "worst-case scenario," Alvez said, "I am crossing my
fingers that there is no such case as a worst-case scenario."

The Philippine National Police has warned the protesters that no rallies will be
allowed near the Mactan Shangri-La resort hotel and the Cebu International
Convention Centre.

Police authorities also imposed a "no gun zone" and "restricted fly zones" in
selected airspace in Cebu during the duration of the summits.

"We can't take chances. We have to ensure the security on air, land and seas,"
said PNP Director-General Oscar Calderon.

Source: Kyodo News Service, Tokyo, in English 0731 gmt 7 Dec 06

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 8, 2006 Friday

Chechen official claims all 2006 terrorist attacks solved

LENGTH: 202 words


Text of report by The Caucasus Times website on 7 December

Chechnya, 6 December: The reduction of the number of terrorist attacks shows
that the situation in Chechnya is normalizing, the interior minister of the
republic, Gen-Col Ruslan Alkhanov said.

Alkhanov has reported that nine terrorist attacks were carried out during the
first nine months of 2006, and all of them were solved. Twenty abductions had
also been registered this year while there were 155 abductions last year, he
said. Eighteen crimes connected to the 20 abductions have been solved, with the
guilty parties identified and detained, he noted.

The minister has given assurances that there is only a small number of acting
members of bandit formations left in Chechnya. He said: "Neutralizing this bunch
of people is a question of time. All of them will get what thery deserve".

He noted that a large amount of operations work is being conducted in the
republic. "The secret services are working. The last of the so-called militant
leaders is left. He says that he is the acting president. He is Dokka Umarov. He
faces the same result as [Aslan] Maskhadov and [Shamil] Basayev," the minister
said.

Source: Caucasus Times, Prague, in Russian 7 Dec 06

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 8, 2006 Friday

Afghan paper says suicide attacks cannot derail anti-terror efforts

LENGTH: 340 words


Text of editorial in Dari entitled "Fighting terror should continue until
terrorists are eliminated" by Afghan state-run newspaper Anis on 7 December

Terrorists carried out suicide attacks in Kandahar Province for four consecutive
days. The perpetrators of these devilish deeds want to spoil security of our
country and show the world that the situation in Afghanistan is insecure.

Obviously suicide attackers are provided with all means such as financial,
educational, equipment and mentality outside the country. An official of the ISI
[Pakistani intelligence] recently confessed that the suicide attackers are being
trained in the Bajaur tribal area of Pakistan and all terrorist groups are
functioning freely in Pakistan for attacks Afghanistan.

The suicide attackers, recently arrested, are belonging to one of the two
groups. Some of them belong to extremist groups that are used by the government
of Pakistan as tools against Afghanistan and India for furthering political
aims. And some others, affiliated with the Taleban or Golboddin Hekmatyar's
groups, are part of Pakistani intelligence or sent by commanders based in
Pakistan. Therefore, each violent deed in which our ordinary citizens are
targeted intentionally can be called terrorist acts. But it should not be
forgotten that nowadays terrorist activities are carried out on the basis of
Islamic beliefs while the holy religion of Islam is a religion of compassion and
mercy. Fighting terror and violence is the Islamic and national duty of all
Muslims.

Unfortunately some of our analysts and intellectuals interpret and analyse the
situation in a wrong way. Their comments serve the aims of the enemies and
sometimes it is thought as if they are acting as the enemies' fifth pillar.

However, continuation of terrorist attacks will never undermine the ability and
commitment of the Afghan national army, national police and international anti
terrorism forces. They will continue to fight terror as long as the roots of
terrorism are eradicated.

Source: Anis, Kabul, in Dari 7 Dec 06

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                            December 8, 2006, Friday
                                 First Edition

INTERNATIONAL: Terrorists planning attack in Philippines, says Britain

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 222 words


The British Government believes terrorists may be in the final stages of
planning attacks in the central Philippines, where Asian leaders are meeting
next week.

A travel advisory posted on the British Embassy website advised British
nationals to avoid travel to Cebu province "as we believe that terrorists are in
the final stages of planning attacks".

The warning, updated yesterday morning, came as Philippines security officials
said they have not discovered any specific terror threats against the summit of
the ten-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations but that they could not
discount them.

"We continue to receive reports that terrorist groups are planning further
attacks and believe that they have the capacity and the intent to carry out
attacks at any time and anywhere in the country," the British advisory said.

It said civilians in public places, including those frequented by foreigners,
remain a target.

Al Qaida-linked militants will be a key security concern during the three-day
summit, which opens on Monday, Philippine officials said, adding that more than
10,000 troops and police were securing the Cebu venues.

Police have stepped up security in Cebu with random road checkpoints and car
searches.

Authorities have banned civilians from carrying guns in summit venues and
restricted flights over those p laces.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            December 8, 2006, Friday
                                 Worcs Edition

Mugging attack terror;
BROMSGROVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 174 words


A WOMAN was left so traumatised by a mugger who snatched her handbag that she
has only just told police.

The woman was walking along The Willows in Bromsgrove at about 1.30pm on Monday
November 13 when she was attacked but Detective Constable Dianne Knight from
North Worcestershire CID said: "The woman was extremely distressed and has only
just been able to bring herself to talk about it.

"We are appealing to anyone who recalls seeing anything that might be related to
this incident in The Willows to give us a call."

The woman told police how she was walking in the street when she felt her
handbag being pulled from her shoulder. She got into a struggle with the man but
was forced to let go when he threatened to hit her.

The bag, a black leather-look handbag, contained a Nokia mobile phone, an
umbrella, some keys and a small silk purse.

The offender is described as a white male, around 17-years-old, 5ft 6in tall
with a slim build and a spotty complexion. He was wearing a blue hooded top with
the hood worn up and blue tracksuit bottoms.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                December 8, 2006

GANG STABS PORTER IN GLASGOW HOSPITAL Screwdriver attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 191 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Mansionhouse Unit


A TEENAGE gang stabbed a porter in the grounds of a Glasgow hospital.

The 50-year-old was attacked by the four thugs after he caught them trying to
break into a car.

When he tried to stop the theft, during his routine early-morning rounds at the
Victoria Infirmary, the gang attacked him with a screwdriver.

The man was rushed into the hospital and treated for his injuries.

The incident, behind the Mansionhouse Unit for the elderly in early on Wednesday
morning, has sparked an angry reaction from the porter's colleagues.

One said today: "The guys are terrified. They lock themselves in after they do
their rounds because there are so many neds and junkies going about.

"They get terrible amounts of abuse and shouldn't be forced to go around on
their own. They should be in pairs but the supervisor has forbidden us to speak
out about it."

The porter has now been released from hospital and is recovering.

A spokeswoman for NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde said: "We are delighted that the
member of staff is well enough to leave hospital and all his colleagues wish him
a speedy recovery.

"We will be carrying out a full investigation into this incident."

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              375 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 9, 2006 Saturday

Serbian official urges UN Kosovo envoy to condemn rail "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 150 words


Text of report by Serbian TV satellite service on 9 December

[Presenter] The director of the government's media relation's office, Srdjan
Djuric, has asked the UN special envoy for Kosovo, Martti Ahtisaari, to finally
condemn [ethnic] Albanian separatists and their latest terrorist attack, the
blowing up of the Zvecan-Kosovo Polje railway line.

Ahtisaari's persistent silence and avoidance of condemning Albanian terrorist
attacks is incomprehensible, Djuric told Tanjug. Ahtisaari received a mandate
from the UN to sharply condemn and punish every act of violence, Djuric pointed
out. He said that Ahtisaari's mandate was drawing to a close and that a new
envoy would most probably be chosen by mid-2007. Djuric underlined that the UN
special envoy had never to date condemned Albanian terrorism and that now was
the time to finally do this.

Source: RTS SAT TV, Belgrade, in Serbian 1400 gmt 9 Dec 06

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           December 11, 2006, Monday
                                 First Edition

Reid walks the tightrope as he warns of Christmas terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 344 words


The terrorist threat facing the UK is "very high indeed", Home Secretary John
Reid said yesterday.

He said the chances of an attempted attack over the Christmas period were
"highly likely".

Mr Reid said: "We know that the number of conspiracies of a major type are in
the tens - 30 or round about that. We ought to be very grateful to the people in
the security services who work night and day to try to protect us. We can never
guarantee that we will get 100 per cent success but we do get 100 per cent
effort from the security services."

Mr Reid said the current UK terror assessment posted on the Government's
Intelligence website was "severe" -the second highest level. The Home Secretary
said he did not think it was "inevitable" for an attack to happen, but added:
"The terrorists only have to get through once, as they did on July 7, for us to
see the terrible carnage that it causes.

"I try to walk the tight-rope between being truthful and honest about the threat
to the public but, on the other hand, to say we are doing everything possible to
combat it and to try to keep our lifestyle as near as possible to the British
way of life."

He said the battle against terror would continue for "longer than a generation".

Mr Reid said: "When it came to the struggle against republican terrorism in
Ireland and in the mainland here, that lasted 30 years, and there is no
indication to me that this is going to be resolved any quicker than that."

He said it was important to resolve the issue of Israel and Palestine because it
"fuels international terrorism".

Mr Reid added: "If terrorism is to be defeated here in this country, the whole
community has to be united against them.

"The aim of the terror-ists is to divide the community, to pretend that this is
a war between Muslims and everyone else, when it isn't. In a funny way they
reflect the views of the extreme right of politics who argue the same thing
-that the big division is between Islam and everyone else. It isn't - it's
between the terrorists and everyone else and only with that unity can we defeat
them.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Home Secretary John Reid

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            December 11, 2006 Monday

Terror attack over Christmas 'highly likely', warns Reid

BYLINE: MATTHEW HICKLEY

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 486 words


A TERRORIST atrocity is 'highly likely' in Britain over the Christmas period,
John Reid warned yesterday.

The Home Secretary said the threat of attacks by Islamic extremists in the
coming weeks is 'very high indeed', with 30 major conspiracies currently being
monitored by the security services.

But critics immediately accused him of giving out just enough information to
cause widespread fear, without any meaningful attempt to tell the public how to
help prevent, or cope with, attacks.

The row surfaced at the same time as the Foreign Office was urging ministers to
stop using the phrase 'war on terror', coined by U.S. President George Bush
following the September 11 attacks.

Diplomats say it risks angering British Muslims and raising tensions worldwide.

John Reid used a TV interview yesterday to stress the high likelihood of a
Christmas terror strike, and said the Government's current official assessment
was of a 'severe' threat, one grade down from the highest 'critical' level.

He told GMTV's Sunday programme: 'We know that the number of conspiracies of a
major type are in the tens 30 or round about that.

'We ought to be very grateful to the people in the security services and the
police and in other areas who work night and day to try to protect us.

'We can never guarantee that we will get 100 per cent success but we do get 100
per cent effort from the security services.' He said an attempted attack was not
inevitable, but added: 'The terrorists only have to get through once, as they
did on July 7, for us to see the terrible carnage that it causes.

'Our security services have to be successful on every occasion to prevent that
happening.

'I try to walk the tightrope between being honest about the threat to the public
but, on the other hand, to say we are doing everything possible to combat it and
to try to keep our lifestyle as near as possible to the British way of life.' Dr
Reid was echoing recent public warnings-from MI5 chief Eliza Manningham-Buller,
who said 30 'mass casualty' terror plots were being monitored, with 1,600
individuals under surveillance.

She warned that Britain is now thought to be Al Qaeda's number one target.

Conservative homeland security spokesman Patrick Mercer said: 'If the Government
wants to make things more difficult for the terrorists, they have to involve the
public in a constructive way.

Otherwise warnings like this are nothing but hollow rhetoric.

'Where are the efforts to advise people on what to do in the event of an attack,
or what to look out for to help prevent one?' The Foreign Office confirmed
yesterday that it has urged ministers and British diplomats abroad to stop using
the phrase 'war on terror' to describe efforts to counter Islamic extremists.

Officials said the aim was to 'avoid reinforcing and giving succour to the
terrorists' narrative by using language that, taken out of context, could be
counterproductive'.

m.hickley@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JOHN REID: INQUIRY INTO 30 PLOTS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            December 11, 2006 Monday

BRITAIN GOES ON REID ALERT;
Terror attack 'likely'

BYLINE: by LAURA NEIL

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 261 words


HOME Secretary John Reid has warned that the terrorist threat facing the UK is
"very high indeed".

And he said that an attempted attack over Christmas was "highly likely".

Mr Reid said: "We know that the number of conspiracies of a major type are in
the tens - 30 or round about that.

"We ought to be grateful to the people in the security services who work night
and day to try to protect us.

"We can never guarantee we will get 100% success but we do get 100% effort from
the security services."

He said the current UK terror assessment posted on the Government's Intelligence
website was "severe" - the second highest level.

The Home Secretary said he didn't think it was "inevitable" an attack would
happen.

But he added: "The terrorists only have to get through once as they did on July
7 for us to see the terrible carnage it causes.

"Our security services have to be successful on every occasion to prevent that
happening.

"I try to walk the tightrope between being truthful about the threat to the
public - and saying we are doing everything possible to combat it - and trying
to keep our lifestyle as near as possible to the British way of life."

He said the battle against terror would continue for "longer than a generation".

Mr Reid added: "When it came to the struggle against Republican terrorism in
Ireland and in the mainland here, it lasted 30 years, and there is no indication
to me that this is going to be resolved any quicker than that."

And he stressed that it was vital to resolve the issue of Israel and Palestine
because it "fuels international terrorism".

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            December 11, 2006 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BRITAIN GOES ON REID ALERT;
Festive terror attack 'likely'

BYLINE: by LAURA NEIL

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 203 words


HOME Secretary John Reid has warned that the terrorist threat facing the UK is
"very high indeed".

And he said that an attempted attack over Christmas was "highly likely".

Mr Reid said: "We know the number of conspiracies of a major type are in the
tens - 30 or round about that.

"We ought to be grateful to the people in the security services who work night
and day to try to protect us.

"We can never guarantee we will get 100% success but we do get 100% effort from
the security services."

He said the current UK terror assessment posted on the Government's Intelligence
website was "severe" - the second highest level.

The Home Secretary said he didn't think it was "inevitable" an attack would
happen.

But he added: "The terrorists only have to get through once as they did on July
7 for us to see the terrible carnage it causes.

"Our security services have to be successful on every occasion to prevent that
happening.

"I try to walk the tightrope between being truthful about the threat to the
public - and saying we are doing everything possible to combat it - and trying
to keep our lifestyle as near as possible to the British way of life."

He said the battle against terror would continue for "longer than a generation".

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEVERE THREAT: Mr Reid

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                               December 11, 2006

Christmas terror attack warning

LENGTH: 499 words


It's highly likely but not inevitable, says Reid Rob Waugh THE risk of a
terrorism attack on British soil over the Christmas period is "very high
indeed", John Reid warned yesterday as he suggested the fight against terror
could last decades. The Home Secretary said the chances of an attempted attack
were "highly likely", though it was not inevitable. "We know that the number of
conspiracies of a major type are in the tens - 30 or round about that," he said.

"We ought to be very grateful to the people in the security services who work
night and day to try to protect us. "We can never guarantee that we will get 100
per cent success but we do get 100 per cent effort from the security services."
Mr Reid said the current UK terror assessment posted on the Government's
Intelligence website was "severe" - the second highest level. Speaking in a
television interview, he said he did not think it was "inevitable" for an attack
to happen, but added: "The terrorists only have to get through once, as they did
on July 7, for us to see the terrible carnage that it causes. "Our security
services have to be successful on every occasion to prevent that happening. "I
try to walk the tightrope between being truthful and honest about the threat to
the public but, on the other hand, to say we are doing everything possible to
combat it and to try to keep our lifestyle as near as possible to the British
way of life." He said the battle against terror would continue for "longer than
a generation". Mr Reid said: "When it came to the struggle against republican
terrorism in Ireland and in the mainland here, that lasted 30 years, and there
is no indication to me that this is going to be resolved any quicker than that."
He said it was important to resolve the issue of Israel and Palestine because it
"fuels international terrorism". Mr Reid added: "If terrorism is to be defeated
here in this country, the whole community has to be united against them. "The
aim of the terrorists is to divide the community, to pretend that this is a war
between Muslims and everyone else, when it isn't. "In a funny way they reflect
the views of the extreme right of politics who argue the same thing - that the
big division is between Islam and everyone else. "It isn't - it's between the
terrorists and everyone else and only with that unity can we ultimately defeat
them." Meanwhile, a suspected terrorist who went on the run after failing to
answer bail in West Yorkshire remains at large. Asylum seeker Bakhtiar Mahmud
Perwaiss, 28, vanished a month ago after he failed to hand himself in to
officers at Huddersfield Police Station on November 8. Perwaiss, who also uses
the alias Berwis, was arrested by Greater Manchester anti-terror squad officers
in Pontefract on October 11. He was charged with money laundering offences over
an alleged scam to obtain cash in the Yemen. Anyone with information as to his
whereabouts should contact police on 0161 856 9800 or Crimestoppers, anonymously
on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 12, 2006 Tuesday

NATO-led bombing raids inflicting more damage than terror attacks - Afghan paper

LENGTH: 405 words


Text of report, "How long Afghanistan will be a battlefield?", by Afghan
state-run newspaper Hewad on 12 December

Afghans dismantled the Soviet Union and rid the international community of
communism by sacrificing 1.5m lives during their jihad against the Russian
invasion. Afghans thought that the international community, particularly the
neighbouring countries, which were more vulnerable to the dangers of terrorism
than us, would help Afghanistan in return for our sacrifices. But this did not
happen.

As a result of some people's desire for power and to interfere in certain
countries, organizations and circles, internal fighting has erupted in this
war-torn country. The neighbouring countries and some super powers were involved
in this and it subsequently paved the way for the military attack by the
coalition forces and the USA.

The Taleban's regime was overthrown and the terrorists suffered serious blows,
and remnants of the Taleban crossed the border into Pakistan. They were offered
shelter there and they afterwards reorganized to carry out terrorist attacks. In
addition to the US forces, NATO troops arrived in the country to eliminate the
terrorists. They were deployed in those provinces were terrorist attacks were
mostly carried out.

Their deployment was aimed at ensuring security and carrying out reconstruction
there. But the considerable increase in terrorist attacks obstructed the
reconstruction process. The terrorists were trained and equipped with weapons
outside the country and, when detected, escaped to their hideouts. How can we
and the international community achieve victory in such a situation?

Our people are suffering more physical damage and casualties in bombing raids
and operations by NATO and coalition forces than in terrorist attacks. We have
asked the international community many times to extend the war to those regions
where the roots of terrorism are being watered and to exert pressure on those
political and military organizations and countries which train and support the
terrorists.

The UK and USA must ensure security and defend Afghanistan's territorial
integrity on the basis of the strategic agreements signed with us. But they kill
people rather than ensure their security. If the USA and NATO do not pay serious
attention to this situation and it continues, it will have dangerous
consequences for Afghanistan, the USA and NATO.

Source: Hewad, Kabul, in Pashto 12 Dec 06

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 12, 2006 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Departing Annan attacks Bush's 'war on terror'

BYLINE: David Usborne in New York

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 600 words


Kofi Annan, the outgoing UN secretary general, made a barely disguised attack on
President George Bush in his last major speech before leaving office at the end
of the month. He suggested that in the "war on terror", President Bush had
ridden roughshod over the international community and compromised America's
respect for human rights.

Mr Annan made plain his concern that the United States had allowed its status as
the world's sole superpower, coupled with its desire to protect itself against
terrorists, to undermine its historical commitment to multilateralism.

He added: "No nation can make itself secure by seeking supremacy over all
others. We all share responsibility for each other's security, and only by
working to make each other secure can we hope to achieve lasting security for
ourselves."

The speech was delivered in Independence, Missouri, in the presidential library
of Harry Truman, who presided over the founding of the United Nations six
decades ago.

At times, Mr Annan appeared to contrast the principles of global responsibility
evoked by Mr Truman with the actions of Mr Bush.

The UN leader, who will be replaced in January by Ban Ki-Moon of South Korea,
remained unspecific in his critique of the US, but few in the American audience
will have mistaken his references both to the failure of Washington in 2003 to
win unequivocal approval at the UN for the invasion of Iraq or subsequent human
rights controversies, including revelations of abuse of Iraqi prisoners at Abu
Ghraib.

"This country has historically been in the vanguard of the global human rights
movement," Mr Annan said. "But that lead can be maintained only if America
remains true to its principles, including in the struggle against terrorism.
When it appears to abandon its own ideals and objectives, its friends abroad are
naturally troubled and confused."

Backed by Washington when he was chosen 10 years ago to replace Boutros Boutros
Ghali of Egypt as head the United Nations, Mr Annan has never enjoyed easy ties
with Washington. He did not shy yesterday from touching the wounds left by the
decision to invade Iraq, justified by the US and Britain as a mission to erase
weapons of mass destruction that did not exist.

"No state can make its own actions legitimate in the eyes of others," he warned.
"When power, especially military force, is used, the world will consider it
legitimate only when convinced that it is being used for the right purpose - for
broadly shared aims - in accordance with broadly accepted norms."

It was a lesson expounded by President Truman, Mr Annan noted, implying that
Washington needed reminding. "As Harry Truman said, 'We all have to recog-nise,
no matter how great our strength, that we must deny ourselves the licence to do
always as we please'.

"The US has given the world an example of a democracy in which everyone,
including the most powerful, is subject to legal restraint. Its current moment
of world supremacy gives it a priceless opportunity to entrench the same
principles at the global level," he added.

The address included a list of principles at the heart of the UN ideal. Among
them was the lesson that "governments must be accountable for their actions in
the international arena as well as in the domestic one". Others included the
need to share responsibility to protect people from genocide.

On suffering, Mr Annan made clear his belief that the rhetoric of world leaders
was unmatched by action. "When I look at the murder, rape and starvation to
which the people of Darfur are being subjected, I fear that we have not got far
beyond lip service," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              The Star (Sheffield)

                               December 12, 2006

Family terror after raiders attack home

LENGTH: 251 words


A TRAUMATISED family threatened by masked thugs who demanded money and drugs are
today recovering from their ordeal at their Barnsley home.

Police believe the "respectable law-abiding" man and his children were wrongly
targeted by four men wearing balaclavas, scarves and gloves, who burst into
their home in Hoyland.

The 33-year-old dad was watching television with his 12-year-old daughter and
son, aged 15, in their semi-detached home, when the masked men burst through the
door.

They demanded he hand over money and drugs and when told he did not have either,
then forced the terrified children and their father into different rooms whilst
they searched other parts of the house in Manor Way, Hoyland.

Just minutes later, having failed to find anything, the men ran out, leaving
their shaken victims distraught and totally puzzled as to why the men had
stormed into their home.

Det Sgt Heather Stocks, of Wombwell CID, said today: "This decent law-abiding
respectable family cannot think why these men burst into their home, nor can we.
It has been a shocking ordeal for them all, they have no idea who the men were
or why they would think there would be cash or drugs there.

"One of our lines on inquiry is that these men had simply got the wrong address.
The family have lived there for some time and we certainly do not know of any
reason why they were subjected to such a traumatic experience."

Anyone with information about the attack, at 7.55pm on Wednesday, should contact
Wombwell CID on 01226 736551.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 400 DOCUMENTS


               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                           December 12, 2006 Tuesday

Drug addict behind terror attacks on elderly jailed

BYLINE: Kate Southern

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: Enfield Independent


The ringleader of a gang of drug-crazed robbers from Enfield who targeted
elderly victims in their homes has been jailed for 15 years.

Damien McLauglin, 33, of no fixed abode, was the last member of the vicious gang
to be sentenced after evading capture for more than two years.

He was jailed at Wood Green Crown Court on Monday after police traced him to
Manor Cunnigham in Eire and extradited him to the UK.

The court heard that between August 2003 and February 2004, the crack-addict
gang carried out 45 offences - swooping on pensioners' homes in the middle of
the night armed with knives and screwdrivers.

They would threaten and humiliate victims during lengthy ordeals, ransacking
homes for cash, jewellery and credit cards.

The masked men would routinely get high on crack in front of their victims and
rip up treasured documents such as letters and birth certificates.

One of the victims, a man in his 70s, said in a statement to police: since the
incident, my wife and I have been prescribed tranquillisers....noises in the
night cause disturbed sleep for several weeks. I have been traumatised - my life
has not been the same'.

Police launched Operation Finbec after linking the gang to the offences carried
out across Enfield, Barnet, Waltham Forest, Tottenham, Redbridge, Hackney and
Hertfordshire.

Investigations led to house in Sketty Road, Enfield, where a stash of
balaclavas, wire cutters, a crowbar and screwdrivers were found.

McLaughlin admitted 16 counts of conspiracy to rob following his arrest in
October.

He claimed the robberies were a result of his addiction to crack cocaine.

Speaking after sentencing, Det Insp Nev Nolan, senior investigating officer,
said: "McLaughlin was the ringleader of a vicious gang of robbers who targeted
the elderly leaving them traumatised.

"Some of his victims died within three to six months of the offences taking
place.

"I hope this judgement will bring closure and some comfort to the victims whose
lives he has blighted.

McLaughlin's gang, Jeffery Galvin, 20, of Thetford Close, Palmers Green, Patrick
Gallagher, of Steward Close, Cheshunt, and Clifford Land, 23, of Clarence Road,
Enfield, were sentenced to a total of 32 years at Wood Green Crown Court in
March.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 13, 2006 Wednesday

Georgia: South Ossetia says antitank mine discovery stopped "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 124 words


Text of report by South Ossetian Press and Information Committee website on 13
December

Tskhinvali, 13 December: Vladimir Ivanov, the media aide to the commander of the
Joint Peacekeeping Force, has reported that on the night of 12/13 December an
explosive device was discovered beneath a bridge over an irrigation channel in
the vicinity of the village of Tbeti.

At 0100 [local time] three-party military observers and OSCE mission officers
visited the area where the mine [TM-62 antitank mine, according to a separate
report by the same source] was discovered and made a note of the incident.

It was noted that a terrorist attack had been planned.

Source: South Ossetian Press and Information Committee website, Tskhinvali, in
Russian 13 Dec 06

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                           December 16, 2006 Saturday

Rumours of Inverness terrorist attack an urban myth, say police

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 303 words


A Rumour that a Highland shopping centre will be targeted by terrorist bombers
was dismissed as an "urban myth" by police yesterday, who urged Christmas
shoppers to ignore the stories.

Northern Constabulary say they have received a number of calls from members of
the public who claim they have heard reports that the Eastgate Centre in
Inverness will be the subject of a terrorist attack.

A police spokesman said several people had reported incidents of being
approached by an individual telling them that there would be an incident at the
Eastgate Centre over the weekend.

The warning has also been circulating via e-mail and text message. One claimed
that an individual had dropped their wallet and that a man had handed it back
saying they should keep away from the centre at the weekend because something
bad would happen.

Police claim it is a rumour designed to cause disruption at one of the busiest
times of year for retailers. Many similar examples of these myths, which have
been circulating around the world since the September 11 attacks, have appeared
on the internet.

Chief Inspector Colin Souter, of Inverness Area Command, said: "These have no
factual basis. There have been a number of these circulating across the world
since 9/11 and none have come to fruition.

"These are also mentioned in former home secretary David Blunkett's
autobiography. They are designed to cause disruption."

Eastgate Centre manager Carol MacPherson said: "We are aware of this and are
liaising closely with Northern Constabulary. As far as we are concerned, it's
business as usual."

Charles Leakey of Leakey's Bookshop and chairman of the city's Traders
Association said: "It is absolute nonsense hardly worthy of note."

A police spokesman said a similar myth had been circulating about Braehead
Shopping Centre near Glasgow last year.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday

Philippines: Moro militants deny link with Al-Qa'idah, plotting terror attacks

LENGTH: 488 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper Philippine Daily Inquirer
website on 17 December

Cotabato City: The Moro Islamic liberation Front (MILF) denied allegations made
by security forces that linked guerrilla leaders to Al-Qa'idah militants and
plans to carry out attacks in major cities in Mindanao.

MILF spokesperson Eid Kabalu made the denial after government soldiers claimed
they foiled a bombing plot in Davao City by suspected MILF renegades.

"It's not true. We are serious in our peace talks with the government," Kabalu
told the Inquirer.

Maj. Agusto dela Pena, Philippine Air Force information officer, said in a
statement obtained by Inquirer that operatives of the Eastern Mindanao Command
Group, consisting of Air Force operatives of the 305th Air Intelligence and
Security Squadron, and bomb experts from the 710th Special Operations Wing,
recovered a powerful pipe bomb during a raid on a hideout of MILF commander
Abdul Mentang somewhere in Davao province.

Admitting that the suspected terrorists managed to escape before the raid, Dela
Pena said the pipe bomb, placed in a backpack measuring about 10 inches long and
which has a diameter of 3.5, can inflict a similar level of damage as that
experienced in the 2003 Sasa Wharf bombing in Davao City.

"It is believed that it was manufactured by known bomber Abdul Manap Mentang.
The IED (improvised explosive device) had his classic signature based on
findings from the 2003 Davao Airport and Sasa Wharf bombings. Likewise, sometime
July 2005, Mentang once again attempted to bomb Davao City during the annual
Kadayawan Festivities. Fortunately, his ill motive was thwarted," Dela Pena said
in his statement.

Dela Pena said Mentang is a renegade MILF member and has direct contact with
fugitive terrorists Dulmatin and Omar Patek of the Jemaah Islamiyah.

Dela Pena said the plan was a joint effort by known terrorists identified with
the group of Faisal Sarip Abdul Rohman Camlle alias Barok.

At the same time, he said information also revealed that the bombs were to be
carried by MILF renegades Abo Sama and Salik Ahmad.

But according to Kabalu, the names dropped by Dela Pena are not active in their
organization.

"They are MILF before, but we removed them from our list," Kabalu said.

Kabalu said the accusation against them will not affect the peace talks set to
resume in January next year in Kuala Lumpur.

The government and MILF have been negotiating a peace agreement for several
months, declaring several times that they were near to signing a pact.

But the peace talks bogged down over MILF's demand to include close to 1,000
villages as part of their proposed future homeland without a referendum.

The government rejected the demand, saying it was against the Constitution. The
government said it could only allow 600 pre-dominantly Muslim villages to be
included in the proposed Moro homeland.

Source: Philippine Daily Inquirer website, in English 17 Dec 06

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           December 18, 2006, Monday
                             Black Country Edition

Black Country News: Partner left 'terrorised' by attacks;
WALSALL: Victim punched, kicked, poked and slapped

BYLINE: Ron Warrilow

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 275 words


A WALSALL man who left his partner in a "state of terror" after a string of
sustained attacks has walked free from court.

Lee France subjected Emma Hartshorne to "various forms of violence," said Mr
Bernard Lin-nemann prosecuting.

He said 23-year-old France grabbed her by the throat, punched and kicked her,
poked his finger in her eye, slapped her across the face and also threatened to
kill her.

On one occasion he armed himself with a hammer and hit her on the knee,
Wolverhampton Crown Court was told. "She was so frightened she felt she could
not leave their home," added Mr Lin-nemann. "She was terrified of the
consequences."

France, of Oak Road, Harden, admitted three charges of assaulting his partner
causing her actual bodily harm and was given a 12-month jail term suspended for
two years.

Judge Frank Chapman told him it was the fourth time he had faced a court for
violence towards Miss Hartshorne and added: "I have no doubt the offences you
committed justify about 18 months detention."

He said attacks on women were totally unacceptable but he ruled he was able to
spare France an immediate custodial sentence.

France, he said, had written a letter to the court expressing his remorse and
had succeeded in the past in overcoming his drug addiction.

He had already spent nearly seven months behind bars since his arrest, said the
judge who also made France the subject of a two year supervision order.

"If you do not do what you are required to do this 12 month sentence will come
into operation immediately," warned the Judge.

Oliver Woolhouse, defending, said Miss Hartshorne was "willing to have some form
of future relationship" with France.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           December 18, 2006, Monday

KRISS KILLERS BEG FOR A MOVE;
EXCLUSIVE EVIL TRIO LIVE IN TERROR OF PRISON REVENGE ATTACKS

BYLINE: By Craig McDonald

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 847 words


KRISS Donald's racist killers are begging for a move to an English prison.

Imran "Baldy" Shahid, his brother Zeeshan and Mohammed Mushtaq are being held in
three different Scottish jails amid fears for their safety.

A prison insider said last night: "It's true a move is on the cards. They want
to go and no one here wants to stand in their way - they're a security
nightmare."

The evil trio have been targets for revenge attacks since being sentenced last
month.

Kriss, 15, was abducted, brutally beaten, stabbed and set alight while he was
still alive - just because he was white. The murderers fear they will never
settle into the Scottish prison system and want a switch to notorious HMP
Wakefield.

The Yorkshire jail has a large Muslim population and is already home to some of
Britain's worst killers - including Soham murderer Ian Huntley.

The move would need approval on both sides of the Border.

The trio's legal team will begin the process in the new year.

It is thought another member of the gang who murdered Glasgow schoolboy Kriss in
2003 could also make the move.

Daanish Zahid, 20, is also a major target for reprisals while in Scottish jails.
He was given 17 years for the killing in 2004.

A prison insider said last night: "The possibility of the move has been
discussed for some time now and there's no doubt it makes some sense.

"After the three main men were sentenced last month, they became the scalp every
prisoner wanted.

"It's not a particularly nice thing to say but it is the reality of the
situation.

"The upshot is a major security issue for Scottish prisons.

"Moving them to England makes a degree of sense but there is a question over
whether they would really be that much safer there."

Ringleader Imran Shahid, 29, will serve a minimum of 25 years before being
considered for release. He is being held in Barlinnie's notorious segregation
unit for his own safety.

The two men he stood trial with are serving their time in different
high-security prisons.

Zeeshan Shahid, 28, nicknamed Crazy, was told he would serve at least 23 years.

And Mushtaq, 27, known as Becks, will spend 22 years in jail.

The gang snatched Kriss from the street at random simply because he was white.

They drove him around for four terrifying hours, then stabbed him 13 times and
set him on fire while he was still alive.

Baldy, Crazy and Becks face being moved from prison to prison for the duration
of their sentences so their routine does not become known. The tactic is already
in use for a handful of other high-risk inmates.

A source said: "The whole situation poses a logistical nightmare for the
Scottish Prison Service.

"The fact two of Kriss's killers are brothers makes it even more difficult as it
means they have the right to visit each other.

"These guys don't fancy it at all in Scottish prisons and it seems they're
willing to take their chances at Wakefield.

"It's not that far down the motorway from Scotland and they also have family
down there."

The evil trio were convicted 969 days after Kriss's abduction in Pollokshields.
His burnt corpse was found on the Clyde Walkway the day after he was forced into
a car in broad daylight.

They had tried to get away with murder by fleeing to Pakistan, where they spent
more than a year on the run.

A fifth man was jailed in December 2004 for his part in the murder.

Zahid "Ziggy" Mohammed, 20, was cleared of murder but sentenced to five years
for abduction and lying to police.

A Scottish Prison Service spokesman said last night: "Prisoners can request
cross border transfers.

"These are subject to approval both by the receiving jurisdiction and Scottish
Ministers."

HMP Wakefield is home to some of England's worst criminals. Soham beast Ian
Huntley, 32, is serving a double life sentence and has survived a number of
brutal attacks and beatings in the prison.

A special unit costing pounds 300,000 is to be built at Wakefield to stop
Huntley committing suicide after two failed bids.

Bosses at the jail are putting in an "anti-ligature" area designed to prevent
inmates from hanging themselves.

Every surface will be smooth and furniture will be bolted down. Sinks and
toilets will be operated with infra-red switches so there are no taps or
handles.

Wakefield is home to Sarah Payne's killer, Roy Whiting, 47.

Four months ago, Britain's most dangerous prisoner, Charles Bronson, was
involved in a four-hour stand-off with guards at Wakefield, after smearing
himself with margarine to prevent them getting a grip.

The 53-year-old, jailed in 1974 for armed robbery and now serving life after
taking a prison's deputy governor hostage, was eventually subdued with pepper
spray - the first time it has been used in a UK prison.

Serial killer Harold Shipman, thought to have murdered at least 250 of his
patients, hanged himself at Wakefield in 2004 while serving 15 life sentences.

The prison dates back to 1594. It is now a main centre for lifer prisoners -
many serious sex offenders.

The average roll is 700, including a maximum of 100 category A and 10 high hisk
category A prisoners.

'Moving them to England makes sense but would theybe much safer?'

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BEHIND BARS: Zeeshan Shahid, his brother Imran and Mushtaq' PHILDYE'
CAGE: Baldy, Crazy and Becks were held together after their capture in Pakistan,
left, but are kept apart in Scots jails because of the fury at the murder of
Kriss, right' INMATE: Soham killer Ian Huntley is among prisoners held at
Wakefield

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 24, 2006 Sunday

Somalia Islamist security chief asks foreign terrorists to attack Ethiopia

LENGTH: 642 words


Excerpt from report in English by Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 23 December: Defence chief of the fundamentalist force under the
UIC [Union of Islamic Courts] in Somalia appealed once again on Saturday [23
December] to foreign terrorists to join his movement's war against Ethiopia.

International media reports monitored by Ethiopian News Agency indicate that the
defence chief of the terrorist force Yusuf Mohamed Siad, a hard-liner who has
made inflammatory remarks in the past, said that his force keep on receiving
with open arms terrorists coming from foreign lands. "Let them fight in Somalia
and wage war, and God willing, attack Addis Ababa," Reuters quoted Yusuf as
saying. It recalled the warning Ethiopia gave on Friday [22 December] to the
fundamentalist force saying, "there is limit to patience" [Passage omitted: more
on threats].

According to a report by Reuters, the fundamentalists said they would send
ground troops to attack en masse on Saturday , as opposed to fighting from a
distance with heavy weapons as the two sides have done so far.

"Our troops have not started to attack. From tomorrow the attack will start," it
quoted the fundamentalist force deputy spokesman Ibrahim Shukri as having told a
press conference.

Al-Ahram newspaper based in Cairo reported that the fundamentalist force's
announcement that it would launch an all-out ground force offensives on
Saturday.

It quoted fundamentalist sources as having said that they would launch an en
masse ground force attacks as opposed to fighting from the distance with heavy
artillery.

The Washington Post Foreign Service reported that inconclusive clashes roil
Somalia for fourth day in a combat called tentative, despite hundreds killed.

"All signs on the battlefront are that this is very serious," it quoted Matt
Bryden, a consultant with the International Crisis Group who is based in Nairobi
as having said. "But it doesn't mean it has to escalate and become the big war
everyone is afraid of. There's still room to back down."

VOA news quoted a member of parliament in the interim government Awad Ahmad
Ashareh as saying, "Ethiopia feels her opponents are now in Mogadishu ".

It said Ethiopia and interim President Yusuf had pursued Shaykh Hasan Dahir
Aweys before, when in the early 1990s, he led a militant, anti-Ethiopian group
called al-Ittihad al-Islamiya in the semiautonomous Somali region of Puntland.

"Al-Ittihad was defeated and Aweys was forced to retreat to his home region in
central Somalia," it quoted Professor J Peter Pham, director of the Nelson
Institute at James Madison University in the United States as saying.

Says Professor Pham: "These are people, who in the 1990s, carried out terrorist
attacks within Ethiopia, including the attempted assassination of a minister in
Addis Ababa."[referring to the attempted assassination of the late transport
minister Abd al-Maguid Husayn]

"So there is a clear record of terrorism vis-a-vis Ethiopia and for what they
lack in tactical experience, some of the foreign elements now coming into
Somalia will bring that with them. So it is clear danger that this may spiral
into an insurgency-slash-terrorist campaigns that will engulf the region," VOA
quoted the Professor as saying.

He said, "To imagine that the very dangerous situation in Somalia is primarily
about Al-Qai'dah is to misunderstand the predominantly local dynamics that drive
the conflict."[Passage omitted: more reports on arrest of journalists in
Mogadishu earlier]

On Friday, Ethiopia said it was running out of patience and accused the
fundamentalist leadership of a range of hostile acts.

It said ordinary Ethiopians see their government's actions as in keeping with
the African Union and United Nations directives to support the Baidoa-based TFG
[Transitional Federal Government].

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 23 Dec 06

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                            December 24, 2006 Sunday

10,000 soldiers get three-week holiday to save MoD money;
Despite warnings of festive terror attacks, the Army is sent home

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER LEAKE

SECTION: FB 04; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 411 words


THE cash-strapped Ministry of Defence has sent home 10,000 soldiers from
barracks for nearly three weeks to save on heating and lighting bills.

The shutdown a week longer than the usual Christmas break means that Army bases
all over Britain have only a skeleton staff to protect them.

Soldiers not required for operations were sent home on Tuesday and will not
return until January 8.

While they are away, the MoD will save tens of thousands of pounds on
electricity, gas, food and accommodation bills because the power will be turned
off.

The closures, which include the Army's HQ Land Command at Wilton, near
Salisbury, Wiltshire, come less than a fortnight after Home Secretary John Reid
warned that an attempted terrorist attack during the Christmas period was
'highly likely'.

Dr Reid said: 'We know the number of conspiracies of a major type are in the
tens 30, or round about that.' The UK threat assessment posted on the Home
Office and MI5 websites is currently 'severe' the second-highest level.

Last night, Tory Homeland Security spokesman Patrick Mercer, a former Army
infantry commander, said: 'Only days ago, the Home Secretary was telling us how
likely it was that we would be attacked by terrorists.

'Now, we discover that our garrisonsare closed for business, just to save a few
more quid out of the heating and lighting budget.

'What a state we're in. We may as well hang a sign outside our Army bases
saying, "Please don't invade us until next year."' The order to close the
barracks was issued by the Commander Regional Forces, Lieutenant General John
McColl.

The shutdown comes as troops in Afghanistan have complained that they have run
out of mortar and machinegun ammunition.

The Army now has fewer than 100,000 troops the lowest figure in post-war years.

Senior officers claim that at least 15,000 more soldiers are needed to solve
'overstretch' problems caused by the scale of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan
and by other commitments around the world.

A cost-saving drive by the MoD has resulted in RAF jets being overworked, plans
to mothball six warships, substandard military housing, plus reductions in
training exercises and adventure training.

The MoD insisted last night that there was 'nothing unusual' in Army units and
headquarters in the UK standing down at this time of year.

A spokeswoman said: 'This has nothing to do with saving money, nor will it
impact on operations.

People supporting operations are still working, as they always do.'

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                        The News of the World (England)

                            December 24, 2006 Sunday

Hilda's attack scenes terror

SECTION: SOAP EXCLUSIVE 2

LENGTH: 110  words


(Photograph) - FAIR CITY star Hilda Fay has told how her attempted rape
storyline made her fear real life attacks.

The actress, right, who plays Tracey McGuigan, believes the Carrigstown rapist
is scarily reminiscent of the serial killings in Suffolk.

She said: "It's unbelievable that it's mirroring what was going on in England.

"What happened over there was terrible."

The rapist is set to be unmasked tomorrow when Dominic catches him attacking
Tracey in an alley.

Hilda, who has been in the hit soap for six years, said filming the attempted
rape disturbed her.

She said: "It was scary. I've never been attacked. A man's strength makes you
completely powerless."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 28, 2006 Thursday

Ukrainian peacekeepers thwarted three terrorist attacks in Iraq in 2006

LENGTH: 150 words


Text of report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 28 December: In 2006, the Security Service of Ukraine [SBU] thwarted three
terrorist acts against peacekeepers in Iraq, Valentyn Nalyvaychenko, the acting
SBU head, told a news conference in Kiev today.

In one incident, the special unit that uses counter-intelligence to thwart
terrorist acts, has destroyed an explosive-loaded vehicle, which was approaching
the Ukrainian embassy at night, he said.

"The explosive-loaded vehicle, which was approaching our embassy, was destroyed
at night," Nalyvaychenko said.

Currently, there is a 43-strong Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent in Iraq. Under
a Ukrainian law on peacekeeping personnel, they are armed only with personal
weapons for self-defence.

Ukrainian peacekeepers (about 1,600 people) served in Iraq from 2003 to December
2005.

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 1433 gmt 28 Dec 06

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                     December 29, 2006 Friday 11:01 AM GMT

British government to order more protective suits for terror attacks

LENGTH: 210 words


LONDON (AFX) - The British government is ordering 12,000 new protective suits
which would be used by police dealing with chemical, biological or nuclear
terror attacks, the Home Office has confirmed.

The suits will replace 7,000 which are currently in use and will allow an extra
5,000 to be made available to existing police officers.

It is understood that more officers will be trained to use the suits, although
the Home Office would not comment on how many this would be.

'We constantly look at what our needs are to ensure that we have the resources
we need to maintain public safety, which is our priority,' a spokesman.

Patrick Mercer, homeland security spokesman for the main opposition
Conservatives, said he was 'delighted' by the move.

But he added: 'It seems strange that they are doing it in December 2006 rather
than October 2001.

'It shows very slow appreciation by the government of what the dangers are.'

newsdesk@afxnews.com

afp/nes

COPYRIGHT


Copyright AFX News Limited 2006. All rights reserved.

The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News Content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.

AFX News and AFX Financial News Logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2006 AFX News Limited

                              395 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           December 29, 2006, Friday
                               News Extra Edition

Terror attack suit bid

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 49 words


Thousands more police officers will be equipped to deal with chemical,
biological or nuclear terror attacks under Government plans to buy new
protective suits. The Home Office has put out to tender a contract to provide it
with 12,000 personal protection suits in the event of a dirty bomb attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                              The Star (Sheffield)

                               December 29, 2006

Residents' terror after firebomb attack

LENGTH: 311 words


WORRIED residents today spoke of their fears after a Sheffield family's cars
were firebombed just days after their house was targeted by a gunman.

Residents living near Hinde House Lane, Firth Park, said they are terrified
someone will be caught in the crossfire after two attacks at the same address
within a week.

In the first incident shots were fired at a family's house on Hinde House Lane
at around midnight.

And a week later a Nissan Nevada and a Vauxhall Astra parked outside the
victim's home were damaged in what was believed to have been a petrol bomb
attack.

One resident, who did not want to be named, said: "The first time shooting
happened at around midnight. Then a week later I heard two sounds, which sounded
like a bomb.

"People in the area are worried. They can't believe that this is happening and
nothing seems to be being done about it.

"This used to be a nice quiet area with no trouble but recently it has really
gone downhill. Lately the area seems to be being used for drug dealing and there
is prostitution going on in the woods.

"People are unnerved by what is going on - it seems to be the place to come and
do whatever you want to do."

Another resident added: "People are frightened someone is going to get caught up
in the crossfire."

Police today moved to allay residents' fears.Det Insp Matt Fenwick refused to
disclose the reason for the attacks on the couple and their three children but
said the neighbours were not in danger.

He said: "I can confirm a second incident has occurred during which two vehicles
were extensively damaged by fire.

"Police are appealing for witnesses and I can confirm there is an ongoing
investigation linked to other offences.

"In terms of protection, measures have been taken. That's all I can say at this
stage."

Anyone with information about either attack on December 12 and December 18 is
urged to contact police.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 400 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 30, 2006

Order for 12,000 bio-suits to combat dirty bomb terror attacks

BYLINE: MARTYN McLAUGHLIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 428 words


THOUSANDS more police officers will be equipped to deal with chemical,
biological or nuclear terror attacks under government plans to buy protective
suits.

The Home Office has put out to tender a contract to provide 12,000 personal
protection suits in the event of a dirty bomb attack, in which explosives are
used to spread radioactive material.

The suits will be used over the next few years to replace the 7000 currently in
use.

A Home Office spokesman said: "We constantly look at what our needs are to
ensure we have the resources to maintain public safety."

He emphasised the tender was routine procedure, and not linked to a specific
threat.

The spokesman said police officers who used the suits in the event of a
dirty-bomb attack were normal police officers with extra training and 12,000
suits did not equate to 12,000 dedicated chemical, biological or nuclear
terrorattack officers.

"Technology is constantly advancing . . . it's just a desire to provide police
with the right equipment, " he said.

The Association of Chief Police Officers in Scotland (Acpos) is expecting suits
to be distributed north of the border as the UK prepares for potential chemical,
biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) attacks. Forces in Scotland are
working closely with their counterparts in England to maintain a national
response programme, Acpos said.

As part of the Home Officeled CBRN Resilience programme, an office has been
established in Edinburgh.

"This is not a secret operation, as details of the programme are on the Home
Office and Cabinet Office websites, " an ACPOS spokesman said. "We made no
secret of fact the Scottish Police Service is continuing to review and build
police forces' overall capability."

The contract for the suits is being advertised on the Official Journal of the
European Union website.

Security services are on the second-highest level of alert for a terrorist
attack. As the US's staunchest ally in its war on terror, the UK has long been
seen by authorities as a potential target.

Security has been stepped up and hundreds of suspects arrested since the July 7,
2005, bombings on London's transport network, when four suicide bombers killed
52 people.

Earlier this month, Home Secretary John Reid said the police were aware of as
many as 30 terrorist plots.

The Home Office played down reports the government was "significantly
increasing" police training to cope with dirty-bomb attacks.

Officials at the Foreign Office said last month there was "no doubt at all" al
Qaeda was trying to gather nuclear material for an attack against Western
targets.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              398 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                          December 30, 2006, Saturday
                               News Extra Edition

More officers to get terror attack training

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 91 words


The number of police officers trained to deal with a chemical, biological or
nuclear terror attack is to rise. Around 7,000 police officers across the UK are
currently trained to deal with an attack, which represents about five per cent
of the total number of officers.

And the Home Office is now planning to buy 12,000 personal protection suits in
the event of a dirty bomb attack.

A spokesman said the move would mean an increase in the number of officers
trained to deal with an attack.

He said the move was 'not in response to any specific threat'.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 31, 2006 Sunday

Israel reports 50 warnings of planned "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 103 words


Text of report by Israel radio on 31 December

The defence establishment has received about 50 warnings of planned terrorist
attacks. Most of the warnings are of a general nature and focused on Jerusalem,
Tel Aviv, Netanya and Afula.

In the northern Gaza Strip, IDF [Israel Defence Forces] soldiers fired at two
Palestinians who approached the security fence. The soldiers ordered them to
stop. When they were ignored, they opened fire at the lower part of the
Palestinians' bodies injuring both of them. This was reported by our
correspondent Nisim Qeynan.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1200 gmt 31 Dec 06

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 400 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                             January 1, 2007 Monday

Teenager stabbed in park terror attack

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: The Bolton News


A 16-year-old boy has been attacked and stabbed in a park.

The teenager was knifed in his cheek and neck while he was in St Mary's Park, in
Prestwich, on Saturday night.

He was found bleeding at 9.40pm and treated by paramedics at the scene before
being taken to hospital.

He was in a "serious but stable" condition last night, a Greater Manchester
Police spokesman.

He said: "He was stabbed in his left cheek and in a main artery in his neck, at
least twice.

"At this moment, we do not have any more information about the incident.

"We are appealing for anyone who saw or heard anything to please come forward."

Forensic officers have searched the scene of the attack.

The stabbing comes a day after another teenager was shot three times while
cycling through a park in Stretford, Manchester.

He is in a comfortable condition in hospital.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2007 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1000 - 1399
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:38:26

