



Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:15:46
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                          September 11, 2013 Wednesday

12th anniversary of 9/11 terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 146 words


12th anniversary of 9/11 terrorist attacks on America, in which 2,983 people
died when militants linked to al-Qaida hijacked four planes, crashing two into
the World Trade Center in New York and one into the Pentagon, before the fourth
was brought down in a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania.
 National moment of silence held at 08:46 EDT to honour the victims.
 New York City Commemoration Ceremony held at the National September 11
Memorial, where the names of victims of the 11 Sep and 1993 attacks are read by
family members, with pauses for six moments of silence at times the first plane
struck the North Tower (08:46 EDT), the second plane struck the South Tower
(09:03), Flight 77 struck the Pentagon (09:37), the fall of the South Tower
(09:59), Flight 93 crashing (10:03), and the fall of the North Tower (10:28)

Event Start Date: 2013-09-11

Event End Date: 2013-09-11

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                   September 11, 2013 Wednesday 10:53 PM GMT

Ceremonies in US to mark 2001 terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 95 words



HIGHLIGHT: US terrorist attacks remembered


Ceremonies have taken place in the United States to mark the 12th anniversary of
the 11 September terrorist attacks.

Almost 3,000 people died in the attacks, which saw three hijacked planes flown
into the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon in Virginia.

A fourth plane, believed to be headed for Washington DC, crashed into a field in
Pennsylvania.

US President Barack Obama, First Lady Michelle Obama, Vice President Joe Biden
and his wife Jill observed a moment of silence earlier outside the White House.

Events also took place at Ground Zero in New York City.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2013 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 11, 2013 Wednesday 8:08 PM GMT

President Barack Obama commemorates 12th anniversary of 9/11 attacks;
President Barack Obama tells families of 9/11 victims, "what the heart has once
owned and had, it shall never loose" as they gather to commemorate the 12th
anniversary of the terrorist attacks.

LENGTH: 193 words


President Barack Obama                                          observed the
12th anniversary of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in New York
and the Pentagon in Washington with a moment of silence and a visit to the
Pentagon Memorial.

Mr Obama was joined by First Lady Michelle Obama, Vice President Joe Biden and
staffers in a moment of silence on the White House South Lawn.

In a speech delivered at the Pentagon, where flight United 77 struck a building,
the President said:

"They left this Earth. Slipped from our grasp, but it is written, 'what the
heart has once owned and had, it shall never loose.'

"What your families lost in the temporal, the here and now, is now eternal. The
pride that you carry in your hearts, the love that will never die."

In New York relatives recited the names of the nearly 3,000 people who died when
hijacked jets crashed into the World Trade Center.

Beforehand, Governor Andrew Cuomo, musician Billy Joel, firefighters and others
joined in a tribute motorcycle ride from a Manhattan firehouse to ground zero.

Source: APTN/AP

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 11, 2013 Wednesday 7:53 PM GMT

President Barack Obama commemorates 12th anniversary of 9/11 attacks;
Families of 9/11 victims gather at ground zero to commemorate the anniversary of
the terrorist attacks with the reading of names, moments of silence and serene
music that have become tradition.

LENGTH: 163 words


President Barack Obama will observe the 12th anniversary of the terrorist
attacks on the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon in Washington
with a moment of silence and a visit to the Pentagon Memorial.

At Wednesday's ceremony on the 2-year-old memorial plazaat ground zero,
relatives will recite the names of the nearly 3,000 people who died when
hijacked jets crashed into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and near
Shanksville, Pennsylvania, as well as the names of victims of the 1993 trade
center bombing.

Beforehand, Governor Andrew Cuomo, musician Billy Joel, firefighters and others
are expected to join in a tribute motorcycle ride from a Manhattan firehouse to
ground zero.

Mr Obama will join first lady Michelle Obama, Vice President Joe Biden and
staffers in a moment of silence on the White House South Lawn.

The president will then attend an observance at the Pentagon.

Source: APTN/AP

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 11, 2013 Wednesday 6:50 PM GMT

Watch live: 9/11 anniversary memorial events;
Among some of the memorial events today, families of 9/11 victims will gather at
ground zero to commemorate the anniversary of the terrorist attacks with the
reading of names, moments of silence and serene music that have become
tradition.

LENGTH: 174 words


This live event has now ended

President Barack Obama will observe the 12th anniversary of the terrorist
attacks on the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon in Washington
with a moment of silence and a visit to the Pentagon Memorial.

At Wednesday's ceremony on the 2-year-old memorial plazaat ground zero,
relatives will recite the names of the nearly 3,000 people who died when
hijacked jets crashed into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and near
Shanksville, Pennsylvania, as well as the names of victims of the 1993 trade
center bombing.

Beforehand, Governor Andrew Cuomo, musician Billy Joel, firefighters and others
are expected to join in a tribute motorcycle ride from a Manhattan firehouse to
ground zero.

Mr Obama will join first lady Michelle Obama, Vice President Joe Biden and
staffers in a moment of silence on the White House South Lawn.

The president will then attend an observance at the Pentagon.

Source: APTN/AP

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 11, 2013 Wednesday 4:04 PM GMT

9/11 anniversary: Barack Obama leads tributes 12 years on;
Barack Obama led the tributes to victims of the September 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, as families gathered in New York and Washington to pay their respects.

BYLINE: By Chris Irvine agencies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 341 words


At a ceremony near Wall Street in New York, people paused at 1246 GMT to mark
the time when the first of two hijacked planes struck the World Trade Center.
The twin towers later collapsed.

Nearly 3,000 people were killed in the attacks that led to a long war in
Afghanistan.

President Obama                      marked a moment of silence at the White
House and was attending a ceremony in Washington at the Pentagon, which was
struck by another hijacked plane.

Earlier, the President laid a wreath at the Pentagon, speaking at a private
observance for family members of the 184 people who died there.

"We pray for the memory of all those taken from us - nearly 3,000 innocent
souls," Mr Obama said.

"Our hearts still ache for the futures snatched away, the lives that might have
been," he said.

"They left this Earth. They slipped from our grasp."

Quoting the Bible, Obama spoke of "the miracle of restoration," paying tribute
to the resilient spirit of victims' families, saying he was "amazed at the will
that you've summoned in your lives to lift yourselves up and to carry on."

Twitter: Barack Obama - "Today, we can honor those we lost by building a nation
worthy of their memories." -President Obama on #PatriotDay

"No matter how many years pass, this time comes around each year - and it's
always the same," said Karen Hinson, who lost her 34-year-old brother, Michael
Wittenstein, in New York. His body was never found.

Continuing a decision made last year, no politicians will make speeches.

Around the world, thousands of volunteers have pledged to do good deeds,
honouring an anniversary that was designated a National Day of Service and
Remembrance in 2009.

Meanwhile in Benghazi, Libya, a car bomb exploded outside a building that once
house the US consulate, the site of an attack on September 11 last year.

The blast seriously damaged the foreign ministry building but left no
casualties. Last year's attack resulted in the death of America's ambassador to
Libya and three other Americans.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 11, 2013 Wednesday 2:25 PM GMT

9/11 widower returns to top of World Trade Center;
Charlie Wolf, who lost his British wife in the 9/11 terror attacks, returns to
the top of the World Trade Center for the first time since his wife died,
describing the new building, One World Trade Center, as "progress".

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 117 words


An American businessman who lost his British wife in the 9/11 terrorist attacks
has returned to the World Trade Center for the first time.

Katherine Wolf was in the twin towers when passenger planes were flown into them
twelve years ago, changing New York's skyline forever.

Her widower Charlie Wolf toured the new building which is close to completion.

"Nothing will bring her back but to see this happen, to see this landmark
renewed. I am exhilarated," he said.

At 1,776 feet tall, One World Trade Center rises above the Manhattan skyline and
is the tallest building in the western hemisphere.

It will include a museum commemorating the attacks and two office towers when it
is finished in early 2014.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 11, 2013 Wednesday 9:02 AM GMT

9/11 anniversary: golf course apologises for $9.11 offer;
A golf course has apologised for advertising nine holes of golf for $9.11 to
mark the anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.

BYLINE: By Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 183 words


Tumbledown Trails Golf Course in Wisconsin advertised the special offer on
Monday saying it was meant to commemorate the 12th anniversary of the attacks
that killed nearly 3,000 people.

News of the special spread on social media, and the golf course's Facebook page
was overrun with negative comments.

Club owner and general manager Marc Watts said that no disrespect was intended.

"We're a little hurt by the fact that people are putting such a negative context
on this," Mr Watts said. "I thought people would appreciate it."

The promotion began two years ago, on the 10th anniversary, and until now was
warmly received as a way to ensure people never forget the tragedy, Watts said.

This is not the first time that promotions tied to the anniversary have drawn
criticism.

Last year, an Idaho resort offered hotel rooms for $91.11 and a food voucher for
$9.11 as a "Thank you to our heroes."

Two years ago, New York Sports Club offered September 11 first-responders cheap
memberships, drawing outrage from some who called it a shameless use of a
national tragedy to make money.

Edited by Chris Irvine

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday

Romanian president deplores 9/11 terrorist attacks against USA

LENGTH: 299 words


Text of report by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

[Unattributed report: "President Basescu Sends Message to Barack Obama 12 Years
After Terrorist Attacks"]

Bucharest, Sept 11 /Agerpres/ -- President Traian Basescu on Wednesday [11
September] sent a message to his American counterpart Barack Obama 12 years
after the terrorist attacks that were made in the US.

'On the commemoration of the tragic events of September 11, 2001 we are deeply
moved by the tragedy of some innocent lives being lost, which was caused by the
terrorist attacks that shocked the whole world. Twelve years have passed since
that time. Side by side with the United States of America, the allies and
partners with whom we share the same values, we have got solidary in an
uninterrupted effort for our actions to make it possible that people all over
the world should be protected from bigotry, extremism and hatred,' a release
issued by the Presidential Administration quotes President Basescu's message as
reading.

The Romanian Head of State stresses the fact that the deep-going friendly
relations between the two countries are more powerful than ever and the joint
declaration on the strategic partnership for the 21st century between Romania
and the United States of America is their materialization as well as 'a sound
foundation for our pledge in favour of international security and stability.'

'On the commemoration of the tragic events of September 11, please, Mr
President, accept my heartfelt sympathy and convey the American people our
thoughts and prayers, which are going today to the victims of the attacks, to
their relatives and to all our American friends. Faithfully yours, Romania's
President, Traian Basescu,' said Traian Basescu.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 1501gmt 11 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday

U.S. continues National Emergency with respect to terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS; US Major Events; US Top Stories

LENGTH: 68 words


U.S. extends National Emergency with respect to 9/11 terrorist attacks - on the
World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and aboard United Airlines Flight 93 - and the
continuing and immediate threat of further attacks for another year. Order,
declared on 14 Sep 2001, and the powers and authorities adopted to deal with it
continued 'because the threat continues'

Event Start Date: 2013-09-14

Event End Date: 2013-09-14

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 12, 2013
                                 First Edition

Silence marks anniversary of terror attacks;
UNITED STATES

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 153 words


Families of the victims of the worst terror attack on the United States have
gathered to mark the 12th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks with a moment of
silence and the reading of names.

The attacks in New York and Washington DC killed almost 3,000 people, led to a
long war in Afghanistan and created an expansion of government surveillance
powers that continues to be debated today.

At a ceremony near Wall Street in New York, people paused at 12.46pm GMT to mark
the time the first plane struck the World Trade Centre.

President Barack Obama also marked a moment of silence at the White House and
was attending a ceremony at the Pentagon, which was also struck by a plane.

"No matter how many years pass, this time comes around each year - and it's
always the same," said Karen Hinson, who lost her 34-year-old brother, Michael
Wittenstein, in New York.

Continuing a decision made last year, no politicians will make speeches.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 12, 2013 Thursday 12:46 PM GMT

Putin hits back at Obama's claim the U.S. is 'exceptional' and warns of a 'wave
of terrorism' if Syria is attacked in controversial New York Times editorial

BYLINE: JESSICA JERREAT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 543 words


Russian President Vladimir Putin has used an op-ed in the New York Times to
criticize President Obama for claiming that America is 'exceptional'.

The Russian leader hit out at the phrase used by the president during his
national address on Syria on Tuesday night.

In the rare editorial comment in the  New York Times piece headlined 'A plea for
caution from Russia', the strongman said: 'It is extremely dangerous to
encourage people to see themselves as exceptional, whatever the motivation.

'There are big countries and small countries, rich and poor, those with long
democratic traditions and those still finding their way to democracy. Their
policies differ, too, he wrote. 'We are all different, but when we ask for the
Lord's blessings, we must not forget that God created us equal.'

Setting out his case on Syria, Obama had said: 'That's what makes America
different. That's what makes us exceptional. With humility, but with resolve,
let us never lose sight of that essential truth.'

Putin used his piece to warn the American people that a U.S. strike on Syria
could 'unleash a new wave of terrorism'.

He added that the U.S. was viewed across the world as 'relying solely on brute
force'.

Putin said a strike in response to Syrian dictator Bashar Assad's chemical
weapons attack on his own people, would increase violence and bring more
instability to the Middle East.

Putin, who has refused to stop Russian arms being delivered to Assad since the
start of the civil war, acknowledged the chemical weapons attack, which killed
more than 1,400 people took place, but claimed it was the work of rebel forces.

'No one doubts that poison gas was used in Syria,' he said in the New York
Times. 'But there is every reason to believe it was used not by the Syrian Army,
but by opposition forces, to provoke intervention by their powerful foreign
patrons, who would be siding with the fundamentalists.'

While saying the U.S. would be going against the UN if it launched a missile
strike against Syria, Putin failed to mention that it was Russia, along with
China, that has been one of the biggest obstacles to security council action,
according to  NBC News.

On Tuesday, Russia blocked a resolution by the U.S, France and Britain to call
on Syria to turn over its chemical weapons and threatened UN military
enforcement.

The Russian President's call for calm was ridiculed as propaganda, as
politicians and journalists took to Twitter to respond to the piece.

'Putin is playing games. He's playing to Congress, he's playing to the American
people.' Piers Morgan Live tweeted.

Others, such as Human Rights Foundation chairman Garry Kasparov, criticized the
New York Times for giving Putin a platform for 'condescending propaganda'.

Mr Kasparov tweeted: 'Now we can expect NY Times op-eds by Mugabe on fair
elections, Castro on free speech, & Kim Jong-un on prison reform. The Axis of
Hypocrisy.'

A White House official also turned Putin's words back on himself, telling CNN
Russia had put a proposal forward to avoid a strike and now needs to follow
through.

[Putin] put this proposal forward and he's now invested in it. That's good.
That's the best possible reaction,' the official said.

'He now owns this. He has fully asserted ownership of it and he needs to
deliver.'

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

World marks terror attack anniversary

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 200 words


Families of the victims of the worst terror attack on the United States in
history have gathered to mark the 12th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks with a
moment of silence and the reading of names.

The attacks in New York and Washington killed almost 3,000 people, led to a long
war in Afghanistan and created an expansion of government surveillance powers
that continues to be debated today.

At a ceremony near Wall Street in New York, people paused at 1246 GMT to mark
the time when the first of two hijacked planes struck the World Trade Center.
The twin towers later collapsed.

President Barack Obama also marked a moment of silence at the White House and
was attending a ceremony in Washington at the Pentagon, which was struck by
another hijacked plane.

"No matter how many years pass, this time comes around each year - and it's
always the same," said Karen Hinson, who lost her 34-year-old brother, Michael
Wittenstein, in New York. His body was never found. Continuing a decision made
last year, no politicians will make speeches.

Around the world, thousands of volunteers have pledged to do good deeds,
honouring an anniversary that was designated a National Day of Service and
Remembrance in 2009.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A test of the twin beams of the Tribute in Light intersect with
still-under-construction Tower One

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2013 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           September 13, 2013 Friday

3 sentenced to death for Xinjiang terror attack

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 385 words


URUMQI - A court in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region on
Thursday sentenced three men to death and one man to 25 years in jail for a
violent terrorist attack which left 24 people dead in the region's Shanshan
County on June 26.

The Intermediate People's Court of the Turpan Prefecture, which administers
Shanshan County, handed the death penalty to Ahmatniyaz Sidiq for his guilt in
organizing, leading and participating in a terrorist organization, homicide and
arson. He was also deprived of political rights for life.

The court sentenced Urayim Eli and Abdulla Esrapil to death for their
participation in the terrorist organization and homicide.

Akram Usman was sentenced to 25 years in jail and was deprived of political
rights for five years for his participation in the terrorist organization,
homicide and arson, said the court.

The court found that Akram Usman, Urayim Eli and Abdulla Esrapil had gathered
with Eli Ahmatniyaz and others frequently at Lukqun Township, Shanshan County in
the Turpan Prefecture since April to engage in illegal religious activities.

They advocated and spread religious extremism, watched violence-inciting videos
from foreign terrorist organizations, and read books on religious extremism to
further conspire on terrorist activities, the court said.

Eli Ahmatniyaz gathered with Akram Usman and four others at Lukqun Township on
June 19 and plotted attacks against the local police station, government and a
market.

Akram Usman and his conspirators provided 10,800 yuan (1765.3 U.S. dollars) and
bought gasoline and 47 knives during the period from June 20 to 25, according to
the court.

A gang of 13 people, including Ahmatniyaz Sidiq, Urayim Eli, Abdulla Esrapil and
Eli Ahmatniyaz, carried out the violent attack early on the morning of June 26
after Ahmatniyaz Sidiq decided to launch the terror attack on June 25.

Police investigation showed that the multiple attacks in Shanshan on June 26
were a premeditated and organized violent terrorist crime.

The methods used were merciless in the extreme and the incident had serious
consequences so they ought to be severely punished in accordance with the law,
the court said.

The attacks killed 24 people, including two police officers, and injured 23
others, leading to a direct economic loss of 2.13 million yuan.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     September 13, 2013 Friday 9:35 PM GMT

Snack attacks by seagulls terrorise town

BYLINE: Stephen Wilkie

LENGTH: 233 words


BAKERY bosses have issued a warning to customers in a town under siege by
marauding birds.

Staff at Greggs in Dumfries are so worried about seagull attacks that they have
asked customers not to open up bags containing food in the street.

In the most serious incident, an elderly woman suffered a cut to her face when a
herring gull swooped and got away with a slice of pizza.

Dumfries has had problems with gulls for a number of years, leading the local
council to threaten on-the-spot fines for anyone who feeds the birds.

A total of 24 people have been attacked in the town in the last four months.

Greggs sales manager Ann-Marie Patterson, 43, said: "It's horrific. The seagulls
sit on the roof across the street, waiting for people to come out. People are
upset when they leave with cakes or sausage rolls and end up empty-handed. Now
we tell customers not to open their bags when they leave."

A council spokeswoman said: "The gulls have developed an expectation of food in
the presence of humans.

"If they are not offered it, they try to intimidate people and it can be quite
frightening."

Last month, Royal Mail management instructed postal delivery staff in Stranraer
to reverse their vans up to customer's homes to avoid being attacked by gulls
rearing chicks on residential rooftops.

Dumfries and Galloway Council has so far ruled out any proactive measures to
deter the birds or drive them away.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 13, 2013 Friday 6:24 PM GMT

Al-Qaeda calls for fresh wave of terror attacks inside U.S. to 'bleed America
economically'

BYLINE: ELLIE BUCHDAHL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 610 words



     ·    Ayman al-Zawahiri calls for 'a large strike' on American soil
     ·    Bin Laden's former right-hand man believed to have arranged 9/11
          attacks
     ·    Radio broadcast urges Muslim 'brothers' to launch smaller strikes on
          U.S.
     ·    Terrorist chief urges boycott of dollar and U.S. products


Al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri has urged Muslims to launch attacks on
'American soil' to lead up to a 'war on its own land'.

In an audio speech released online a day after the twelfth anniversary of the
9/11 attacks, al-Zawahiri urged sustained attacks on the U.S. which he said
would 'bleed America economically' by forcing the country to spend large amounts
on defence.

And he encouraged Muslims to seize any opportunity to land 'a large strike' on
the U.S. even if this took years of patience, according to a translation on the
U.S. SITE monitoring service.

Scroll down for video

In the excerpts of the 72-minute address that were published by SITE, he said
'one brother or a few of the brothers' should launch smaller strikes on the U.S.
wherever possible.

Al-Zawahiri, who was Osama Bin Laden's physician and right-hand man and tops
America's list of 'most wanted' terrorists released in 2001 with a £15million
bounty on his head, is credited by many as having been the brains behind the
9/11 attacks and those on the London transport system in July 2005 that left 52
people dead.

Western counter-terrorism chiefs have warned that the broadcast could provide
fuel for radicalised 'lone wolves' who might have had no direct contact with al
Qaeda as much as operatives like those who carried out complex plots like the
September 11 strikes.

Nearly 3,000 people were killed in the attacks in 2001 when hijacked aeroplanes
were flown into New York's World Trade Center, the Pentagon in Washington and a
Pennsylvania field.

Al-Zawahiri was quoted as saying in the speech: 'We should bleed America
economically by provoking it to continue in its massive expenditure on its
security, for the weak point of America is its economy, which has already begun
to stagger due to the military and security expenditure.'

Keeping the U.S. in such a state of tension and anticipation only required a few
disparate attacks 'here and there', he said

'As we defeated it in the gang warfare in Somalia, Yemen, Iraq and Afghanistan,
so we should follow it with...war on its own land. These disparate strikes can
be done by one brother or a few of the brothers.'

In his audio speech, al-Zawahiri said Muslims should refuse to buy goods from
America and its allies, as such spending only helped to fund U.S. military
action in Muslim lands.

He added that Muslims should abandon the U.S. dollar and replace it with the
currency of nations that did not attack Muslims.

Al-Zawahiri spoke approvingly of the bombing of the Boston Marathon in April, in
which three people were killed and 264 injured, and which U.S. authorities
believe was carried out by two ethnic Chechen Muslim brothers.

Al-Zawahiri described the bombing as part of al-Qaeda's violent transnational
campaign of jihad, or holy war, against U.S. interests.

'The Boston incident confirms to the Americans... that they are not facing
individuals, organizations or groups, but they are facing an uprising Ummah
(Muslim community), that rose in jihad to defend its soul, dignity and
capabilities,' he said.

'What the American regime refuses to admit is that al-Qaeda is a message before
it was an organization.'

Al-Zawahiri, suspected by many security specialists to be living in the
Pakistan-Afghanistan border area, added that al-Qaeda's message to Muslims was
that they had to defend their dignity if they wanted to be liberated'.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday

Somali government "strengthens" intelligence to foil terror attacks

LENGTH: 173 words


The interior and national security minister of Somalia's Federal Government,
Abdikarim Husayn Guled, has said his government "has foiled many terror attacks
in the past few weeks and have established a stronger intelligence system that
will help the government prevent the attacks coordinated by Al-Shabab in
Mogadishu and other parts of the country", privately-owned Radio Gaalkacyo
reported on 14 September.

Addressing the media in Mogadishu, the minister said that his government has
"received information 330 times last month on terror attacks planned by
Al-Shabab in which the government foiled 65 per cent of those attacks". He
stressed that "the government will continue to protect its civilians and the
intelligence system will step up its work in the fight against Al-Shabab", adds
the source.

The move comes as suicide car bomb explosion attack recently killed more than 20
people at a village restaurant hotel in Mogadishu in which Al-Shabab claimed
responsibility.

Source: Radio Gaalkacyo, Gaalkacyo, in Somali 1015 gmt 14 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TWO DEAD AS TALIBAN ATTACK U.S CONSULATE;
Al-Qaeda terror chiefs call for more strikes on American soil

BYLINE: Record Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 565 words


MUSLIM terrorists launched a suicide bomb attack near a US embassy yesterday and
called for further strikes on American soil.

In Afghanistan, Taliban militants battled security forces in the western city of
Herat.

And al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahri marked the anniversay of September 11 by
calling for Islamic fundamentalists to cripple the US economy with more
terrorist atrocities.

In Herat, two Afghan soldiers and five attackers were killed when gunmen and a
suicide car bomber struck outside the American consulate.

The US said all consular staff were safe but it is thought special forces troops
were sent in to secure the compound.

Taliban spokesman Qari Yousef Ahmadi claimed responsibility for the blast, in
which several more people were injured.

The latest attack underscored the perilous security situation in Afghanistan,
where US-led troops are reducing their presence ahead of a full withdrawal next
year.

Insurgent strikes are no longer concentrated in the country's south and east but
occur with troubling frequency in the north and west, which have previously been
the more peaceful areas.

The assault followed days of celebrations in Afghanistan after the national
team's 2-0 defeat of India in the South Asian Football Federation Championship.

The attack began at around 6am with a powerful blast as the car bomber detonated
explosives yards from the consulate. Other militants then began firing on
security forces in the area.

Local TV footage showed police dragging a blood-soaked comrade from the scene as
rubble and twisted metal lay strewn over a wide area near the compound.

Police said an officer and a private security guard were killed and a number of
police, guards and civilians were wounded. Four militants and the suicide bomber
died in the assault but the situation was under control around an hour after the
start of the attack.

Herat lies near Afghanistan's border with Iran and is considered one of the
better developed cities in the country, with a strong Iranian influence.

The US consulate is in a quiet part of the city and the attack took place on a
day of rest.

Meanwhile, two days after the anniversary of the terror attacks on September 11,
2001, al-Qaeda's leader called on Muslims to strike inside the US and take any
opportunity to bleed America financially.

In an audio message, Zawahri said America is not a "mythic power" and that
Islamic holy warriors can defeat it with attacks on its own soil.

Zawahri, the successor to Osama bin Laden, used the anniversary to argue that
the US can be defeated by targeting its economy and to address the ongoing
upheaval in the Arab world.

He warned jihadi fighters in the Syrian civil war not to compromise with more
secular or moderate rebel factions, who he said would eventually turn against
them.

The message's authenticity could not be confirmed but it was posted on a
militant website commonly used by al-Qaeda.

Zawahri - thought to be hiding in the Pakistan-Afghanistan border region - said
al-Qaeda sympathisers should stage small attacks or a big strike against the US,
leaving America in a state of tension about when and where the next hit would
come.

He said small attacks could be done by just one person, while "we must watch and
wait to seize any opportunity to direct a large strike on America, even if it
takes years".

He added: "Americans, after all, are humans who can be defeated, felled and
punished."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CASUALTY Z Security forces carry injured colleague to safety in Herat

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 14, 2013
                                 First Edition

Al-Qa'ida marks 9/11 with call for attacks;
TERRORISM The news matrix Your weekend starts here

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 48 words


The leader of al-Qa'ida has issued an audio message marking the 12th anniversary
of the 9/11 attacks in which he has called for the need for smallscale attacks -
and even a boycott - to damage the US economy. Ayman al-Zawahiri also used the
tape to praise April's Boston bombings in the US.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     September 15, 2013 Sunday 1:08 PM GMT

'Regional chaos and lax security' led to In Aménas terrorist attack

BYLINE: Tom Coghlan, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 610 words


Terrorists who stormed a major oil refinery in Algeria were able to exploit lax
security, poor situational awareness and widespread regional insecurity to
launch a devastating attack, a report has concluded.

The report into the In Aménas attack in January 2013 commissioned by the
Norwegian company Statoil, which lost five employees in the attack, criticises
the Algerian military and raises questions over the judgement of the companies,
including the British firm BP, who ran the installation.

It also offers unprecedented detail on the build-up to the assault by
heavily-armed terrorists in which six British citizens were murdered.

"Security measures at the site were not constructed to withstand or delay an
attack of this scale, and relied on military protection working effectively,"
said the report, which was compiled by Torgeir Hagen, a former head of Norway's
intelligence service.

"Neither Statoil nor the joint venture could have prevented the attack, but
there is reason to question the extent of their reliance on Algerian military
protection," it said.

Despite a major change caused by security vacuums in neighbouring Libya and
later Mali, the report says: "This evolving security situation was discussed in
the In Aménas joint venture and in Statoil but did not result in material
changes to alert levels or security measures."

It reveals that the attacking force of around 40 heavily armed terrorists were
able to exploit the regional chaos in the wake of the Arab Spring revolutions to
arm themselves, prepare and launch the attacks.

It reports that three months prior to the attack Mokhtar Belmokhtar, leader of
the al-Qaeda affiliated Algerian group "The Masked Brigade", was upbraided by
the al-Qaeda leadership in the Arabian Peninsula for his lack of action.

In a testy letter later recovered by French forces in northern Mali, where
Belmokhtar had based himself, the terror leader was told:

"Any observer of armed action in the Sahara will notice the clear failure of the
Masked Brigade to carry out spectacular operations, despite the region's vast
possibilities: there are plenty of mujahedeen, funding is available, weapons are
widespread and strategic targets are within reach."

Despite "multiple directives" he was told: "your brigade did not achieve a
single spectacular operation targeting the crusader alliance."

The report records that there were clear warning signs of fraying security
before the attack, including the abduction of the governor of Illizi Province in
Algeria, where In Aménas is situated, in January 2012 by armed Algerians who
transported him to Libya before releasing him.

Between 2008 and December 2012 there were 43 abductions of Westerners in the
desert region that spans southern Algerian, Tunisia, Mauritania, Mali and Niger.
In March and June 2012 there were also suicide bombings in Algeria mounted from
Belmokhtar's base in Gao, northern Mali.

With security in Libya and northern Mali collapsing in the late 2011 and early
2012 as a result of the overthrow of Colonel Gaddafi, the report claims
Belmokhtar was able to buy weapons in the eastern Libyan city of Benghazi in
March 2012. Large numbers of Libyans were involved in the attack, which was
mustered inside Libyan territory.

On January 16th 2013 they launched their attack. Forty people from 10 countries
were killed.

BP said yesterday: "The determined focus of BP and our partners in the In Aménas
joint venture is to do all we can to prevent any such incident from happening
again."

It said the security of the refinery was the responsibility of the Algerian
military and that there was no evidence of "specific threat or actionable
warning" of the attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 17, 2013 Tuesday 10:22 PM GMT

Terror link to acid attack on British girls?  Zanzibar police arrest Al Shabaab
militants following identical assault on Catholic priest

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 468 words



     ·    15 people arrested, including suspected members of Al Shabeeb
     ·    Teenagers Kirstie Trup and Katie Gee were left badly injured after two
          men threw acid at them
     ·    It comes after attack on elderly clergyman Amselmo Mwangamba on Friday


Terror group Al Shabaab has been linked to the acid attack on British teenagers
Katie Gee and Kirstie Trup.

Police in Zanzibar said suspected members of the Al Qaeda-inspired group were
among 15 people arrested, with others said to be behind an acid attack on a
Roman Catholic priest on Friday.

An official also said prosecutors were close to charging two other men suspected
of the attack on the 18-year-old Londoners.

British teenagers Kirstie Trup and Katie Geewere left badly injured after two
men on a moped threw acid at them while they walked to dinner on the Indian
Ocean island.

The arrests come after elderly clergyman Amselmo Mwangamba was the victim of an
identical assault on Friday that left him with burns on his face, chest and
arms.

Zanzibar's police commissioner, Mussa Ali Mussa, said: 'Fifteen people have been
arrested in police raids on criminal networks.

'Among them are suspected members of al Shabaab, suspects behind the recent acid
attack on a Roman Catholic priest and unlicensed acid distributors.'

Mussa did not say what the suspected militants were doing on the archipelago,
though he said they were not linked to the acid attacks.

Attack: Two men on a moped hurled acid in the girls' faces as they walked to
meet friends for dinner in Stone Town, Zanzibar (pictured)

Al Shabaab is an al Qaeda-allied group that has been fighting the Western-backed
government in Somalia, around 500 km (310 miles) north along Africa's coast from
Zanzibar.

As in neighbouring Kenya, many Muslims living along Tanzania's coast feel
marginalised by the secular government and both countries have been fertile
recruitment grounds for the Islamist groups.

Mussa said prosecutors were close to laying charges against two other men
detained in connection with the attack on Britons Katie Gee and Kirstie Trup.

The two teenagers were walking to a restaurant in Stone Town when a two men on a
moped rode up to them and the passenger hurled a jerry can full of battery acid
at them.

The young women suffered facial, chest and back injuries.

Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete has warned that religious tensions threaten
peace in the nation of 45 million people.

Two Christian leaders were killed in Zanzibar earlier this year in separate
attacks and there have been arson attacks on churches.

A separatist group in Zanzibar, Uamsho (Awakening), has been blamed by some but
authorities have not linked the group to the violence.

Uamsho wants the archipelago to end its 1964 union with mainland Tanzania, which
is ruled as a secular state, and wants to introduce Islamic Sharia law in
Zanzibar.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          September 18, 2013 Wednesday

ACID ATTACK LINK TO TERROR GROUP

BYLINE: BY NO BYLINE AVAILABLE

LENGTH: 79 words


TERROR group Al Shabaab has been linked to the acid attack on British teenagers
Katie Gee and Kirstie Trup.

Police in Zanzibar said suspected members of the Al Qaeda-inspired group were
among 15 people arrested Others were said to be behind an acid attack on a
Catholic priest on Friday.

An official also said prosecutors were close to charging two other men suspected
of the attack on the 18-year-old Londoners. The girls are still recovering from
their injuries.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Newham Recorder

                          September 18, 2013 Wednesday

Police investigate 'terror attack' on Bangladesh Minister

BYLINE: PR Script Managers

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 628 words


Police are investigating an assault on a Bangladeshi government minister at the
studio of a Bengali news channel in East London in what officials are calling a
"terror attack".

Police are investigating an assault on a Bangladeshi government minister at the
studio of a Bengali news channel in what officials are calling a "terror
attack".



Hasanul Haq Inu, Minister of Information in Bangladesh, was set upon by a group
of men on September  9 as he prepared to go on the Mukto Shonglap (Open
Dialogue) talk show.

Police were called to the studio of ATN Bangla UK in Epsom Street,
Bromley-by-Bow, at 10.30pm and are reviewing CCTV footage of the incident.

The attack was condemned by the Bangladesh High Commissioner in London, who has
discussed it with Permanent Under Secretary Simon Fraser at the Foreign Office.


A spokesman for the commission said: "The forceful entry into ATN Bangla UK
office and the violent attack on the minister clearly constitute a terror
attack, and must be treated as such."

The group of five or six men who attacked Mr Inu fled after officials from the
High Commission, who were with the minister and his wife, intervened.

Mr Inu, who was in London for the first ever UK-Bangladesh e-commerce fair, was
not in injured and went ahead with the programme.

Witnesses believe that the attack was pre-planned to stop the minister, who is
an outspoken public figure, from going on the political talk show.

Bulbul Hasan, head of news and TV host at ATN Bangla UK, said: "The ATN Bangla
UK is condemning this cowardly act as the management strongly believe that this
is not only an attack on a politician or minister, rather it should be
considered as an attack on freedom of expression."

Mr Inu is leader of Jatiyo Samajtantrik Dal, a Bangladeshi socialist party, and
fought in the country's liberation war in 1971.

He said: "It was a terrorist attack and I think it was a political attack.

"I hope the police will take notice and take serious action against the
terrorists."

Hasanul Haq Inu, Minister of Information in Bangladesh, was set upon by a group
on men on Monday 9 as he was preparing to go on the Mukto Shonglap (Open
Dialogue) talk show.

Police from Tower Hamlets were called to the studio of ATN Bangla UK in Epsom
Street in Bromley-by-Bow at around 10.30 and are reviewing CCTV footage of the
incident, which is said to clearly identify the suspects.

The attack was condemned by the Bangladesh High Commissioner in London, who
discussed it with Permanent Under Secretary Simon Fraser at the Foreign Office
in a meeting the following day.

Rashed Chowdhury, the commission press officer, said: "The forceful entry into
ATN Bangla UK office and the violent attack on the minister clearly constitute a
terror attack, and must be treated as such."

The group of five or six men who attacked Mr Inu fled after officials from the
High Commission, who were with the minister and his wife, rushed to intervene.

Mr Inu, who was in London for the first ever UK-Bangladesh e-commerce fair, was
not in injured and went ahead with the programme.

Witnesses believe the attack was pre-planned to stop the minister, who is an
outspoken public figure, from going on the political talk-show.

Bulbul Hasan, head of news and TV host at ATN Bangla UK, said: "The ATN Bangla
UK is condemning this cowardly act as the management strongly believe that this
is not only an attack on a politician or minister, rather it should be
considered as an attack on freedom of expression."

Mr Inu is the leader of Jatiyo Samajtantrik Dal, a Bangladeshi socialist party,
and fought in the country's liberation war in 1971.

He said: "It was a terrorist attack and I think it was a political attack. I
hope the police will take notice and take serious action against the
terrorists."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NRC


                      Copyright 2013 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                           September 20, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Drink driving yob's terror attack on two police women

BYLINE: Rob Kennedy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 240 words


A FEMALE police officer was kicked and punched unconscious by an angry drink
driver.

PC Sarah Murphy was on duty with another female officer when they spotted
Phillip Barker acting suspiciously.

Wrongly believing he was having a domestic with his girlfriend, the policewomen
went to speak to the couple to find out what was going on.

In fact they had been out celebrating the birth of their child and Barker had
been drink driving.

He became aggressive when the officers separated him from his partner to speak
to them individually.

And he kicked PC Murphy in the side then landed a heavy punch to her face,
causing her to fall back and crack her head open on the pavement.

Barker then turned his violence on the other policewoman, PC Annette Patterson,
punching her to the face.

Now the 28-year-old has been jailed for 18 months at Newcastle Crown Court.
Barker, of Coldside Gardens, Chapel House, pleaded guilty to wounding with
intent to resist arrest, assault and drink driving.

The court heard he had 58mg of alcohol in 100ml of breath, the limit being 35mg.

Brian Hegarty, defending, said: "The defendant concedes his behaviour was
disgraceful."

PC Murphy suffered a wound to her scalp which needed four staples, soreness to
her jaw which meant she couldn't eat for a while, whiplash, scratches and grazes
to her hands and soreness to her eye and thigh. PC Patterson suffered discomfort
to her neck and head and bruising to her chest, arm and knees.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Phillip Barker who has been jailed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2013 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 21, 2013 Saturday

Kenyan capital police chief calls shopping mall shooting "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 188 words


Excerpt from report by Cyrus Ombati entitled "15 feared dead in Nairobi 's
Westgate Shopping Mall terror attack" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily
newspaper The Standard website on 21 September

Nairobi; Kenya: At least 15 people are feared to have died and dozens injured at
the Westgate Shopping Mall terror attack Westlands, Nairobi.

Standard Reporter at the scene has counted at least 10 bodies after the incident
that occurred on Saturday afternoon when police and gunmen exchanged fire.

Nairobi police chief Benson Kibue said this was a terrorist attack and that
there are likely no more than 10 terrorists involved, as gunfire continues to be
exchanged.

Security officers have cordoned off the area and advised the public to keep off.
Inspector-General of Police David Kimaiyo is at the scene and leading the
operation to rescue people holed up at the mall. He is set to issue a statement
on the happenings at Westgate Mall.

The Interior ministry says they have dispatched air surveillance and have
confirmed that the gunmen were armed criminals. [Passage omitted]

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 21 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 21, 2013 Saturday

(Corrected) Kenyan media says mall attackers armed robbers or "terrorists"

LENGTH: 298 words


(Correcting source: Daily Nation website instead of NTV and rewording the
headline to read "Kenyan media says mall attackers armed robbers or
'terrorists'" instead of "Kenyan paper website says 11 people killed in shopping
mall shooting")

Text of report by entitled "At least three dead, many injured in Westgate Mall
shootings" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on
21 September

An armed group stormed an upmarket shopping mall in the Kenyan capital Nairobi
Saturday [21 September], killing at least three people and sparking a fierce gun
battle, police said.

Police said they had surrounded the Westgate mall, which is popular with wealthy
Kenyans and expatriates, and urged residents to stay away from the area. The
motive of the attack was not immediately clear, but Kenyan media said the
attackers may have been either armed robbers or "terrorists".

"There's an incident at Westgate and we're urging the public to keep off the
area," Inspector General of Police David Kimaiyo said. "Our officers are on the
ground carrying out an evacuation of those inside as they search for the
attackers who are said to be inside," he said.

"The attackers have so far injured four people. We will provide you with regular
updates as we try to save the situation."

Another police official said: "Officers are approaching the situation with
caution because there are innocent civilians inside." "We have managed to
evacuate some people to safety. We urge Kenyans to avoid the area as we pursue
the thugs," Kenya's Interior Ministry said on Twitter.

"We have dispatched air surveillance and we confirm that they are armed
criminals. We want to know who they are," said Internal Security Principal
Secretary Mutea Iringo.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 21 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 9:10 PM GMT

Britons caught in Kenyan terror attack with at least 30 people confirmed dead

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 406 words


<em class="bold">BRITONS have been caught up in the "callous and cowardly and
brutal" Nairobi terror attack which left at least 30 people dead, Foreign
Secretary William Hague said tonight.</em>

The Foreign Secretary said "we should be ready for that and aware of that" as he
revealed a rapid deployment team is being sent to Kenya to help following the
horrific attack at an upmarket shopping centre in the capital.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab has claimed responsibility for the brutal
assault in which men armed with guns and grenades stormed the mall and targeted
non-Muslims.

Prime Minister David Cameron has spoken to the President of Kenya, Uhuru
Kenyatta, about the attack.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab

Dozens were reportedly being held hostage by the gang in the Westgate Mall, in
the affluent Westlands district of the city, which is popular with expats.

Hannah Chisholm, a Briton visiting Nairobi, said she and 60 others barricaded
themselves in a large storeroom.

She told the BBC: "We kept running to different places but the shots were
getting louder so we barricaded ourselves along with about 60 others into a
large storeroom.

"There were children hiding with us as well as someone who had been shot."

She added: "The gunfire was loud and we were scared but at that point we thought
the gunmen were thieves so we assumed they wouldn't try to reach the storeroom."

Al-Shabaab, also known as Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen , appeared to claim
responsibility for the atrocity by writing on its official Twitter feed that
"the Mujahideen entered Westgate Mall today at around noon".

It said it had previously told the Kenyan government that, if they did not
remove military forces from Somalia, there would be "severe consequences".

"For long we have waged war against the Kenyans in our land, now it's time to
shift the battleground and take the war to their land," it tweeted.

"The Mujahideen entered Westgate Mall today at around noon and are still inside
the mall, fighting the Kenyan Kuffar inside their own turf."

The organisation claimed it had killed more than 100 Kenyan "kuffar", a
derogatory term used to describe non-Muslims. Nairobi's mortuary superintendent,
Sammy

Nyongesa Jacob, said Africans, Asians and Caucasians were among the 23 bodies
brought in following the attack.

Sky News has reported the US government has confirmed US citizens are among
those dead.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 9:31 PM GMT

Britons caught in 'callous, cowardly and brutal' Kenyan terror attack

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 452 words


BRITONS have been caught up in the "callous and cowardly and brutal" Nairobi
terror attack which left at least 30 people dead, Foreign Secretary William
Hague said tonight.

The Foreign Secretary said "we should be ready for that and aware of that" as he
revealed a rapid deployment team is being sent to Kenya to help following the
horrific attack at an upmarket shopping centre in the capital.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab has claimed responsibility for the brutal
assault in which men armed with guns and grenades stormed the mall and targeted
non-Muslims.

Prime Minister David Cameron has spoken to the President of Kenya, Uhuru
Kenyatta, about the attack.

Foreign Secretary William Hague has described the attack as cowardly [GETTY]

Dozens were reportedly being held hostage by the gang in the Westgate Mall, in
the affluent Westlands district of the city, which is popular with expats.

Hannah Chisholm, a Briton visiting Nairobi, said she and 60 others barricaded
themselves in a large storeroom.

She told the BBC: "We kept running to different places but the shots were
getting louder so we barricaded ourselves along with about 60 others into a
large storeroom.

The Prime Minister has spoken to his Kenyan opposite number [GETTY]

"There were children hiding with us as well as someone who had been shot."

She added: "The gunfire was loud and we were scared but at that point we thought
the gunmen were thieves so we assumed they wouldn't try to reach the storeroom."

Al-Shabaab, also known as Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen , appeared to claim
responsibility for the atrocity by writing on its official Twitter feed that
"the Mujahideen entered Westgate Mall today at around noon".

It said it had previously told the Kenyan government that, if they did not
remove military forces from Somalia, there would be "severe consequences".

Armed police take cover inside the mall [AP]

A man is carried away after shooters assaulted the mall [REUTERS]

"For long we have waged war against the Kenyans in our land, now it's time to
shift the battleground and take the war to their land," it tweeted.

"The Mujahideen entered Westgate Mall today at around noon and are still inside
the mall, fighting the Kenyan Kuffar inside their own turf."

A child runs to safety inside the mall [REUTERS]

Soldiers and armed police attempted to fight back against the terrorists
[RETUERS]

The organisation claimed it had killed more than 100 Kenyan "kuffar", a
derogatory term used to describe non-Muslims. Nairobi's mortuary superintendent,
Sammy

Nyongesa Jacob, said Africans, Asians and Caucasians were among the 23 bodies
brought in following the attack.

Sky News has reported the US government has confirmed US citizens are among
those dead.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 3:53 PM GMT

WARNING- GRAPHIC IMAGES: At least 20 killed in Kenyan terror attack

BYLINE: Emma Kelly

LENGTH: 351 words


AT least 20 people have been killed after masked gunmen opened fire in a busy
shopping centre in Kenya.

Witnesses say that the gunmen told all Muslims to leave the centre, before
shooting at staff and shoppers they believed to be non-Muslim.

The tragedy is suspected to be an act of terrorism.

Speaking to Reuters, the principal secretary in the ministry of interior, Mutea
Iringo, said: "It is a possibility that it is an attack by terrorists, so we are
treating the matter very seriously."

The gunmen stormed the upmarket Westgate Shopping Mall in Nairobi before they
allegedly took seven people hostage. They attacked shoppers indiscriminately
with AK47s and grenades.

The Kenyan police were involved in a shootout with the gunmen.

A woman is carried to safety from Westgate Shopping Mall [GETTY]

Shoppers and staff escape to safety as police shoot at attackers [GETTY]

Police officers assist a wounded woman as she escapes Westgate Shopping Mall
[GETTY]

Victims of the shooting were wheeled to safety in shopping trolleys. Many people
were bleeding heavily from bullet wounds, while the body of man lay on the steps
to the shopping centre. It is thought that 50 people are injured in addition to
the deaths.

Ye Lihui, a Chinese businessman, was in the shopping centre when the attack
occurred.

He told the Telegraph: "There were two guys, they had AK47s, they were not far
from me.

"They were dressed in normal clothes. They had something like a small bomb,
maybe a grenade, and I watched one throw it into where many people were.

"I didn't see where it landed but the explosion was so loud."

Rob Vandijik, a worker at the Dutch embassy in Kenya, heard the gunfire as he
was eating in a restaurant in the centre.

He said: "I personally touched the eyes of four people and they were dead. One
of them was a child. It's carnage up there."

Locals and tourists have been urged to avoid the area.

Injured victims are carried out by volunteers as the casualty list creeps up
[GETTY]

The injured were brought to safety on shopping trolleys [GETTY]

The shopping centre is an upmarket attraction for tourists in the area [GETTY]

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 2:42 PM GMT

Warning after Kenya terror attack

LENGTH: 342 words


British nationals have been told to avoid an upmarket area in Kenya's capital
Nairobi after a terrorist attack at a shopping centre.

Gunmen armed with AK47s and grenades opened fire inside the Westgate Mall in the
affluent Westlands area of the city and witnesses have reported seeing at least
10 bodies.

The Foreign Office said it is "urgently looking into" the incident.

Nairobi police chief Benson Kibue has called it a terrorist attack and said
there are about 10 terrorists involved.

Large groups of people were seen streaming out of the centre, some of whom were
covered in blood and clutching small children. Shopping centre guards used
trolleys to wheel out several wounded children and at least one man.

The volleys of gunfire moved outside the centre after police arrived nearly
half-an-hour after the attacks began and engaged the gunmen.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are aware of the incident at the Westgate
Mall shopping centre and we are urgently looking into it. We stand ready to
provide consular assistance if there are any British nationals involved."

The Foreign Office updated the travel advice on its website to say: "British
nationals should avoid the area."

Kenya has seen a rise in terror attacks and threats in recent years, some of
which are believed to be in retaliation for a military crackdown on the militant
group al-Shabaab. The attacks often involve gunmen armed with automatic weapons
and grenades, and their targets include bars, nightclubs and restaurants in
various parts of the country.

There was a suspected al-Shabaab attack which left five dead and three injured
at a restaurant in the eastern city of Garissa in January, and in August last
year one person was killed and six more were left injured in the Eastleigh area
of Nairobi on the eve of a visit by Hillary Clinton, then the United States
secretary of state. Last month 18 of the 19 US embassies and consulates across
the Middle East and Africa were closed after a message between al Qaida
officials about plans for a major terror attack was intercepted.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                          September 21, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gunman attack left me scared to be alone;
Teen's terror ... then anger at police response

BYLINE: MARTIN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 528 words


A TEENAGER has told of his terror after he and three friends were blasted by a
masked gunman in his own home.

The 18-year-old and his pals were all injured when the intruder burst in and
fired a shotgun from close range.

He believes only one shot was fired but pellets scattered, hitting all four of
them.

One of the young men, aged 24, tooK the brunt of the shot.

More than 20 pellets peppered his left leg, leaving him badly hurt. He remains
"stable" in hospital.

The others escaped with minor wounds.

The teenager, who asKed not to be named, said: "It was terrifying.

"I've moved bacK home and I'm scared to be alone. I'm still having nightmares."

The teenager told the Examiner how he was at his home in St Stephen's Road,
LocKwood, with three friends around 1am on Tuesday.

The friends - the two others are 26 and 25 - were "chilling out" and playing
music when suddenly the gunman burst in.

"Three of us were in the basement and the other in a bacK room," said the
teenager.

"Suddenly the gunman burst in and told us to get down and put our hands up.

"Then my mate came in, not realising what was happening, and tried to push him.

"The next thing I heard a bang. The gunman ran off and we were just running
around, shocKed."

Blood was pouring from the leg of the 24-year-old and the others rushed to help
and called for police and an ambulance.

The teenager didn't realise he was injured until ambulance crews checKed him
over.

He had two pellets in his right foot which were due to be removed yesterday .
All four were TAKEN by the same ambulance to Huddersfield Royal Infirmary.

SpeaKing from his family home in Thornton Lodge, the teenager said he was
arrested on suspicion of supplying controlled drugs as he waited to be x-rayed
in hospital.

He was handcuffed as he sat on his bed.

After treatment - at around 5am - he was TAKEN to Huddersfield Police Station
and interviewed later that afternoon.

At around 7.30pm he was released without charge and told there would be "no
further action".

The teenager said he was angry at being branded a drug dealer and added: "I have
nothing to do with drugs.

"I was a victim here but I was treated liKe a criminal. I have been released
without charge."

While the teenager was in custody police executed a search warrant at his family
home, causing upset for relatives including his elderly grandmother who speaKs
no English.

The family says officers spent an hour at the house but found nothing.

Police returned later offering to install a panic alarm but the family refused.

The teenager added: "All the time the police were investigating me there was a
gunman on the loose.

"He came into my house but it could have been anyone's. It was just random."

The teenager said since the attacK some of his hair had fallen out due to stress
and he was having nightmares.

"It's been horrendous," he said. Police confirmed the two other men, aged 26 and
25, were also arrested on suspicion of supplying drugs. Both were also released
without charge.

The 25-year-old, who had 17 pellets in his leg, also denied any involvement with
drugs.

He added: "This has caused us lots of grief with our families. It's not right."

The seriously injured man was not arrested.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ CRIME SCENE: St Stephen''s Road in Lockwood

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                          September 21, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gunman attack left me scared to be alone;
Teen's terror ... then anger at police response

BYLINE: MARTIN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 528 words


A TEENAGER has told of his terror after he and three friends were blasted by a
masked gunman in his own home.

The 18-year-old and his pals were all injured when the intruder burst in and
fired a shotgun from close range.

He believes only one shot was fired but pellets scattered, hitting all four of
them.

One of the young men, aged 24, tooK the brunt of the shot.

More than 20 pellets peppered his left leg, leaving him badly hurt. He remains
"stable" in hospital.

The others escaped with minor wounds.

The teenager, who asKed not to be named, said: "It was terrifying.

"I've moved bacK home and I'm scared to be alone. I'm still having nightmares."

The teenager told the Examiner how he was at his home in St Stephen's Road,
LocKwood, with three friends around 1am on Tuesday.

The friends - the two others are 26 and 25 - were "chilling out" and playing
music when suddenly the gunman burst in.

"Three of us were in the basement and the other in a bacK room," said the
teenager.

"Suddenly the gunman burst in and told us to get down and put our hands up.

"Then my mate came in, not realising what was happening, and tried to push him.

"The next thing I heard a bang. The gunman ran off and we were just running
around, shocKed."

Blood was pouring from the leg of the 24-year-old and the others rushed to help
and called for police and an ambulance.

The teenager didn't realise he was injured until ambulance crews checKed him
over.

He had two pellets in his right foot which were due to be removed yesterday .
All four were TAKEN by the same ambulance to Huddersfield Royal Infirmary.

SpeaKing from his family home in Thornton Lodge, the teenager said he was
arrested on suspicion of supplying controlled drugs as he waited to be x-rayed
in hospital.

He was handcuffed as he sat on his bed.

After treatment - at around 5am - he was TAKEN to Huddersfield Police Station
and interviewed later that afternoon.

At around 7.30pm he was released without charge and told there would be "no
further action".

The teenager said he was angry at being branded a drug dealer and added: "I have
nothing to do with drugs.

"I was a victim here but I was treated liKe a criminal. I have been released
without charge."

While the teenager was in custody police executed a search warrant at his family
home, causing upset for relatives including his elderly grandmother who speaKs
no English.

The family says officers spent an hour at the house but found nothing.

Police returned later offering to install a panic alarm but the family refused.

The teenager added: "All the time the police were investigating me there was a
gunman on the loose.

"He came into my house but it could have been anyone's. It was just random."

The teenager said since the attacK some of his hair had fallen out due to stress
and he was having nightmares.

"It's been horrendous," he said. Police confirmed the two other men, aged 26 and
25, were also arrested on suspicion of supplying drugs. Both were also released
without charge.

The 25-year-old, who had 17 pellets in his leg, also denied any involvement with
drugs.

He added: "This has caused us lots of grief with our families. It's not right."

The seriously injured man was not arrested.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ CRIME SCENE: St Stephen''s Road in Lockwood

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 9:26 PM GMT

Horror in Kenya: 'al-Shabaab claim responsibility as non-Muslims targeted in
terror attack' on Nairobi shopping centre;
At least 39 dead and scores more injured as gunmen, armed with grenades, stormed
affluent mall

BYLINE: Katie Grant, Sebastian Salek

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1359 words


At least 39 people were killed and scores more injured as gunmen, armed with
grenades, stormed an affluent Nairobi shopping centre. Bodies lined the floors
and precincts of the Westgate Shopping Mall, while around 30 shoppers were
reported as being held hostage during the attack which was said to have involved
up to 10 men, some of whom looked as young as 18, according to witnesses.

Nairobi's Police Chief, Benson Kibue, described the assault as a terrorist
attack, and the Somalia-based group al-Shabaab was reported to have claimed
responsibility. According to eye-witnesses, the gunmen told Muslims to leave the
centre shortly before midday and said that non-Muslims would be targeted.

Some claimed the attackers had asked, "who is Prophet's mother?" in an attempt
to discover non-Muslims. One man escaped by showing the attackers his ID with
his name, Hakim, on it. Another reportedly failed to name the Prophet's mother
and was killed.

Grenade explosions and gunfire sent scores fleeing in panic from shops and
restaurants on to the streets, according to witnesses and the Red Cross.
Shooting continued hours after the initial assault as Kenyan troops surrounded
the mall and police and soldiers combed the building, hunting down the attackers
shop by shop. A police officer inside the building said the gunmen were
barricaded inside the Nakumatt supermarket, one of Kenya's biggest chains.

Kenya's Deputy President, William Ruto, promised that they would "end the siege
and get to the bottom of the attack". "We will bring to account the perpetrators
and their accomplices," he said. Kenya Police said on Twitter that they had
detained one of the Westgate Mall suspects.

The Inspector General of Police, David Kimaiyo, said officers had rescued "quite
a number" of hostages. He added that hostages were being screened as officers
were "not taking any chances".

Police initially said it was an attempted robbery but later acknowledged that as
many as 10 terrorists were involved. Al-Shabaab vowed in 2011 to carry out a
large-scale attack on Kenya in retaliation for Somali and Kenyan military
operations against its insurgents. Its threatened targets included the shopping
centre, which is popular with both affluent Kenyans and Western expats.

Tonight, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office said it was "urgently" attempting
to discover if any Britons were among those killed. It has updated its travel
advice to the thousands of Britons who visit the capital each year, warning
"British nationals should avoid the area". The Foreign Secretary, William Hague,
said he was "appalled" by the attack, adding: "Our urgent priority is the
welfare of UK nationals in Kenya."

The attack, if confirmed as a terrorist-inspired action, will be the biggest
such attack in Kenya since al-Qa'ida bombed the US embassy in Nairobi in 1998,
killing more than 200 people. In 2002, the same militant cell attacked an
Israeli-owned hotel and tried to shoot down an Israeli jet in a co-ordinated
attack in Mombasa.

The Parklands area, where the Westgate shopping square is located, lies about
two miles north-west of Nairobi's congested city centre.

Ten years ago, as property prices rose in the centre, developers looked for
cheaper land. The result has been a rapid expansion of a once residential area
into one where some of Nairobi's most expensive and prestigious business
headquarters and international banking offices are now situated.

The area enjoys a reputation among wealthy Kenyans for having the best
restaurants and nightclubs. The new luxury five-star Sankara, one of the
capital's best hotels, is next to the Westgate shopping area, just off the
capital's main road.

The 350,000 square-foot mall, designed to the latest international retail
standards, opened in 2007. According to its website visitors can enjoy tropical
gardens, a waterfall and a palm garden, as well as a vast food court in a "safe
and serene" environment.

The shopping centre was playing host to the SunGold SunRice SuperChef Junior
competition, an on-air cooking event for children, organised by East FM, a local
radio station. Around 60 participants aged between eight and 13 years old had
signed up for the competition, which was taking place outside in a tented area
of the mall.

But by the afternoon it was lined with bodies, and reports surfaced that Ruhila
Adatia, a well-known radio presenter attending the event, was among those shot.
A spokeswoman for the station said Ms Adatia had been shot and injured at the
mall, but was unable to confirm reports she was dead.

Satpal Singh, who was in a cafe on the mall's top floor, said he ran downstairs
when he heard the gunfire and was shot at near the mall's main exit. "A Somali
guy shot at me. The guy who shot me was carrying a rifle, an AK-47," Mr Singh,
36, said.

Manish Turohit, 18, escaped from the shopping centre after hiding in the parking
garage for two hours. He told reporters he saw gunmen with AK-47s and vests with
hand grenades in the shopping centre.

The country has seen a rise in terror attacks and threats in recent years, often
involving gunmen armed with automatic weapons and grenades. Their targets
include bars, nightclubs and restaurants in various parts of the country.

In January a suspected al-Shabaab attack left five people dead and three injured
at a restaurant in the eastern city of Garissa, and in August last year one
person was killed and six injured in the Eastleigh area of Nairobi on the eve of
a visit by Hillary Clinton, then the United States Secretary of State.

Rob Vandijk, who works at the Dutch embassy, said he was eating at a restaurant
in the shopping centre when attackers threw hand grenades inside the building.
He said gunfire then burst out and people screamed as they dropped to the
ground.

One eyewitness, who identified himself as Taha, said he heard the screech of
brakes followed moments later by an explosion and then sustained gunfire from
the ground floor. Gunfirewas still being exchanged almost two hours later as
police combed the shopping centre and cordoned off the surrounding roads.

At least two dozen people, including several children, were wheeled out on
stretchers and in shopping trolleys by security guards. Many of the victims had
multiple light wounds, apparently from flying debris. Others walked out, some
with bloodied clothing wrapped around wounds. Many of the victims were taken to
Nairobi's Aga Khan Hospital, which was one of a number of hospitals to appeal
for blood donors to come forward.

Additional reporting by Alex Rogers.

Who Are al-Shabaab?

Islamist extremism has been on the rise in East Africa for the past decade, with
al-Qa'ida-linked groups such as al-Shabaab behind a growing number of terror
attacks.

Since the Kenyan army began helping Somali forces tackle al-Shabaab insurgents
in southern Somalia in October 2011, Kenya has fallen victim to a string of
retaliatory gun and grenade attacks.

Last month, four Kenyan police officers were shot dead in Garissa, near the
Somali border, when 40 armed men suspected of belonging to al-Shabaab attacked a
police post. In July, the group released two Kenyan government officials it had
seized in a 2012 cross-border attack, after holding them hostage in Somalia for
more than a year.

Between July 2011 and July 2012 there were at least 17 attacks involving
grenades or explosive devices in Kenya, killing at least 48 people and injuring
around 200. Four of these attacks occurred in Nairobi, and four in Mombasa.
Targeted locations have included police stations and police vehicles, nightclubs
and bars, churches, a religious gathering, shops and a bus station.

Al-Shabaab was also behind the twin bomb attacks in Kampala, Uganda, that killed
at least 74 people in 2010. These were again connected to military actions
against them in Somalia. Sheik Ali Mohamud Rage, the group's spokesperson, said
soon after the bombings: "We are sending a message to Uganda and Burundi, if
they do not take out their Amisom [African Union Mission in Somalia] troops from
Somalia, blasts will continue and it will happen."

Today, the group added: "The Kenyan government turned a deaf ear to our repeated
warnings."

Emily Dugan

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 7:46 PM GMT

Horror in Kenya: 'al-Shabaab claim responsibility as non-Muslims targeted in
terror attack' on Nairobi shopping centre;
At least 30 dead and scores more injured as gunmen, armed with grenades, stormed
affluent mall

BYLINE: Katie Grant, Sebastian Salek

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1090 words


At least 30 people were killed and scores more injured as gunmen, armed with
grenades, stormed an affluent Nairobi shopping centre today.

Bodies lined the floors and precincts of the Westgate Shopping Mall, while
around 30 shoppers were reported as being held hostage during the attack which
was said to have involved up to 10 men, some of whom looked as young as 18,
according to witnesses.

Nairobi's Police Chief, Benson Kibue, described the assault as a terrorist
attack, and tonight the Somalia-based group al-Shabaab was reported to have
claimed responsibility. According to eye-witnesses, the gunmen told Muslims to
leave the centre shortly before midday and said that non-Muslims would be
targeted.

Some claimed the attackers had asked, "who is Prophet's mother?" in an attempt
to discover non-Muslims. One man escaped by showing the attackers his ID with
his name, Hakim, on it. Another reportedly failed to name the Prophet's mother
and was killed.

Grenade explosions and gunfire sent scores fleeing in panic from shops and
restaurants on to the streets, according to witnesses and the Red Cross.
Shooting continued hours after the initial assault as Kenyan troops surrounded
the mall and police and soldiers combed the building, hunting down the attackers
shop by shop. A police officer inside the building said the gunmen were
barricaded inside the Nakumatt supermarket, one of Kenya's biggest chains.

Kenya's Deputy President, William Ruto, promised that they would "end the siege
and get to the bottom of the attack". "We will bring to account the perpetrators
and their accomplices," he said. Kenya Police said on Twitter that they had
detained one of the Westgate Mall suspects.

The Inspector General of Police,  David Kimaiyo, said officers had rescued
"quite a number" of hostages. He added that hostages were being screened as
officers were "not taking any chances".

Police initially said it was an attempted robbery but later acknowledged that as
many as 10 terrorists were involved. Al-Shabaab vowed in 2011 to carry out a
large-scale attack on Kenya in retaliation for Somali and Kenyan military
operations against its insurgents. Its threatened targets included the shopping
centre, which is popular with both affluent Kenyans and Western expats.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office said it was "urgently" attempting to
discover if any Britons were among those killed. It has updated its travel
advice to the thousands of Britons who visit the capital each year, warning
"British nationals should avoid the area". The Foreign Secretary, William Hague,
said he was "appalled" by the attack, adding: "Our urgent priority is the
welfare of UK nationals in Kenya."

The attack, if confirmed as a terrorist-inspired action, will be the biggest
such attack in Kenya since al-Qa'ida bombed the US embassy in Nairobi in 1998,
killing more than 200 people. In 2002, the same militant cell attacked an
Israeli-owned hotel and tried to shoot down an Israeli jet in a co-ordinated
attack in Mombasa.

The Parklands area, where the Westgate shopping square is located, lies about
two miles north-west of Nairobi's congested city centre.

Ten years ago, as property prices rose in the centre, developers looked for
cheaper land. The result has been a rapid expansion of a once residential area
into one where some of Nairobi's most expensive and prestigious business
headquarters and international banking offices are now situated.

The area enjoys a reputation among wealthy Kenyans for having the best
restaurants and nightclubs. The new luxury five-star Sankara, one of the
capital's best hotels, is next to the Westgate shopping area, just off the
capital's main road.

The 350,000 square-foot mall, designed to the latest international retail
standards, opened in 2007. According to its website visitors can enjoy tropical
gardens, a waterfall and a palm garden, as well as a vast food court in a "safe
and serene" environment.

The shopping centre was playing host to the SunGold SunRice SuperChef Junior
competition, an on-air cooking event for children, organised by East FM, a local
radio station. Around 60 participants aged between eight and 13 years old had
signed up for the competition, which was taking place outside in a tented area
of the mall.

But by the afternoon it was lined with bodies, and reports surfaced that Ruhila
Adatia, a well-known radio presenter attending the event, was among those shot.
A spokeswoman for the station said yesterday Ms Adatia had been shot and injured
at the mall, but was unable to confirm reports she was dead.

Satpal Singh, who was in a cafe on the mall's top floor, said he ran downstairs
when he heard the gunfire and was shot at near the mall's main exit. "A Somali
guy shot at me. The guy who shot me was carrying a rifle, an AK-47," Mr Singh,
36, said.

Manish Turohit, 18, escaped from the shopping centre after hiding in the parking
garage for two hours. He told reporters he saw gunmen with AK-47s and vests with
hand grenades in the shopping centre.

The country has seen a rise in terror attacks and threats in recent years, often
involving gunmen armed with automatic weapons and grenades. Their targets
include bars, nightclubs and restaurants in various parts of the country.

In January a suspected al-Shabaab attack left five people dead and three injured
at a restaurant in the eastern city of Garissa, and in August last year one
person was killed and six injured in the Eastleigh area of Nairobi on the eve of
a visit by Hillary Clinton, then the United States Secretary of State.

Rob Vandijk, who works at the Dutch embassy, said he was eating at a restaurant
in the shopping centre when attackers threw hand grenades inside the building.
He said gunfire then burst out and people screamed as they dropped to the
ground.

One eyewitness, who identified himself as Taha, said he heard the screech of
brakes followed moments later by an explosion and then sustained gunfire from
the ground floor. Gunfirewas still being exchanged almost two hours later as
police combed the shopping centre and cordoned off the surrounding roads.

At least two dozen people, including several children, were wheeled out on
stretchers and in shopping trolleys by security guards. Many of the victims had
multiple light wounds, apparently from flying debris. Others walked out, some
with bloodied clothing wrapped around wounds. Many of the victims were taken to
Nairobi's Aga Khan Hospital, which was one of a number of hospitals to appeal
for blood donors to come forward.

Additional reporting by Alex Rogers.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 5:29 PM GMT

Nairobi mall attacks: 11 killed and hostages taken in 'terror attack' as gunmen
open fire at Nairobi shopping centre;
Foreign Office 'urgently looking into' incident as British nationals told to
avoid upmarket area in Kenya's capital

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 570 words


At least 22 people have been killed by gunmen who opened fire in a suspected
terror in Kenya's capital.

Approximately 50 more have been injured, Kenya's Red Cross has reported. Reports
are emerging that up to 36 are being held hostage by 20 hostage-takers inside
the shopping mall, although this figure has not been confirmed.

Kenyan soldiers have now moved into the building in an attempt to flush out
gunman, Reuters have reported.

Witnesses from inside the mall said the gunmen wore black, covering their faces
with masks, and appeared to be targeting non-Muslims.

Elijah Kamau, who was at the mall at the time of the midday attack, said that
the gunmen made a declaration that non-Muslims would be targeted.

"The gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave. They were safe, and non-Muslims
would be targeted," he said.

The Somali militant group al Shabaab had threatened to strike the Westgate Mall,
popular with the city's expatriate community; but there was no immediate claim
of responsibility from any group. Al-Shabaab said it had no comment on the
attack.

The gunmen used AK-47s and grenades in their attack in the capital, Nairobi,
according to witnesses and local police. The Kenyan Red Cross said at last 15
people were killed, with more fatalities expected.

The shoot-out began in the Westgate centre, one of the most exclusive shopping
malls in the Westlands district.

Police chief Benson Kibue said the building has been besieged by the attackers,
and officers were on the ground engaging fire with them. Armed police are
currently responding from behind vehicles outside the front of the building.

Mr Benson Kibue blamed the attack on terrorists, though he did not name a group.
Kenya's Ministry of Interior said: "It is a possibility that it is an attack by
terrorists, so we are treating the matter very seriously."

Manish Turohit, 18, said he saw gunmen with AK-47s and vests with hand grenades
on them inside the mall before he escaped to hide in a parking garage for two
hours.

"They just came in and threw a grenade. We were running and they opened fire.
They were shouting and firing," he said after being marched out of the mall in
line with about 15 people who held their hands in the air.

Officers arrived on foot an hour and a half after the attacks began.

Panicked shoppers have fled the building and cars have been left abandoned
outside the mall, according to reports. Dozens were seen emerging covered in
blood and were quickly treated by first responders.

The gunmen were reportedly attempting to rob shops within the mall before they
began shooting.

Rob Vandijk, who works at the Dutch embassy, told the Associated Press he was
eating at a restaurant inside the mall when attackers lobbed hand grenades
inside the building.

He said gunfire then burst out and people screamed as they dropped to the
ground.

Some of those who escaped the building have suggested the attack may have been a
skewed attempted bank robbery.

British nationals have been advised to avoid the area, while the Foreign Office
said it is "urgently looking into" the incident.

Foreign Secretary William Hague said: "We are in close contact with the Kenyan
authorities on the ground in Kenya and at ministerial level in the United
Kingdom.

"The prime consideration at present is the welfare of members of the public
caught up in this incident."

Concerned British nationals are advised to monitor FCO travel advice and to
contact 020 7008 0000.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 2:59 PM GMT

Nairobi terror attack: 15 dead as gunmen armed with grenades open fire inside
Kenya shopping centre;
Foreign Office 'urgently looking into' incident as British nationals told to
avoid upmarket area in Kenya's capital

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 440 words


At least 15 people have been killed by gunmen who opened fire in a suspected
terror in Kenya's capital.

Dozens more have been injured, Kenya's Red Cross has reported. Police and
security guards told AFP that there were seven confirmed hostages still trapped
inside the shopping mall.

Witnesses from inside the mall said the gunmen appeared to be targeting
non-Muslims.

Elijah Kamau, who was at the mall at the time of the midday attack, said that
the gunmen made a declaration that non-Muslims would be targeted.

"The gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave. They were safe, and non-Muslims
would be targeted," he said.

The Somali militant group al Shabaab had threatened to strike the Westgate mall,
popular with the city's expatriate community; but there was no immediate claim
of responsibility from any group. Al Shabaab said it had no comment on the
attack.

The gunmen used AK-47s and grenades in their attack in the capital, Nairobi,
according to witnesses and local police. The Kenyan Red Cross said at last 15
people were killed, with more fatalities expected.

The shoot-out began in the Westgate centre, one of the most exclusive shopping
malls in the Westlands district.

Police chief Benson Kibue said the building has been besieged by the attackers,
and officers were on the ground engaging fire with them. Armed police are
currently responding from behind vehicles outside the front of the building.

Manish Turohit, 18, said he saw gunmen with AK-47s and vests with hand grenades
on them inside the mall before he escaped to hide in a parking garage for two
hours.

"They just came in and threw a grenade. We were running and they opened fire.
They were shouting and firing," he said after being marched out of the mall in
line with about 15 people who held their hands in the air.

Officers arrived on foot an hour and a half after the attacks began.

Panicked shoppers have fled the building and cars have been left abandoned
outside the mall, according to reports. Dozens were seen emerging covered in
blood and were quickly treated by first responders.

The gunmen were reportedly attempting to rob shops within the mall before they
began shooting.

Rob Vandijk, who works at the Dutch embassy, told the Associated Press he was
eating at a restaurant inside the mall when attackers lobbed hand grenades
inside the building.

He said gunfire then burst out and people screamed as they dropped to the
ground.

Some of those who escaped the building have suggested the attack may have been a
skewed attempted bank robbery.

British nationals have been advised to avoid the area, while the Foreign Office
said it is "urgently looking into" the incident.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 2:33 PM GMT

Nairobi terror attack: 15 dead as gunmen armed with grenades open fire inside
Kenya shopping centre;
Foreign Office 'urgently looking into' incident as British nationals told to
avoid upmarket area in Kenya's capital

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 276 words


At least seven people have been held hostage by gunmen who opened fire in a
Kenyan shopping mall, killing at least 15 and leaving dozens wounded.

Police and security guards told AFP that there were seven confirmed hostages
still trapped inside the building.

The gunmen used AK-47s and grenades in their attack in the capital, Nairobi,
according to witnesses and local police. The Kenyan Red Cross said at last 15
people were killed, with more fatalities expected.

The shoot-out began in the Westgate centre, one of the most exclusive shopping
malls in the Westlands district.

Police chief Benson Kibue said the building has been besieged by the attackers,
and officers were on the ground engaging fire with them. Armed police are
currently responding from behind vehicles outside the front of the building.

Officers arrived on foot an hour and a half after the attacks began.

Panicked shoppers have fled the building and cars have been left abandoned
outside the mall, according to reports. Dozens were seen emerging covered in
blood and were quickly treated by first responders.

The gunmen were reportedly attempting to rob shops within the mall before they
began shooting.

Rob Vandijk, who works at the Dutch embassy, told the Associated Press he was
eating at a restaurant inside the mall when attackers lobbed hand grenades
inside the building.

He said gunfire then burst out and people screamed as they dropped to the
ground.

Some of those who escaped the building have suggested the attack may have been a
skewed attempted bank robbery.

British nationals have been advised to avoid the area, while the Foreign Office
said it is "urgently looking into" the incident.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 1:52 PM GMT

Nairobi terror attack: 15 dead as gunmen armed with grenades open fire inside
Kenya shopping centre;
Foreign Office is 'urgently looking into' the incident as British nationals told
to avoid upmarket area in Kenya's capital

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 261 words


Armed police exchanged fire with gunmen who opened fire in a Kenya shopping
mall, killing at least 15 and wounding dozens.

The gunmen used AK-47s and grenades in their attack in the capital, Nairobi,
according to witnesses and local police. The Kenyan Red Cross said at last 15
people were killed, with more fatalities expected.

Police chief Benson Kibue said the building has been besieged by the attackers,
and officers were on the ground engaging fire with them. Armed police are
currently responding from behind vehicles outside the front of the building.

Officers arrived on foot an hour and a half after the attacks began.

Panicked shoppers have fled the building and cars have been left abandoned
outside the mall, according to reports. Dozens were seen emerging covered in
blood and were quickly treated by first responders.

At least 10 people have been killed after the shoot-out began in the Westgate
centre, one of the most exclusive shopping malls in the Westlands district.

The gunmen were reportedly attempting to rob shops within the mall before they
began shooting.

Rob Vandijk, who works at the Dutch embassy, told the Associated Press he was
eating at a restaurant inside the mall when attackers lobbed hand grenades
inside the building.

He said gunfire then burst out and people screamed as they dropped to the
ground.

Some of those who escaped the building have suggested the attack may have been a
skewed attempted bank robbery.

British nationals have been advised to avoid the area, while the Foreign Office
said it is "urgently looking into" the incident.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                          September 21, 2013 Saturday

Kenya terror attack: 39 dead, hundreds injured

LENGTH: 788  words


A TERRORIST attack by gunmen armed with hand grenades and automatic rifles on an
upmarket shopping centre in the Kenyan capital Nairobi has left at least 39
people dead.

There were unconfirmed reports that more than 30 people were being held hostage
by the gang, who singled out non-Muslims to kill, according to eyewitnesses.

The atrocity took place in the Westgate Mall in the affluent Westlands district
of ­Nairobi, which is popular with expatriate Britons.

The gunmen threw grenades and then opened fire with ­Kalashnikov assault rifles,
sending shoppers and staff fleeing for their lives.

One witness said he heard the gunmen tell Muslims to stand up and leave and say
non-Muslims were their target.

Elijah Kamau said the gunmen made the statement as they began their killing
spree.

Groups of people trapped inside the mall came streaming out over the course of
an hour. Many were injured. Some carried children in their arms. Security guards
from the mall also used trolleys to wheel out wounded children and at least one
man.

Witnesses spoke of the attackers lobbing grenades and opening fire as terrified
shoppers dropped to the ground. Manish Turohit, 18, said he saw gunmen with
AK-47s and vests with grenades on them.

"They just came in and threw a grenade. We were running and they opened fire.
They were shouting and firing," he said after being marched out of the mall in
line with about 15 people who held their hands in the air. He hid in a parking
garage for two hours before managing to get out unscathed.

Initial reports suggested the attack may have been a bank robbery gone wrong.
But Nairobi police chief Benson Kibue said terrorists were to blame.

Soldiers and armed police were still surrounding the mall hours after the
onslaught around midday yesterday.

Kenya has seen a rise in terror attacks and threats in recent years, some of
which are believed to be in retaliation for a military crackdown involving
Kenyan peacekeepers on the Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab, which has
vowed to launch a large-scale attack on Nairobi.

The attacks often involve gunmen armed with automatic weapons and grenades, and
their targets include bars, nightclubs and restaurants.

There was a suspected al-Shabaab attack which left five dead and three injured
at a restaurant in the eastern city of Garissa in January, and in August last
year one person was killed and six more were injured in the Eastleigh area of
Nairobi on the eve of a visit by Hillary Clinton, then the United States
secretary of state.

Last month, 18 US embassies and consulates across the Middle East and Africa
were closed after a message between al-Qaeda officials about plans for a major
terror attack was intercepted.

British nationals have been told to avoid the Westlands district of Nairobi in
the wake of the attack. A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are aware of the
incident at the Westgate Mall and we are urgently looking into it.

"We stand ready to provide consular assistance if there are any British
nationals involved."

Foreign Secretary William Hague said he was "appalled" by the incident, adding:
"My thoughts are with everyone affected by it.

"We are in close touch with Kenyan authorities about the attack in Nairobi. Our
urgent priority is the welfare of UK nationals in Kenya."

The Westgate Mall is Israeli owned. Security personnel have in the past
identified the mall as a probable terrorist target.

Jay Patel, who sought cover on an upper floor in the mall when shooting began,
said he had looked out of a window on to the upper parking deck of the mall and
had seen the gunmen with a group of people.

Patel said that, as the attackers were talking, some of the people stood up and
left and the others were shot.

Rob Vandijk, who works at the Dutch embassy, said he was eating at a restaurant
inside the mall when attackers tossed grenades inside the building. He said
gunfire then burst out and people screamed as they dropped to the ground.

It appears the attack began at the outdoor seating area of a restaurant called
Artcaffe at the front of the mall, witnesses said.

Patrick Kuria, an employee at Artcaffe, said: "We started by hearing gunshots
downstairs and outside.

"Later we heard them come inside. We took cover. Then we saw two gunmen wearing
black turbans. I saw them shoot."

Some people were shot at the entrance to the mall after volleys of gunfire moved
outside and a standoff with police began.

Ambulances continued to stream in and out of the mall area, ferrying the wounded
who emerged from hiding inside. People clutched their children, and some wept.

A local hospital was overwhelmed with the wounded hours after the attack and had
to divert many of the wounded to a second facility for emergency treatment.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS scotlandonsunday


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 11:09 PM GMT

Storymoja Hay Festival 2013: Day Three;
On the day a violent terrorist attack took place in Nairobi, Alice Vincent
reports on the third day of the Storymoja Hay Festival 2013.

BYLINE: By Alice Vincent in Nairobi

LENGTH: 682 words


When suspected terrorists opened fire in a shopping centre in Nairobi's upmarket
Westlands district, I was sitting two miles away listening to Mukesh Kapila, the
former Head of the UN for Sudan, talk about why humans have such potential for
cruelty. Here, in the city where Kapila decided to blow the whistle on the
Darfur genocide a decade ago, and end his career in the process, bloodshed had
arrived on the Hay Festival's doorstep.

I first heard the news when an audience member stood up and said that there had
been an armed robbery at the nearby Westgate Mall and told us to avoid the area.
Nairobian author Teju Cole was due to speak at the festival next (his fans were
jostling by the doors), and a little later, as Cole was answering a question
about "the precariousness of being African", I was told to text my loved ones
saying I was safe; people had been shot.

Cole was in conversation with Kenyan writer and actor John Sibi-Okuma. It was
one of those events that show Hay at its best; intelligent, accessible and funny
conversation, fine readings, insightful audience questions. So, until I realised
the scale of the attack, I was confused by the fact that so many people were
answering their phones and rushing in and out of the lecture while Sibi-Okuma's
sonorous voice left Cole moved by the recitation of his own words. "You know how
people wonder if Barry White gets turned on by the sound of his own music?" Cole
joked, "That's how I feel now."

Although the Festival, its authors, organisers and attendees were putting on a
brave face, the situation had taken a turn for the worse. We heard that the son
of Ghanian poet Kofi Awooner, due to perform at an event on Saturday, had been
shot in the shoulder in Westlands and had been taken to, and later discharged
from, hospital. James Mbugua, a reporter for the Nairobi newspaper The Star,
told me that his colleague, a showbiz correspondent, had been killed in the
shooting, with another two at the Mall. Speculated statistics came in
occasionally: 12 killed, 15 gunmen, 100 trapped in a basement.

Helicopters circled above the bunting and brightly-coloured Kangas that
decorated the gardens of the National Museum of Kenya, the festival's host site,
and drummers and acrobats bounded into the courtyard at lunchtime. But by late
afternoon, organisers Muthoni Garland, Lyndy Cooke and Jo Rodell-Jones had
reached the tough decision to end the festival early, "in sympathy with those
who have lost their lives or were injured" and for the safety of attendees.
Their statement continued, "It would be insensitive for us to continue as the
siege is still continuing, roads are closed and there is a lot of uncertainty
and fear."

As the founder of an "unadulterated, unapologetic celebration of writing",
however, Garland was insistent that the Westlands tragedy was not met with
silence. If Storymoja Hay Festival has taught me anything, it is that the voices
and stories of Kenya's people and troubles are yet to be heard. "We urge
everyone to give blood, offer prayers and write, blog, tweet their shock and
grief about the tragedy", her statement added.

Many continued with their scheduled talks until the end. Peter Godwin was one of
them. The British-born author has written "an accidental trilogy" about life and
elections in Zimbabwe, and is therefore no stranger to dramatic events. Nii
Parkes, a Ghanian poet who was speaking at the Festival through an initiative
with the British Council, stubbornly told the British High Commission in Kenya
that no, he would not leave before performing. It was, after all, what he was in
Nairobi to do: participate in a showcase of award-winning poetry from both sides
of the African continent.

As darkness fell and the final festival attendees left the site for safety, a
jumble of authors, poets, storytellers, organisers and one journalist huddled
into The Pink Tent, the small but comfortable retreat in the middle of the site
for those there most. We were waiting to be driven to Garland's welcoming home,
still unaware - as we remain - of the full circumstances of the day's events.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 9:59 PM GMT

Pictures: Nairobi shopping centre terror attack;
At least 30 people have been killed in a suspected Al Shabaab attack in
Westgate, an upmarket Kenyan shopping mall in Nairobi, with several British
people caught up in the assault.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 30 words


At least 30 people have been killed in a suspected Al Shabaab attack in
Westgate, an upmarket Kenyan shopping mall in Nairobi, with several British
people caught up in the assault.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 9:19 PM GMT

Nairobi shopping centre terror attack;
At least 30 people have been killed in a suspected Al Shabaab attack in
Westgate, an upmarket Kenyan shopping mall in Nairobi, with several British
people caught up in the assault.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 30 words


At least 30 people have been killed in a suspected Al Shabaab attack in
Westgate, an upmarket Kenyan shopping mall in Nairobi, with several British
people caught up in the assault.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 7:10 PM GMT

Nairobi shopping mall attacks: Britons among those caught up in terrorist
assault;
At least 30 people have been killed in a suspected Islamic terrorist attack on
an upmarket Kenyan shopping mall, with several British people caught up in the
assault.

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz in Nairobi and Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1508 words


A pregnant British woman was shocked but unharmed, friends said. There was "no
indication" that British citizens were among the hostages remaining in the mall,
one security source said.

The masked gunmen were said on Saturday afternoon to be holding 36 people
hostage inside the Westgate Shopping Centre in Nairobi - a modern complex,
popular with Western expats and wealthy local residents - as the Kenyan army
moved in.

A Downing Street spokesman said: "The Prime Minister spoke to the President of
Kenya, Uhuru Kenyatta, late this afternoon about the attack at Westgate shopping
centre in Nairobi."

The gang, who were armed with AK-47s and allegedly included a woman, had
launched their assault on the shopping centre at midday, just as it was packed
with Saturday shoppers and tourists and was hosting a children's event.

Witnesses who managed to escape the raid said the gunmen, some speaking Arabic
or Somali, burst in and told all Muslims to leave before executing some of their
victims. Survivors were ferried from the scene on bloodied shopping trolleys,
while others fled or hid in shops, but young children were among the victims.

"The gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave. They were safe, and non-Muslims
would be targeted," one witness, Elijah Kamau, said.

It appeared to be the worst terror attack in Nairobi since an al-Qaeda bombing
at the US embassy killed more than 200 in 1998.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said: "We are in close contact with the
Kenyan authorities on the ground in Kenya and at ministerial level in the United
Kingdom.

"The prime consideration at present is the welfare of members of the public
caught up in this incident."

Twitter: William Hague - UK ties with Kenya very close. Appalled by the attack
and my thoughts are with everyone affected by it

Sir Simon Fraser, the Foreign Office's chief civil servant and head of the
Diplomatic Service, posted on Twitter:

Twitter: Simon Fraser - . @foreignoffice and @UKinKenya working hard on Nairobi
shooting and hostage crisis to help all involved esp Brits. Helpline 020 7008
0000.

The United States said it believed Americans were among those injured.

Marie Harf, deputy spokeswoman at the State Department, said: "We have reports
of American citizens injured in the attack, and the US Embassy is actively
reaching out to provide assistance."

The finger of suspicion immediately pointed at the Somali terror group
al-Shabaab which vowed in late 2011 to carry out a large-scale attack in Nairobi
in retaliation for Kenya's sending of troops to fight the Islamist insurgents.

A Twitter feed reportedly run by Al Shabaab said that the Kenyan government
"turned a deaf ear to our repeated warnings and continued to massacre innocent
Muslims in Somalia" - but did not admit direct responsibility.

"By land, air and sea Kenyan forces invaded our Muslim country, killing hundreds
of Muslims in the process and displacing thousands more," it read.

The Kenyan Red cross said at least 30 people were killed. Officials said the
death toll would likely rise.

More than 60 Kenyans and foreigners were also injured, limping out supported by
fellow shoppers. The Kenyan Red Cross appealed for blood donors, and in the
chaos the police were forced to use tear gas on the bystanders outside to push
them away to safety.

Witnesses gave a dramatic account of how they survived the massacre.

"I hid under a car with my daughters, and I saw the men line up maybe 40 people
and ask them who was Muslim, and if they were, to prove it by saying the name of
the Prophet's mother. Those who got it wrong were shot," said Charles Karani,
41, an IT engineer.

"There was blood everywhere. Two ladies under the car with me had gunshot wounds
on their legs. Another Indian gentlemen was hit on the face by a bullet but he
seemed not to be gravely hurt. Other people for sure are dead, I saw four people
lying not moving.

"A grenade was thrown and it rolled near us, my daughter said: 'Papa, there's a
grenade' - but thanks God it didn't go off and I kicked it away."

The gunmen wore white bandanas, Mr Karani said, and appeared to work in teams,
each taking control of a different floor of the five-storey building.

"They were not speaking Swahili," said one man, named Jay. "They spoke something
that seemed like Arabic or Somali, but I'm not sure as I don't speak those
languages.

"I saw people being executed after being asked to say something," he said,
adding had seen 11 dead bodies inside the mall.

Police helicopters circled overhead as armed police shouted "get out, get out",
and scores of shoppers fled the building. Smoke poured out of one entrance and
witnesses said they heard grenade blasts.

The al Qaeda-linked Somali militant group al Shabaab had threatened to strike
the Westgate mall, but there was no immediate claim of responsibility from the
group.

However, confidential documents seen by The Sunday Telegraph show that the
United Nations - which has a large regional operation in Kenya - warned last
month that the threat of an "attempted large-scale [terror] attack" in the
country was "elevated". Just last week police in Nairobi's Somali suburb of
Eastleigh foiled what they described as a terrorist attack in "advanced stages"
of planning.

And the Westgate centre, home to Western stores such as Adidas and Converse and
boasting a range of coffee shops, sushi bars and tapas restaurants, was an
obvious target.

The attack began around midday, when the area was crowded with Kenyans and
foreigners enjoying a sunny Saturday lunchtime. On the rooftop, a childrens'
cookery festival was taking place.

Patick Kuria was working as usual at the Artcaffe, a wooden-floored cafe with a
plant-filled terrace, frequented by well-heeled Kenyans and expats with their
laptops.

Suddenly he heard a commotion outside.

"We started by hearing gunshots downstairs and outside," he said. "Later we
heard them come inside. We took cover. Then we saw two gunmen wearing black
turbans. I saw them shoot."

One eyewitness who identified himself as Taha said he heard the screech of
brakes, followed moments later by an explosion and then sustained gun fire from
the ground floor.

Some inside the mall reported hearing several explosions before seeing the
gunmen.

Outside, shoppers began running from the mall in panic, while those inside
cowered in shops alongside the staff.

Rob Vandijk, who works at the Dutch embassy, said he was eating at a restaurant
inside the mall when attackers lobbed hand grenades inside the building. He said
gunfire then burst out and people screamed as they dropped to the ground.

The gunmen apparently working in teams, swept through the mall spraying bullets.

A shop manager who managed to escape said at one point "it seemed that the
shooters had taken control of all the mall".

The police secured the exits, and entered the shopping centre, going from shop
to shop to rescue those trapped.

A group of 20 people were rescued from a toy shop on the upper floor; another
woman, tweeting under the name Shirley Ghetto, was hiding under some mattresses
in the mall and said: "Is it safe to come out from hiding? It's quiet. Have the
cops tackled the culprits? Please keep me updated. #Westgate"

Four hours after the attack began there were still believed to be more than 100
people hiding in shops, bank vaults, cafe kitchens and storerooms, according to
witnesses and a security source. On Twitter, those caught up in the carnage made
desperate pleas for friends and relatives not to call, as the terrorists were
picking off people whose phones rang.

Kenyan army troops arrived, and were using tear gas to try and smoke out the
terrorists, who were said to be holed up inside the cinema complex.

Vehicles riddled with bullet holes were left abandoned in front of the mall as
police instructed residents of the Westlands neighbourhood to stay away.

"Our officers are on the ground carrying out an evacuation of those inside as
they search for the attackers who are said to be inside," said David Kimaiyo,
Inspector General of Police.

Kenya is no stranger to terrorist attacks, most of which have been carried out
on its soil by Islamic extremists linked to al Qaeda. The most notorious was the
1998 US embassy bombing in Nairobi, which killed 212 and wounded 4,000, but
since Kenyan forces' foray into Somalia in October 2011, smaller-scale grenade,
gun and bomb attacks on civilians have increased dramatically.

In May 2012, a small shopping complex on Nairobi's Moi Avenue was blown up,
leaving around 30 people wounded. In June, a popular bar in Mombasa was hit by a
grenade attack, leaving one person dead and several injured.

And just a week ago Kenyan police claimed to have disrupted a major terrorist
attack in its final stages of planning, arresting two people with suicide vests
packed with ball bearings, grenades and AK-47 assault rifles.

A manhunt was launched for eight more suspects, a police spokesman said. The two
arrested came from an area of Nairobi where many Somali immigrants live, and
were suspected of having links with al-Shabbab.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 6:18 PM GMT

Nairobi attacks: "If you are a Muslim, stand up and go";
At least 22 people have been killed in a suspected terrorist attack on an
upmarket shopping mall in the Kenyan capital Nairobi at midday. There were
unconfirmed reports of more than 30 people being held hostage by the gang, who
were armed with guns and grenades and had threatened to target non-Muslims,
according to an eye-witness.

LENGTH: 171 words


The atrocity took place in the Westgate Mall, in the affluent Westlands district
of Nairobi, which is popular with expats.

The gunmen threw grenades and then opened fire, sending shoppers and staff
fleeing for their lives.

One witness to the attack claimed the gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave
and that non-Muslims would be targeted.

Elijah Kamau said the gunmen made the statement about Muslims as they began
their attack.

Groups of people trapped inside the mall came streaming out over the course of
an hour. Many were injured. Some carried children in their arms. Desperate staff
from the mall used trolleys to wheel out wounded children and at least one man.

Witnesses spoke of the attackers lobbing hand grenades and opening fire as
terrified shoppers dropped to the ground.

Manish Turohit, 18, said he saw gunmen with AK-47s and vests with hand grenades
on them.

Initial reports suggested the attack may have been a bank robbery gone wrong.
But Nairobi police chief Benson Kibue said it was a terrorist attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 4:59 PM GMT

Nairobi shopping mall attacks: at least 22 killed in suspected terrorist siege;

Gunmen in Nairobi have opened fire inside one of the Kenyan city's smartest
shopping centres in an apparent terror attack, with reports of at least 22
killed and dozens wounded.

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander and Mike Pflanz in Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 778 words


The shooting began at the Westgate Shopping Mall at around lunchtime, and it was
not immediately clear who was involved. The gunmen were thought to have taken
seven people hostage, throwing grenades as they launched their attack.

"It is a possibility that it is an attack by terrorists, so we are treating the
matter very seriously," said Mutea Iringo, the principal secretary in the
Ministry of Interior.

Kenya Red Cross official Abbas Gullet said at least 22 people were killed in the
attack that police blamed on terrorists. He said the death toll would likely
rise.

A witness said that gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave and that
non-Muslims would be targeted.

Elijah Kamau told AP that attackers with AK-47s and grenades made the statement
about Muslims as they began their attack.

Armed robberies in Kenya 's capital are far from uncommon, but the country is
also a target for attacks from Islamist terrorists crossing over from Somalia.

"I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles," said a witness and survivor who identified herself
as Annette.

"They don't seem like thugs, this is not a robbery incident," said Yukeh
Mannasseh who was on the mall's top floor when the shooting started. "It seems
like an attack. The guards who saw them said they were shooting
indiscriminately."

A young boy was lying on the ground by the supermarket. At least nine people
were being carried out of the building with wounds to their legs, feet or arms.
Two others were wheeled unconscious from the scene in shopping trolleys.

Ye Lihui, a Chinese businessman, was on the third floor. He told The Telegraph:
"There were two guys, they had AK47s, they were not far from me.

"They were dressed in normal clothes. They had something like a small bomb,
maybe a grenade, and I watched one throw it into where many people were.

"I didn't see where it landed but the explosion was so loud. I ran out."

Errol Fernandes, a Kenyan businessman said: "There were two guys - they came in
from the car park on the roof. One had dreadlocks, he had an AK47 and was firing
randomly.

"I just ran into the café kitchen and then we all hid in the refrigerator, until
we were told to run out of the fire escape.

"I'm sure there must be many dead and injured."

Dozens of people were fleeing in waves from a side entrance to the mall, many
clearly very distressed.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are aware of the incident at the Westgate
Mall shopping centre, and we are urgently looking into it.

"We stand ready to provide consular assistance if there are any British
nationals involved."

The Foreign Office updated the travel advice on its website to say: "British
nationals should avoid the area".

There were unconfirmed reports of two large explosions, with several smaller
explosions. Two people were reportedly injured on the road.

"We have officers at the scene trying to get out the group shooting inside. They
have not been located," a senior police official told AFP.

"Officers are approaching the situation with caution because there are innocent
civilians inside," he said.

One woman on the first floor of the shopping centre told The Telegraph that
gunfire was still being heard around the mall, and had been heard for over 20
minutes, all on the ground floor.

She said that shops were locked up, with staff taking cover inside the stores
with customers. She added that there were "several explosions," then the gunfire
started.

George Mirara, a waiter at a café on the second floor, said: "It was very
sudden, like some shouting then gunfire, so many shots, again and again.

"We all ran, into the kitchen and stayed there, it was all so loud."

Situated in the upmarket suburb of Westlands, close to the city centre, people
travel to the mall and its surrounding area for its restaurants, shopping, bars
and clubs.

Shops include a very large Nakumatt supermarket, situated alongside banks
including Barclays, clothing stores, a cinema, and a food court upstairs with
tapas and sushi restaurants.

The mall is very popular with expats and middle-class Kenyans, and hosts a
mixture of local shops and Western brands such as adidas and Converse.

There have been repeated warnings over the last couple of years that it could
attract terrorists wanting to stage a dramatic attack.

According to confidential documents seen by The Telegraph, the United Nations -
which has a large regional operation in Kenya - warned in August that the threat
of an "attempted large-scale [terror] attack" in the country was "elevated".

Nairobi was sunny on Saturday morning, with the streets surrounding the mall
full of locals and tourists.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 4:08 PM GMT

Nairobi assault: Kenyan terrorist attacks since 1980;
Kenya is no stranger to terrorist attacks, most of which have been carried out
on its soil by Islamic extremists linked to al Qaeda.

BYLINE: By Aislinn Laing

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 599 words


The most notorious was the 1998 US embassy bombing in Nairobi, but since Kenyan
forces' foray into Somalia in October 2011, smaller-scale grenade, gun and bomb
attacks on civilians have increased dramatically.

1980 - A bomb flattened the Norfolk Hotel in Nairobi on New Year's Eve, killing
20 people and injuring 80. An Arab group claimed responsibility, saying it was
in retaliation for Kenya allowing Israeli troops to refuel in the capital en
route to rescue 100 hostages being held by pro-Palestinian hijackers at Entebbe
Airport in Uganda.

1998 - On the morning of August 7, suicide bombers in trucks laden with
explosives parked outside United States embassies in Dar es Salaam and Nairobi,
and almost simultaneously detonated their bombs. In Nairobi, approximately 212
people were killed, and an estimated 4,000 wounded. The bombings were planned by
al Qaeda to mark the eighth anniversary of US forces' arrival in Saudi Arabia,
and brought the extremist group's leader Osama bin Laden to the world's
attention for the first time.

2002 - On November 28, there was a missile attack on an Israeli plane shortly
after it took off from Mombasa airport, but missed. At the same time, a car
carrying explosives smashed through a barrier the Paradise Hotel in the city as
it received 60 Israeli tourists checking in. Ten Kenyans died in the attack and
three Israelis, two of them children. Militant groups linked to al-Qaeda were
blamed for the attacks.

2011 to 2013 - Since Kenyan troops were sent along with American, French and
Ethiopian forces to defend the transitional government in southern Somalia,
there have been a number of small-scale grenade and bomb attacks on churches,
bars, bus stations, military sites and shopping centres around Nairobi and
Mombasa.

The attacks started on October 24, 2011, when a grenade was hurled into a
Nairobi bar, killing one person and injuring more than 20. The same day, a
grenade was thrown from a moving vehicle into the city's Machakos bus terminal,
killing five people. A second attack on the bus station in March 2012 left six
people were killed and over 60 were injured.

In May 2012, a small shopping complex on Nairobi's Moi Avenue was blown up,
leaving around 30 people wounded. In June, a popular bar in Mombasa was hit by a
grenade attack, leaving one person dead and several injured.

The following month, there was another grenade attack on a bar in Mombasa where
patrons had gathered to watch a football match between England and Italy. Three
people were killed.

In July 2012, masked gunmen stormed two churches in Garissa, south of the Somali
border, killing seventeen people including two policemen whose guns they took.

There were several grenade and bomb attacks that claimed lives in the
predominantly Somali Eastleigh area of Nairobi in the second half of 2012 - one
on a bus and several either in or close to mosques.

This year, the lives of scores of police and security force personnel have been
claimed by attacks in the border towns of Garissa and Dadaab.

Sept 14, 2013 - Kenyan police claimed to have disrupted a major terrorist attack
in its final stages of planning, arresting two people with suicide vests packed
with ball bearings, grenades and AK-47 assault rifles. A manhunt was launched
for eight more suspects, a police spokesman said. The two arrested came from an
area of Nairobi where many Somali immigrants live, and were suspected of having
links with al-Shabab, the Somali militant group linked to al-Qaida.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 1:28 PM GMT

Gunmen attack smart Nairobi shopping mall;
Gunmen in Nairobi have opened fire inside one of the Kenyan city's smartest
shopping centres in an apparent terror attack, with reports of up to 10 killed
and dozens wounded.

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander and Mike Pflanz in Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 668 words


The shooting began at the Westgate Shopping Mall at around lunchtime, and it was
not immediately clear who was involved. The gunmen were thought to have taken
people hostage.

Armed robberies in Kenya 's capital are far from uncommon, but the country is
also a target for attacks from Islamist terrorists crossing over from Somalia.

"I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles," said a witness and survivor who identified herself
as Annette.

"They don't seem like thugs, this is not a robbery incident," said Yukeh
Mannasseh who was on the mall's top floor when the shooting started. "It seems
like an attack. The guards who saw them said they were shooting
indiscriminately."

A young boy was lying on the ground by the supermarket. At least nine people
were being carried out of the building with wounds to their legs, feet or arms.
Two others were wheeled unconscious from the scene in shopping trolleys.

A soldier moves to take up a position outside the shopping mall, in Nairobi,
Kenya

Ye Lihui, a Chinese businessman, was on the third floor. He told The Telegraph:
"There were two guys, they had AK47s, they were not far from me.

"They were dressed in normal clothes. They had something like a small bomb,
maybe a grenade, and I watched one throw it into where many people were.

"I didn't see where it landed but the explosion was so loud. I ran out."

Errol Fernandes, a Kenyan businessman said: "There were two guys - they came in
from the car park on the roof. One had dreadlocks, he had an AK47 and was firing
randomly.

"I just ran into the café kitchen and then we all hid in the refrigerator, until
we were told to run out of the fire escape.

"I'm sure there must be many dead and injured."

Dozens of people were fleeing in waves from a side entrance to the mall, many
clearly very distressed.

Benson Kibue, Nairobi police chief, said that gunmen besieged the building. He
said the men were trying to rob a shop within the mall when the shoot-out began.


The scene outside the Westgate Shopping Mall.

There were unconfirmed reports of two large explosions, with several smaller
explosions. Two people were reportedly injured on the road.

"We have officers at the scene trying to get out the group shooting inside. They
have not been located," a senior police official told AFP.

"Officers are approaching the situation with caution because there are innocent
civilians inside," he said.

One woman on the first floor of the shopping centre told The Telegraph that
gunfire was still being heard around the mall, and had been heard for over 20
minutes, all on the ground floor.

She said that shops were locked up, with staff taking cover inside the stores
with customers. She added that there were "several explosions," then the gunfire
started.

George Mirara, a waiter at a café on the second floor, said: "It was very
sudden, like some shouting then gunfire, so many shots, again and again.

"We all ran, into the kitchen and stayed there, it was all so loud."

Situated in the upmarket suburb of Westlands, close to the city centre, people
travel to the mall and its surrounding area for its restaurants, shopping, bars
and clubs.

Shops include a very large Nakumatt supermarket, situated alongside banks
including Barclays, clothing stores, a cinema, and a food court upstairs with
tapas and sushi restaurants.

The mall is very popular with expats and middle-class Kenyans, and hosts a
mixture of local shops and Western brands such as adidas and Converse.

There have been repeated warnings over the last couple of years that it could
attract terrorists wanting to stage a dramatic attack.

According to confidential documents seen by The Telegraph, the United Nations -
which has a large regional operation in Kenya - warned in August that the threat
of an "attempted large-scale [terror] attack" in the country was "elevated".

Nairobi was sunny on Saturday morning, with the streets surrounding the mall
full of locals and tourists.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 21, 2013 Saturday 1:07 PM GMT

Gunmen attack smart Nairobi shopping mall;
Gunmen in Nairobi have opened fire inside one of the Kenyan city's smartest
shopping centres in an apparent terror attack, with reports of up to 10 killed
and dozens wounded.

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander and Mike Pflanz in Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 645 words


The shooting began at the Westgate Shopping Mall at around lunchtime on
Saturday, and it was not immediately clear who was involved.

Armed robberies in Kenya 's capital are far from uncommon, but the country is
also a target for attacks from Islamist terrorists crossing over from Somalia.

"I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles," said a witness and survivor who identified herself
as Annette.

"They don't seem like thugs, this is not a robbery incident," said Yukeh
Mannasseh who was on the mall's top floor when the shooting started. "It seems
like an attack. The guards who saw them said they were shooting
indiscriminately."

A young boy was lying on the ground by the supermarket. At least nine people
were being carried out of the building with wounds to their legs, feet or arms.
Two others were wheeled unconscious from the scene in shopping trolleys.

Ye Lihui, a Chinese businesman, was on the third floor. He told The Telegraph:
"There were two guys, they had AK47s, they were not far from me.

"They were dressed in normal clothes. They had something like a small bomb,
maybe a grenade, and I watched one throw it into where many people were.

"I didn't see where it landed but the explosion was so loud. I ran out."

Errol Fernandes, a Kenyan businessman said: "There were two guys - they came in
from the car park on the roof. One had dreadlocks, he had an AK47 and was firing
randomly.

"I just ran into the cafe kitchen and then we all hid iin the refrigerator,
until we were told to run out of the fire escape.

"I'm sure there must be many dead and injured."

Dozens of people were fleeing in waves from a side entrance to the mall, many
clearly very distressed.

Benson Kibue, Nairobi police chief, said that gunmen besieged the building. He
said the men were trying to rob a shop within the mall when the shoot-out began.


The scene outside the Westgate Shopping Mall.

There were unconfirmed reports of two large explosions, with several smaller
explosions. Two people were reportedly injured on the road.

"We have officers at the scene trying to get out the group shooting inside. They
have not been located," a senior police official told AFP.

"Officers are approaching the situation with caution because there are innocent
civilians inside," he said.

One woman on the first floor of the shopping centre told The Telegraph that
gunfire was still being heard around the mall, and had been heard for over 20
minutes, all on the ground floor.

She said that shops were locked up, with staff taking cover inside the stores
with customers. She added that there were "several explosions," then the gunfire
started.

George Mirara, a waiter at a cafe on the second floor, said: "It was very
sudden, like some shouting then gunfire, so many shots, again and again.

"We all ran, into the kitchen and stayed there, it was all so loud."

Situated in the upmarket suburb of Westlands, close to the city centre, people
travel to the mall and its surrounding area for its restaurants, shopping, bars
and clubs.

Shops include a very large Nakumatt supermarket, situated alongside banks
including Barclays, clothing stores, a cinema, and a food court upstairs with
tapas and sushi restaurants.

The mall is very popular with expats and middle-class Kenyans, and hosts a
mixture of local shops and Western brands such as Adidas and Converse.

There have been repeated warnings over the last couple of years that it could
attract terrorists wanting to stage a dramatic attack.

According to confidential documents seen by The Telegraph, the United Nations -
which has a large regional operation in Kenya - warned in August that the threat
of an "attempted large-scale [terror] attack" in the country was "elevated".

Nairobi was sunny on Saturday morning, with the streets surrounding the mall
full of locals and tourists.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday

Rwandan writer notes "irony" of Kenyan terror attack on International Peace Day

LENGTH: 646 words


Text of report by Allan Brian Ssenyonga entitled "Expulsions, strikes and
possibly terrorism" published in English by Rwandan newspaper The New Times
website on 22 September

Sometimes I sit and look around for what to write about and end up harvesting
only depression. I really thought we had heard enough expulsion stories from
Tanzania. One day it is pastoralists the next day it is teachers. The whole
expulsion process has left a huge dent in Tanzania's Pan-African credentials.

In Uganda the teachers' strike has continued with the usual banter from the
government. The last I heard was teachers being threatened that they should
return to class or lose their jobs. Others were even told to vacate government
houses if they want to continue with the strike.

The issue of teachers continue being difficult to handle because many of the
people who are supposed to ensure that teachers concerns are catered for do not
have their children in public schools. So they are actually not affected by the
teachers' strikes.

Gone are the days when children of the rich and those of the poor sat on the
same school benches and worked hard for a better future together. Today there
are clearly schools and services for those with big pockets while the rest are
left to fend for themselves in poor quality schools that only appear as part of
the statistics that show of high enrolment.

Later on it emerged that for the first time in over 50 years, Kenya will not
attend the UN General Assembly because it would mean that both the president and
his deputy would be out of the country creating a power vacuum that is not
catered for by the Kenyan constitution.

As if all that was not bad enough for our Kenyan brothers, news came in of armed
gunmen laying siege at the Westgate Mall one of the high-end shopping centres in
the country. By the time of writing this, over 15 people had been reported dead
while several others sustained injuries.

I saw shocking pictures and footage of security officials doing their best to
rescue people who had been trapped inside the huge mall ranging from workers of
the Nakumatt store to customers who included adults and lots of children. Many
children were in the mall to attend a children's gala organized by one of the FM
stations.

What seemed to emerge from the whole incident was that the gunmen were unlikely
to be mere robbers but actually terrorists. The fact that the gunmen saw it fit
to raid the shopping mall in broad day light and more over on a Saturday when
most people choose to go shopping said a lot about the siege.

As if that was not enough, the events at Westgate quickly over shadowed the much
anticipated Safaricom Rugby Sevens, a tournament that also featured Rwanda's
Silverbacks rugby team. The irony of all this happening on International Peace
Day could not go unnoticed. It is sad that this comes on the heels of the fire
that destroyed a large section of Kenya's main airport.

The events in Nairobi almost made me even forget the joy that filled Kigali on
Friday when free wifi was launched in several parts of Kigali by the ICT
Minister together with City Council officials. People living in Kigali can now
be sure to use free internet (wifi) while at the main taxi park of Nyabugogo.

Just like it is in Nairobi, residents of Kigali will also be using free wifi as
they commuter from one place to another provided they board the buses run by
Kigali Bus Services Company. The internet freebies were also extended to the
public library at Kacyiru, Kigali City Tower and also King Faisal and Kanombe
Military hospital.

The same initiative also includes the promotion of e-ticketing for buses. The
event was dubbed Smart Kigali. Therefore on top of being a very clean city,
Kigali might as well be the first East African city to give residents an
overdose of smart technology.

Source: The New Times website, Kigali, in English 22 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday

It is time for us to do something about terror attacks in region - Rwandan paper

LENGTH: 236 words


Text of editorial entitled "Kenya terror attack: It's time for us to do
something!" published in English by Rwandan newspaper The New Times website on
22 September

Kenyans must be sick to their stomachs. We all are. We all are shaking with the
deepest sadness one can possibly imagine. Those innocent faces - shocked,
panic-stricken and bewildered.

Shoppers at Nairobi's Westgate shopping mall knew nothing about the violence
that left at least 30 innocent people dead in one of the most spine-chilling
terrorist attacks in the region in more than a decade.

Parents threw their bodies over their children, while other people cowered
behind the plastic mannequins as heartless Islamists that don't value life moved
through the crowded mall shooting innocent people indiscriminately. Westgate was
like a scene from an action-packed Hollywood movie. The Police did their best.
Soldiers did their best. We cannot blame them.

As the East African Community, it is our job to protect our brothers and
sisters. That is our job - and should always be our number one priority. We
failed to protect soccer fans in Uganda in 2010. We failed again in Nairobi
yesterday.

Never mind that American officials have long warned that malls were ripe targets
for Islamist terrorists. This is not the time to talk about the Al Shabaab. It
is time for us to finally do something about it!

Source: The New Times website, Kigali, in English 22 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday

Ex-Kenyan premier slams "cowardly attack of terrorism"

LENGTH: 192 words


Kenya's former prime minister Raila Odinga has condemned the "cowardly attack of
terrorism" at the upscale Westgate Mall in the Kenyan capital, Nairobi.

Odinga's statement was broadcast live by state-owned Kenya Broadcasting
Corporation at 0805 gmt on 22 September 2013.

Odinga was speaking at the Visa Oshwal Centre, which is about 500 metres away
from the Westgate Mall. He was flanked by another senior figure from the
opposition Coalition for Reform and Democracy Moses Wetangula.

"Terrorists are cowards who would use desperate means to try to achieve their
objectives. They tried it in 1998, they have tried it once again this time, but
I want to assure Kenyans and the rest of the world that they will not succeed",
Odinga said.

In a call to Kenyans to unite as the country deals with the crisis, Odinga said:
I want to echo the words of the president yesterday that Kenyans must stand
together. We of the Coalition for Reform and Democracy, CORD, want to join hands
with the government at this very sad moment in our country's history to work
together for protection of the lives of our people.

Source: KBC TV, Nairobi, in English 0805 gmt 22 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday

Turkey "vehemently" condemns terrorist attacks in Yemen

LENGTH: 222 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia) website

[Unattributed report: "Turkey vehemently condemns terrorist attacks in Yemen"]

Turkish Foreign Ministry released a written statement condemning terrorist
attacks in Yemen

ANKARA (AA) -Turkish Foreign Ministry released a written statement over
terrorist attacks held in Yemen, saying "Turkey, standing firmly against any act
of terror, vehemently condemns these loathsome terrorist attacks that targeted
security and stability in Yemen."

Turkey is deeply saddened by the death of dozens of soldiers and police officers
and the wounding of dozens more on Friday [20 September], as a result of the
terrorist attacks that targeted military sites and a security centre in the
Shabwah Governorate of Yemen, said the statement.

Turkey will, at this critical period, continue to support the Yemeni
government's efforts to establish security, stability, social peace and
tranquillity in the country, said the statement.

In addition, Turkey wishes God's mercy on those who lost their lives, presents
its condolences to their families, to the people and the government of Yemen and
a speedy recovery of the wounded, according to the statement.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency website, Ankara, in English
0000 gmt 22 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday

Egypt denounces terror attacks targeting Iraq, Pakistan, Kenya, Nigeria

LENGTH: 100 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 22 September: Egypt's Foreign Ministry strongly denounced terror attacks
in Iraq, Pakistan, Nigeria and Kenya over the past two days that claimed the
lives of innocent people in those countries.

"Egypt expresses its deepest heartfelt condolences to the people and governments
of these sister nations," the ministry said in a statement.

"These terror attacks prove with no doubt that terror is a global phenomenon
that has nothing to do with any religion or people," the statement said.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1754gmt 22 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 9:05 PM GMT

Kenya attack: Britons among 68 dead as terrorist gun attack in Nairobi
continues;
Prime Minister David Cameron said people in the UK should prepare for 'further
bad news'

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 1371 words


Kenyan forces are launching an assault on those behind a terror attack at a
shopping centre which has already left three British nationals among the 68
confirmed dead.

Kenya's Disaster Operation Centre said late on Sunday that "this will end
tonight. Our forces will prevail".

Word of the Kenyan assault comes shortly after a large blast echoed from the
mall, around the start of the operation.

Prime Minister David Cameron described the assault on the Westgate shopping
centre in Nairobi as an "absolutely sickening and despicable act of appalling
brutality".

Mr Cameron said people in the UK should prepare for "further bad news" as the
situation developed.

UK staff from Addis Ababa in Ethopia have travelled to assist with the efforts
in Nairobi and a rapid deployment team had been sent from London, the Foreign
Office said.

Foreign Secretary William Hague has chaired a meeting of the Government's
emergency committee Cobra to co-ordinate the response to the situation.

A sombre Mr Cameron said: "It is an absolutely sickening and despicable attack
of appalling brutality.

"What we know is that three British nationals have been killed."

He added: "Because the situation is ongoing we should prepare ourselves for
further bad news.

"Our thoughts also should be with the Kenyan government and the Kenyan people at
this time."

Mr Cameron said he had offered the Kenyan authorities "every assistance" in a
call to president Uhuru Kenyatta.

He also indicated that British intelligence assistance could be provided.

Mr Cameron said: "These appalling terrorist attacks that take place, where the
perpetrators claim they do it in the name of a religion, they don't.

"They do it in the name of terror, violence and extremism and their warped view
of the world.

"They don't represent Islam or Muslims in Britain or anywhere else in the world.

"Obviously the first priority is to make sure we do everything for the British
nationals caught up in this, so we're strengthening the consular services that
we have and the people that we have to look after our people.

"We've also offered the Kenyans help in terms of policing and advice and
intelligence collaboration and other areas which we will be able to help with.

"The situation is ongoing and, as I say that why I think we have to brace
ourselves for more bad news as this continues.

"It's an extremely difficult situation but we're doing everything we can to help
the Kenyans in their hour of need."

A day after 10 to 15 gunmen - believed to be Islamic extremists - stormed the
Westgate Mall attacking shoppers with guns and grenades, an unknown number of
hostages remained in the building.

Government officials said at least 59 people were confirmed dead and 175 others
were wounded in the atrocity, while about 1,000 were rescued from the upmarket
mall.

The Labour Party conference in Brighton paused for a minute's silence as news of
the deaths filtered through, with Ed Miliband among those reflecting on the
tragedy.

President Kenyatta has pledged to hunt down and punish the terrorists behind the
brutal attack in Nairobi.

In a national televised address he said he had "personally lost family members
in the Westgate attack".

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the outrage at
the mall in the affluent Westlands district of the capital, which is popular
with expats.

The heavily-armed gang singled out non-Muslims as they carried out the attack.

In his speech last night, Mr Kenyatta said security forces were in the process
of "neutralising the attackers and securing the mall" but he said it was a
"delicate" operation.

He urged Kenyans to "remain calm and vigilant" and asked them to donate blood to
help treat the injured. The UK's high commissioner Christian Turner was among
those responding to the appeal for blood donors.

President Kenyatta vowed: "We shall hunt down the perpetrators wherever they run
to. We shall get to them and we shall punish them for this heinous crime."

Terrified shoppers told of how they huddled in back hallways and prayed they
would not be found by the Islamic extremist gunmen.

When the way appeared clear, crying mothers clutching small children and
blood-splattered men sprinted out of the four-storey mall.

Witness Elijah Kamau said the gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave and that
non-Muslims would be targeted, as they began their attack.

The gunmen threw grenades and then opened fire, sending shoppers and staff
fleeing for their lives.

Speaking from Nairobi, The Independent's Daniel Howden told the BBC that a
"massive operation" was still ongoing inside the mall this morning where the
gang continued to hold an unknown number of people hostage.

Al-Shabaab, also known as Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen, earlier tweeted that
there will be "no negotiations whatsoever".

The group claimed responsibility for the atrocity, writing on its official
Twitter feed that "the Mujahideen entered Westgate Mall" at around noon local
time yesterday.

It said it had previously warned the Kenyan government that, if they did not
remove military forces from Somalia, there would be "severe consequences".

"For long we have waged war against the Kenyans in our land, now it's time to
shift the battleground and take the war to their land," it tweeted.

It added that they were "still inside the mall, fighting the Kenyan kuffar
inside their own turf" before the account was suspended by Twitter.

The organisation claimed it had killed more than 100 Kenyan "kuffar", a
derogatory term used to describe non-Muslims.

Kenya has seen a rise in terror attacks and threats in recent years, some of
which are believed to be in retaliation for a military crackdown on al-Shabaab.

The attacks often involve gunmen armed with automatic weapons and grenades, and
their targets include bars, nightclubs and restaurants in various parts of the
country.

There was a suspected al-Shabaab attack which left five dead and three injured
at a restaurant in the eastern city of Garissa in January, and in August last
year one person was killed and six more were left injured in the Eastleigh area
of Nairobi on the eve of a visit by Hillary Clinton, then the United States
secretary of state.

Last month 18 US embassies and consulates across the Middle East and Africa were
closed after a message between al Qaida officials about plans for a major terror
attack was intercepted.

The chairwoman of the Commission of the African Union, Dr Nkosazana
Dlamini-Zuma, condemned the attack in the "strongest possible terms" and said it
underlines "the imperative for renewed and reinvigorated efforts to combat
terrorism throughout the continent".

Concerned British nationals are advised to monitor Foreign & Commonwealth Office
(FCO) travel advice and to contact 020 7008 0000.

This afternoon, Mr Kenyatta said his nephew and his fiancee were killed in the
attack.

"These are young lovely people I personally knew and loved," he said, promising
retribution against the terrorists, whose number reportedly include armed women.

"They shall not get away with their despicable and beastly acts.

"Like the cowardly perpetrators now cornered in the building, we will punish the
masterminds swiftly and indeed very painfully.

"I call on Kenyans to stand courageous and united. Let us not sacrifice our
values and dignity to appease cowards.

"Our victory must be conclusive - let us defeat them with our unity."

He praised Kenyans for their support and donating blood to the injured.

He also applauded the international community for its continued support.

Labour leader Mr Miliband said: "This is an appalling attack which has left
three British citizens and many others dead.

"Our thoughts are with the families of the victims and the others caught up in
this dreadful atrocity.

"Those who carried out this attack will be condemned across the globe. The
cold-blooded killing of innocent women, children and men is as despicable as it
is shocking.

"This terrible attack reminds us all of the continuing need for vigilance from
our security services and ongoing international cooperation in the battle
against terrorism.

"I offer Labour's full support to the Government in the coming days as the
Kenyan authorities seek to bring this act of terrorism to an end and bring those
responsible to justice."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 11:06 AM GMT

Hostages held in mall terror attack

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 315 words


Kenyan security forces remain locked in a tense stand-off with armed terrorists
in a Nairobi shopping centre as the death toll continued to rise.

A day after 10 to 15 gunmen - believed to be Islamic extremists - stormed the
Westgate Mall attacking shoppers with guns and grenades, an unknown number of
hostages remained in the building.

Government officials said at least 59 people were confirmed dead and 175 others
were wounded in the atrocity, while about 1,000 were rescued from the upmarket
mall.

Joseph Lenku, the interior Cabinet secretary, said Kenyan forces had control of
the security cameras inside the mall and military troops and police had
surrounded the building.

Kenyan president Uhuru Kenyatta has pledged to hunt down and punish the
terrorists behind the brutal attack in Nairobi. In a national televised address
he said he had "personally lost family members in the Westgate attack".

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the outrage at
the mall in the affluent Westlands district of the capital, which is popular
with expats.

Foreign Secretary William Hague said Britons had undoubtedly been caught up in
the "callous and cowardly and brutal" assault by a heavily-armed gang who
singled out non-Muslims.

Mr Hague said "we should be ready for that and aware of that" as he revealed
that the Government's emergency response committee Cobra had met and a rapid
deployment team was being sent to Kenya to help.

Two Canadians, including one diplomat, and two French women have been confirmed
as among the dead. The US State Department also said four American citizens were
reported injured.

In his speech, Mr Kenyatta said security forces were in the process of
"neutralising the attackers and securing the mall" but he said it was a
"delicate" operation. He urged Kenyans to "remain calm and vigilant" and asked
them to donate blood to help treat the injured.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday

UN chief condemns terrorist attack in Nairobi mall

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 153 words


UNITED NATIONS - UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on Saturday slammed the deadly
terrorist attack at a shopping mall in Nairobi, Kenya earlier in the day,
calling the act "totally reprehensible."

Ban spoke with Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta by phone and extended his
condolences to the families of the deceased and the wounded, said a statement
from Ban's spokesperson's office.

The death toll in the attack by gunmen at a popular shopping mall in Nairobi has
risen to 39. Somalia's militant group Al-Shabaab has claimed responsibility for
the attack.

"This premeditated act, targeting defenceless civilians, is totally
reprehensible," Ban said, adding that "he trusts that those responsible for this
attack will be brought to justice."

In a press statement, UN Security Council members condemned the terrorist attack
"in the strongest possible terms" and reiterated their determination to combat
all forms of terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 6:25 PM GMT

World's most wanted woman and 7/7 widow linked to group behind Kenya terror
attack

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 424 words


<em class="bold">THE world's most wanted woman and widow of one of the 7/7
bombers has close links to the terror group behind the Kenya attack that killed
3 Brits.</em>

Samantha Lewthwaite, a mother of three from Buckinghamshire, is a senior figure
in Al Shabaab who claimed responsibility for the Nairobi attack.

The 29-year-old, nicknamed the White Widow, has been on the run for two years
and has an arrest warrant in Kenya for bomb making charges.

Muslim convert Lethwaite, widow of King's Cross bomber Jermaine Lindsay, is
suspected of playing a key role in the 7/7 attack which killed 52 people.

The terror attack in Nairobi, which has killed at least 59 people and injured
175, comes days after one of Lewthwaite's allies was killed.

British bomb-maker Habib Ghani, a 28-year-old who called himself Osama
al-Britani, was killed in a gun battle in Somalia on Friday 12 September.

A security source

Ghani was ambushed with a number of America's most wanted terrorists after
falling out with members of the Al Shabaab militant group.

Ghani had been a close ally of Buckinghamshire born Lewthwaite and it is not
believed she was with him when he was killed in the raid at dawn.

Mother-of-three Lewthwaite is suspected of funding terrorist groups in Kenya
could be one of the masterminds of the London bombings eight years ago.

Chemicals chemicals found in a raid on her home in Kenya in December 2010
included acetone and hydrogen peroxide, two of the key components of the terror
attacks in London eight years ago.

A security source said: "That raises the prospect that Lewthwaite may have been
more closely involved in the 7/7 attacks than previously thought.

"It might also explain her seniority as a top-rank Al Qaeda leader and the
suspected chief financier of Al Shabaab."

Lewthwaite is also a suspect for a grenade attack at a hotel bar in Mombasa,
Kenya, in which three people were killed last June while watching an England
football match on television during Euro 2012.

She has boasted of rearing children to become Mujahideen terrorists and is now
one of the world's most-wanted women.

The Al Shabaab terrorist group have claimed responsibility for the terror attack
on the Westgate Shopping Centre in Nairobi.

After storming the building with grenades and assault rifles the gunmen
reportedly allowed all Muslims to leave and targeted those they believed were
non-Muslims.

The Foreign Office confirmed today that three British nationals were killed in
the terror attack and that figure is expected to rise.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 2:20 PM GMT

Three Brits killed in Kenya terror attack where gunmen targeted non-Muslims

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 414 words


<em class="bold">TERRORISTS have killed at least three British nationals in a
terror attack where non-Muslims were targeted at a shopping centre in
Kenya.</em>

The Foreign Office said today the death toll is likely to rise and overall 59
people have been killed by gunmen while 175 others have been wounded.

The news comes as the standoff between police and gunmen has exceeded the 24
hour mark, with Prime Minister David Cameron describing the situation as
'ongoing'.

The Conservative leader said the terror attack in Kenya was appalling and that
the British government is providing assistance to Nairobi.

He said: "Three British nationals have been killed. The situation is ongoing, we
should prepare ourselves for further bad news."

The Foreign Office said the next of kin of the dead British nationals have been
informed.

Prime Minister David Cameron

A spokesman said "The number of British Nationals confirmed as killed is likely
to rise as further information becomes available."

"It is an absolutely sickening and despicable attack of appalling brutality."

Foreign Secretary William Hague will chair a meeting of the emergency Cobra
committee and extra staff have been sent to Nairobi to provide support.

Number 10 revealed British workers from nearby Addis Ababa in Ethopia have been
sent to Nairobi along with a rapid depolyment team from London.

The Downing Street spokesman added: The Government's crisis committee met again
earlier today, chaired by Foreign Secretary William Hague.

"The Government has sent a rapid deployment team from London to Nairobi to
provide further consular support. Staff from Addis Ababa have also been sent to
Nairobi to assist.

"The UK High Commission in Nairobi has consular staff at the site and nearby
hospitals."

Witnesses say that the gunmen yesterday told all Muslims to leave the centre,
before shooting at staff and shoppers they believed to be non-Muslim.

The gunmen currently have hostages inside the shopping mall but the exact number
of those being held is uncertain.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab has claimed responsibility for the brutal
assault in which men armed with guns and grenades stormed the mall and targeted
non-Muslims.

Military and police forces have surrounded the building while Kenyan forces have
control of security cameras inside the mall.

Kenya's interior cabinet secretary said there are up to 15 terrorists involved
in the attack and that around 1,000 people have been rescued.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gunmen murder 39 in shopping mall massacre;
TERROR ATTACK IN KENYA

BYLINE: Euan Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 261 words


At least 39 people were killed yesterday in a terrorist attack at a shopping
centre in Kenya.

Gunmen threw grenades then opened fire on customers at the upmarket Westgate
Mall, in Westlands, Nairobi, which is popular with expats.

One witness claimed the attackers told Muslims to stand up and leave and that
non-Muslims would be targeted, before they started their assault.

Large pockets of people trapped inside the centre - many of them injured - came
streaming out over the course of an hour.

Security guards used trolleys to wheel out wounded children.

There were unconfirmed reports that 30 people were being held hostage last
night. Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab claimed responsibility. One of the
attackers has been arrested.

Abbas Guled, of the Kenya Red Cross Society, said at least 50 were wounded.

British tourist Hannah Chisholm was in the centre when the attack started.

She said: "We kept running to different places but the shots were getting louder
so we barricaded ourselves, along with about 60 others, into a large storeroom.

"There were children hiding with us, as well as someone who had been shot. The
gunfire was loud and we were scared."

Rob Vandijk, who works at the Dutch embassy, was eating at a restaurant in the
shopping centre when attackers lobbed hand grenades inside the building.

He said he heard gunfire and people screaming as they dropped to the ground.

Police chief Benson Kibue said 10 attackers were involved. He added: "We are
treating this as a terrorist attack."

The Foreign Office said they were in contact with Kenyan authorities.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHAOS Mums flee the shopping centre in Nairobi with their kids
LUCKY TO BE ALIVE A policeman rescues a baby

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 4;
                                National Edition

Gunmen murder 39 in shopping mall massacre;
TERROR ATTACK IN KENYA

BYLINE: Euan Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 265 words


At least 39 people were killed yesterday in a terrorist attack at a shopping
centre in Kenya.

Gunmen threw grenades then opened fire on customers at the upmarket Westgate
Mall, in Westlands, Nairobi, which is popular with expats. At least 150 people
are thought to have been injured.

One witness claimed the attackers told Muslims to stand up and leave and that
non-Muslims would be targeted, before they started their assault.

Large pockets of people trapped inside the centre - many of them injured - came
streaming out over the course of an hour.

Security guards used trolleys to wheel out wounded children.

There were unconfirmed reports that 30 people were being held hostage last
night. Somali-based militant group al-Shabab claimed responsibility. One of the
attackers has been arrested.

British tourist Hannah Chisholm was in the centre when the attack started.

She said: "We kept running to different places but the shots were getting louder
so we barricaded ourselves, along with about 60 others, into a large storeroom.

"There were children hiding with us, as well as someone who had been shot. The
gunfire was loud and we were scared."

Another survivor, Sadia Ahmed, told how the gunmen let Muslims go free and then
shot others indiscriminately.

She said: "I saw a lot of children, a lot of elderly people being shot dead.
They were firing at random at anyone that tried to escape or made any sound,
anything."

Police chief Benson Kibue said 10 attackers were involved. He added: "We are
treating this as a terrorist attack."

The Foreign Office said they were in contact with Kenyan authorities.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHAOS Mums flee the shopping centre in Nairobi with their kids
LUCKY TO BE ALIVE A policeman rescues a baby

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 2:41 PM GMT

Foreign Office confirm at least three British nationals killed in Kenya terror
attack

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 435 words


THREE British nationals have been killed the Kenya terror attack which saw
masked gunmen target non-Muslims in a shopping centre in Nairobi.

The Foreign Office revealed the number of dead British people today as the stand
off between police and terrorists in Kenya has exceeded the 24 hour mark.

At least 59 people have been confirmed dead in the attack while 175 others
people have been wounded after gunmen stormed the Westgate Mall yesterday.

Prime Minister David Cameron described the terror attack as appalling and said
the situation is ongoing so the death toll is likely to rise.

He said: "Three British nationals have been killed. The situation is ongoing, we
should prepare ourselves for further bad news.

At least 175 people have been wounded in th Kenyan terro attack [AP]

"It is an absolutely sickening and despicable attack of appalling brutality."

The Foreign Office said the next of kin of the dead British nationals have been
informed.

A spokesman said "The number of British Nationals confirmed as killed is likely
to rise as further information becomes available."

While Foreign Secretary William Hague will chair a meeting of the Cobra
committee and extra staff have been sent to Nairobi to provide support.

Number 10 revealed British workers from nearby Addis Ababa in Ethopia have been
sent to Nairobi along with a rapid depolyment team from London.

An armed official takes a shooting position inside of the Westgate shopping mall
[EPA]

The Downing Street spokesman added: "The Government's crisis committee met again
earlier today, chaired by Foreign Secretary William Hague.

"The Government has sent a rapid deployment team from London to Nairobi to
provide further consular support. Staff from Addis Ababa have also been sent to
Nairobi to assist.

"The UK High Commission in Nairobi has consular staff at the site and nearby
hospitals."

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab has claimed responsibility for the brutal
assault in which men armed with guns and grenades stormed the mall and targeted
non-Muslims.

David Camerond described the Kenya terror attack as 'sickening' [EPA]

Military and police forces have surrounded the building while Kenyan forces have
control of security cameras inside the mall.

Witnesses say that the gunmen yesterday told all Muslims to leave the centre,
before shooting at staff and shoppers they believed to be non-Muslim.

The gunmen currently have hostages inside the shopping mall but the exact number
of those being held is uncertain.

Kenya's interior cabinet secretary said there are up to 15 terrorists involved
in the attack and that around 1,000 people have been rescued.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 2:08 PM GMT

Foreign Office confirm three British nationals killed in Kenya terror attack

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 119 words


THREE British nationals have been killed the Kenya terror attack which saw
masked gunmen target non-Muslims in a shopping centre in Nairobi.

The Foreign Office revealed the number of dead British people today as the stand
off between police and terrorists has exceeded the 24 hour mark.

At least 59 people have been confirmed dead in the attack while 175 others
people have been wounded after gunmen stormed the Westgate Mall yesterday.

Prime Minister David Cameron described the terror attack as appalling and said
the situation is ongoing so the death toll is likely to rise.

He said: "Three British nationals have been killed. The situation is ongoing, we
should prepare ourselves for further bad news."

More to follow...

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 11:49 AM GMT

WARNING- GRAPHIC IMAGES: At least 59 killed in Kenyan terror attack

BYLINE: Emma Kelly

LENGTH: 552 words


AT least 59 people have been killed and 175 wounded after masked gunmen opened
fire in a busy shopping centre in Kenya.

Kenya's interior cabinet secretary revealed the latest number of casualties
today as a stand off between gunmen and police reaches almost 24 hours.

The attackers, believed to be Islamic extremists, targeted the mall in Nairobi
using grenades and assault rifles.

Government official Joseph Lenku said:  "The priority is to save as many lives
as possible."

Mr Lenku said there are up to 15 terrorists involved in the attack, who have
taken hostages inside the shopping centre.

He added that Kenyan forces have so far rescued around 1,000 people.

Military and police forces have surrounded the building while Kenyan forces have
control of security cameras inside the mall.

Raila Odinga, former Prime Minister of Kenya, said officials could not determine
the exact number of hostages inside the mall.

He said: "There are quite a number of people still being held hostage on the
third floor and the basement area where the terrorists are still in charge.

A woman is carried to safety from Westgate Shopping Mall [GETTY]

Shoppers and staff escape to safety as police shoot at attackers [GETTY]

Police officers assist a wounded woman as she escapes Westgate Shopping Mall
[GETTY]

Somalia's al-Qaida-linked rebel group, al-Shabab, claimed responsibility for the
attack in which they specifically targeted non-Muslims.

Witnesses say that the gunmen yesterday told all Muslims to leave the centre,
before shooting at staff and shoppers they believed to be non-Muslim.

Speaking to Reuters, the principal secretary in the ministry of interior, Mutea
Iringo, said: "It is a possibility that it is an attack by terrorists, so we are
treating the matter very seriously."

The gunmen stormed the upmarket Westgate Shopping Mall in Nairobi before they
allegedly took seven people hostage. They attacked shoppers indiscriminately
with AK47s and grenades.

The Kenyan police were involved in a shootout with the gunmen.

Victims of the shooting were wheeled to safety in shopping trolleys. Many people
were bleeding heavily from bullet wounds, while the body of man lay on the steps
to the shopping centre. It is thought that 50 people are injured in addition to
the deaths.

Ye Lihui, a Chinese businessman, was in the shopping centre when the attack
occurred.

Injured victims are carried out by volunteers as the casualty list creeps up
[GETTY]

The injured were brought to safety on shopping trolleys [GETTY]

The shopping centre is an upmarket attraction for tourists in the area [GETTY]

He told the Telegraph: "There were two guys, they had AK47s, they were not far
from me.

"They were dressed in normal clothes. They had something like a small bomb,
maybe a grenade, and I watched one throw it into where many people were.

"I didn't see where it landed but the explosion was so loud."

Rob Vandijik, a worker at the Dutch embassy in Kenya, heard the gunfire as he
was eating in a restaurant in the centre.

He said: "I personally touched the eyes of four people and they were dead. One
of them was a child. It's carnage up there."

Locals and tourists have been urged to avoid the area.

[View the story "Scenes from the Nairobi Westgate shooting" on Storify]

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 10:26 AM GMT

Pakistan church bombing: At least 40 dead as Christians targeted in suicide
terror attack

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 233 words


AT least 40 people have been killed and 70 wounded as a suicide bomber targeted
a Christian church in Pakistan this morning.

The terrorist detonated the explosives which ripped through the church in
Peshawar as parishioners were leaving the church.

The church is located in a densely populated city, while Christians make up four
per cent of Pakistan's 180 million strong population.

Deputy commissioner Zaheerul Islam said: "Six hundred people were inside the
church when the blast took place."

While senior police officer Najeeb Bogvi said the death toll included two
policemen and six women.

Speaking to Pakistani TV, a man outside the scene of the attack said:
"Terrorists have not spared mosques, temples and churches. Please have mercy on
us."

People shift an injured victim to a hospital after the suicide bombing [EPA]

A bomb disposal security source claimed the attack was carried out by a pair of
attackers and that there were to explosions.

The attack is the worst sectarian attack since Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif was
sworn in in June.

In its immediate aftermath a number of residents took to the streets to protest
against the violent attack by burning tyres.

Pakistan is one of the most dangerous countries for minorities and Christians
tend to keep a low profile in the area.

Islamist militants frequently bomb targets they see as heretical which includes
Christians and Shi'ites.

More to follow...

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 9:22 PM GMT

Indyplus video: Horror in Kenya as terrorists attack in Nairobi shopping centre

SECTION: INDEPENDENT PLUS

LENGTH: 55 words


At least 68 people were killed after gunmen stormed an upscale shopping centre
in Nairobi on Saturday, according to the Red Cross.

A further 175 people have been taken to hospital with serious injuries while
about 1,000 have been rescued unharmed as the hostage crisis continues.

Watch footage of the hostage crisis in the video below:

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 6:49 PM GMT

Indyplus video: Horror in Kenya as 59 die in terrorist attack in Nairobi
shopping centre

SECTION: INDEPENDENT PLUS

LENGTH: 59 words


At least 59 people were killed, including three Britons, after a group of
terrorists armed with grenades stormed an upscale shopping in Nairobi on
Saturday.

A further 175 people have been taken to hospital with serious injuries while
about 1,000 have been rescued unharmed as the hostage crisis continues.

Watch footage of the hostage crisis in the video below:

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 5:24 PM GMT

Nairobi mall attack: If foreigners steer clear of Kenya, the terrorists claim
another victory;
British travellers might go elsewhere for superb beaches and safari locations

BYLINE: Simon Calder

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 354 words


The natural responses to the Westgate massacre are horror at the cruelty,
outrage towards the perpetrators and empathy with victims and their families. As
the death toll increases, many will feel another emotion: apprehension.

Another soft target has become the location for carnage; where might extremists
strike next? How much will security ratchet up in peaceable communities, in a
futile bid to "harden" day-to-day activities against terrorist attack?

To these fears, some people bring more immediate and practical anxieties. Many
thousands of tourists are due to travel to Kenya in the next few months. And as
tourism accounts for one-fifth of the nation's economy, around eight million
Kenyans rely upon earnings from Western visitors.

The Foreign Office is, as always, treading a tightrope between the paramount
duty to protect British citizens and the risk of damaging an ally. Its advice to
prospective visitors to Kenya is likely to stop well short of urging against
"all but essential travel". And that decision is probably right.

Early on Sunday morning, Australia's Department of Foreign Affairs put out an
alert to its citizens in Kenya. It listed some of the possible targets for
another attack: "hotels, airports, shopping areas, markets, bars, nightclubs,
restaurants and cafes, tourist resorts (including beach resorts and beaches),
safari lodges, churches and other places of worship, commercial airlines and
other places frequented by foreigners". That does not leave the average
holidaymaker with much of an agenda. Australians in Kenya are also warned to
"Avoid public places for the next 24-48 hours".

A couple of days? The danger - and doubtless one aim of this al-Shabab attack -
is that many travellers will avoid public places in Kenya for an awful lot
longer. After all, superb beaches and safari locations are available in African
nations where British travellers have not been abducted and murdered, nor
expatriates slaughtered. But if too many relatively wealthy Westerners turn
their backs on this friendly, beautiful and entrancing East African country, the
terrorists will claim another victory.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 10:31 AM GMT

Nairobi mall terror attack: Death toll rises to 59 as shots are fired on troops
preparing hostage rescue operation;
Kenyan minister says 'we have access to CCTV and are in complete control',
adding more than 1,000 people have been rescued from the Westgate shopping
centre since the terrorists started shooting

BYLINE: Katie Grant, Sebastian Salek, Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 963 words


The Kenyan military are preparing to storm the Westgate shopping centre in
Nairobi where terrorists are holding an unknown number of hostages, following an
attack yesterday which the Interior Ministry now says killed at least 59 people.

Gunmen armed with grenades, AK-47s and ammunition belts opened fire inside the
affluent mall during a children's cooking competition, with witnesses saying the
terrorists numbered up to 10 men - some of whom looked as young as 18.

Reinforcements arrived this morning, according to the ministry, with armoured
vehicles bringing more soldiers to join in the rescue operation. At
approximately 11am (9am BST), fresh barrages of gunfire were heard from within
the shopping centre, reportedly as security forces ran in a line and crouched
along the front of the building.

Speaking to reporters today, Interior Minister Joseph Ole Lenku said the police
and army were in complete control of the situation, and that they now had remote
control of the shopping centre's CCTV systems.

Mr Lenku said the official number of injured had increased to 175, but he added
that he was thankful for the fact that they had been able to get more than 1,000
people out of the mall safely.

Today's movements at the scene come as security forces try to establish the
number of hostages within the building - thought to be around 30 - with several
of those trapped in the building overnight having been able to escape on their
own.

Nairobi's Police Chief, Benson Kibue, yesterday described the assault as a
terrorist attack, and last night the Somalia-based group al-Shabaab was reported
to have claimed responsibility.

According to eye-witnesses, the gunmen told Muslims to leave the centre shortly
before midday and said that non-Muslims would be targeted.

Some claimed the attackers had asked, "who is Prophet's mother?" in an attempt
to discover non-Muslims. One man escaped by showing the attackers his ID with
his name, Hakim, on it. Another reportedly failed to name the Prophet's mother
and was killed.

Grenade explosions and gunfire sent scores fleeing in panic from shops and
restaurants on to the streets, according to witnesses and the Red Cross.
Shooting continued hours after the initial assault as Kenyan troops surrounded
the mall and police and soldiers combed the building, hunting down the attackers
shop by shop. A police officer inside the building said the gunmen were
barricaded inside the Nakumatt supermarket, one of Kenya's biggest chains.

Kenya's Deputy President, William Ruto, promised last night that they would "end
the siege and get to the bottom of the attack". "We will bring to account the
perpetrators and their accomplices," he said. Kenya Police said on Twitter that
they had detained one of the Westgate Mall suspects, though reports later
suggested he had died in hospital.

The Inspector General of Police, David Kimaiyo, said officers had rescued "quite
a number" of hostages. He added that hostages were being screened as officers
were "not taking any chances".

Police initially said it was an attempted robbery but later acknowledged that as
many as 10 terrorists were involved. Al-Shabaab vowed in 2011 to carry out a
large-scale attack on Kenya in retaliation for Somali and Kenyan military
operations against its insurgents. Its threatened targets included the shopping
centre, which is popular with both affluent Kenyans and Western expats.

Last night, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office said it was "urgently"
attempting to discover if any Britons were among those killed. It has updated
its travel advice to the thousands of Britons who visit the capital each year,
warning "British nationals should avoid the area". The Foreign Secretary,
William Hague, said he was "appalled" by the attack, adding: "Our urgent
priority is the welfare of UK nationals in Kenya."

Yesterday's attack, if confirmed as a terrorist-inspired action, will be the
biggest such attack in Kenya since al-Qa'ida bombed the US embassy in Nairobi in
1998, killing more than 200 people. In 2002, the same militant cell attacked an
Israeli-owned hotel and tried to shoot down an Israeli jet in a co-ordinated
attack in Mombasa.

Who Are al-Shabaab?

Islamist extremism has been on the rise in East Africa for the past decade, with
al-Qa'ida-linked groups such as al-Shabaab behind a growing number of terror
attacks.

Since the Kenyan army began helping Somali forces tackle al-Shabaab insurgents
in southern Somalia in October 2011, Kenya has fallen victim to a string of
retaliatory gun and grenade attacks.

Last month, four Kenyan police officers were shot dead in Garissa, near the
Somali border, when 40 armed men suspected of belonging to al-Shabaab attacked a
police post. In July, the group released two Kenyan government officials it had
seized in a 2012 cross-border attack, after holding them hostage in Somalia for
more than a year.

Between July 2011 and July 2012 there were at least 17 attacks involving
grenades or explosive devices in Kenya, killing at least 48 people and injuring
around 200. Four of these attacks occurred in Nairobi, and four in Mombasa.
Targeted locations have included police stations and police vehicles, nightclubs
and bars, churches, a religious gathering, shops and a bus station.

Al-Shabaab was also behind the twin bomb attacks in Kampala, Uganda, that killed
at least 74 people in 2010. These were again connected to military actions
against them in Somalia. Sheik Ali Mohamud Rage, the group's spokesperson, said
soon after the bombings: "We are sending a message to Uganda and Burundi, if
they do not take out their Amisom [African Union Mission in Somalia] troops from
Somalia, blasts will continue and it will happen."

Today, the group added: "The Kenyan government turned a deaf ear to our repeated
warnings."

Emily Dugan

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 11:35 PM GMT

Three of Kenya mall massacre gunmen 'are American': Sixty-eight dead and four US
citizens wounded as terrorist attack nears bloody conclusion with special forces
moving in to free hostages

BYLINE: LOUISE BOYLE, ELLIE BUCHDAHL, STUART WOLEDGE and RYAN GORMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3003 words



     ·    Kenyan security forces are locked in a stand-off with the terrorists
          almost 36 hours after they launched attack
     ·    'This will end tonight. Our forces will prevail. Kenyans are standing
          firm against aggression, and we will win,' Kenya's Disaster Operations
          Center tweeted on Sunday
     ·    Canadian diplomat Annemarie Desloges, 29, and pregnant Kenyan radio
          journalist Ruhila Adatia among the dead
     ·    Somalian terrorist group al Shabaab, which has links to al Qaeda,
          claimed responsibility for the attack which they live-blogged on
          Twitter
     ·    Terrorist organization released a statement saying it warned Kenya to
          remove troops from Somalia
     ·    The upscale mall is a favorite shopping spot for Western expat and
          wealthy Kenyan families
     ·    Witness says attackers told shoppers non-Muslims were the targets;
          estimated 30 hostages remain in the mall
     ·    So far at least 68 people have been reported to have died and 175
          people injured


Three of the terrorists who killed 68 people in a despicable attack on an
upmarket Kenyan shopping mall are reportedly Americans, it has been quoted as
the Kenyan military reported that it had rescued hostages and secured 'most
parts' of the center.

Al Shabaab sources told  CNN on Sunday that nine extremists had been named on
their Twitter account along with their nationalities and allegedly included U.S.
citizens. The account has now been suspended by the site.

The Kenya Defence Forces posted on its Twitter account that 'most of the
hostages hostages have been rescued' and that four security forces had taken
control of 'most parts of the building.'

The revelation came as a large explosion rocked the upmarket Kenyan mall on
Sunday where Islamic extremists are holding hostages after launching an attack
which left at least 68 people dead.

Witnesses at the Westgate shopping center in Nairobi said the explosion - which
was followed by silence - is by far the largest as the siege nears the 36-hour
mark. Up to 15 militant attackers were in the mall on Sunday night holding an
estimated 30 captives, said Kenyan officials. More than 175 people have been
wounded.

The Kenyan military stormed the four-story mall and there have been sporadic gun
battles with extremists. Kenyan troops were seen carrying in at least two
rocket-propelled grenades - and, earlier, military helicopters hovered over the
mall.

It came after the wife of a U.S. embassy worker was identified as one of the
dead. Four Americans are among the 175 wounded in the attack by

al Qaeda-linked extremists, who opened fire in the mall after reportedly
allowing Muslims to flee.

Reuters had earlier reported that Secretary of State John Kerry said the wife of
a U.S. diplomat working for the U.S. Agency for International Development was
killed. However the State Department said that it was in fact the wife of a
national working for the U.S. embassy in Nairobi.

There are currently no reports of American casualties.

WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT: SCROLL DOWN FOR LIVE COVERAGE

Kenya's Red Cross said that 49 people were reported missing. Officials did not
make an explicit link but that number could form the basis of the number of
people held captive.

The Red Cross added on Sunday that the death toll had risen from 59 to 68 after
nine more bodies were recovered in a joint rescue mission.

Kenyan police said on Twitter on Sunday that a 'MAJOR' assault by security
forces had started to end the two-day siege.

'This will end tonight. Our forces will prevail. Kenyans are standing firm
against aggression, and we will win,' Kenya's Disaster Operations Center
tweeted.

The assault came about 36 hours after up to 15 al Shabaab extremists stormed the
mall from two sides, throwing grenades and firing on civilians.

Kenya's interior minister Joseph Ole Lenku said the military had identified the
attackers' locations but that the operation is very 'delicate'.

'We have confirmed the location of the criminals but will not give (out) the
details,' he said. 'We don't want to lose innocent life.'

A State Department official told MailOnline on Sunday: 'The situation is
ongoing.  There are no new reports of American citizen casualties.

'The United States remains committed to continuing our close cooperation with
the Kenyan government to combat the shared threat of international terrorism.'

As the massacre unfolded, witnesses described terrifying scenes in which men,
women and children of all ages and nationalities were brutally cut down by
gunfire.

Around 1,000 people were evacuated from the mall with many running from the
center with their hands raised while others crawled on their bellies to safety.

The Westgate Mall is a popular weekend spot with wealthy Kenyans and foreign
expats with its array of big-brand stores, coffee shops and sushi restaurants.

The names of the dead began to emerge over the weekend as the siege continued.
Canadian diplomat Anne-Marie Desloges, 29, and a pregnant Kenyan radio
journalist Ruhila Adatia were identified as being killed in the terrorist
attack.

A renowned Ghanaian poet and statesman Kofi Awoonor was killed. The esteemed
professor was a former ambassador Brazil, Cuba and the United Nations.

Elaine Dang, 26, a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley, has
been named as one of the injured and is recovering in hospital today. She
tweeted on Sunday: 'I am recovering. Thank you for all the love and support - in
Kenya and overseas. Terrorism knows no religion.'

She then posted a picture of herself and added: 'Proof that I am OK - hanging
out with some of my best friends in Nairobi.'

The mall, a popular haunt for rich Kenyans and expats, is dotted with bodies
lying in pools of blood. Some victims were shot dead as they sat in their cars,
while others have been left with horrific injuries.

Gunfire erupted briefly on Sunday inside the Nairobi shopping mall where
Islamist militants are holed up with hostages.

The terrorists, using guns and grenades, slaughtered 68 people in the attack,
according to Kenyan Interior Minister Joe Lenku. A large Kenyan security force
has laid siege to the mall and taken control of its security cameras.

Five hostages were released on Sunday at around 2am local time. It is thought
that Israeli soldiers are assisting with the rescue mission: 'The Israelis have
entered and they are rescuing the hostages and the injured,' a source told AFP.

Two wounded Kenyan security forces officers were carried out of the mall this
morning after a barrage of gunfire was heard.

Two gunmen have been killed by authorities, but as many as 15 remain, CNN
reported. Is is believed that one of the militant fighters is a woman.

Jonathan Maungo, a private security guard, told Reuters: 'They entered through
blood, that's how they'll leave.'

Terrified shoppers told of how they huddled in back hallways and prayed they
would not be found by the militants. When the way appeared clear, crying mothers
clutching small children and blood-splattered men sprinted out of the mall.

At one burger restaurant, a man and woman lay in a final embrace after they had
been killed, before their bodies were removed. Pop music was still playing over
the loudspeaker.

Witness Elijah Kamau said the gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave and that
non-Muslims would be targeted, as they began their attack.

The gunmen threw grenades and then opened fire, sending shoppers and staff
fleeing for their lives.

Charles Karani, 41, an IT engineer, said: 'I hid under a car with my daughters,
and I saw the men line up maybe 40 people and ask them who was Muslim, and if
they were to prove it by saying the name of the Prophet's mother. Those who got
it wrong were shot.

'There was blood everywhere. Two ladies under the car with me had gunshot wounds
on their legs.

'Another Indian gentlemen was hit in the face by a bullet but he seemed not to
be gravely hurt. Other people for sure are dead. I saw four people lying, not
moving.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab, which is linked to al Qaeda, has claimed
responsibility for the atrocity in which men armed with guns and grenades
stormed the mall and targeted non-Muslims.

In what is believed to be a first, terrorists live-tweeted the attack on their
Twitter account until it was suspended.

The savage attack took place on the International Day of Peace, which is usually
celebrated by temporary cease-fires in conflict zones in order to allow for
humanitarian aid, according to the United Nations.

'We have reports of American citizens injured in the attack, and the U.S.
Embassy is actively reaching out to provide assistance,' Marie Harf, deputy
spokesman for the State Department said in the statement.

'We condemn this senseless act of violence that has resulted in death and injury
for many innocent men, women, and children.'

Citing privacy concerns, the U.S. Embassy declined to identify the Americans
involved but an official did tell the Associated press that four Americans were
injured in the assault.

Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta says he shares the grief of the nation - his
nephew and nephew's fiancee are among the dead.

'We shall hunt down the perpetrators wherever they run to,' said President
Kenyatta. 'We shall get them. We shall punish them for this heinous crime.

'We are as brave and invincible as the lions on our coat of arms, my government
stands ready... I urge all Kenyans to stand together and see this dark moment
through,' the clearly shaken president continued.

'The despicable perpetrators of this cowardly act hoped to intimidate, divide
and cause despondency amongst Kenyans.We have overcome terrorist attacks before.
We will defeat them again.'

He urged Kenyans to 'remain calm and vigilant' and asked them to donate blood to
help treat the injured.

A confidential United Nations report cited by the New York Times called the
attack 'a complex, two-pronged assault' with two squads of gunmen opening fire
while storming the mall from different floors. Witnesses told the paper one of
the gunmen was a woman.

MASSACRE AT THE MALL: TIMELINE OF THE TERRORIST ATTACK

The timeline is on Kenyan time, seven hours ahead of Eastern Standard Time in
the U.S.

Saturday, 12.30pm: Terrorists storm the Westgate Mall in Nairobi, an upmarket
shopping center, through the front entrance.

Initially, shoppers believe the attack to be a robbery.  Reports of grenade
explosions

12.45pm: Up to 15 gun-wielding suspects swarm the mall as terrified shoppers run
for their lives and others shelter in closets, refrigerators and back hallways.

1pm: Kenyan security forces launch an assault on the mall to flush out the
gunman

3pm: The first bodies are removed from the mall including those who were shot
dead at lunch tables and a couple lying in a final embrace.

4pm: Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta says he has lost several family members
before vowing that terrorists would be defeated.

Among the 39 being reported dead are the wife of an American diplomat along with
Canadian and Ghanian diplomats.

9pm: al Shabaab, a Somali-militant group with links to al Qaeda, claim
responsibility for the attack.

2am: Five hostages are released. Up to 15 remain inside while their relatives
hold a vigil at a Red Cross center nearby

11am: Bursts of gunfire from the building as Kenyan security forces close in.
Israeli troops brought in for support

Sunday 2pm: 59 people dead; with 175 injuredand 15 hostages still trapped

Several armed units and soldiers could be seen on Kenyan television streaming
into the area surrounding the mall as the siege approached the 20-hour mark.
Reports also indicated the gunmen were firing on authorities staged in the
parking lot as the sun came up on Sunday. Continuous sporadic gunfire was heard
throughout the morning.

Hannah Chisholm, visiting Nairobi from the UK, said she and 60 others barricaded
themselves in a large storeroom.

'We kept running to different places but the shots were getting louder so we
barricaded ourselves along with about 60 others into a large storeroom. There
were children hiding with us as well as someone who had been shot,'she told the
BBC.

'The gunfire was loud and we were scared but at that point we thought the gunmen
were thieves so we assumed they wouldn't try to reach the storeroom,' she added.



Diplomat Annemarie Desloges, 29, was killed in the terror attack, the Canadian
government confirmed on Sunday.

Mrs Desloges was shopping with her husband when the attack took place, according
to the Vancouver Sun. She was a liaison officer with the Canada Border Services
Agency, working on immigration issues, the paper noted. Mrs Deloges had been
living in Kenya for two years.

Britain's Foreign Office said at least three UK nationals were killed in the
attack and warned that the number of such fatalities is 'likely to rise as
further information becomes available'.

It was reported today that a person holding dual Australian and British
citizenship was killed in the attack.

French President Francois Holland said two French women were killed.

One South African citizen was killed, said the country's International Relations
Department.

Two Indians were killed and four wounded in the attack, said Syed Akbaruddin,
spokesman for India's External Affairs Ministry.

Dutch Foreign Minister Frans Timmermans said a 33-year-old Dutch woman died in
the attack and that seven other Dutch citizens who were in the mall escaped
unharmed. The victim's identity was not released.

A 38-year-old Chinese woman was killed in the shopping mall 'terror attack', the
Chinese Embassy in Kenya said in a statement. Her son was injured and
hospitalized in stable condition, according to the statement posted on the
embassy's website.

Pregnant Kenyan radio journalist Ruhila Adatia was confirmed among the dead.
Prior to going shopping for baby clothes, Ms Adatia was hosting a children's
cooking competition in the mall's parking lot.

The popular presenter posted several pictures taken posing with fans to
Instagram in the hours before the attack.

Fellow journalist Kamal Kaur, who was with Ms Adatia in the mall when she was
shot dead, told KTN that her children had been injuried. Both children suffered
shrapnel wounds to the legs and one had a head injury, she said.

AL-SHABAAB AT A GLANCE


     ·    Translated from Arabic means 'the Youth'
     ·    Evolved from being the de-facto police in Mogadishu, Somalia into
          terrorism
     ·    Began suicide bombings in 2009 while attempting to overthrow Somali
          transitional government
     ·    The largest Somalian terror organization
     ·    Affiliated with al Qaeda
     ·    Has recruited members from many countries, including the U.S.
     ·    14 youths from Minnesota were charged in 2009 for trying to join the
          group
     ·    Also claimed responsibility for 2010 attack in Uganda that killed 74
          at a soccer match
     ·    Main targets are Kenya and Uganda because they fund Somali government


Source:  al-Jazeera America

'She was so excited about her baby, I don't know what to do... I'm lost, I'm
lost,' a hysterical Ms Kaur told the station between uncontrollable crying.

'Images of the day keep flashing in front of my eyes. Dead bodies, injured
people, wailing, crying, scared, Ms Kaur tweeted hours after the attack.

'He stood there with a gun. Aiming it where the kids were. And the b*****d shot
them,' Ms Kaur tweeted.

Al-Shabaab, also known as Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen (HSM), claimed
responsibility for the atrocity on Twitter.

The terrorist organization said that it had previously warned the Kenyan
government that, if they did not remove military forces from Somalia, there
would be 'severe consequences'.

'For long we have waged war against the Kenyans in our land, now it's time to
shift the battleground and take the war to their land,' terrorists tweeted,
before launching into a chilling account of the attack as it unfolded.

The militant group wrote: 'The Mujahideen entered Westgate Mall today at around
noon and are still inside the mall, fighting the Kenyan Kuffar inside their own
turf.'

The organization claimed it had killed more than 100 Kenyan 'kuffar', a
derogatory term used to describe non-Muslims.

'Since our last contact, the Mujahideen inside the mall confirmed to @HSM_Press
that they killed over 100 Kenyan kiffar & battle is ongoing.' the tweets
continued.

'What Kenyans are witnessing today at #Westgate is retributive justice for
crimes committed by their military, albeit largely miniscule in nature,' read
the final tweet.

Twitter soon suspended the Twitter account, citing terms of service regarding
violence or threats. Twitter has declined any further comment.

Witnesses who escaped the attack said anyone who could recite a Muslim prayer to
their captors was allowed to leave unscathed. But the attackers turned their
guns on anyone who could not prove they were Islamic.

Another survivor claimed that the gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave and
that only non-Muslims would be targeted when they opened fire at the upmarket
mall of the Westlands district around midday on Saturday.

'Militants went into the mall and executed people: women and children, anyone
who got in their path,' New York Times staff photographer Tyler HIcks told the
paper in an interview. Mr Hicks was in the mall during the attack.

Police initially believed the attack was an attempt by about ten armed men to
rob a shop. But Elijah Kamau, another survivor witness, said that the gunmen had
announced that they were targeting non-Muslims as they began their attack at the
center.

Some of those who escaped were 'challenged to recite a Muslim prayer and were
then let out', according to Allan Sayers, who contacted MailOnline and said he
was in the Westgate mall five minutes before the attack.

Mr Sayers said people were still in text and phone contact with some of the
hostages.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 11:09 PM GMT

Three of Kenya mall massacre gunmen 'are American': Sixty-eight dead and four US
citizens wounded as terrorist attack nears bloody conclusion with special forces
moving in to free hostages

BYLINE: LOUISE BOYLE, ELLIE BUCHDAHL, STUART WOLEDGE and RYAN GORMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3800 words



     ·    Kenyan security forces are locked in a stand-off with the terrorists
          almost 36 hours after they launched attack
     ·    'This will end tonight. Our forces will prevail. Kenyans are standing
          firm against aggression, and we will win,' Kenya's Disaster Operations
          Center tweeted on Sunday
     ·    Canadian diplomat Annemarie Desloges, 29, and pregnant Kenyan radio
          journalist Ruhila Adatia among the dead
     ·    Security guards wheeling out bodies in shopping carts from Westlands
          Shopping Center in Nairobi
     ·    Somalian terrorist group al Shabaab, which has links to al Qaeda,
          claimed responsibility for the attack which they live-blogged on
          Twitter
     ·    Terrorist organization released a statement saying it warned Kenya to
          remove troops from Somalia
     ·    The upscale mall is a favorite shopping spot for Western expat and
          wealthy Kenyan families
     ·    Witness says attackers told shoppers non-Muslims were the targets;
          estimated 30 hostages remain in the mall


Three of the terrorists who killed 68 people in a despicable attack on an
upmarket Kenyan shopping mall are reportedly Americans, it has been quoted.

Al Shabaab sources told  CNN on Sunday that nine extremists had been named on
their Twitter account along with their nationalities and allegedly included U.S.
citizens. The account has now been suspended by the site.

The revelation came as a large explosion rocked the upmarket Kenyan mall on
Sunday where Islamic extremists are holding hostages after launching an attack
which left at least 68 people dead.

Witnesses at the Westgate shopping center in Nairobi said the explosion - which
was followed by silence - is by far the largest as the siege nears the 36-hour
mark. Up to 15 militant attackers were in the mall on Sunday night holding an
estimated 30 captives, said Kenyan officials. More than 175 people have been
wounded.

The Kenyan military stormed the four-story mall and there have been sporadic gun
battles with extremists. Kenyan troops were seen carrying in at least two
rocket-propelled grenades - and, earlier, military helicopters hovered over the
mall.

It came after the wife of a U.S. embassy worker was identified as one of the
dead. Four Americans are among the 175 wounded in the attack by

al Qaeda-linked extremists, who opened fire in the mall after reportedly
allowing Muslims to flee.

Reuters had earlier reported that Secretary of State John Kerry said the wife of
a U.S. diplomat working for the U.S. Agency for International Development was
killed. However the State Department said that it was in fact the wife of a
national working for the U.S. embassy in Nairobi.

WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT: SCROLL DOWN FOR LIVE COVERAGE

Kenya's Red Cross said that 49 people were reported missing. Officials did not
make an explicit link but that number could form the basis of the number of
people held captive.

The Red Cross added on Sunday that the death toll had risen from 59 to 68 after
nine more bodies were recovered in a joint rescue mission.

Kenyan police said on Twitter on Sunday that a 'MAJOR' assault by security
forces had started to end the two-day siege.

'This will end tonight. Our forces will prevail. Kenyans are standing firm
against aggression, and we will win,' Kenya's Disaster Operations Center
tweeted.

The assault came about 36 hours after up to 15 al Shabaab extremists stormed the
mall from two sides, throwing grenades and firing on civilians.

Kenya's interior minister Joseph Ole Lenku said the military had identified the
attackers' locations but that the operation is very 'delicate'.

'We have confirmed the location of the criminals but will not give (out) the
details,' he said. 'We don't want to lose innocent life.'

A State Department official told MailOnline on Sunday: 'The situation is
ongoing.  There are no new reports of American citizen casualties.

'The United States remains committed to continuing our close cooperation with
the Kenyan government to combat the shared threat of international terrorism.'

As the massacre unfolded, witnesses described terrifying scenes in which men,
women and children of all ages and nationalities were brutally cut down by
gunfire.

Around 1,000 people were evacuated from the mall with many running from the
center with their hands raised while others crawled on their bellies to safety.

The Westgate Mall is a popular weekend spot with wealthy Kenyans and foreign
expats with its array of big-brand stores, coffee shops and sushi restaurants.

The names of the dead began to emerge over the weekend as the siege continued.
Canadian diplomat Anne-Marie Desloges, 29, and a pregnant Kenyan radio
journalist Ruhila Adatia were identified as being killed in the terrorist
attack.

A renowned Ghanaian poet and statesman Kofi Awoonor was killed. The esteemed
professor was a former ambassador Brazil, Cuba and the United Nations.

Elaine Dang, 26, a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley, has
been named as one of the injured and is recovering in hospital today. She
tweeted on Sunday: 'I am recovering. Thank you for all the love and support - in
Kenya and overseas. Terrorism knows no religion.'

She then posted a picture of herself and added: 'Proof that I am OK - hanging
out with some of my best friends in Nairobi.'

The mall, a popular haunt for rich Kenyans and expats, is dotted with bodies
lying in pools of blood. Some victims were shot dead as they sat in their cars,
while others have been left with horrific injuries.

Gunfire erupted briefly on Sunday inside the Nairobi shopping mall where
Islamist militants are holed up with hostages.

The terrorists, using guns and grenades, slaughtered 68 people in the attack,
according to Kenyan Interior Minister Joe Lenku. A large Kenyan security force
has laid siege to the mall and taken control of its security cameras.

Five hostages were released on Sunday at around 2am local time. It is thought
that Israeli soldiers are assisting with the rescue mission: 'The Israelis have
entered and they are rescuing the hostages and the injured,' a source told AFP.

Two wounded Kenyan security forces officers were carried out of the mall this
morning after a barrage of gunfire was heard.

Two gunmen have been killed by authorities, but as many as 15 remain, CNN
reported. Is is believed that one of the militant fighters is a woman.

Jonathan Maungo, a private security guard, told Reuters: 'They entered through
blood, that's how they'll leave.'

Terrified shoppers told of how they huddled in back hallways and prayed they
would not be found by the militants. When the way appeared clear, crying mothers
clutching small children and blood-splattered men sprinted out of the mall.

At one burger restaurant, a man and woman lay in a final embrace after they had
been killed, before their bodies were removed. Pop music was still playing over
the loudspeaker.

Witness Elijah Kamau said the gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave and that
non-Muslims would be targeted, as they began their attack.

The gunmen threw grenades and then opened fire, sending shoppers and staff
fleeing for their lives.

Charles Karani, 41, an IT engineer, said: 'I hid under a car with my daughters,
and I saw the men line up maybe 40 people and ask them who was Muslim, and if
they were to prove it by saying the name of the Prophet's mother. Those who got
it wrong were shot.

'There was blood everywhere. Two ladies under the car with me had gunshot wounds
on their legs.

'Another Indian gentlemen was hit in the face by a bullet but he seemed not to
be gravely hurt. Other people for sure are dead. I saw four people lying, not
moving.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab, which is linked to al Qaeda, has claimed
responsibility for the atrocity in which men armed with guns and grenades
stormed the mall and targeted non-Muslims.

In what is believed to be a first, terrorists live-tweeted the attack on their
Twitter account until it was suspended.

The savage attack took place on the International Day of Peace, which is usually
celebrated by temporary cease-fires in conflict zones in order to allow for
humanitarian aid, according to the United Nations.

'We have reports of American citizens injured in the attack, and the U.S.
Embassy is actively reaching out to provide assistance,' Marie Harf, deputy
spokesman for the State Department said in the statement.

'We condemn this senseless act of violence that has resulted in death and injury
for many innocent men, women, and children.'

Citing privacy concerns, the U.S. Embassy declined to identify the Americans
involved but an official did tell the Associated press that four Americans were
injured in the assault.

Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta says he shares the grief of the nation - his
nephew and nephew's fiancee are among the dead.

'We shall hunt down the perpetrators wherever they run to,' said President
Kenyatta. 'We shall get them. We shall punish them for this heinous crime.

'We are as brave and invincible as the lions on our coat of arms, my government
stands ready... I urge all Kenyans to stand together and see this dark moment
through,' the clearly shaken president continued.

'The despicable perpetrators of this cowardly act hoped to intimidate, divide
and cause despondency amongst Kenyans.We have overcome terrorist attacks before.
We will defeat them again.'

He urged Kenyans to 'remain calm and vigilant' and asked them to donate blood to
help treat the injured.

A confidential United Nations report cited by the New York Times called the
attack 'a complex, two-pronged assault' with two squads of gunmen opening fire
while storming the mall from different floors. Witnesses told the paper one of
the gunmen was a woman.

MASSACRE AT THE MALL: TIMELINE OF THE TERRORIST ATTACK

The timeline is on Kenyan time, seven hours ahead of Eastern Standard Time in
the U.S.

Saturday, 12.30pm: Terrorists storm the Westgate Mall in Nairobi, an upmarket
shopping center, through the front entrance.

Initially, shoppers believe the attack to be a robbery.  Reports of grenade
explosions

12.45pm: Up to 15 gun-wielding suspects swarm the mall as terrified shoppers run
for their lives and others shelter in closets, refrigerators and back hallways.

1pm: Kenyan security forces launch an assault on the mall to flush out the
gunman

3pm: The first bodies are removed from the mall including those who were shot
dead at lunch tables and a couple lying in a final embrace.

4pm: Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta says he has lost several family members
before vowing that terrorists would be defeated.

Among the 39 being reported dead are the wife of an American diplomat along with
Canadian and Ghanian diplomats.

9pm: al Shabaab, a Somali-militant group with links to al Qaeda, claim
responsibility for the attack.

2am: Five hostages are released. Up to 15 remain inside while their relatives
hold a vigil at a Red Cross center nearby

11am: Bursts of gunfire from the building as Kenyan security forces close in.
Israeli troops brought in for support

Sunday 2pm: 59 people dead; with 175 injuredand 15 hostages still trapped

Several armed units and soldiers could be seen on Kenyan television streaming
into the area surrounding the mall as the siege approached the 20-hour mark.
Reports also indicated the gunmen were firing on authorities staged in the
parking lot as the sun came up on Sunday. Continuous sporadic gunfire was heard
throughout the morning.

Hannah Chisholm, visiting Nairobi from the UK, said she and 60 others barricaded
themselves in a large storeroom.

'We kept running to different places but the shots were getting louder so we
barricaded ourselves along with about 60 others into a large storeroom. There
were children hiding with us as well as someone who had been shot,'she told the
BBC.

'The gunfire was loud and we were scared but at that point we thought the gunmen
were thieves so we assumed they wouldn't try to reach the storeroom,' she added.



Diplomat Annemarie Desloges, 29, was killed in the terror attack, the Canadian
government confirmed on Sunday.

Mrs Desloges was shopping with her husband when the attack took place, according
to the Vancouver Sun. She was a liaison officer with the Canada Border Services
Agency, working on immigration issues, the paper noted. Mrs Deloges had been
living in Kenya for two years.

Britain's Foreign Office said at least three UK nationals were killed in the
attack and warned that the number of such fatalities is 'likely to rise as
further information becomes available'.

It was reported today that a person holding dual Australian and British
citizenship was killed in the attack.

French President Francois Holland said two French women were killed.

One South African citizen was killed, said the country's International Relations
Department.

Two Indians were killed and four wounded in the attack, said Syed Akbaruddin,
spokesman for India's External Affairs Ministry.

Dutch Foreign Minister Frans Timmermans said a 33-year-old Dutch woman died in
the attack and that seven other Dutch citizens who were in the mall escaped
unharmed. The victim's identity was not released.

A 38-year-old Chinese woman was killed in the shopping mall 'terror attack', the
Chinese Embassy in Kenya said in a statement. Her son was injured and
hospitalized in stable condition, according to the statement posted on the
embassy's website.

Pregnant Kenyan radio journalist Ruhila Adatia was confirmed among the dead.
Prior to going shopping for baby clothes, Ms Adatia was hosting a children's
cooking competition in the mall's parking lot.

The popular presenter posted several pictures taken posing with fans to
Instagram in the hours before the attack.

Fellow journalist Kamal Kaur, who was with Ms Adatia in the mall when she was
shot dead, told KTN that her children had been injuried. Both children suffered
shrapnel wounds to the legs and one had a head injury, she said.

AL-SHABAAB AT A GLANCE


     ·    Translated from Arabic means 'the Youth'
     ·    Evolved from being the de-facto police in Mogadishu, Somalia into
          terrorism
     ·    Began suicide bombings in 2009 while attempting to overthrow Somali
          transitional government
     ·    The largest Somalian terror organization
     ·    Affiliated with al Qaeda
     ·    Has recruited members from many countries, including the U.S.
     ·    14 youths from Minnesota were charged in 2009 for trying to join the
          group
     ·    Also claimed responsibility for 2010 attack in Uganda that killed 74
          at a soccer match
     ·    Main targets are Kenya and Uganda because they fund Somali government


Source:  al-Jazeera America

'She was so excited about her baby, I don't know what to do... I'm lost, I'm
lost,' a hysterical Ms Kaur told the station between uncontrollable crying.

'Images of the day keep flashing in front of my eyes. Dead bodies, injured
people, wailing, crying, scared, Ms Kaur tweeted hours after the attack.

'He stood there with a gun. Aiming it where the kids were. And the b*****d shot
them,' Ms Kaur tweeted.

Al-Shabaab, also known as Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen (HSM), claimed
responsibility for the atrocity on Twitter.

The terrorist organization said that it had previously warned the Kenyan
government that, if they did not remove military forces from Somalia, there
would be 'severe consequences'.

'For long we have waged war against the Kenyans in our land, now it's time to
shift the battleground and take the war to their land,' terrorists tweeted,
before launching into a chilling account of the attack as it unfolded.

The militant group wrote: 'The Mujahideen entered Westgate Mall today at around
noon and are still inside the mall, fighting the Kenyan Kuffar inside their own
turf.'

The organization claimed it had killed more than 100 Kenyan 'kuffar', a
derogatory term used to describe non-Muslims.

'Since our last contact, the Mujahideen inside the mall confirmed to @HSM_Press
that they killed over 100 Kenyan kiffar & battle is ongoing.' the tweets
continued.

'What Kenyans are witnessing today at #Westgate is retributive justice for
crimes committed by their military, albeit largely miniscule in nature,' read
the final tweet.

Twitter soon suspended the Twitter account, citing terms of service regarding
violence or threats. Twitter has declined any further comment.

The gunmen were reportedly allowing Muslims to go free if they could prove they
were Islamic.

Witnesses who escaped the attack said anyone who could recite a Muslim prayer to
their captors was allowed to leave unscathed. But the attackers turned their
guns on anyone who could not prove they were Islamic.

Kenyan police and soldiers have pinned down the remaining gunmen who opened
fire, according to a security source at the scene.

'The attackers have been isolated and are pinned down in an area on one of the
floors - the rest of the mall seems to be secure,' the source said.

Another survivor claimed that the gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave and
that only non-Muslims would be targeted when they opened fire at the upmarket
mall of the Westlands district around midday on Saturday.

At least two dozen people, wounded and dead, were wheeled out on stretchers and
in shopping cartss by security guards, while others were seen walking out of the
building, clutching bloodied clothing around their injuries.

Locals and tourists who were out shopping on the sunny Saturday in Kenya ran
screaming from the building and cars were left abandoned as attackers threw
grenades and fired AK47s.

Over the course of an hour people streamed from the building, at least half a
dozen covered in blood and clutching small children to them. At least one young
boy is believed to have been among those killed.

'Militants went into the mall and executed people: women and children, anyone
who got in their path,' New York Times staff photographer Tyler HIcks told the
paper in an interview. Mr Hicks was in the mall during the attack.

Internal Security Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo said 'terrorists and threats
have been present in Kenya for quite some time now,' during an afternoon news
conference.

'The casualties are many, and that's only what we have on the outside. Inside
there are even more casualties and shooting is still going on,' Kenya Red Cross
Society Secretary General Abbas Guled added.

There were unconfirmed reports of two large explosions, with several smaller
explosions. Two people were reportedly injured on the road leading to the
shopping center..

'We have officers at the scene trying to get out the group shooting inside. They
have not been located,' a senior police official said earlier in the day, adding
that 'officers are approaching the situation with caution because there are
innocent civilians inside.'

Armed police arrived on the scene nearly half an hour later and could be heard
shouting 'get out, get out' as scores of shoppers fled the building.

Dutch embassy employee Rob Vandijk said he had been eating at a restaurant in
the shopping mall when gunmen threw hand grenades inside the building. Smoke
billowed out of the entrance, which was believed to have been caused by the
grenade attack.

People began to scream and drop to the ground, he said, as machine gun fire rang
out across the busy mall.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Police helicopters circled over the building as sporadic gunfire could be heard
more than two hours after the attack was launched, authorities cordoned off the
roads surrounding the mall in central Nairobi's Westlands neighborhood. Manish
Turohit, 18, who escaped after hiding in the parking garage for two hours, told
reporters he saw gunmen with AK-47s and vests with hand grenades on them inside
the center.

Police initially believed the attack was an attempt by about ten armed men to
rob a shop. But Elijah Kamau, another survivor witness, said that the gunmen had
announced that they were targeting non-Muslims as they began their attack at the
center.

Some of those who escaped were 'challenged to recite a Muslim prayer and were
then let out', according to Allan Sayers, who contacted MailOnline and said he
was in the Westgate mall five minutes before the attack.

Mr Sayers said people were still in text and phone contact with some of the
hostages.

'There are still many hostages still inside and reports of many more dead,' he
added.

'They don't seem like thugs, this is not a robbery incident,' said Yukeh
Mannasseh who was on the top floor when the shooting started. 'It seems like an
attack. The guards who saw them said they were shooting indiscriminately.'

One victim said that he had been shot by a man who appeared to be Somali, while
others noted the gunmen were speaking in a foreign language.

'The gunmen tried to fire at my head but missed. There are definitely many
casualties,' Sudjar Singh, who works at the shopping centre, told AFP.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Errol Fernandes, a Kenyan businessman told reporters 'there were two guys - they
came in from the car park on the roof. One had dreadlocks, he had an AK47 and
was firing randomly.

'I just ran into the café kitchen and then we all hid in the refrigerator, until
we were told to run out of the fire escape,' he added. 'I'm sure there must be
many dead and injured.'

An AFPTV reporter said shortly after the attack he saw police and security
guards trying to secure a multi-screen cinema complex inside the mall where many
had taken shelter.  She saw at least 20 people rescued from a toy shop on one of
the upper floors of the building.

Attacks by Somali Islamists in Kenya often involve gunmen armed with automatic
weapons and grenades, with targets including bars, nightclubs and restaurants in
various parts of the country.

There was a suspected al-Shabaab attack which left five dead and three injured
at a restaurant in the eastern city of Garissa in January, and in August last
year one person was killed and six more were left injured in the Eastleigh area
of Nairobi on the eve of a visit by Hillary Clinton, then the United States
secretary of state.

The US Department of State has deferred to local authorities for information
about the attack and has no plans for further comment at this time.

The NYPD on Sunday said that they have redeployed counter-terrorism units around
New York City in response to an attack on a mall that left dozens dead in Kenya
on Saturday. There has not been a specific threat to the city but authorities
were not taking any chances.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 5:30 PM GMT

Fury as Cameron 'favourites' a tweet from sick account mocking Kenya terror
attack and claiming bomb survivor Norman Tebbit looked like he was enjoying SEX

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, MAILONLINE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 759 words



     ·    Prime Minister told his 450,000 followers of sadness at Nairobi
          slaughter
     ·    Announced Foreign Secretary William Hague would make a statement
     ·    Revolting account replied that Kenya had already suffered enough
     ·    Avatar depicts Tebbit being lifted from bomb wreckage
     ·    Account name claims image looks like he is enjoying sex


David Cameron once famously warned of the potential of Twitter embarrassing
politicians.

But in an extraordinary online blunder, the Prime Minister's official account
has managed to offend the victims of the terror attack in Kenya, survivors of
the Brighton bombing and Foreign Secretary William Hague.

A tweet, which claims an image of Norman Tebbit being lifted from the Brighton
bomb wreckage looked like he was enjoying sex, was apparently ticked as a
'favourite' by Mr Cameron.

Downing Street struggled to explain the blunder, which came after the PM used
the site to pay his respects to the people of Kenya after armed terrorists
stormed a Nairobi shopping centre.

The Prime Minister, who once warned 'too many tweets might make a tw*t', wrote
that he gave his 'condolences to President Kenyatta after the attack on the
#Westgate shopping centre' and revealed Mr Hague would give a statement.

The tweet received dozens of responses, including one from a spoof account named
@AdrianBurley, although the Tory MP has not connection with the account.

It read: '@David_Cameron please call off @WilliamHague, hasn't Kenya suffered
enough today?'

To add to the sense of revulsion, the account uses an image of Lord Tebbit being
lifted from the wreckage of the Brighton bombing in 1984, in which five people
died and his wife was left disabled.

The revolting name of the account suggests the picture of Lord Tebbit  was taken
while having sex.

TEBBIT CALLS FOR CAMERON TO QUIT TO RESCUE THE TORY PARTY

Norman Tebbit today called for David Cameron to be removed as Tory leader.

In criticism unrelated to the Twitter blunder, the former Conservative party
chairman accused Mr Cameron of failing to take the threat of UKIP seriously.

He claimed Mr Cameron's modernisation programme had driven Tory voters away. He
told Sky News: 'I think we have to take UKIP seriously because so many ex-Tory
voters are attracted to it.

'If I took over a shop in the high street which used to have a lot of customers,
and found that the customers were going past my shop and going down the road to
a competitor, I wouldn't do what Ken Clarke has advised which is to stand in the
street abusing one's ex-customers in the hope that that will bring them back
into your shop.

'I'd go and see what the other guy was selling, and if I found out it was pretty
well what I used to sell in my shop, I think I'd fire the purchasing manager of
the shop and get some goods back in that attracted the people in.

'And that's what the Tory party's got to do - we've got to take seriously why
people are attracted to UKIP.'

Someone monitoring Mr Cameron's account then pressed the 'favourite' button,
making it the only tweet to be singled out in this way by the Prime Minister
since he joined Twitter a year ago.

In the last year Mr Cameron has built up more than 450,000 followers, but has
been bombarded by abuse.

A Labour party source said: 'This is highly offensive to both the victims of the
Kenya attack and the Brighton bomb.'

To add to the insensitivity of the Tory error, it emerged just hours before it
was announced that at least three Britons were among those killed in Kenya.

Mr Cameron does not operate his own Twitter account, and has joked that he does
not follow it closely.

Instead it is monitored by Conservative party advisers, one of whom made the
blunder overnight.

A spokesman said: 'This is a deeply offensive account that the Prime Minister
would never want to be associated with.

'Clearly the Tweet was favourited by mistake and was removed as soon as it was
realised.'

Its not the first time that Twitter has left Mr Cameron red-faced.

In July he blundered when he apparently confused a Cabinet minister with a spoof
Twitter account.

The Prime Minister wrote: 'We're rolling out a cap on Benefits today - @IDS_MP
and I are determined to make work pay.'

But @IDS_MP is not Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith but a parody
Twitter account mocking the minister.

The clues that the @IDS_MP account was not real were there. The account
biography includes 'parodia' and the phrase 'chin chin old bean'.

Previous tweets included: 'I've always supported a Mansion Tax. Your Tax buys my
Mansion. Chin chin!'

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 9:58 AM GMT

'All Muslims leave' order... then gang target victims who can't name Prophet's
mother: Britons caught in crossfire as masked gunmen slaughter 43 in Kenyan mall
and terrorists blog attack live on twitter

BYLINE: ELLIE BUCHDAHL, STUART WOLEDGE, ABUL TAHER and WILLIAM TURVILL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2589 words



     ·    Foreign Secretary William Hague confirms British citizens are caught
          up in the terrorist attack in Nairobi
     ·    The US State Department has also confirmed Americans were at the
          shopping centre
     ·    Kenyan president Uhuru Kenyatta has vowed to 'hunt down the
          perpetrators wherever they run to'
     ·    Somalian terrorist group al-Shabaab, which has links to Al-Qaeda, has
          now claimed responsibility for the attack
     ·    The terrorist organisation released a statement saying it warned Kenya
          to remove troops from Somalia
     ·    Hostages are being held by at least five attackers still in building
     ·    The army and special forces are helping police flush out the gunmen
     ·    Upmarket mall is a favourite shopping spot for expats and wealthy
          Kenyans
     ·    Police opened fire after gunmen launched attack at midday today
     ·    Security guards wheel out bodies in shopping trolleys from Westlands
          Shopping Centre
     ·    Witness says attackers told shoppers non-Muslims were the targets of
          the masked terrorists


British nationals were last night 'undoubtedly' caught in the terrorist atrocity
in the Kenyan capital Nairobi, which has left at least 43 people dead and 200
injured at a shopping centre, said Foreign Secretary William Hague.

It has now been claimed the terrorist organisation responsible for the horror
was Tweeting updates while it carried out its attack on the Westlands Shopping
Centre earlier today.

Mr Hague said a British rapid deployment consular team was on its way to Kenya
and the Government will chair an emergency Cobra committee meeting.

But he could not confirm if any British nationals were killed or injured. The
Foreign Office confirmed that British consular staff were already at the scene
and were visiting hospitals where the dead and injured were taken.

Fierce gunfire could be heard coming from inside Nairobi's Westgate shopping
mall on Sunday, an AFP correspondent at the scene said, adding that two wounded
Kenyan soldiers were evacuated from the complex and taken away by ambulance.

GRAPHIC WARNING CONTENT -- SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

France's president said that two French women were killed. Two Canadians were
killed, including a diplomat, said the Candadian prime minister. Four American
citizens were reported injured but not killed in the attack, the State
Department said Saturday.

Around 68 casualties were taken to the Aga Khan hospital in Nairobi, said a
worker at the hospital. Bancy Wanjiru added that among them were six white
foreigners whom she believed were British nationals.

The terrorists stormed the Westgate Mall and sprayed shoppers with bullets.
Witnesses said the attackers told all Muslims to leave as they were only after
non-Muslims.

Those shoppers who tried to leave were asked by the  terrorists to name the
Prophet Mohammed's mother. If they failed to give her correct name of Amina they
were shot dead, said one eye witness.

After Muslim shoppers had left the mall, the terrorists reportedly threw
grenades and fired AK-47s.

Last night, the Somali terrorist group Al Shabab, which is linked to Al Qaeda,
claimed responsibility for the attacks, and said the atrocity was revenge for
the presence of Kenyan troops in Somalia.

According to the website Slate , the terrorists had been Tweeting progress while
it carried out its attack.

Al Shabab said on Twitter: 'The message we are sending to the Kenyan govt &
Public is and has always been just one: remove all your forces from our
country.'

The shootings came as British-born Jermaine Grant was due to go on trial in
Mombasa. He is accused of plotting a bombing campaign against tourist hotels in
Kenya with several accomplices, one of whom is Briton Samantha Lewthwaite, widow
of the 7/7 bomber Germaine Lindsay.

The terrorists were yesterday holed up in the shopping complex with as many as
30 hostages, many of whom are thought to be Westerners.

A number of the gunmen's victims are thought to be  children. As the atrocity
unfolded, at least two dozen people were wheeled out of the complex on
stretchers and in shopping trolleys.

Desperate shoppers could be seen running away as security forces surrounded the
building and made an arrest.

Charles Karani, 41, an IT engineer, said: 'I hid under a car with my daughters,
and I saw the men line up maybe 40 people and ask them who was Muslim, and if
they were to prove it by saying the name of the Prophet's mother. Those who got
it wrong were shot.

'There was blood everywhere. Two ladies under the car with me had gunshot wounds
on their legs.

'Another Indian gentlemen was hit in the face by a bullet but he seemed not to
be gravely hurt. Other people for sure are dead. I saw four people lying, not
moving.

'A grenade was thrown and it rolled near us, my daughter said, "Papa, there's a
grenade" - but thank God it didn't go off and I kicked it away.'

The gunmen wore white bandanas, Mr Karani said, and appeared to work in teams,
each taking control of a different floor of the five-storey building.

He also said officials had confirmed to him that the attacker they arrested was
a Kenyan Muslim convert.

Last night Prime Minister David Cameron spoke to Kenyan president Uhuru Kenyatta
to pass on his condolences and pledge that Britain was ready to provide
assistance.

Mr Kenyatta said in a televised address that security forces were in the process
of 'neutralising the attackers and securing the mall' but he said it was a
'delicate' operation.

He urged Kenyans to 'remain calm and vigilant' and asked them to donate blood to
help treat the injured.

And he vowed: "We shall hunt down the perpetrators wherever they run to. We
shall get to them and we shall punish them for this heinous crime."

Mr Hague would not confirm whether any casualties or hostages were British.
However, Sir Simon Fraser, head of the diplomatic service, indicated that
Britons were involved. He tweeted last night: 'The Foreign Office and British
High Commission working hard on Nairobi shooting and hostage crisis to help all
involved esp Brits.'

The Westgate Mall is in the upmarket Westlands suburb of Nairobi and is popular
with Westerners. Al Shabab had previously warned it would target the mall.

Another eyewitness who gave his name as Jay, said: 'They were not speaking
Swahili. They spoke something that seemed like Arabic or Somali, but I'm not
sure as I don't speak those languages.

'I saw people being executed after being asked to say something.' He claimed
that he had seen 11 bodies inside the mall.

Ombati Cyrus, a local Kenyan journalist who was among the first at the scene,
said that he  saw around 30 bodies being dragged out of the shopping centre in
trolleys and stretchers.

He added: 'The majority of bodies I saw were white. I heard that the terrorists
targeted whites deliberately. The terrorists were Arabs or Somalis.'

Police helicopters circled overhead as armed police shouted 'get out, get out!'
and scores of shoppers fled the building.

Smoke poured out of one entrance and witnesses said they heard grenade blasts.

It is believed that the UN - which has one of the biggest operations in Africa
in Nairobi - warned last month that the threat of an 'attempted large-scale
[terror] attack' in the country was 'elevated'.

Witness Patick Kuria said: 'We started by hearing gunshots downstairs and
outside. Later we heard them come inside. We took cover. Then we saw two gunmen
wearing black turbans. I saw them shoot.'

Hannah Chisholm, a Briton  visiting Nairobi, said she and 60 others barricaded
themselves into a large storeroom. She told the BBC: 'We kept running to
different places but the shots were getting louder so we barricaded ourselves
into a large storeroom. There were children hiding with us, as well as someone
who had been shot.'

Mr Hague said in a televised speech last night: 'Our thoughts are with the
people of Kenya and with innocent people who may be caught up in this.

'This is clearly a complex attack, clearly a terrorist attack and a particularly
callous, cowardly and brutal attack targeting innocent people of all ages and so
many different backgrounds.

'There are undoubtedly British nationals caught up in this and so we should be
ready for that and be aware of that.

'Again, we don't have any sufficiently precise details at the moment.

'It is a fast-moving situation and it is still going on at the time we are
speaking.'

According to the Sunday Telegraph, a pregnant woman was among several Britons
caught up in the attack.

Terrorist gunmen remain at the scene and police officers supported by the army
are still fighting to bring the situation to an end.

Sky News has reported that the US State Department has confirmed US citizens are
among the casualties, and French news agency AFP has said two French citizens
were among the dead.

A young boy is believed to have been among those killed.

At a news conference, Internal Security Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo said
'terrorists and threats have been present in Kenya for quite some time now'.

The army, including special forces, have now been drafted in to help police
flush out the gunmen.

There were unconfirmed reports of two large explosions, with several smaller
explosions. Two people were reportedly injured on the road.

'We have officers at the scene trying to get out the group shooting inside. They
have not been located,' a senior police official said.

'Officers are approaching the situation with caution because there are innocent
civilians inside,' he said.

Armed police arrived on the scene nearly half an hour later and could be heard
shouting 'get out, get out' as scores of shoppers fled the building.

Smoke billowed out of the entrance, which was believed to have been caused by
the grenade attack.

Dutch embassy employee Rob Vandijk said he had been eating at a restaurant in
the shopping mall when gunmen threw hand grenades inside the building.

People began to scream and drop to the ground, he said, as machine gun fire rang
out across the busy mall.

Officials have not given the exact death toll as police and gunmen are
continuing to exchange fire, but reporters said they had seen at least 15
bodies.

Police say that attackers are holding seven hostages in the building, and other
people remain hidden inside.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Kenyan soldiers were also deployed to take part in the operation to bring the
shopping complex back under control.

Police helicopters circled over the building as sporadic gunfire could be heard
more than two hours after the attack was launched.

Police cordoned off the roads surrounding the mall in central Nairobi's
Westlands neighborhood.

Manish Turohit, 18, who escaped after hiding in the parking garage for two
hours, says he saw gunmen with AK-47s and vests with hand grenades on them
inside the centre.

Police initially believed the attack was an attempt by about ten armed men to
rob a shop.

But Elijah Kamau, a witness, told AP that the gunmen had announced that they
were targeting non-Muslims as they began their attack at the centre.

Some of those who escaped were 'challenged to recite a Muslim prayer and were
then let out', according to Allan Sayers, who contacted MailOnline and said he
was in the Westgate mall five minutes before the attack.

Mr Sayers said people were still in text and phone contact with some of the
hostages.

'There are still many hostages still inside and reports of many more dead,' he
said.

Nairobi police chief Benson Kibue said it was a terrorist attack and the Kenya
Ministry of Interior has said the shooting may have been an 'attack by
terrorists'.

'They don't seem like thugs, this is not a robbery incident,' said Yukeh
Mannasseh who was on the top floor when the shooting started.

'It seems like an attack. The guards who saw them said they were shooting
indiscriminately.'

Somali's rebel group al-Shabab vowed in late 2011 to carry out a large-scale
attack in Nairobi in retaliation for Kenya's sending of troops into Somalia to
fight the Islamic insurgents.

The Somali militant group al-Shabaab had earlier threatened to strike the mall,
as it is a popular destination for the city's expatriate community.

One victim said that he had been shot by a man who appeared to be Somali, while
others noted the gunmen were speaking in a foreign language.

'The gunmen tried to fire at my head but missed. There are definitely many
casualties,' Sudjar Singh, who works at the shopping centre, told AFP.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Errol Fernandes, a Kenyan businessman said: 'There were two guys - they came in
from the car park on the roof. One had dreadlocks, he had an AK47 and was firing
randomly.

'I just ran into the café kitchen and then we all hid in the refrigerator, until
we were told to run out of the fire escape.

'I'm sure there must be many dead and injured.'

'The gunmen tried to fire at my head but missed. There are definitely many
casualties,' Sudjar Singh, who works at the shopping centre, told AFP.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Kenyan soldiers were also deployed to take part in the operation to bring the
shopping complex back under control.

Police cordoned off the roads surrounding the mall in central Nairobi's
Westlands neighborhood.

Kenya's interior minister said the mall shooting may be "an attack by
terrorists."

Asked if foreign security services were involved in the operation to flush out
the attackers, he said, 'At this stage it has not become necessary yet.'

The picture above prompted a woman to contact MailOnline, saying the woman with
the two children is her sister-in-law.

'These aren't all nameless individuals, these are real people and don't me and
my family know it today,' she said.

'What the picture doesn't show is the gun shot wound she has just come out of
surgery for.

'Brave woman who I am so proud to call my family.'

An AFPTV reporter said police and security guards were trying to secure a
multi-screen cinema complex inside the mall where many had taken shelter.

The reporter said she saw at least 20 people rescued from a toy shop on one of
the upper floors of the building.

A shop manager who managed to escape said it had appeared 'the shooters had
taken control of all the mall'.

Attacks by Somali Islamists in Kenya often involve gunmen armed with automatic
weapons and grenades, with targets including bars, nightclubs and restaurants in
various parts of the country.

There was a suspected al-Shabaab attack which left five dead and three injured
at a restaurant in the eastern city of Garissa in January, and in August last
year one person was killed and six more were left injured in the Eastleigh area
of Nairobi on the eve of a visit by Hillary Clinton, then the United States
secretary of state.

Last month 18 of the 19 US embassies and consulates across the Middle East and
Africa were closed after a message between al Qaida officials about plans for a
major terror attack was intercepted.

The Foreign Office says it is 'urgently looking into' the incident and has
echoed Kenyan police with warnings to Britons to avoid the area.

Foreign Secretary William Hague said: 'We are in close contact with the Kenyan
authorities on the ground in Kenya and at ministerial level in the United
Kingdom.

'The prime consideration at present is the welfare of members of the public
caught up in this incident.'

Concerned British nationals are advised to monitor FCO travel advice and to
contact 020 7008 0000.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 9:22 AM GMT

'All Muslims leave' order... then gang target victims who can't name Prophet's
mother: Britons caught in crossfire as masked gunmen slaughter 43 in Kenyan mall
and terrorists blog attack live on twitter

BYLINE: TED THORNHILL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1291 words



     ·    Foreign Secretary William Hague confirms British citizens are caught
          up in the terrorist attack in Nairobi
     ·    Kenyan security forces are locked in a stand-off with the terrorists
          24 hours after the gang began shooting
     ·    The US State Department has also confirmed Americans were at the
          shopping centre
     ·    Kenyan president Uhuru Kenyatta has vowed to 'hunt down the
          perpetrators wherever they run to'
     ·    Somalian terrorist group al-Shabaab, which has links to Al-Qaeda, has
          now claimed responsibility for the attack
     ·    The terrorist organisation released a statement saying it warned Kenya
          to remove troops from Somalia
     ·    Hostages are being held by at least five attackers still in building
     ·    Upmarket mall is a favourite shopping spot for expats and wealthy
          Kenyans
     ·    Security guards wheel out bodies in shopping trolleys from Westlands
          Shopping Centre
     ·    Witness says attackers told shoppers non-Muslims were the targets of
          the masked terrorists


Kenyan security forces remain locked in a stand-off with terrorists in a Nairobi
shopping centre nearly 24 hours after the gang opened fire in the building,
killing at least 43 people.

Attackers, believed to be Islamic extremists, have been holding an unknown
number of hostages at the Westgate Mall overnight, after yesterday attacking
shoppers with guns and grenades, the Kenyan Authorities said.

Two wounded Kenyan security forces officers were carried out of the mall this
morning after a barrage of gunfire was heard.

Kenyan president Uhuru Kenyatta has pledged to hunt down and punish the
terrorists behind the brutal attack in upmarket Nairobi, in which a further 150
people were injured.

In a national televised address he said he had 'personally lost family members
in the Westgate attack'.

GRAPHIC WARNING CONTENT

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the outrage at
the mall in the affluent Westlands district of the capital, which is popular
with expats.

Foreign Secretary William Hague said Britons had undoubtedly been caught up in
the 'callous and cowardly and brutal' assault by a heavily-armed gang who
singled out non-Muslims.

Mr Hague said 'we should be ready for that and aware of that' as he revealed
that the Government's emergency response committee Cobra had met and a rapid
deployment team was being sent to Kenya to help.

According to the Sunday Telegraph, a pregnant woman was among several Britons
caught up in the attack.

Two Canadians, including one diplomat, and two French women have been confirmed
as among the dead.

The US State Department also said four American citizens were reported injured.

In his speech last night, Mr Kenyatta said security forces were in the process
of 'neutralising the attackers and securing the mall' but he said it was a
'delicate' operation.

He urged Kenyans to 'remain calm and vigilant' and asked them to donate blood to
help treat the injured.

And he vowed: 'We shall hunt down the perpetrators wherever they run to. We
shall get to them and we shall punish them for this heinous crime.'

Terrified shoppers told of how they huddled in back hallways and prayed they
would not be found by the Islamic extremist gunmen.

When the way appeared clear, crying mothers clutching small children and
blood-splattered men sprinted out of the four-storey mall.

Witness Elijah Kamau said the gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave and that
non-Muslims would be targeted, as they began their attack.

The gunmen threw grenades and then opened fire, sending shoppers and staff
fleeing for their lives.

Speaking from Nairobi, Daniel Howden, reporter for The Independent, told The BBC
that a 'massive operation' was still ongoing inside the mall this morning where
the gang continued to hold an unknown number of people hostage.

Al-Shabaab, also known as Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen, earlier tweeted that
there will be 'no negotiations whatsoever'.

The group claimed responsibility for the atrocity, writing on its official
Twitter feed that 'the Mujahideen entered Westgate Mall' at around noon local
time yesterday.

It said it had previously warned the Kenyan government that, if they did not
remove military forces from Somalia, there would be 'severe consequences'.

'For long we have waged war against the Kenyans in our land, now it's time to
shift the battleground and take the war to their land,' it tweeted.

It added that they were 'still inside the mall, fighting the Kenyan kuffar
inside their own turf' before the account was suspended by Twitter.

The organisation claimed it had killed more than 100 Kenyan 'kuffar', a
derogatory term used to describe non-Muslims.

Nairobi's mortuary superintendent, Sammy Nyongesa Jacob, said Africans, Asians
and Caucasians were among the bodies brought in following the attack.

Speaking from his country residence Chevening, in Kent, Mr Hague said there had
been a claim of responsibility from al-Shabaab but 'that doesn't mean we know
for certain who has done or is doing this.

'I think what we do know for certain and what we can say in the United Kingdom
for certain is that all of our work and the work of Kenya and other countries
neighbouring Somalia to bring stability to Somalia, to defeat terrorism there,
will continue.

'It will never be deterred or prevented by actions of this kind. I know that
will be the view of the Kenyan government and the people of Kenya as well.'

He said al-Shabaab had brought 'terror and great difficulty to Somalia' and the
UK had done a lot of work to tackle the problems in Somalia.

'It is too early to know for sure who carried out this attack. It is an attack
that, as we speak, as far as we know is still continuing so we can't give any
further details.'

He added: 'These are large numbers of entirely innocent people, that's why I say
it is a particularly callous and cowardly and brutal attack.

'Sadly significant numbers have been killed. So again I say that the thoughts of
the UK are with the people of Kenya at this terrible moment.'

The Foreign Secretary added: 'Our High Commission staff in Nairobi are working
very hard, visiting hospitals, trying to make sure that they are aware of
British nationals who might have been in the area or caught up in this.

'We are sending a rapid deployment team to reinforce that work, which will be
particularly important if the situation carries on. We have offered the Kenyan
authorities any other assistance and of course we will keep in touch with them
about that.'

A Downing Street spokesman said David Cameron had spoken to Mr Kenyatta and
passed on his 'sincere condolences'.

Kenya has seen a rise in terror attacks and threats in recent years, some of
which are believed to be in retaliation for a military crackdown on al-Shabaab.

The attacks often involve gunmen armed with automatic weapons and grenades, and
their targets include bars, nightclubs and restaurants in various parts of the
country.

There was a suspected al-Shabaab attack which left five dead and three injured
at a restaurant in the eastern city of Garissa in January, and in August last
year one person was killed and six more were left injured in the Eastleigh area
of Nairobi on the eve of a visit by Hillary Clinton, then the United States
secretary of state.

Last month 18 US embassies and consulates across the Middle East and Africa were
closed after a message between al Qaida officials about plans for a major terror
attack was intercepted.

The chairwoman of the Commission of the African Union, Dr Nkosazana
Dlamini-Zuma, condemned the attack in the 'strongest possible terms' and said it
underlines 'the imperative for renewed and reinvigorated efforts to combat
terrorism throughout the continent'.

Concerned British nationals are advised to monitor Foreign & Commonwealth Office
(FCO) travel advice and to contact 020 7008 0000.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 6:29 AM GMT

Four Americans injured as Somali-based militants with ties to al-Qaeda claim
responsibility for Kenyan shopping mall massacre in which at least 40 have died,
some as young two-years-old, while terrorists brazenly live-tweeted the attack

BYLINE: ELLIE BUCHDAHL, STUART WOLEDGE and RYAN GORMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2565 words



     ·    Security guards have been shown wheeling out bodies in shopping carts
          from Westlands Shopping Center
     ·    The US State Department has confirmed four Americans were injured in
          the attack
     ·    Somalian terrorist group al-Shabaab, which has links to Al-Qaeda, has
          now claimed responsibility for the attack
     ·    The terrorist organization released a statement released saying it
          warned Kenya to remove troops from Somalia
     ·    Security forces have secured the first and second floors of the
          five-story shopping center
     ·    There is still an ongoing hostage situation, it is not clear how many
          gunman and hostages are involved
     ·    Security forces have 'contained, but not arrested' the gunmen, as the
          seige nears the 24-hour mark
     ·    The army and special forces are helping police flush out the gunmen,
          one of whom is believed to be a woman
     ·    Canadian diplomat Annemarie Desloges, 29, and pregnant Kenyan radio
          journalist Ruhila Adatia are among the dead
     ·    The upscale mall is a favorite shopping spot for expats and wealthy
          Kenyans
     ·    Police opened fire after gunmen launched attack at noon Saturday
     ·    In what may be a first, terrorists live-tweeted the attack
     ·    Witness says attackers told shoppers non-Muslims were the targets


Americans were injured in a terror attack by as many as 10 gunmen at a Nairobi,
Kenya, shopping center that has left at least 40 people dead and as many as 300
injured - a female Canadian diplomat and a pregnant popular Kenyan radio
journalist are among the dead.

The US State Department has confirmed that four Americans were hurt in the mass
shooting Saturday in a statement issued from the US Embassy in Nairobi, but
declined to give names or an exact number of Americans hurt. Americans are not
believed to be among the dead at this time. The dead range in ages from two to
78-years-old, according to a Kenyan government official. Five hostages were
released around 2am local time.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab has claimed responsibility for the
atrocity - in which men armed with guns and grenades stormed the mall and
targeted non-Muslims. al-Shabaab is the Somali arm of al-Qaeda. Amazingly,
terrorists live-tweeted the attack until their Twitter account was suspended.

Multiple Kenyan news outlets have reported that the gunmen have been contained,
but not arrested. Hostages are thought to be scattered around the shopping
center in separate locations from the gunmen, according to KTN.

GRAPHIC WARNING CONTENT - SCROLL DOWN FOR LIVE COVERAGE FROM NTV

'We have reports of American citizens injured in the attack, and the U.S.
Embassy is actively reaching out to provide assistance,' Marie Harf, deputy
spokesman for the State Department said in the statement.

'We condemn this senseless act of violence that has resulted in death and injury
for many innocent men, women, and children,' said Ms Harf.

Citing privacy concerns, the embassy declined to identify the Americans
involved, but an official did tell the Associated press that four Americans were
injured in the assault. The wife of an American diplomat is known to be among
the dead.

Terrorist gunmen remain at the scene and police officers supported by the army
are still fighting to bring the situation to an end. There are also reports the
gunmen are holding hostages inside the mall.

Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta told the shocked country during an evening
address that he lost multiple family members in the attack.

'We shall hunt down the perpetrators wherever they run to,' said President Uhuru
Kenyatta. 'We shall get them. We shall punish them for this heinous crime.'

'We are as brave and invincible as the lions on our coat of arms, my government
stands ready... I urge all Kenyans to stand together and see this dark moment
through,' the clearly shaken president continued.

A confidential United Nations report cited by the New York Times called the
attack 'a complex, two-pronged assault' with two squads of gunmen opening fire
while storming the mall from different floors. Witnesses told the paper one of
the gunmen was a woman.

Several armed units and soldiers could be seen on Kenyan television streaming
into the area surrounding the mall as the seige approached the 20 hour mark.
Reports also indicated the gunmen were firing on authorities staged in the
parking lot as the sun came up. Continuous sporadic gunfire continued through
the morning.

Hannah Chisholm, a Briton visiting Nairobi, said she and 60 others barricaded
themselves into a large storeroom.

'We kept running to different places but the shots were getting louder so we
barricaded ourselves along with about 60 others into a large storeroom. There
were children hiding with us as well as someone who had been shot, she told the
BBC.

'The gunfire was loud and we were scared but at that point we thought the gunmen
were thieves so we assumed they wouldn't try to reach the storeroom,' she added.

Britain's Foreign Secretary said Britons were 'undoubtedly caught up in the
attack.' French news agency AFP has said two French citizens were also among the
dead. Canada's government announced the deaths of two Canadians. Two Indians
were killed, four - including two women - were injured, according to NDTV.

One of the dead Canadians is diplomat Annemarie Desloges, 29, the Canadian
government announced. Mrs Desloges was shopping with her husband when the attack
took place, according to the Vancouver Sun. She was a liaison officer with the
Canada Border Services Agency, working on immigration issues, the paper noted.
Ms Deloges had been living in Kenya for two years.

Pregnant Kenyan radio journalist Ruhila Adatia was also killed by the gunmen.
Prior to going shopping for clothes for her unborn child, friend Kamal Kaur told
KTN, Ms Adatia was hosting a children's cooking competition in the mall's
parking lot. Active on social media, the popular presenter posted several
pictures taken posing with fans to Instagram

Fellow journalist Kamal Kaur, who was with Ms Adatia in the mall when she was
shot dead, told KTN that her children sustained injuries. Both of them had
schrapnel in their legs, one had a head injury, she said. Both children were
very close to Ms Adatia, she added, before talking about how excited the
expectant mother was in anticipation of her baby.

'She was so excited about her baby, I don't know what to do... I'm lost, I'm
lost,' a hysterical Ms Kaur told the station between uncontrollable crying.

'Images of the day keep flashing in front of my eyes. Dead bodies, injured
people, wailing, crying, scared, Ms Kaur tweeted hours after the attack.

'He stood there with a gun. Aiming it where the kids were. And the b*****d shot
them,' Ms Kaur tweeted.

AL-SHABAAB AT A GLANCE


     ·    Translated from Arabic means 'The Youth'
     ·    Evolved from being the de-facto police in Mogadishu, Somalia into
          terrorism
     ·    Began suicide bombings in 2009 while attempting to overthrow Somali
          transitional government
     ·    The largest Somalian terror organization
     ·    Affiliated with al-Qaeda
     ·    Has recruited members from many countries, including the US
     ·    14 youths from Minnesota were charged in 2009 for trying to join the
          group
     ·    Also claimed responsibility for 2010 attack in Uganda that killed 74
          at a soccer match
     ·    Main targets are Kenya and Uganda because they fund Somali government


Source:  al-Jazeera America

Al-Shabaab, also known as Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen (HSM), claimed
responsibility for the atrocity on Twitter. The terrorist organization said it
had previously warned the Kenyan government that, if they did not remove
military forces from Somalia, there would be 'severe consequences'.

'For long we have waged war against the Kenyans in our land, now it's time to
shift the battleground and take the war to their land,' terrorists tweeted,
before launching into a chilling account of the attack as it unfolded.

al-Shabaab terrorists also attempted to explain their reasoning for the attack -
in a single tweet.

'The Mujahideen entered Westgate Mall today at around noon and are still inside
the mall, fighting the Kenyan Kuffar inside their own turf.'

The organization claimed it had killed more than 100 Kenyan 'kuffar', a
derogatory term used to describe non-Muslims.

'Since our last contact, the Mujahideen inside the mall confirmed to @HSM_Press
that they killed over 100 Kenyan kiffar & battle is ongoing.' the tweets
continued.

'What Kenyans are witnessing today at #Westgate is retributive justice for
crimes committed by their military, albeit largely miniscule in nature,' read
the final tweet.

Twitter soon suspended the  @HSM_Press  Twitter account, citing the site's terms
of service regarding violence or threats.

'Violence and Threats: You may not publish or post direct, specific threats of
violence against others.'

Twitter has declined any further comment.

Kenyan President Uhuru said a close family member was among the victims. In a
televised address, he added: 'The despicable perpetrators of this cowardly act
hoped to intimidate, divide and cause despondency amongst Kenyans.

'We have overcome terrorist attacks before. We will defeat them again.'

Gunmen who opened fire at a shopping center killing at least 39 and injuring
dozens more today let Muslims go free if they could prove they were Islamic.

Witnesses lucky enough to escape the attack said anyone who could recite a
Muslim prayer to their captors was allowed to leave unscathed. But the attackers
turned their guns on anyone who could not prove they were Islamic.

Kenyan police and soldiers have pinned down the remaining gunmen who opened
fire, according to a security source at the scene.

'The attackers have been isolated and are pinned down in an area on one of the
floors - the rest of the mall seems to be secure,' the source said.

Another survivor lucky enough to dodg the flying bullets claimed that the gunmen
told Muslims to stand up and leave and that only non-Muslims would be targeted
when they opened fire at the upmarket mall of the Westlands district around
midday.

At least two dozen people, wounded and dead, were wheeled out on stretchers and
in shopping cartss by security guards, while others were seen walking out of the
building, clutching bloodied clothing around their injuries.

Locals and tourists who were out shopping on the sunny Saturday in Kenya ran
screaming from the building and cars were left abandoned as attackers threw
grenades and fired AK47s.

Over the course of an hour people streamed from the building, at least half a
dozen covered in blood and clutching small children to them. At least one young
boy is believed to have been among those killed.

'Militants went into the mall and executed people: women and children, anyone
who got in their path,' New York Times staff photographer Tyler HIcks told the
paper in an interview. Mr Hicks was in the mall during the attack.

Internal Security Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo said 'terrorists and threats
have been present in Kenya for quite some time now,' during an afternoon news
conference.

'The casualties are many, and that's only what we have on the outside. Inside
there are even more casualties and shooting is still going on,' Kenya Red Cross
Society Secretary General Abbas Guled added.

There were unconfirmed reports of two large explosions, with several smaller
explosions. Two people were reportedly injured on the road leading to the
shopping center..

'We have officers at the scene trying to get out the group shooting inside. They
have not been located,' a senior police official said earlier in the day, adding
that 'officers are approaching the situation with caution because there are
innocent civilians inside.'

Armed police arrived on the scene nearly half an hour later and could be heard
shouting 'get out, get out' as scores of shoppers fled the building.

Dutch embassy employee Rob Vandijk said he had been eating at a restaurant in
the shopping mall when gunmen threw hand grenades inside the building. Smoke
billowed out of the entrance, which was believed to have been caused by the
grenade attack.

People began to scream and drop to the ground, he said, as machine gun fire rang
out across the busy mall.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Police helicopters circled over the building as sporadic gunfire could be heard
more than two hours after the attack was launched, authorities cordoned off the
roads surrounding the mall in central Nairobi's Westlands neighborhood.

Manish Turohit, 18, who escaped after hiding in the parking garage for two
hours, told reporters he saw gunmen with AK-47s and vests with hand grenades on
them inside the center.

Police initially believed the attack was an attempt by about ten armed men to
rob a shop. But Elijah Kamau, another survivor witness, said that the gunmen had
announced that they were targeting non-Muslims as they began their attack at the
center.

Some of those who escaped were 'challenged to recite a Muslim prayer and were
then let out', according to Allan Sayers, who contacted MailOnline and said he
was in the Westgate mall five minutes before the attack.

Mr Sayers said people were still in text and phone contact with some of the
hostages.

'There are still many hostages still inside and reports of many more dead,' he
added.

'They don't seem like thugs, this is not a robbery incident,' said Yukeh
Mannasseh who was on the top floor when the shooting started. 'It seems like an
attack. The guards who saw them said they were shooting indiscriminately.'

One victim said that he had been shot by a man who appeared to be Somali, while
others noted the gunmen were speaking in a foreign language.

'The gunmen tried to fire at my head but missed. There are definitely many
casualties,' Sudjar Singh, who works at the shopping centre, told AFP.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Errol Fernandes, a Kenyan businessman told reporters 'there were two guys - they
came in from the car park on the roof. One had dreadlocks, he had an AK47 and
was firing randomly.

'I just ran into the café kitchen and then we all hid in the refrigerator, until
we were told to run out of the fire escape,' he added. 'I'm sure there must be
many dead and injured.'

'The gunmen tried to fire at my head but missed,' shopping center employee
Sudjar Singh told AFP. 'There are definitely many casualties,'

An AFPTV reporter said shortly after the attack he saw police and security
guards trying to secure a multi-screen cinema complex inside the mall where many
had taken shelter.  She saw at least 20 people rescued from a toy shop on one of
the upper floors of the building.

Attacks by Somali Islamists in Kenya often involve gunmen armed with automatic
weapons and grenades, with targets including bars, nightclubs and restaurants in
various parts of the country.

There was a suspected al-Shabaab attack which left five dead and three injured
at a restaurant in the eastern city of Garissa in January, and in August last
year one person was killed and six more were left injured in the Eastleigh area
of Nairobi on the eve of a visit by Hillary Clinton, then the United States
secretary of state.

The US Department of State has deferred to local authorities for information
about the attack and has no plans for further comment at this time.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 4:15 AM GMT

Four Americans injured as Somali-based militants with ties to al-Qaeda claim
responsibility for Kenyan shopping mall massacre in which at least 39 have died,
some as young two-years-old, while terrorists brazenly live-tweeted the attack

BYLINE: ELLIE BUCHDAHL, STUART WOLEDGE and RYAN GORMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2091 words



     ·    Security guards have been shown wheeling out bodies in shopping carts
          from Westlands Shopping Center
     ·    The US State Department has confirmed four Americans were injured in
          the attack
     ·    Somalian terrorist group al-Shabaab, which has links to Al-Qaeda, has
          now claimed responsibility for the attack
     ·    The terrorist organization released a statement released saying it
          warned Kenya to remove troops from Somalia
     ·    Hostages are being held by at least five attackers still in building
     ·    The army and special forces are helping police flush out the gunmen,
          one of whom is believed to be a woman
     ·    The upscale mall is a favorite shopping spot for expats and wealthy
          Kenyans
     ·    Police opened fire after gunmen launched attack at noon Saturday
     ·    In what may be a first, terrorists live-tweeted the attack
     ·    Witness says attackers told shoppers non-Muslims were the targets


Americans were injured in a terror attack by as many as 10 gunmen at a Nairobi,
Kenya, shopping center that has left 39 people dead and as many as 300 injured.

The US State Department has confirmed that four Americans were hurt in the mass
shooting Saturday in a statement issued from the US Embassy in Nairobi, but
declined to give names or an exact number of Americans hurt. Americans are not
believed to be among the dead at this time. The dead range in ages from two to
78-years-old, according to a Kenyan government official.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab has claimed responsibility for the
atrocity in which men armed with guns and grenades stormed the mall and targeted
non-Muslims - al-Shabaab is the Somali arm of al-Qaeda. Amazingly, terrorists
live-tweeted the attack until their Twitter account was suspended.

'We have reports of American citizens injured in the attack, and the U.S.
Embassy is actively reaching out to provide assistance,' Marie Harf, deputy
spokesman for the State Department said in the statement.

GRAPHIC WARNING CONTENT - SCROLL DOWN FOR LIVE COVERAGE FROM NTV

'We condemn this senseless act of violence that has resulted in death and injury
for many innocent men, women, and children,' said Ms Harf.

Citing privacy concerns, the embassy declined to identify the Americans
involved, but an official did tell the Associated press that four Americans were
injured in the assault.

Terrorist gunmen remain at the scene and police officers supported by the army
are still fighting to bring the situation to an end. There are also reports the
gunmen are holding hostages inside the mall.

'We shall hunt down the perpetrators wherever they run to,' said Kenyan
President Uhuru Kenyatta during an evening address to the shocked nation. 'We
shall get them. We shall punish them for this heinous crime.'

A confidential United Nations report cited by the New York Times called the
attack 'a complex, two-pronged assault' with two squads of gunmen opening fire
while storming the mall from different floors. Witnesses told the paper one of
the gunmen was a woman.

Hannah Chisholm, a Briton visiting Nairobi, said she and 60 others barricaded
themselves into a large storeroom.

'We kept running to different places but the shots were getting louder so we
barricaded ourselves along with about 60 others into a large storeroom. There
were children hiding with us as well as someone who had been shot, she told the
BBC.

'The gunfire was loud and we were scared but at that point we thought the gunmen
were thieves so we assumed they wouldn't try to reach the storeroom,' she added.

Britain's Foreign Secretary said Britons were 'undoubtedly caught up in the
attack.' French news agency AFP has said two French citizens were also among the
dead. Canada's government announced the deaths of two Canadians. Two Indians
were killed, four - including two women - were injured, according to NDTV.

AL-SHABAAB AT A GLANCE


     ·    Translated from Arabic means 'The Youth'
     ·    Evolved from being the de-facto police in Mogadishu, Somalia into
          terrorism
     ·    Began suicide bombings in 2009 while attempting to overthrow Somali
          transitional government
     ·    The largest Somalian terror organization
     ·    Affiliated with al-Qaeda
     ·    Has recruited members from many countries, including the US
     ·    14 youths from Minnesota were charged in 2009 for trying to join the
          group
     ·    Also claimed responsibility for 2010 attack in Uganda that killed 74
          at a soccer match
     ·    Main targets are Kenya and Uganda because they fund Somali government


Source:  al-Jazeera America

Al-Shabaab, also known as Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen (HSM), claimed
responsibility for the atrocity on Twitter. The terrorist organization said it
had previously warned the Kenyan government that, if they did not remove
military forces from Somalia, there would be 'severe consequences'.

'For long we have waged war against the Kenyans in our land, now it's time to
shift the battleground and take the war to their land,' terrorists tweeted,
before launching into a chilling account of the attack as it unfolded.

al-Shabaab terrorists also attempted to explain their reasoning for the attack -
in a single tweet.

'The Mujahideen entered Westgate Mall today at around noon and are still inside
the mall, fighting the Kenyan Kuffar inside their own turf.'

The organization claimed it had killed more than 100 Kenyan 'kuffar', a
derogatory term used to describe non-Muslims.

'Since our last contact, the Mujahideen inside the mall confirmed to @HSM_Press
that they killed over 100 Kenyan kiffar & battle is ongoing.' the tweets
continued.

'What Kenyans are witnessing today at #Westgate is retributive justice for
crimes committed by their military, albeit largely miniscule in nature,' read
the final tweet.

Twitter soon suspended the  @HSM_Press  Twitter account, citing the site's terms
of service regarding violence or threats.

'Violence and Threats: You may not publish or post direct, specific threats of
violence against others.'

Twitter has declined any further comment.

Kenyan President Uhuru said a close family member was among the victims. In a
televised address, he added: 'The despicable perpetrators of this cowardly act
hoped to intimidate, divide and cause despondency amongst Kenyans.

'We have overcome terrorist attacks before. We will defeat them again.'

Gunmen who opened fire at a shopping center killing at least 39 and injuring
dozens more today let Muslims go free if they could prove they were Islamic.

Witnesses lucky enough to escape the attack said anyone who could recite a
Muslim prayer to their captors was allowed to leave unscathed. But the attackers
turned their guns on anyone who could not prove they were Islamic.

Kenyan police and soldiers have pinned down the remaining gunmen who opened
fire, according to a security source at the scene.

'The attackers have been isolated and are pinned down in an area on one of the
floors - the rest of the mall seems to be secure,' the source said.

Another survivor lucky enough to dodg the flying bullets claimed that the gunmen
told Muslims to stand up and leave and that only non-Muslims would be targeted
when they opened fire at the upmarket mall of the Westlands district around
midday.

At least two dozen people, wounded and dead, were wheeled out on stretchers and
in shopping cartss by security guards, while others were seen walking out of the
building, clutching bloodied clothing around their injuries.

Locals and tourists who were out shopping on the sunny Saturday in Kenya ran
screaming from the building and cars were left abandoned as attackers threw
grenades and fired AK47s.

Over the course of an hour people streamed from the building, at least half a
dozen covered in blood and clutching small children to them. At least one young
boy is believed to have been among those killed.

'Militants went into the mall and executed people: women and children, anyone
who got in their path,' New York Times staff photographer Tyler HIcks told the
paper in an interview. Mr Hicks was in the mall during the attack.

Internal Security Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo said 'terrorists and threats
have been present in Kenya for quite some time now,' during an afternoon news
conference.

'The casualties are many, and that's only what we have on the outside. Inside
there are even more casualties and shooting is still going on,' Kenya Red Cross
Society Secretary General Abbas Guled added.

There were unconfirmed reports of two large explosions, with several smaller
explosions. Two people were reportedly injured on the road leading to the
shopping center..

'We have officers at the scene trying to get out the group shooting inside. They
have not been located,' a senior police official said earlier in the day, adding
that 'officers are approaching the situation with caution because there are
innocent civilians inside.'

Armed police arrived on the scene nearly half an hour later and could be heard
shouting 'get out, get out' as scores of shoppers fled the building.

Dutch embassy employee Rob Vandijk said he had been eating at a restaurant in
the shopping mall when gunmen threw hand grenades inside the building. Smoke
billowed out of the entrance, which was believed to have been caused by the
grenade attack.

People began to scream and drop to the ground, he said, as machine gun fire rang
out across the busy mall.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Police helicopters circled over the building as sporadic gunfire could be heard
more than two hours after the attack was launched, authorities cordoned off the
roads surrounding the mall in central Nairobi's Westlands neighborhood.

Manish Turohit, 18, who escaped after hiding in the parking garage for two
hours, told reporters he saw gunmen with AK-47s and vests with hand grenades on
them inside the center.

Police initially believed the attack was an attempt by about ten armed men to
rob a shop. But Elijah Kamau, another survivor witness, said that the gunmen had
announced that they were targeting non-Muslims as they began their attack at the
center.

Some of those who escaped were 'challenged to recite a Muslim prayer and were
then let out', according to Allan Sayers, who contacted MailOnline and said he
was in the Westgate mall five minutes before the attack.

Mr Sayers said people were still in text and phone contact with some of the
hostages.

'There are still many hostages still inside and reports of many more dead,' he
added.

'They don't seem like thugs, this is not a robbery incident,' said Yukeh
Mannasseh who was on the top floor when the shooting started. 'It seems like an
attack. The guards who saw them said they were shooting indiscriminately.'

One victim said that he had been shot by a man who appeared to be Somali, while
others noted the gunmen were speaking in a foreign language.

'The gunmen tried to fire at my head but missed. There are definitely many
casualties,' Sudjar Singh, who works at the shopping centre, told AFP.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Errol Fernandes, a Kenyan businessman told reporters 'there were two guys - they
came in from the car park on the roof. One had dreadlocks, he had an AK47 and
was firing randomly.

'I just ran into the café kitchen and then we all hid in the refrigerator, until
we were told to run out of the fire escape,' he added. 'I'm sure there must be
many dead and injured.'

'The gunmen tried to fire at my head but missed,' shopping center employee
Sudjar Singh told AFP. 'There are definitely many casualties,'

An AFPTV reporter said shortly after the attack he saw police and security
guards trying to secure a multi-screen cinema complex inside the mall where many
had taken shelter.  She saw at least 20 people rescued from a toy shop on one of
the upper floors of the building.

Attacks by Somali Islamists in Kenya often involve gunmen armed with automatic
weapons and grenades, with targets including bars, nightclubs and restaurants in
various parts of the country.

There was a suspected al-Shabaab attack which left five dead and three injured
at a restaurant in the eastern city of Garissa in January, and in August last
year one person was killed and six more were left injured in the Eastleigh area
of Nairobi on the eve of a visit by Hillary Clinton, then the United States
secretary of state.

The US Department of State has deferred to local authorities for information
about the attack and has no plans for further comment at this time.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 2:35 AM GMT

Americans injured as Somali-based militants with ties to al-Qaeda claim
responsibility for Kenyan shopping mall massacre in which at least 39 have died
as terrorists brazenly live-tweeted the attack

BYLINE: ELLIE BUCHDAHL, STUART WOLEDGE and RYAN GORMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1875 words



     ·    Security guards have been shown wheeling out bodies in shopping carts
          from Westlands Shopping Center
     ·    The US State Department has confirmed Americans were injured in the
          attack
     ·    Somalian terrorist group al-Shabaab, which has links to Al-Qaeda, has
          now claimed responsibility for the attack
     ·    The terrorist organization released a statement released saying it
          warned Kenya to remove troops from Somalia
     ·    Hostages are being held by at least five attackers still in building
     ·    The army and special forces are helping police flush out the gunmen
     ·    The upscale mall is a favorite shopping spot for expats and wealthy
          Kenyans
     ·    Police opened fire after gunmen launched attack at noon Saturday
     ·    In what may be a first, terrorists live-tweeted the attack
     ·    Witness says attackers told shoppers non-Muslims were the targets


Americans were injured in a terror attack by as many as 10 gunmen at a Nairobi,
Kenya, shopping center that has left 39 people dead and 150 injured.

The US State Department has confirmed that Americans were hurt in the mass
shooting Saturday in a statement issued from the US Embassy in Nairobi, but
declined to give names or an exact number of Americans hurt. Americans are not
believed to be among the dead at this time.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab has claimed responsibility for the
atrocity in which men armed with guns and grenades stormed the mall and targeted
non-Muslims - al-Shabaab is the Somali arm of al-Qaeda. Amazingly, terrorists
live-tweeted the attack until their Twitter account was suspended.

'We have reports of American citizens injured in the attack, and the U.S.
Embassy is actively reaching out to provide assistance,' Marie Harf, deputy
spokesman for the State Department said in the statement.

GRAPHIC WARNING CONTENT

'We condemn this senseless act of violence that has resulted in death and injury
for many innocent men, women, and children,' said Ms Harf.

Citing privacy concerns, the embassy declined to identify the Americans
involved.

Terrorist gunmen remain at the scene and police officers supported by the army
are still fighting to bring the situation to an end. There are also reports the
gunmen are holding hostages inside the mall.

Hannah Chisholm, a Briton visiting Nairobi, said she and 60 others barricaded
themselves into a large storeroom.

'We kept running to different places but the shots were getting louder so we
barricaded ourselves along with about 60 others into a large storeroom. There
were children hiding with us as well as someone who had been shot, she told the
BBC.

'The gunfire was loud and we were scared but at that point we thought the gunmen
were thieves so we assumed they wouldn't try to reach the storeroom,' she added.

al-SHABAAB AT A GLANCE


     ·    Translated from Arabic means 'The Youth'
     ·    Evolved from being the de-facto police in Mogadishu, Somalia into
          terrorism
     ·    Began suicide bombings in 2009 while attempting to overthrow Somali
          transitional government
     ·    The largest Somalian terror organization
     ·    Affiliated with al-Qaeda
     ·    Has recruited members from many countries, including the US
     ·    14 youths from Minnesota were charged in 2009 for trying to join the
          group
     ·    Also claimed responsibility for 2010 attack in Uganda that killed 74
          at a soccer match
     ·    Main targets are Kenya and Uganda because they fund Somali government


Source:  al-Jazeera America

Al-Shabaab, also known as Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen (HSM), claimed
responsibility for the atrocity on Twitter. The terrorist organization said it
had previously warned the Kenyan government that, if they did not remove
military forces from Somalia, there would be 'severe consequences'.

'For long we have waged war against the Kenyans in our land, now it's time to
shift the battleground and take the war to their land,' terrorists tweeted,
before launching into a chilling account of the attack as it unfolded.

al-Shabaab terrorists also attempted to explain their reasoning for the attack -
in a single tweet.

'The Mujahideen entered Westgate Mall today at around noon and are still inside
the mall, fighting the Kenyan Kuffar inside their own turf.'

The organization claimed it had killed more than 100 Kenyan 'kuffar', a
derogatory term used to describe non-Muslims.

'Since our last contact, the Mujahideen inside the mall confirmed to @HSM_Press
that they killed over 100 Kenyan kiffar & battle is ongoing.' the tweets
continued.

'What Kenyans are witnessing today at #Westgate is retributive justice for
crimes committed by their military, albeit largely miniscule in nature,' read
the final tweet.

Twitter soon suspended the  @HSM_Press  Twitter account, citing the site's terms
of service regarding violence or threats.

'Violence and Threats: You may not publish or post direct, specific threats of
violence against others.'

Twitter has declined any further comment.

Kenyan President Uhuru said a close family member was among the victims. In a
televised address, he added: 'The despicable perpetrators of this cowardly act
hoped to intimidate, divide and cause despondency amongst Kenyans.

'We have overcome terrorist attacks before. We will defeat them again.'

Gunmen who opened fire at a shopping center killing at least 39 and injuring
dozens more today let Muslims go free if they could prove they were Islamic.

Witnesses lucky enough to escape the attack said anyone who could recite a
Muslim prayer to their captors was allowed to leave unscathed. But the attackers
turned their guns on anyone who could not prove they were Islamic.

Kenyan police and soldiers have pinned down the remaining gunmen who opened
fire, according to a security source at the scene.

'The attackers have been isolated and are pinned down in an area on one of the
floors - the rest of the mall seems to be secure,' the source said.

Another survivor lucky enough to dodg the flying bullets claimed that the gunmen
told Muslims to stand up and leave and that only non-Muslims would be targeted
when they opened fire at the upmarket mall of the Westlands district around
midday.

At least two dozen people, wounded and dead, were wheeled out on stretchers and
in shopping cartss by security guards, while others were seen walking out of the
building, clutching bloodied clothing around their injuries.

Locals and tourists who were out shopping on the sunny Saturday in Kenya ran
screaming from the building and cars were left abandoned as attackers threw
grenades and fired AK47s.

Over the course of an hour people streamed from the building, at least half a
dozen covered in blood and clutching small children to them. A young boy is
believed to have been among those killed.

Internal Security Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo said 'terrorists and threats
have been present in Kenya for quite some time now,' during an afternoon news
conference.

'The casualties are many, and that's only what we have on the outside. Inside
there are even more casualties and shooting is still going on,' Kenya Red Cross
Society Secretary General Abbas Guled added.

There were unconfirmed reports of two large explosions, with several smaller
explosions. Two people were reportedly injured on the road leading to the
shopping center..

'We have officers at the scene trying to get out the group shooting inside. They
have not been located,' a senior police official said earlier in the day, adding
that 'officers are approaching the situation with caution because there are
innocent civilians inside.'

Armed police arrived on the scene nearly half an hour later and could be heard
shouting 'get out, get out' as scores of shoppers fled the building.

Dutch embassy employee Rob Vandijk said he had been eating at a restaurant in
the shopping mall when gunmen threw hand grenades inside the building. Smoke
billowed out of the entrance, which was believed to have been caused by the
grenade attack.

People began to scream and drop to the ground, he said, as machine gun fire rang
out across the busy mall.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Police helicopters circled over the building as sporadic gunfire could be heard
more than two hours after the attack was launched, authorities cordoned off the
roads surrounding the mall in central Nairobi's Westlands neighborhood.

Manish Turohit, 18, who escaped after hiding in the parking garage for two
hours, told reporters he saw gunmen with AK-47s and vests with hand grenades on
them inside the center.

Police initially believed the attack was an attempt by about ten armed men to
rob a shop. But Elijah Kamau, another survivor witness, said that the gunmen had
announced that they were targeting non-Muslims as they began their attack at the
center.

Some of those who escaped were 'challenged to recite a Muslim prayer and were
then let out', according to Allan Sayers, who contacted MailOnline and said he
was in the Westgate mall five minutes before the attack.

Mr Sayers said people were still in text and phone contact with some of the
hostages.

'There are still many hostages still inside and reports of many more dead,' he
added.

'They don't seem like thugs, this is not a robbery incident,' said Yukeh
Mannasseh who was on the top floor when the shooting started. 'It seems like an
attack. The guards who saw them said they were shooting indiscriminately.'

One victim said that he had been shot by a man who appeared to be Somali, while
others noted the gunmen were speaking in a foreign language.

'The gunmen tried to fire at my head but missed. There are definitely many
casualties,' Sudjar Singh, who works at the shopping centre, told AFP.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Errol Fernandes, a Kenyan businessman told reporters 'there were two guys - they
came in from the car park on the roof. One had dreadlocks, he had an AK47 and
was firing randomly.

'I just ran into the café kitchen and then we all hid in the refrigerator, until
we were told to run out of the fire escape,' he added. 'I'm sure there must be
many dead and injured.'

'The gunmen tried to fire at my head but missed,' shopping center employee
Sudjar Singh told AFP. 'There are definitely many casualties,'

An AFPTV reporter said shortly after the attack he saw police and security
guards trying to secure a multi-screen cinema complex inside the mall where many
had taken shelter.  She saw at least 20 people rescued from a toy shop on one of
the upper floors of the building.

Attacks by Somali Islamists in Kenya often involve gunmen armed with automatic
weapons and grenades, with targets including bars, nightclubs and restaurants in
various parts of the country.

There was a suspected al-Shabaab attack which left five dead and three injured
at a restaurant in the eastern city of Garissa in January, and in August last
year one person was killed and six more were left injured in the Eastleigh area
of Nairobi on the eve of a visit by Hillary Clinton, then the United States
secretary of state.

The US Department of State has deferred to local authorities for information
about the attack and has no plans for further comment at this time.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                               September 22, 2013

At least 30 killed and 60 wounded in terror attack by al-Shabaab gunmen on
Kenyan shopping mall

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 43 words


Captions:

A Kenyan woman is helped to safety after masked gunmen opened fire at an
exclusive shopping centre in Nairobi yesterday, killing at least 30 people.
Police reported a further seven people taken hostage. Full story, page 2.
Photograph by Simon Maina/AFP


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                               September 22, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BLOODBATH;
At least 30 dead in Kenya terror attack

BYLINE: Lesley Yarranton

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 425 words


A PACKED shopping centre hosting a children's day turned into a bloodbath
yesterday when gunmen slaughtered 30 people.

At least 50 more were wounded after terrorists wearing black turbans and
waistcoats strung with hand grenades burst in brandishing AK47 automatic rifles.

Several Britons were feared to have been caught up in the attack in Kenya. One
pregnant woman was said to be shocked but unhurt.

Prime Minister David Cameron made an urgent call to President Kenyatta about the
atrocity.

Witnesses say the terrorists ordered Muslims to leave the upmarket Westgate mall
in the capital Nairobi.

The band of 10 killers then opened fire on those left behind.

Terrified shoppers who dived to the ground to avoid the bullets were blasted by
hand grenades.

Survivors screamed for help as they lay next to the blood-soaked corpses of
their relatives.

Armed police and soldiers surrounded the mall, popular with foreigners, rich
Kenyans and diplomats.

At least seven terrified staff were taken hostage by the gunmen.

Running gun battles with the killers broke out as troops began clearing shops
one by one.

Some of the hostages are believed to have been shot.

Police wounded one attacker and detained him while others were pinned down by
gunfire.

Inspector General David Kimaiyo of the Kenyan police said: "Our officers are
carrying out an evacuation of those inside as they search for the attackers."

Manish Turohit, 18, who escaped by hiding in a car park when he first saw the
gunmen, said: "They came in and threw a grenade. We were running and they opened
fire."

One male customer, a former British soldier, said: "I personally touched the
eyes of four people and they were dead. One of them was a child. It's carnage in
there."

Casualties Witnesses said the gunmen spoke to victims in Arabic or Somali before
executing them.

Some of the attackers wore face veils and it is unclear whether they were men or
women.

The killers are thought to be from Somalia's rebel al-Shabaab group.

The group issued a statement on Twitter saying it had warned Kenya to pull
troops out of Somalia where they are fighting Muslim rebels.

The Arab news network Al-Jazeera said al-Shabaab had told the channel they
carried out the attack.

Many of the victims were given emergency treatment in a food court as local
hospitals overflowed. Red Cross spokesman Abbas Guled, said: "The casualties are
many and that's only outside. Inside there are more."

Foreign Secretary William Hague said: "We are in close contact with the
authorities in Kenya." scoops@people.

RESCUED: Policeman a child www.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RESCUED: Policeman with a child
SAVED: Wounded girl carried away
SHOOTOUT: Police move in
AGONY: The casualties
DESPERATE: The injured
CARNAGE: The dead and dying

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PPL


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday

Kenya terror attack: 59 dead as siege continues

LENGTH: 433  words


AT least 59 people have been killed and 175 others wounded in a terror attack at
a shopping centre in the Kenyan capital Nairobi.

Gunmen from the Somali militant group al-Shabab remain inside with hostages
nearly 24 hours after they launched the attack with grenades and assault rifles.

Interior Cabinet secretary Joseph Lenku said around 1,000 people have been
rescued so far from the upmarket Westgate mall.

Mr Lenku said that there are 10 to 15 attackers involved, and claimed that
Kenyan forces have control of the security cameras inside the mall. Combined
military and police forces have surrounded the building.

Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta called the security operation underway
"delicate" and said a top priority was to safeguard hostages.

As the attack began shortly after noon yesterday, the al Qaeda-linked gunmen
asked the victims they had cornered if they were Muslim: Those who answered yes
were free to go, several witnesses said. The non-Muslims were not.

al-Shabab claimed responsibility and said the attack was retribution for Kenyan
forces' 2011 push into Somalia. The group also threatened more attacks.

Al-Shabab said on its Twitter feed that Kenyan security officials were trying to
open negotiations. "There will be no negotiations whatsoever," al-Shabab
tweeted.

Patrick Kuria, an employee at the Artcaffe restaurant in the centre, said: "We
started by hearing gunshots downstairs and outside. Later we heard them come
inside. We took cover. Then we saw two gunmen wearing black turbans. I saw them
shoot."

Frank Mugungu, an off-duty army sergeant major, said he saw four male attackers
and one female attacker.

Al-Shabab threatened in late 2011 to unleash a large-scale attack in Nairobi.
Kenya has seen a regular spate of grenade attacks since then but never such a
large terrorist assault.

The United Nations secretary-general's office said that Ban Ki-moon has spoken
to President Kenyatta and expressed his concern. British Prime Minister David
Cameron also called Mr Kenyatta and offered assistance.

British nationals have been told to avoid the Westlands district of Nairobi in
the wake of the attack. A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are aware of the
incident at the Westgate Mall and we are urgently looking into it.

"We stand ready to provide consular assistance if there are any British
nationals involved."

Foreign Secretary William Hague said he was "appalled" by the incident, adding:
"My thoughts are with everyone affected by it.

"We are in close touch with Kenyan authorities about the attack in Nairobi. Our
urgent priority is the welfare of UK nationals in Kenya."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS scotlandonsunday


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday

Kenya terror attack: At least 3 Britons dead

BYLINE: Chris Marshall

LENGTH: 1844  words


Britain was warned to brace itself for "more bad news" after at least three
Britons were among dozens of people killed in a Nairobi shopping centre
terrorist attack.

Kenya's Red Cross said the death toll had risen to 68 after nine more bodies
were recovered in a rescue mission.

Officials say more than 175 people were wounded in the attack on the upmarket
Westgate centre in the Kenyan capital which began on Saturday afternoon.

Last night, up to 15 terrorists belonging to the Somali terror group al-Shabaab
remained inside the mall while dozens of people were unaccounted for.

Eyewitness reports claimed the group of attackers included a white woman.

British-born Samantha Lewthwaite, 29, widow of one of the attackers involved in
the 7/7 bombings in London, has repeatedly been linked with al-Shabaab and is
wanted in connection with a plot to bomb tourists in the city of Mombasa.

A man also told how he was only freed from the mall after covering up his
Western Christian name on his identity card. But before he exited, he saw an
Indian man asked to name the Prophet Muhammad's mother - and shot in cold blood
when he could not answer.

Prime Minister David Cameron described the attack as an "absolutely sickening
and despicable act of appalling brutality" after the Foreign Office warned the
number of British dead was likely to rise.

There were no further details last night of the British dead, but the Foreign
Office said the victims' families had been informed.

Nationals from Canada, China, France, Ghana, Kenya, the Netherlands and the
United States were among the dead.

Several children were killed, and the wounded ranged in age from two to 78. Many
victims were at a cooking competition when assailants opened fire on them,
witnesses said. Confirming the number of British dead, Mr Cameron said: "Because
the situation is ongoing, we should prepare ourselves for further bad news."

The Prime Minister said he had offered the Kenyan authorities "every assistance"
in a call to president Uhuru Kenyatta. He also indicated intelligence assistance
could be provided.

"These appalling terrorist attacks that take place, where the perpetrators claim
they do it in the name of a religion, they don't," he said.

"They do it in the name of terror, violence and extremism and their warped view
of the world.

"The situation is ongoing and, as I say, that's why I think we have to brace
ourselves for more bad news as this continues."

Two diplomats - one each from Canada and Ghana - are known to be among the dead.

President Kenyatta, whose nephew and his fiancée were also killed, said all the
gunmen were now in one place within the building.

"With the professionals on site, I assure Kenyans we have as good a chance to
successfully neutralise the terrorists as we can hope for," he said.

President Kenyatta confirmed women were among the attackers. Asked whether any
hostages had explosives strapped to them, he said he would not comment on
operational issues.

US president Barack Obama phoned Mr Kenyatta to offer his condolences and
supported Kenya's efforts to bring the perpetrators of the attack to justice,
the White House said.

The assault was the biggest single terrorist attack in the country since the US
Embassy in Nairobi was bombed in 1998, killing more than 200 people.

In 2002, militants attacked an Israeli-owned hotel on the coast and tried to
shoot down an Israeli jet in a coordinated strike. Al-Shabaab's siege underlined
its ability to cause major bloodshed with relatively limited resources.

"In terms of capacity, while the group has grown considerably weaker in terms of
being able to wage a conventional war, it is now ever more capable of carrying
out asymmetric warfare," said Abdi Aynte, director of the Mogadishu-based
Heritage Institute of Policy Studies, a regional policy and security think tank.

The focus of attention yesterday was on the shopping centre's branch of the
Nakumatt supermarket, one of Kenya's biggest chains.

Security forces have been combing the mall, clearing the floors. As helicopters
hovered over the capital, a paramilitary officer at the scene, a rifle slung
over his shoulder, said: "They will be arranging how to attack [the
assailants]."

France said two of its citizens were killed, and Ottawa said two Canadians died,
including a 29-year-old diplomat. Ghanaian diplomat and poet, Kofi Awoonor, was
also killed, as was a Chinese woman, according to China's official news agency.

US secretary of state John Kerry, who offered assistance to Kenya, said several
US citizens had been hurt and the wife of a US diplomat working for the US
Agency for International Development was killed.

Al-Shabaab, which is battling Kenyan and other African peacekeepers in Somalia,
had repeatedly threatened attacks in Kenya if Nairobi did not pull its troops
out of the country.

The group appeared to taunt the security forces, saying on its official Twitter
page that there would be no negotiations whatsoever with Kenyan officials over
the stand-off.

"Ten hours have passed and the Mujahideen are still strong inside #Westgate Mall
and still holding their ground. All praise is due to Allah!", the group said
late on Saturday, although its account on Twitter was suspended yesterday
morning.

Foreign Secretary William Hague, who chaired a meeting of Britain's crisis
committee, said a rapid deployment team had been sent from London to Nairobi to
provide extra consular support.

Kenyan security officials sought to reassure the families of hostages inside,
but implied that those held could be killed.

Interior cabinet secretary Joseph Lenku said the security operation was
"delicate" because Kenyan forces hoped to ensure the hostages are evacuated
safely. "The priority is to save as many lives as possible," he said.

The Westgate mall is at least partially owned by Israelis, and reports
circulated that Israeli commandos were on the ground. Four restaurants inside
the mall are Israeli-run or owned.

In Israel, a senior defence official said there were no Israeli forces
participating in an assault, but added was possible that Israeli advisers were
providing assistance.

Israel has close ties to Kenya going back many years. And in recent years,
Israel has identified East Africa as an area of strategic interest and stepped
up ties with Kenya and other neighbouring countries, because of shared threats
posed by al-Qaeda and other extremist elements.

"We have received a lot of messages from friendly countries, but for now it
remains our operation," Mr Lenku said, adding later: "I want to assure Kenyans
that our security agencies are fully in control of the situation."

Background: African republic finds itself drawn into bloody ideological battles

Kenya is no stranger to terrorist attacks, most of which have been carried out
Islamic extremists linked to al-Qaeda.

The most notorious was the 1998 US embassy suicide bombing in Nairobi, when
trucks laden with explosives were parked outside embassies in Nairobi and in Dar
es Salaam, Tanzania, and detonated. In Nairobi, 212 people were killed, and
4,000 wounded.

Since Kenyan troops were sent along with American, French and Ethiopian forces
to defend the transitional government in southern Somalia in 2011, there have
been a number of small-scale grenade and bomb attacks on churches, bars, bus
stations, military sites and shopping centres around Nairobi and Mombasa.

In May 2012, a shopping complex on Nairobi's Moi Avenue was blown up, wounding
30 people. The following month, a bar in Mombasa was hit by a grenade attack,
killing one and injuring several others.

In recent weeks, Kenyan police claimed to have disrupted a major terrorist
attack, arresting two people in Nairobi.

The victims: World counts the cost as nations report their loss

KENYA: President Uhuru Kenyatta said his nephew and nephew's fiancée are among
the dead.

INDIA:  Eight-year-old Parmashu Jain and 40-year-old Sridhar Natarajan killed
and four wounded in the attack.

BRITAIN: Foreign Office said at least three UK nationals killed and warned the
number of such fatalities is "likely to rise as further information becomes
available".

FRANCE: President Francois Hollande said two women died.

SOUTH AFRICA: One citizen killed.

CANADA: Two Canadians, including diplomat Annemarie Desloges, died in the
attack.

USA: The wife of a foreign service national working for the US Agency for
International Development was killed, and four American citizens were injured,

GHANA: Poet Kofi Awoonor, a professor and served as an ambassador in Brazil,
Cuba and the United Nations, died.

NETHERLANDS: A 33-year-old Dutch woman died but seven other Dutch citizens in
the mall escaped unharmed.

CHINA: A 38-year-old woman waskilled and her son injured.

Analysis by Andrew Silke: Lethal firepower against soft targets is favoured
strategy

In attacking Nairobi, Al-Shabaab has used the most potent tactic in the modern
terrorist's arsenal: heavily armed, roving gunmen attacking soft targets.

Certainly in the UK, this type of attack has officially been the number one
threat scenario in recent years. In India, the Mumbai attack in 2008
demonstrated just how dangerous such tactics are.

While a team of al-Qaeda suicide bombers could cause carnage,  such violence is
localised and usually over in seconds or minutes. In Nairobi, the violence
spread and endured, causing hysteria, panic and confusion.

Security planners in Whitehall dislike the term "Mumbai-style" and discourage
its use, but there is no disguising that it is the scenario which worries them
the most. Drawn-out gun battles not only result in heavy casualties and possible
hostage taking, but also create the media interest the terrorists desire.

Nairobi is unquestionably Al-Shabaab's highest-profile operation to date. No
attack carried out in Somalia could have received similar attention, even if the
death toll had been ten, 20 or even  30 times higher. By staging it in one of
the most affluent parts of bustling, popular Nairobi, the group ensured it got
the world's attention. By using a Mumbai-style strategy, it also ensured this
attention would be prolonged and intense. Serious questions will be raised about
how the government and the security forces responded, and whether the Kenyan
military should be fighting in Somalia to begin with. Indian security forces
were ridiculed for how they responded to Mumbai and, inevitably, the Kenyan
authorities can expect the same.

Why has Al-Shabaab carried out this attack? Within the wider region it has
seemed for some time that the group was in disarray. The movement went from
controlling large parts of Somalia to being pushed out of the cities.
Al-Shabaab's declaration of affiliation with al-Qaeda in 2012 may be seen as an
act of desperation made by a fractured movement in serious decline.

Now the militants have sent a message - keeping the Kenyan military in Somalia
will have bloody consequences. Crucially, the attacks also send a message to
supporters, that the movement is still a force to be reckoned with.

o Professor Andrew Silke is director of terrorism studies at the University of
East London.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS scotlandonsunday


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 06:41 AM GMT

Kenya Attack: Hostages Held In Terror Strike

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 599 words



HIGHLIGHT: Gunmen are holding hostages inside a Nairobi shopping centre where 39
people have been killed and more than 150 others wounded in a terrorist attack.


  Several children were among those massacred by al Qaeda-linked terrorists
armed with guns and grenades.

Foreign Secretary William Hague said British nationals have been caught up in
the "callous and cowardly and brutal" attack at the Westgate shopping centre in
Kenya's capital.

The Kenya National Disaster Operation Centre said the number of hostages still
being held by al Shabaab gunmen inside the complex remains unknown.

"Hostage numbers still unknown, but they are in several locations," the centre
posted in an update on Twitter.

"No communication as yet. Upper levels (of the mall) have been secured," it
added.

Security officials say five hostages have been freed from the shopping complex.

"Operations are continuing," a Kenyan security officer said at the scene.

"We will free all those inside and stop this. Of course we cannot give details
of the operations except to say that everything that can be done is being done,"
the official added.

Gunmen wearing bullet-proof vests opened fire and detonated grenades inside the
shopping centre, which is popular with expatriates and wealthy Kenyans.

Two Canadian citizens have been confirmed dead in the attack. It is understood
that two French citizens are also among those killed.

The US State Department has confirmed that American citizens have been reported
injured, but not killed.

Some of those killed were executed after failing to recite a Muslim prayer at
gunpoint. Others were shot at the entrance to the mall as they tried to escape.

The Somalia-based al Shabaab terror group has claimed responsibility for the
attack and warned of more attacks.

Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta has spoken to the nation in a televised
address, saying that Kenya had "overcome terrorist attacks before, and we will
defeat them again."

"Our security forces are in the process of neutralising the attackers and
securing the mall," he added.

"Terrorism is a philosophy of cowards. They want to cause fear and despondency
in our country, but we will not be cowed.

"I ask God to give you comfort. My government will provide the support needed in
the days to come."

Saadia Ahmed, a radio presenter from Nairobi caught up in the attack, told Sky
News how the attack began.

"We heard three explosions outside the building then all of a sudden we heard
gunshots and people ducked down," she said.

"A lot of people were shot while they were trying to escape. I saw one of the
gunmen with an AK-47 and later two of them were talking and it sounded like
Somali or Arabic."

Ms Ahmed said the attackers released people who were able to prove they were
Muslim.

"I witnessed a few people get up and say something in Arabic and the gunmen let
them go. A colleague of mine said he was Muslim and recited something in Arabic
and they let him go as well.

"I saw a lot of children and elderly people being shot dead. I don't understand
why you would shoot a five-year-old child. They were firing at random at anyone
who tried to escape."

Abbas Guled, a spokesman for the Kenyan Red Cross, said: "The casualties are
many and that's only what we have on the outside.

"Inside there are even more casualties and shooting is still going on."

:: A helpline has been set up for people in the UK who are concerned about
relatives in Kenya: 020 7008 000.

     ·       Related Stories
     ·       Britons Caught In Massacre Of 39 At Kenya Mall
     ·       Kenya: 'If You Were Muslim They Let You Go'


PHOTO:

Link to Image

VIDEO:

Shoppers Flee Nairobi Mall

Thirty-nine people are known to have died in the attack on a Nairobi shopping
centre. Sky's Emma Hurd reports

Link to Video

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2013 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                               September 22, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

30 KILLED IN KENYA TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: James Edgar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 295 words


AROUND 30 people have been killed in a terrorist attack on an upmarket shopping
mall in the Kenyan capital Nairobi.

Terrorists from the Somalibased Islamic militant group al-Shabaab, which claimed
responsibility for yesterday's atrocity, opened fire on shoppers with guns and
grenades.

Britons were caught up in the attack but no further details about whether any
were injured or killed were released.

British Foreign Secretary William Hague said last night that there are
undoubtedly British nationals caught up in the "callous and cowardly and brutal"
attack "so we should be ready for that and aware of that".

The atrocity was in the Westgate Mall, in the affluent Westlands district of
Nairobi, which is popular with ex-pats.

The gunmen threw grenades and then opened fire on shoppers and staff.

One witness to the attack claimed the gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave
and that non-Muslims would be targeted.

Groups of people trapped inside the mall came streaming out over the course of
an hour. Many were injured. Some carried children in their arms. Staff from the
mall used trolleys to wheel out wounded children and adults.

Hannah Chisholm, a Briton visiting Nairobi, said she and 60 others barricaded
themselves into a large storeroom.

She said: "There were children hiding with us as well as someone who had been
shot.

"The gunfire was loud and we were scared but at that point we thought the gunmen
were thieves."

Manish Turohit, 18, said he saw gunmen with AK-47s and bulletproof vests with
hand grenades on them.

Kenya has seen a rise in terror attacks and threats in recent years, some of
which are believed to be in retaliation for a military crackdown on the
al-Shabaab terror group, which vowed to retaliate with a large-scale attack on
Nairobi.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR AT THE SHOPPING MALL: Wounded victims and survivors leaving the
scene

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2013 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 10:18 PM GMT

Nairobi shopping mall attack: a new source of terror;
The al-Qaeda group claiming to be behind the Nairobi atrocities was once
considered a joke. Now the fear is that al-Shabaab, and its supporters among
emigrant Somalis, presents a grave threat to the West. Colin Freeman reports

BYLINE: By Colin Freeman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1337 words


Among the raft of al-Qaeda groups that sprung up round the world after 9/11, the
Somali branch of the franchise was not one of the more promising start-ups. A
direct product of life in the most lawless corner of the planet, al-Shabaab's
followers were considered too violent and quarrelsome even to work with each
other, never mind pose a threat to the rest of the world. For all their videos
declaring themselves "at Bin Laden's service", the joke among Western
intelligence agencies was that even al-Qaeda's high command, like everyone else,
would struggle to get anything organised in somewhere as chaotic as Somalia.

Two days ago, on what should have been a pleasant lunchtime in the affluent
Nairobi suburb of Westlands, al-Shabaab appeared to prove their doubters wrong.
In a disciplined, highly co-ordinated attack, at least a dozen gunmen armed with
assault rifles and grenades stormed a shopping mall popular with both locals and
expatriates, embarking on an orgy of violence that was both savagely random and
chillingly discriminate.

According to witnesses, Muslims - who make up about a third of Kenya's mainly
Christian population - were ordered by the gunmen to leave the scene. Everyone
else had to remain behind for the slaughter, which by yesterday had claimed
upwards of 68 people, including at least three Britons. As of last night, the
terrorists were still holding an unknown number of people hostage, although
already the attack is the deadliest on Kenyan soil since al-Qaeda's 1998 bombing
of Nairobi's US embassy, which killed more than 200.

High though the casualty figures were, the real sense of shock was conveyed by
the way it was relayed in real time through digital media. Not only did fleeing
shoppers take mobile phone footage of dead bodies and terrified mothers
clutching their children, there was a gleeful running commentary from
al-Shabaab's Twitter feed, a 21st-century mouthpiece spitting 8th-century
religious venom.

"The Mujahideen entered Westgate mall today at around noon and are still inside
the mall," cackled one post. "What Kenyans are witnessing is retributive justice
for crimes committed by their military."

What the wider world was witnessing, meanwhile, was the coming to age of a group
that was all but unknown 10 years ago, but whose sympathisers in Somalia's vast
diasporas - including Britain - now pose as much of a threat to Western
interests as any other

al-Qaeda franchise. Nor is al-Shabaab's influence restricted purely to Somalis -
two years ago, the same Kenyan police force that is now besieging the Westlands
shopping mall arrested a young Nigerian-born Briton for attempting to cross the
Somalia border to join the group. Scotland Yard fears that up to 100 other
Britons may have been trained in Somalia with al-Shabaab, raising the prospect
of a more organised terror strike in the future.

"If we don't act now, there could be devastating results," warned Dr Razaq Raj,
an expert on Islamic terrorism at Leeds Metropolitan University. "The
international community must think about how to challenge al-Shabaab."

So who exactly are Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen, to give them their full
title? The shortened version of their name translates as "The Youth" - the
current generation of which in Somalia has grown up with some of the bleakest
prospects on the planet. Most have known nothing but anarchy in their home
country, which has been without a properly functioning government since 1991. It
is perhaps no surprise, therefore, that many have broken with Somalia's
long-standing tradition of moderate Sufi Islam to embrace the more militant
strains exported from the Saudi peninsula, which has set up vast numbers of
madrassas in Somalia throughout the past 20 years.

I first heard of al-Shabaab on a trip to Mogadishu in 2006, when a coalition of
Islamists - including moderates - had managed to impose peace after nearly a
decade-and-a-half of warlord thuggery. As we saw during a visit to a barracks
outside the capital, the Islamists' trick was partly to put warlords'
ex-footsoldiers through religious "bootcamp", converting yesterday's murderers,
robbers and rapists into tomorrow's holy warriors.

But alongside the fragile peace came Taliban-style strictures banning music,
dancing and most other kinds of fun. Fearing that Somalia's new Islamist
overlords would also turn it into a haven for al-Qaeda, in early 2007 Washington
authorised an invasion by neighbouring Ethiopia. Islamist rule was replaced with
a transitional government propped up by United Nations mandate, Western cash,
and African Union troops from Somalia's mainly Christian neighbours.

The invasion also had the effect, though, of turning al-Shabaab into an all-out
guerrilla movement, divorced from its more moderate allies. It began a vicious
insurgency against the transitional government, and also seized control of much
of Mogadishu and swathes of southern Somalia, dreaming up edicts as ludicrous as
anything imposed by the Taliban.

Teenage girls would be stoned to death for adultery, women were banned from
wearing bras on the basis that they showcased the chest, and in 2010, men were
even forbidden from watching the South Africa World Cup. In the stern words of
al-Shabaab spokesman, "They will not benefit anything or get any experience by
watching mad men jumping up and down."

For children, meanwhile, one of the few acceptable forms of entertainment was
Koranic recital contests, for which prizes would include guns, grenades and land
mines to use against the "infidel" African Union forces. With the piety also
came hypocrisy. While publicly condemning the piracy industry that boomed in
Somalia from 2008, al-Shabaab is also thought to have quietly taken fat slices
of ransom payments in exchange for turning a blind eye to buccaneers on their
turf.

In the last two years, the movement has been somewhat on the back foot, losing
control of Mogadishu and alienating even its own followers through its refusal
to let foreign aid agencies operate in the country, a policy that caused a
widespread famine.

But while its domestic fortunes have waned, its international agenda has grown
in tandem with other African militant groups, such as Nigeria's Boko Haram and
Mali's al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb. During the 2010 World Cup, al-Shabaab
bombers carried out their first major attack abroad, killing 74 people in an
attack in Uganda, which contributed troops to Somalia's African Union force. As
Ahmed Abdi Godane, an al-Shabaab leader implicated in the murder of two British
aid workers 10 years ago, put it: "What happened in Kampala is just the
beginning."

Events over the weekend have now proved him right. The fear now, though, is how
it might end. Already there are fears of reprisals against Kenya's Somalis,
hundreds of thousands of whom have fled there in recent years precisely to
escape al-Shabaab. Sustained terror campaigns there could also devastate the
country's vital tourism sector, destabilising an economy already reeling from
the world financial crisis.

Closer to home, though, there will be fears that the success of such a terrorist
"spectacular" could act as a recruiting sergeant for impressionable young
Somalis in Britain. From London's Wood Green through to Cardiff's Grangetown and
Manchester's Cheetham Hill, an estimated 100,000 Somalis are now resident in
Britain - many of them jobless, and suffering the same disaffection that drove
the Pakistani contingent of the July 7 bombers.

Somali youth leaders have warned me in the past that they fear such an attack is
only a question of time - warnings that acquire an added credence when one
follows the sneers and insults on al-Shabaab's English-language Twitter feed.
Not only are many of its postings surprisingly literate for a jihadi group based
in the Somali bush, they bear numerous jokes, slang and linguistic tics that are
distinctly British. Someone, somewhere in Somalia's British diaspora, apparently
finds al-Shabaab's Nairobi atrocities, however sickening to us, very funny
indeed.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 5:30 PM GMT

Kofi Awoonor: the literary world pays tribute;
International writers, poets and festival organisers have paid tribute to Kofi
Awoonor, the Ghanaian poet killed in the Westgate terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Alice Vincent Nairobi

SECTION: CULTURE

LENGTH: 455 words


Writers and poets from around the world have joined in mourning following the
news that Professor Kofi Awoonor, a Ghanaian poet and diplomat, died after
sustaining injuries during the terrorist attack on Westgate Mall in Nairobi,
Kenya.

Professor Awoonor, who was 78, was in the city to participate in the Storymoja
Hay Festival, a celebration of writing and storytelling. He was due to perform
on Saturday evening as part of a pan-African poetry showcase.

Professor Awoonor's death was confirmed by the Ghanaian High Commission in
Nairobi in the early hours of Sunday morning. One of the main aims of the
Festival is to encourage reading and literacy among Kenya's young people.

A statement issued by the Festival said: "We were honoured to be graced by his
appearance at Storymoja Hay Festival, and deeply humbled by his desire to impart
knowledge to the young festival audience. Professor Awoonor was one of Africa's
greatest voices and poets and will forever remain a beacon of knowledge and
strength and hope." The Festival was brought to an end on Saturday evening "in
sympathy with those who have lost their lives or were injured" and for the
safety of attendees.

Professor Awoonor was joined by his countrymen at the four day event, in what he
called "the best representation of Ghanaian authors that we have ever had".
Among them were poet Nii Parkes and writer and filmmaker Kwame Dawes. Both paid
tribute to Professor Awoonor on Twitter, with Parkes writing: "I muse on gifts
given and swiftly taken away. I waited my whole life to meet my uncle, Kofi
Awoonor, and 2 days later he is gone." Dawes posted: "Kofi Awoonor's death is a
sad sad moment here in Nairobi. We have lost one of the greatest African poets
and diplomats. I've lost my uncle."

Warsan Shire, a Somalian poet who was due to speak at the Festival on Sunday,
tweeted that Professor Awoonor was "one of our greatest poets".

Book blogger Kinna Reads congratulated Professor Awoonor for his command of
language, saying "He spoke Fanti as fluently as Ewe". Professor Awoonor's early
poetry was heavily influenced by the dirge-singing traditions of his native Ewe
tribe.

Professor Anoowor's first collection, Rediscovery and Other Poems, was published
in 1964, and he wrote three subsequent collections and a prose poem between then
and 1971. Following his incarceration for helping a 'political criminal' in the
Seventies, Professor Anoowor wrote mainly non-fiction. He became an important
diplomat for Ghana, and was the country's Ambassador to the United Nations
between 1990 and 1994.

Earlier this year it was announced that The Promise of Hope, a collection of
Professor Anoowor's new and selected poems from 1964 to 2013 will be published
in March 2014.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 4:54 PM GMT

David Cameron embroiled in Twitter gaffe after junior Tory uses PM's account to
endorse obscene message;
David Cameron has become embroiled in an embarrassing Twitter gaffe after
appearing to endorse an offensive message about Norman Tebbit and the Kenyan
terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Peter Dominiczak Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 428 words


The Prime Minister's official account on Twitter, the micro-blogging social
media website, last night "favourited" an obscene message by an account
referring to Lord Tebbit, the former Cabinet minister.

Downing Street has said that the offending message was taken off the list of Mr
Cameron's "favourites" on Twitter as soon as the mistake was discovered.

It is understood that the error was made by a junior Tory official who monitors
the Twitter account during the night.

The Tweet favourited by the Prime Minister's account, which has more than
450,000 followers, has an offensive name relating to Lord Tebbit, who served in
Baroness Thatcher's Cabinet.

The picture on the account's profile is of Lord Tebbit being taken away from the
wreckage of the Brighton bombing in 1984.

The message highlighted by Mr Cameron's account said: "David Cameron please call
off William Hague. Hasn't Kenya suffered enough today?"

That tweet came just hours after a terrorist attack on a Nairobi shopping centre
that killed 59, including three Britons.

A Downing Street spokesman said the Twitter account favourited by Mr Cameron is
"deeply offensive" and that the Prime Minister "would not want to be associated
with it in any way".

"This is a deeply offensive account which the PM would not want to be associated
with in any way," a Downing Street spokesman said. "The favouriting was an
accident. As soon as it was realised, it was deleted."

It came as Lord Tebbit appeared to call for Mr Cameron to be removed as Tory
leader to prevent voters flocking to the UK Independence Party.

Speaking to the Murnaghan programme on Sky News, Lord Tebbit compared the Tory
Party to a shop and said that the manager should be "fired".

"I think we have to take Ukip seriously because so many ex-Tory voters are
attracted to it," he said.

He warned that senior Conservatives such as Ken Clarke, the Minister Without
Portfolio, must stop openly attacking Ukip.

Mr Clarke earlier this year dismissed Ukip voters as closet rascists.

Lord Tebbit said: "If I took over a shop in the high street which used to have a
lot of customers, and found that the customers were going past my shop and going
down the road to a competitor, I wouldn't do what Ken Clarke has advised which
is to stand in the street abusing one's ex-customers in the hope that that will
bring them back into your shop.

"I'd go and see what the other guy was selling, and if I found out it was pretty
well what I used to sell in my shop, I think I'd fire the purchasing manager of
the shop and get some goods back in that attracted the people in."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 2:09 PM GMT

Three British nationals killed in Nairobi shopping centre attacks;
Three Britons are among the 59 victims of the Kenyan shopping centre terrorist
attacks, with the Foreign Office saying that the number is likely to rise.

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 220 words


William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, chaired a meeting of the crisis committee
COBR on Sunday morning.

In a statement, the Foreign Office said: "Three British nationals are confirmed
dead. The next of kin of those nationals have been informed. The number of
British nationals confirmed as killed is likely to rise as further information
becomes available."

David Cameron described the terrorist assault as "a despicable attack of
appalling brutality."

He added: "Because these attacks are ongoing, we must prepare ourselves for
worse news."

Gunmen from the al Qaeda-linked Shabaab militia launched the attack on an
upmarket shopping centre on Saturday at midday. Over 24 hours later, the
stand-off was continuing, with gunfire heard sporadically inside the centre.

An unknown number of hostages were believed to be being held inside the mall.

The Kenyan Red Cross said that 205 people had been injured in the attacks, and
1000 people safely evacuated from the packed shopping centre.

The British government has sent a rapid deployment team from London to Nairobi
to provide further consular support. Staff from Addis Ababa have also been sent
to Nairobi to assist.

The UK High Commission in Nairobi has consular staff at the site and nearby
hospitals.

The FCO's helpline for concerned British nationals is +44 20 7008 1000.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 1:35 PM GMT

Storymoja Hay Festival 2013 day three overshadowed by Nairobi shopping mall
attack;
When suspected terrorists opened fire in a shopping centre in Nairobi's upmarket
Westlands district, Alice Vincent was sitting two miles away listening to Mukesh
Kapila, the former Head of the UN for Sudan, talk about why humans have such
potential for cruelty.

BYLINE: By Alice Vincent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 650 words


Here, in the city where Kapila decided to blow the whistle on the Darfur
genocide a decade ago, and end his career in the process, bloodshed had arrived
on the Hay Festival's doorstep.

I first heard the news when an audience member stood up and said that there had
been an armed robbery at the nearby Westgate Mall and told us to avoid the area.
Nigerian author Teju Cole was due to speak at the festival next (his fans were
jostling by the doors), and a little later, as Cole was answering a question
about "the precariousness of being African", I was told to text my loved ones
saying I was safe; people had been shot.

Cole was in conversation with Kenyan writer and actor John Sibi-Okuma. It was
one of those events that show Hay at its best; intelligent, accessible and funny
conversation, fine readings, insightful audience questions. So, until I realised
the scale of the attack, I was confused by the fact that so many people were
answering their phones and rushing in and out of the lecture while Sibi-Okuma's
sonorous voice left Cole moved by the recitation of his own words. "You know how
people wonder if Barry White gets turned on by the sound of his own music?" Cole
joked, "That's how I feel now."

Although the Festival, its authors, organisers and attendees were putting on a
brave face, the situation had taken a turn for the worse. Ghanaian poet Kofi
Awoonor, due to perform at an event on Saturday, was uncontactable. His son had
been shot in the shoulder in Westlands and had been taken to, and later
discharged from, hospital. James Mbugua, a reporter for new Nairobi newspaper
The Star, told me that his colleague, a showbiz correspondent, had been killed
in the shooting, with another two at the Mall. Speculated statistics came in
occasionally: 12 killed, 15 gunmen, 100 trapped in a basement. We later learned
that Awoonor had died in the attack.

Helicopters circled above the bunting and brightly-coloured Kangas that
decorated the gardens of the National Museum of Kenya, the festival's host site,
and drummers and acrobats bounded into the courtyard at lunchtime.

But by late afternoon, organisers Muthoni Garland, Lyndy Cooke and Jo
Rodell-Jones had reached the tough decision to end the festival early, "in
sympathy with those who have lost their lives or were injured" and for the
safety of attendees. Their statement continued, "It would be insensitive for us
to continue as the siege is still continuing, roads are closed and there is a
lot of uncertainty and fear." As the founder of an "unadulterated, unapologetic
celebration of writing", however, Garland was insistent that the Westlands
tragedy was not met with silence. If Storymoja Hay Festival has taught me
anything, it is that the voices and stories of Kenya's people and troubles are
yet to be heard. "We urge everyone to give blood, offer prayers and write, blog,
tweet their shock and grief about the tragedy", her statement added.

Many continued with their scheduled talks until the end. Peter Godwin was one of
them. The Zimbabwe-born author has written "an accidental trilogy" about life
and elections in Zimbabwe, and is therefore no stranger to dramatic events. Nii
Parkes, a Ghanian poet who was speaking at the Festival through an initiative
with the British Council, stubbornly told the British High Commission in Kenya
that no, he would not leave before performing. It was, after all, what he was in
Nairobi to do: participate in a showcase of award-winning poetry from both sides
of the African continent.

As darkness fell and the final festival attendees left the site for safety, a
jumble of authors, poets, storytellers, organisers and one journalist huddled
into The Pink Tent, the small but comfortable retreat in the middle of the site
for those there most. We were waiting to be driven to Garland's welcoming home,
still unaware - as we remain - of the full circumstances of the day's events.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 22, 2013 Sunday 10:19 AM GMT

Nairobi attack: "It's a very sad day for the Kenyans";
Kenyans struggle to come to terms with the terror attacks on a mall as a
combined police and military force continues to surround the scene of a hostage
standoff with Islamic extremist attackers.

LENGTH: 202 words


Kenyan authorities said Islamic extremist attackers held an unknown number of
hostages in the shopping centre located in the Westlands area of Nairobi, after
killing at least 39 and injuring 150 on Saturday.

Trucks brought a fresh contingent of soldiers from the Kenya Defence Forces to
the mall shortly after dawn on Sunday morning.

A barrage of gunfire erupted from the Westgate shopping centre at one point,
according to Associated Press journalists at the scene.

Moments later two wounded Kenyan security forces were carried out.

Somalia's radical rebel group, al-Shabab, claimed responsibility for the attack
in which they specifically targeted non-Muslims.

Meanwhile, Nairobi's hospital facilities have been trying to cope with the
crisis.

Guru Nanak Ramgarhia Sikh hospital received some of the dead and injured after
two other facilities in the capital were inundated.

Hospital matron Bamra Surinder said they had received two bodies "littered with
bullets" from the scene.

"We have been very busy," she said.

Officials said Kenyans had turned out in droves to donate blood.

Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta called the security operation under way
"delicate" and said a top priority was to safeguard hostages.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Two killed, 26 injured in terror attack in Russia's Dagestan

LENGTH: 115 words


Two policemen have been killed and 26 individuals were injured in a suicide
bomber attack at a local police department in the southern Russian region of
Dagestan, RIA Dagestan news agency reported on 23 September.

The attack happened in Khuchni village of Tabasaransky District when a suicide
bomber exploded his car outside the district police department on the morning of
23 September, the news agency quoted a source in the law enforcement agencies as
saying.

There are six police officers and 20 civilians, including two children, among
the injured, RIA Dagestan said.

Sources: RIA Dagestan, Makhachkala, in Russian 0601 gmt 23 Sep 13; RIA Dagestan,
Makhachkala, in Russian 0551 gmt 23 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

South Korea condemns terrorist attack at Nairobi mall

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report on unofficial translation of statement made by spokesperson of
South Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade on 22 September

1. The Government of the Republic of Korea cannot but feel anger and shock over
the terrorist attack that occurred at the Westgate Shopping Mall in
north-western Nairobi, Kenya, on September 21 and strongly condemns it.

2. The Government of the Republic of Korea extends its deepest condolences and
consolation to the innocent victims of the attack and their families. The South
Korean government will offer support necessary for handling the aftermath of the
attack.

3. The Government of the Republic of Korea reaffirms that all types of terrorist
acts are despicable crimes that cannot be justified under any circumstances, and
will work closely with the international community to eradicate acts of
terrorism, which are crimes against humanity.

[Signed by] Spokesperson and Deputy Minister for Public Relations of the Foreign
Ministry.

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Seoul, in Korean 22 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Iran's Press TV leads with Nairobi terror attack

LENGTH: 171 words


The terror attack on a mall in the Kenyan capital Nairobi was the leading story
in the morning news bulletins of Iran's English-language news channel Press TV
on 23 September.

In Press TV's 0500 gmt news bulletin, the TV's correspondent reported from
Nairobi that gunfire was heard overnight and early in the morning near the mall.

In its 0600 gmt news bulletin, Press TV said Russian Foreign Minister Sergey
Lavrov had accused Washington of "blackmailing" Moscow into approving a UN
resolution that would approve military intervention in Syria.

"The Russian foreign minister said that Washington wants the resolution under
Chapter 7 in exchange for American support of Syria's accession to the
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons," Press TV said.

Iran taking over the control of Bushehr power plant, an anti-government
demonstration in Azerbaijan's capital Baku and the death of two US soldiers in
eastern Afghanistan were other stories covered by Press TV.

Source: Press TV, Tehran, in English 0700 gmt 23 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Two Somali nationals said killed in Kenya terror attack

LENGTH: 95 words


Two Somali nationals reportedly are among the people who were killed in Westgate
Mall terror attack in Nairobi, Kenya, privately-owned Radio Daljir reported on
22 Sept.

According to the Radio, the two Somali men were shot dead by the terrorist group
who are holding hundreds of hostages inside the mall while trying to escape from
the mall. A Somali businessman in Nairobi tells the media that one of the Somali
casualty was buried today. He added that many other Somalis are among the
hostages inside the mall.

Source: Radio Daljir, Gaalkacyo, in Somali 1000 gmt 22 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 6:52 PM GMT

Kenya: Co Down raised 'White Widow' known to be in East Africa;
Media reports have linked Samantha Lewthwaite to the ongoing terror attack in
Kenya

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 372 words


The Ulster-raised widow of one of the July 7 bombers who is known to be in East
Africa has gained "semi-mythical status" since travelling to the region, a
terror expert said.

Raffaello Pantucci, a senior research fellow at the Royal United Services
Institute, said Samantha Lewthwaite had been "elevated" in perception since
going there.

There have been conflicting witness accounts about whether a white woman was
among the attackers in Nairobi, fuelling speculation over whether Lewthwaite,
who was married to July 7 bomber Jermaine Lindsay, was involved.

Born to a Northern Irish mother and soldier father from Britain, Samantha
Lewthwaite spent her early years in her home in the Whyte Acres estate in
Banbridge.

Mr Pantucci said: "There has been a lot of speculation about it. Samantha
Lewthwaite, since she appeared in East Africa, has been elevated in some ways to
a semi-mythical status.

"I don't think we've had any concrete evidence of her being involved in this
incident, but the fact of her being mentioned in this context is not surprising
because of her connections, and it is known that she is somewhere in East
Africa."

Lewthwaite is already wanted by Kenyan police over alleged links to a terrorist
cell that planned bomb attacks on the country's coast.

In March last year officials said that she had fled to Somalia, and that police
were hunting a woman who used several identities, including hers.

Her mass killer husband, Lindsay, 19, carried out the most deadly of the July 7
attacks, claiming 26 lives.

Mr Pantucci said he believes UK intelligence services will view the violence in
Kenya as a regional terrorist atrocity, with no significant effect on the terror
threat to Britain.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabab has claimed responsibility for the
atrocity.

The country has been seen as less of a draw for would-be jihadis looking for a
training ground, the expert said.

"I don't think the assessment (of the threat to the UK) will necessarily change,
I think they will continue to see it as a regional terror threat," he said.

"Somalia had been of concern to the UK for quite a while but it had probably
gone down. Al-Shabab was wracked by internal divisions and it seemed as if
Somalia was less of a draw."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Bucks Herald

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Aylesbury's Samantha Lewthwaite linked with Nairobi terrorist attack

LENGTH: 216  words


Aylesbury 7/7 widow Samantha Lewthwaite may be involved in the Nairobi shopping
centre massacre which has left at least 69 people dead, according to reports.

Reports suggest the 29 year old, who married London bomber Jermaine Lindsay, may
even be among the militants who are still holding hostages at the Westgate
complex.

Lewthwaite, known as the White Widow, is allegedly a key member of al-Shabaab,
the group which has claimed responsibility for the attack.

The group boasted on Twitter about the mother of three being a member, writing
on an account that has since been shut down: "Sherafiyah lewthwaite aka samantha
is a vrave (sic) lady! were (sic) happier to have her in our ranks!"

An anti-terror source told the Daily Mail: "I suspect this woman Lewthwaite is
behind this attack."

There have also been reports of a balaclava-clad white woman holding a gun being
seen in the shopping centre.

More than 170 people have been injured since the attack began in Kenya's capital
on Saturday, with between 10 and 15 attackers still believed to be inside the
building.

Lewthwaite has previously been linked with running bomb-making tutorials and an
alleged plot to blow up shopping centres and hotels in Kenya.

It has also been claimed she has spent time living in a house in Mombasa,
Kenya's second city.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCBH


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Bucks Herald

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Aylesbury's Samantha Lewthwaite linked with Nairobi terrorist attack

LENGTH: 358  words


Aylesbury 7/7 widow Samantha Lewthwaite may be involved in the Nairobi shopping
centre massacre which has left at least 62 people dead, according to reports.

It has been claimed the 29 year old, who married London bomber Jermaine Lindsay,
may even be among the militants who are still holding hostages at the Westgate
complex.

Lewthwaite, known as the White Widow, is allegedly a key member of al-Shabaab,
the group which has claimed responsibility for the attack.

The group boasted on Twitter about the mother of three being a member, writing
on an account that has since been shut down: "Sherafiyah lewthwaite aka samantha
is a vrave (sic) lady! were (sic) happier to have her in our ranks!"

An anti-terror source told the Daily Mail: "I suspect this woman Lewthwaite is
behind this attack."

There have also been reports of a balaclava-clad white woman holding a gun being
seen in the shopping centre.

However, the Foreign Office has said there is no evidence Lewthwaite is involved
and Kenya's interior minister has said all the terrorists are men.

Councillor Raj Khan, who knew Lewthwaite before the 7/7 attack, said people
should not jump to conclusions.

Mr Khan said: "I'm worried that the picture that has been demonising her may be
premature because it has not been substantiated.

"Unless there is hard evidence we should not just unnecessarily jump to
conclusions.

"Whether she is part of this horrific tragedy or not, we will remain as one
community."

Mr Khan described Lewthwaite as a family friend' before she disappeared.

He said: "She was an innocent young person.

"She would do anything to accommodate other people, she was a very good human
being.

"She did everything to help others."

More than 170 people have been injured since the attack began in Kenya's capital
on Saturday, with a number of attackers still believed to be inside the
building. Security forces have been trying to end the siege this afternoon.

Lewthwaite has previously been linked with running bomb-making tutorials and an
alleged plot to blow up shopping centres and hotels in Kenya.

It has also been claimed she has spent time living in a house in Mombasa,
Kenya's second city.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCBH


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

China condemns Kenya terror attack

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 204 words


BEIJING - China on Monday again strongly condemned the terrorist attack in a
Kenyan shopping mall that claimed at least 68 lives.

"China opposes terrorism in any form. We express deep condolences to the victims
and sincere sympathy to those who were injured and the families of the
deceased," Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a daily press briefing on
Tuesday.

As Kenya's good friend, China will continue to staunchly support Kenya's efforts
to safeguard national security and regional stability, Hong said.

This is the second time the Chinese Foreign Ministry has condemned the terrorist
attack in Nairobi, capital of Kenya.

Hong confirmed one Chinese national was killed and another was injured in the
attack.

The Chinese ambassador in Kenya went to the hospital to see the injured Chinese
citizen and asked Kenya to spare no effort in treating the injured, help the
Chinese side deal with the aftermath, and take effective measures to ensure the
safety of Chinese citizens and organizations in Kenya, Hong said.

The Chinese Foreign Ministry and the Chinese Embassy in Nairobi will keep close
watch of the situation, check related information and provide full assistance to
the Chinese nationals concerned, Hong said.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 6:55 AM GMT

Four Brits dead in Kenya terrorist attack

BYLINE: Andy Wells

LENGTH: 700 words


<em class="bold">THE government has confirmed that four Brits have been killed
in the terrorist attack at a shopping mall in Kenya.</em>

One of the Britons killed in the attack has been named in reports as Ross
Langdon, who had dual British and Australian nationality.

The architect is believed to have died alongside his heavily-pregnant Dutch
girlfriend Elif Yavuz.

At least 69 people were killed in the shooting at the Westgate shopping mall in
Nairobi. The Foreign Office confirmed the British casualties this morning after
an emergency Cobra meeting.

David Cameron has cut short a visit to Balmoral to deal with the situation.

Defence Secretary Philip Hammond said the UK was prepared to offer any help the
Kenyan authorities required.

He said: "We stand ready to provide them with any additional assistance they
require.

"We will be monitoring the situation throughout the day and the Prime Minister
will be returning to London to chair a further Cobra meeting later this
afternoon."

I'm cutting short a visit to Balmoral to return to Downing St to chair COBRA
late this afternoon, dealing with the Kenya terror attacks.

- David Cameron September 23, 2013

Downing Street said that Mr Cameron, who has spoken to the Kenyan president
Uhuru Kenyatta, had offered help in terms of "policing, intelligence
collaboration and other related kinds" of assistance.

Earlier the authorities said "most of the hostages" had already been rescued and
the majority of the building had been secured in a major military operation -
although that was later contradicted by sources at the scene.

Newly-released video footage from inside the mall shows supermarket shoppers
running for cover as the sound of gunfire fills the aisles.

At one point a group of people are seen hiding behind a door, peering through a
small window as someone making a mobile phone call says "there's a terrorist".

Colonel Cyrus Oguna

This morning Kenyan security forces launched an assault on the shopping mall
this morning, where terrorists are holed up after their killing spree.

Heavy gunfire and explosions could be heard from inside where a Somali Islamist
group were holding hostages.

Officials say up to 15 al Shabaab militants may still be inside the centre.

Through updates on Twitter, the Kenyan Defence Force said most of the hostages
had been rescued while they attempt to bring the whole thing to a "speedy
conclusion."

Witnesses at the scene this morning say they heard heavy and sustained gunfire
for about five minutes.

After a brief bout of silence, a series of small, sporadic explosions were
reportedly heard.

Kenya's military spokesman, Colonel Cyrus Oguna, said he could not comment on
the reports of gunfire.

He said last night: "Most of the hostages have been released and the Kenya
Defence Forces have taken control of most parts of the building."

The Kenyan Red Cross confirmed 68 people dead, including many children, plus at
least 49 missing.

Police admitted the death toll could be "much, much higher".

The Foreign Office is investigating suggestions that a female British terror
suspect nicknamed the "White Widow" could have been linked to the plot.

[View the story "Kenya mall siege enters 3rd day" on Storify]

It came after reports emerged that a woman was among the attackers, fuelling
speculation that suspect Samantha Lewthwaite, who was married to July 7 bomber
Jermaine Lindsay, was involved.

She is wanted by Kenyan police over links to a suspected terrorist cell planning
bomb attacks.

In March 2012 it was reported that Lewthwaite, 29, who is originally from
Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, had fled across the border from Kenya to Somalia.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are aware of the reports and we are looking
into them."

The spokesman added: "It is really difficult to substantiate. We are looking at
the names and seeing what we can find out."

A Twitter account purporting to be an al-Shabaab spokesman named a 24-year-old
man from London as one of the gunmen.

The @hsm_press2 account listed a string of names it claimed were involved in the
attack before being closed down, as previous usernames linked to the terrorist
group had been.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 6:55 AM GMT

WATCH: Shocking video shows the moment terrorists attacked Kenya shopping mall

BYLINE: Andy Wells

LENGTH: 542 words


<em class="bold">TERRIFIED shoppers run for their lives as terrorists begin
their slaughter in a Kenyan shopping mall, in dramatic new video footage.</em>

The video shows shoppers running for cover as the sound of gunfire is heard
inside the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi, Kenya, where terrorists have
killed at least 68 people.

The mobile phone camera footage, obtained by CCTV Africa, revealed the scenes in
a supermarket in the mall, where some people tried to hide in the store's aisles
as others fled for safety.

The footage showed shoppers abandoning their trolleys as repeated shots rang
out.

At one point a group of people are seen hiding behind a door, peering through a
small window as someone making a mobile phone call says "there's a terrorist."

Colonel Cyrus Oguna

Kenyan security forces are believed to be launching an assault on the shopping
mall this morning, where terrorists are holed up after their killing spree.

Heavy gunfire and explosions could be heard from inside, where a Somali Islamist
group were holding hostages.

The siege, now in its third day, has seen at least three Brits killed in the
slaughter, while officials say up to 15 al Shabaab militants may still be inside
the centre.

Posting updates on Twitter, the Kenyan Defence Force said that most of the
hostages had been rescued while they attempt to bring the whole thing to a
"speedy conclusion."

Witnesses at the scene this morning say they heard heavy and sustained gunfire
for about five minutes.

After a brief bout of silence, a series of small, sporadic explosions were
reportedly heard.

Kenya's military spokesman, Colonel Cyrus Oguna, said he could not comment on
the reports of gunfire.

He said last night: "Most of the hostages have been released, and the Kenya
Defence Forces has taken control of most parts of the building."

The Kenyan Red Cross have confirmed 68 people - including many children - have
been killed, with at least 49 missing.

Police have admitted that the death toll could be "much, much higher."

David Cameron has warned Britain to be braced for "more bad news" after three
Britons were confirmed dead in the attack.

The Foreign Office is also investigating suggestions that a female British
terror suspect nicknamed the "White Widow" could have been linked to the plot.

It came after reports emerged that a woman was among the attackers, fuelling
speculation that wanted Samantha Lewthwaite, who was married to July 7 bomber
Jermaine Lindsay, was involved.

She is wanted by Kenyan police over links to a suspected terrorist cell planning
bomb attacks.

In March 2012 it was reported that Lewthwaite, 29, who is originally from
Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, had fled across the border from Kenya to Somalia.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are aware of the reports and we are looking
into them."

The spokesman added: "It is really difficult to substantiate. We are looking at
the names and seeing what we can find out."

A Twitter account purporting to be an al-Shabaab spokesman named a 24-year-old
man from London as one of the gunmen.

The @hsm_press2 account listed a string of names it claimed were involved in the
attack before being closed down, as previous usernames linked to the terrorist
group had been.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 6:55 AM GMT

Six Brits 'dead' in Kenya terrorist attack

BYLINE: Andy Wells

LENGTH: 786 words


<em class="bold">SIX Britons are believed to have been killed in the terror
attack at a Kenyan mall.</em>

Defence Secretary Philip Hammond updated the number of Britons suspected dead
from four to six and warned figures may continue to rise.

"Our current best estimate is we now have six British nationals who have died in
this incident," he said after leaving an emergency COBRA meeting in London.

"Of the additional two, one is confirmed and another we believe to be a British
national and we are awaiting final confirmation but we are pretty certain we now
have six British nationals who have died."

Two of the know victims of the attack, which has left at least 62 people dead,
are Ross Langdon and his Dutch wife Elif Yavuz who were expecting their first
baby in two weeks.

I've just chaired a meeting of COBRA-tragically the latest reports are that 6
British nationals have been killed in the Kenya terror attacks

- David Cameron September 23, 2013

Langdon, a 33-year-old British-Australian architect, spent much of his time in
Africa building eco-lodges and socially sustainable tourism.

David Cameron has cut short a visit to Balmoral to deal with the situation.

Philip Hammond said the UK was prepared to offer any help the Kenyan authorities
required.

He said: "We stand ready to provide them with any additional assistance they
require.

"We will be monitoring the situation throughout the day and the Prime Minister
will be returning to London to chair a further Cobra meeting later this
afternoon."

I'm cutting short a visit to Balmoral to return to Downing St to chair COBRA
late this afternoon, dealing with the Kenya terror attacks.

- David Cameron September 23, 2013

Downing Street said that Mr Cameron, who has spoken to the Kenyan president
Uhuru Kenyatta, had offered help in terms of "policing, intelligence
collaboration and other related kinds" of assistance.

Earlier the authorities said "most of the hostages" had already been rescued and
the majority of the building had been secured in a major military operation -
although that was later contradicted by sources at the scene.

Newly-released video footage from inside the mall shows supermarket shoppers
running for cover as the sound of gunfire fills the aisles.

At one point a group of people are seen hiding behind a door, peering through a
small window as someone making a mobile phone call says "there's a terrorist".

Colonel Cyrus Oguna

This morning Kenyan security forces launched an assault on the shopping mall
this morning, where terrorists are holed up after their killing spree.

Heavy gunfire and explosions could be heard from inside where a Somali Islamist
group were holding hostages.

Officials say up to 15 al Shabaab militants may still be inside the centre.

Through updates on Twitter, the Kenyan Defence Force said most of the hostages
had been rescued while they attempt to bring the whole thing to a "speedy
conclusion."

Witnesses at the scene this morning say they heard heavy and sustained gunfire
for about five minutes.

After a brief bout of silence, a series of small, sporadic explosions were
reportedly heard.

Kenya's military spokesman, Colonel Cyrus Oguna, said he could not comment on
the reports of gunfire.

He said last night: "Most of the hostages have been released and the Kenya
Defence Forces have taken control of most parts of the building."

The Kenyan Red Cross confirmed 68 people dead, including many children, plus at
least 49 missing.

Police admitted the death toll could be "much, much higher".

The Foreign Office is investigating suggestions that a female British terror
suspect nicknamed the "White Widow" could have been linked to the plot.

[View the story "Kenya mall siege enters 3rd day" on Storify]

It came after reports emerged that a woman was among the attackers, fuelling
speculation that suspect Samantha Lewthwaite, who was married to July 7 bomber
Jermaine Lindsay, was involved.

She is wanted by Kenyan police over links to a suspected terrorist cell planning
bomb attacks.

In March 2012 it was reported that Lewthwaite, 29, who is originally from
Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, had fled across the border from Kenya to Somalia.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are aware of the reports and we are looking
into them."

The spokesman added: "It is really difficult to substantiate. We are looking at
the names and seeing what we can find out."

A Twitter account purporting to be an al-Shabaab spokesman named a 24-year-old
man from London as one of the gunmen.

The @hsm_press2 account listed a string of names it claimed were involved in the
attack before being closed down, as previous usernames linked to the terrorist
group had been.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 6:55 AM GMT

Six Brits 'dead' in Kenya terrorist attack as siege enters final stages

BYLINE: Andy Wells

LENGTH: 919 words


<em class="bold">KENYAN troops are in the final stages of clearing a shopping
centre from terrorists and are not encountering any resistance from gunmen.</em>

A government spokesman has said all hostages are thought to have been evacuated
from the complex as the three-day-long siege by Islamist attackers nears its
conclusion.

The gunmen, though to be members of al Qaeda-linked Somali militant group al
Shabaab, have killed 62 people and wounded over 200 since the brutal attack
began on Saturday.

Six Britons, including an eight-year-old girl, are among the casualties.

A dead white woman has reportedly been found among the Islamic terrorists killed
by Kenyan special forces, fuelling speculation that she is Samantha Lewthwaite,
the widow of 7/7 bomber Jermaine Lindsay.

Lewthwaite is wanted on a string of terror charges and Al Shabaab have used
their Twitter feed to state she is safe.

Earlier today Defence Secretary Philip Hammond updated the number of Britons
suspected dead from four to six and warned figures may continue to rise.

"Our current best estimate is we now have six British nationals who have died in
this incident," he said after leaving an emergency COBRA meeting in London.

"Of the additional two, one is confirmed and another we believe to be a British
national and we are awaiting final confirmation but we are pretty certain we now
have six British nationals who have died."

Two of the know victims of the attack, which has left at least 62 people dead,
are Ross Langdon and his Dutch wife Elif Yavuz who were expecting their first
baby in two weeks.

I've just chaired a meeting of COBRA-tragically the latest reports are that 6
British nationals have been killed in the Kenya terror attacks

- David Cameron September 23, 2013

Langdon, a 33-year-old British-Australian architect, spent much of his time in
Africa building eco-lodges and socially sustainable tourism.

David Cameron has cut short a visit to Balmoral to deal with the situation.

Philip Hammond said the UK was prepared to offer any help the Kenyan authorities
required.

He said: "We stand ready to provide them with any additional assistance they
require.

"We will be monitoring the situation throughout the day and the Prime Minister
will be returning to London to chair a further Cobra meeting later this
afternoon."

I'm cutting short a visit to Balmoral to return to Downing St to chair COBRA
late this afternoon, dealing with the Kenya terror attacks.

- David Cameron September 23, 2013

Downing Street said that Mr Cameron, who has spoken to the Kenyan president
Uhuru Kenyatta, had offered help in terms of "policing, intelligence
collaboration and other related kinds" of assistance.

Earlier the authorities said "most of the hostages" had already been rescued and
the majority of the building had been secured in a major military operation -
although that was later contradicted by sources at the scene.

Newly-released video footage from inside the mall shows supermarket shoppers
running for cover as the sound of gunfire fills the aisles.

At one point a group of people are seen hiding behind a door, peering through a
small window as someone making a mobile phone call says "there's a terrorist".

Colonel Cyrus Oguna

This morning Kenyan security forces launched an assault on the shopping mall
this morning, where terrorists are holed up after their killing spree.

Heavy gunfire and explosions could be heard from inside where a Somali Islamist
group were holding hostages.

Officials say up to 15 al Shabaab militants may still be inside the centre.

Through updates on Twitter, the Kenyan Defence Force said most of the hostages
had been rescued while they attempt to bring the whole thing to a "speedy
conclusion."

Witnesses at the scene this morning say they heard heavy and sustained gunfire
for about five minutes.

After a brief bout of silence, a series of small, sporadic explosions were
reportedly heard.

Kenya's military spokesman, Colonel Cyrus Oguna, said he could not comment on
the reports of gunfire.

He said last night: "Most of the hostages have been released and the Kenya
Defence Forces have taken control of most parts of the building."

The Kenyan Red Cross confirmed 68 people dead, including many children, plus at
least 49 missing.

Police admitted the death toll could be "much, much higher".

The Foreign Office is investigating suggestions that a female British terror
suspect nicknamed the "White Widow" could have been linked to the plot.

[View the story "Kenya mall siege enters 3rd day" on Storify]

It came after reports emerged that a woman was among the attackers, fuelling
speculation that suspect Samantha Lewthwaite, who was married to July 7 bomber
Jermaine Lindsay, was involved.

She is wanted by Kenyan police over links to a suspected terrorist cell planning
bomb attacks.

In March 2012 it was reported that Lewthwaite, 29, who is originally from
Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, had fled across the border from Kenya to Somalia.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are aware of the reports and we are looking
into them."

The spokesman added: "It is really difficult to substantiate. We are looking at
the names and seeing what we can find out."

A Twitter account purporting to be an al-Shabaab spokesman named a 24-year-old
man from London as one of the gunmen.

The @hsm_press2 account listed a string of names it claimed were involved in the
attack before being closed down, as previous usernames linked to the terrorist
group had been.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 23, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tweeting terrorists: the social-media Attack;
TWITTER TACTICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 370 words


WHILE its militants were waging war in a Nairobi shopping centre, al-Shabaab's
leaders were conducting a simultaneous battle online.

The Somalian organisation, which is linked to al-Qaeda, provided a commentary of
the attacks on Twitter - glorifying the militants, taunting the Kenyan security
forces, and justifying their actions.

After the Kenyan government called for negotiation, the account was used to
ridicule its suggestion. Referring to its followers as "mujahideen" (holy
warriors) and the victims as "kuffar" (a derogatory term for non-Muslims), the
person behind the Twitter account gloated about the attacks, writing in Somali,
Arabic, English and the local language Kiswahili. "The Mujahideen entered
Westgate mall today at around noon and they are still inside the mall, fighting
the Kenyan kuffar inside their own turf," it said on Saturday evening.

"The attack at Westgate Mall is just a very tiny fraction of what Muslims in
Somalia experience at the hands of Kenyan invaders."

The account, @HSM_Press - Shabaab, was shut by Twitter yesterday. Twitter's
terms of service state that users may not post "threats of violence against
others". A few hours later, the jihadists had opened another account, @HSM_
PressOffice. They tweeted: "A 14-hour standoff relayed in 1,400 rounds of
bullets and 140 characters of vengeance and still ongoing. Good morning Kenya!"

Travel warnings Threat to tourism

The Foreign Office has updated its travel advice on Kenya, and is urging Britons
to stay away from the scene of the terrorist attack. While it stopped short of
advising against travel to the country, the Foreign Office's warning will
concern the authorities in Kenya, which is heavily dependent on tourist income.

Australia issued a similar warning, stating: "We continue to advise Australians
to exercise a high degree of caution in Kenya overall at this time due to the
high risk of terrorist attack, civil unrest and high crime levels in the
country." The United States temporarily advised its citizens in Nairobi to avoid
public places.

Tourism is Kenya's second highest income earner, and Britons make up the
majority of tourists. The Foreign Office said that 186,000 British tourists
visited Kenya in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           September 23, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 4;
                                National Edition

Hunt for Brit White Widow suspect after mall bloodbath;
KENYA MASSACRE THREE BRITONS ARE AMONG 68 KILLED IN SHOP SHOOTINGS ; Mum of
three is Islam convert Attack survivors tell of terror

BYLINE: RUSSELL MYERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 848 words


TWO innocent children stand bewildered beside the body of a man gunned down in
the Nairobi shopping mall massacre.

The youngsters, one clutching two chocolate bars, were caught up in the atrocity
that has left at least 68 dead - including three Brits.

Just yards away, explosions and gunfire rang out as Kenyan troops moved from
shop to shop in a series of firefights with crazed terrorists.

Kenyan's military last night said they had rescued most of the remaining
hostages after launching a major operation to end the stand-off.

The assault began shortly before sundown as two helicopters circled the mall,
with one skimming the roof.

Kenya defence forces said they had rescued the majority of the hostages and
taken control of most of the mall.

It was feared that one of the ringleaders of the bloody attack is a British
mother of three.

Fanatical Samantha Lewthwaite, dubbed the White Widow, is a key member of
al-Shabaab, the militant group which has claimed responsibility for the
slaughter.

The British soldier's daughter, from Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, is an Islam
convert whose husband was one of the suicide bombers in the 7/7 attacks on
London.

Unconfirmed sources claimed that 29-year-old Lewthwaite may even be among the
masked gun gang still under siege in the Westgate mall last night.

An image on social networking websites appeared to show a balaclava-clad white
woman holding a gun.

In a Twitter message, terror group al-Shabaab praised the White Widow and
boasted that she was with them.

On a site that has been repeatedly closed d:down, they wrote: "Sherafiyah
lewthwaite aka samantha is a vrave a e m (sic) lady! were happier to have her in
our ranks!" In another posting they warned: "This is no more than a drill for a
bigger event!" The bloodbath left at least 175 seriously injured, including
children as young as two.

1c Sap It began at about 1pm on Saturday when up to 15 heavily armed fanatics
stormed the plush complex in the north-west of the city and opened fire as they
chanted jihad slogans.

t One mum who was at a kids' cookery event in the mall told how she tried to
protect 30 to 40 children as the bullets flew.

Kamal Kaur said: "People were hysterical. The terrorists threw two grenades at
us and they shot at us. My son, who is eight, just missed being shot.

"My daughter was pulling him down and I was trying to pull the little boy next
to him out of the way.

"Unfortunately a bullet or a grenade bounced off the wall and it hit the boy in
his neck and chest area. He fell over, bleeding profusely. I was telling all the
children to lie flat - just lie there and not scream or shout, just keep calm."

Within minutes of the carefully planned assault, pools of blood smeared the
pristine hallways and scores of bodies lay strewn across the floor.

A man and woman lay in a final embrace after being killed.

The shooters targeted non-Muslims by asking them the name of the Prophet
Muhammad's mother before mercilessly slaying those who did not know. The city's
four hospitals struggled to cope with the number of wounded.

Terrified patients besieged casualty units as volunteers helped distraught
relatives find their loved ones.

Briton Neil Saville, believed to work for global development company Dalberg in
Nairobi, was among the wounded. He was undergoing surgery at the Aga Khan
hospital last night after being shot in the chest.

Colleague Jason Wendle said: "Thankfully he is stable and it is not
life-threatening, but we're all in shock."

State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu confirmed reports of a white woman among
the terror gang.

A Kenyan police source said: "Samantha Lewthwaite is target number one."

A senior source said: "There is a strong possibility that Samantha Lewthwaite
could be one of the terrorists. We have reports that at least one, possibly two
women were involved in this siege."

Lewthwaite, whose husband Jermaine Lindsay blew himself up on a Piccadilly line
train during the 7/7 attacks in 2005, is also wanted over a bomb plot to kill
hundreds of British tourists in Mombasa.

Together with her British accomplice Jermaine Grant, the pair were days away
from carrying out their attack before being arrested in December 2011.

Grant from east London, is due to stand trial in Mombasa today. He was snared
before their deadly plan succeeded but Lewthwaite escaped and has been on the
run ever since.

She recently wrote on her blog: "Fear can make you do many things."

Prime Minister David Cameron condemned the latest atrocity.

He stressed that the perpetrators did not represent the majority of Muslims but
had carried out the atrocity "in the name of terror, violence and extremism".

Cameron said: "These appalling terrorist attacks that take place where the
perpetrators claim they do it in the name of a religion - they don't.

"They do it in the name of terror, violence and extremism and their warped view
of the world. They don't represent Islam or Muslims in Britain or anywhere else
in the world."

Kenyan president Uhuru Kenyatta last night vowed to defeat the militants - after
revealing close family members, including a nephew, were among the dead.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROMISE Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta vows to defeat killer
militants
SLAUGHTER Dead bodies lie in pool of blood at Westgate centre, mown down by
crazed terrorists
CHAOS A group of terrified shoppers creep past window shattered in mall
shoot-out
FIREFIGHT Kenyan troops take up position inside mall in clash with Somali
terrorists
HORROR Terrified kids clutching sweets beside body of man killed in mall

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                           September 23, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UK offers to help Kenya after terror attack at shopping mall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 259 words


DAVID Cameron has warned the country to brace itself for "more bad news" after
the deaths of three British nationals in the Nairobi terror attack were
confirmed.

The Prime Minister said the UK had offered Kenya assistance, including
intelligence co-operation, in response to the rampage by Islamic extremists in
an upmarket shopping centre which has left dozens dead and many more injured.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack,
with about 10 to 15 gunmen believed to remain holed up in the Westgate mall
holding a number of captives more than 24 hours after the violence began.

A sombre Mr Cameron said: "It is an absolutely sickening and despicable attack
of appalling brutality. What we know is that three British nationals have been
killed."

He added: "Because the situation is ongoing we should prepare ourselves for
further bad news.

"Our thoughts also should be with the Kenyan government and the Kenyan people at
this time."

Mr Cameron said he had offered the Kenyan authorities "every assistance" in a
call to president Uhuru Kenyatta, who lost members of his own family in the
attack. The Prime Minister was at pains to stress that the perpetrators did not
represent the majority of Muslims but had carried out the atrocity "in the name
of terror, violence and extremism". Mr Cameron said: "These appalling terrorist
attacks that take place, where the perpetrators claim they do it in the name of
a religion, they don't.

"They do it in the name of terror, violence and extremism and their warped view
of the world."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DET


                     Copyright 2013 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           September 23, 2013 Monday
                                   1 Edition

Twin bomb attack terror

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 64 words


BAGHDAD: Iraqi officials say two separate bombings, including a suicide car bomb
attack, have killed two security force members and wounded 37 people.

Kirkuk Police's Anwar Mohammed Qadir said a suicide bomber rammed his
explosives-laden car into a residential area, wounding 35 people.

Later, a roadside bomb struck a police convoy near Mosul, killing two soldiers
and wounding two others.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 11:50 AM GMT

Kenya shopping mall attack: Tweets from survivors reveal the terror;
The horrific scenes witnessed by a Radio Africa journalist and a young woman who
hid among mattresses are recorded in heartbreaking successive social media posts

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 830 words


Survivors of the Westgate mall terrorist attack have spoken about their ordeals
on Twitter, recording in detail their fear and suffering through the events of
the siege which has now claimed 68 lives and injured more than 170.

Radio Africa journalist Kamal Kaur used social media to tell her heart-breaking
story, in which she saw her six-months pregnant colleague and friend Ruhila
Adatia killed.

Also witnessing that shooting, as well as the apparent attempts of one terrorist
to escape disguised as a fleeing hostage, was a girl who names herself only as
Shirley.

These are the posts which record their harrowing experiences:

Kamal Kaur (@kamz26)

"My kids were hurt. We're ok. Unable to call or msg. Thank you for love &
prayers. Donate blood. Please. I saw children in need. Please."

"Image of the boy I was trying to save but got shot instead of my son keeps
swimming in front of my eyes. How do I sleep after seeing that?"

"Crying. And praying. I lay in a pool of someone's blood, a dead little boy
lying on my side. Trying to call for help, keeping others calm."

"I saw my little boy, my son help a small girl out from Java's service entrance.
I could only send him love from where I was watching."

"Please tell me if everyone is out of the mall. Please. I can't stop crying."

"My Ruhila is gone..."

"Bodies of children were everywhere. Children. Innocent little children. Holding
on to me asking me where their mummies were."

"The one guy I saw had magazines of bullets attached everywhere on him. Big gun
that showered bullets. Randomly shooting at people. And kids."

"Just saw a pic of my daughter helped out of Westgate in New York Times. God
bless you. I'm forever indebted. I didn't know where she was."

"Please go give blood. I'm begging you. If you'd seen what I saw you'd not think
twice about it."

"I still have dry blood in my hair. Not mine. It's of that little boy who was
shot instead of my son..."

"Images of the day keep flashing in front of my eyes. Dead bodies, injured
people, wailing, crying, scared."

"Wide awake. My daughter has started running a fever. She still has shrapnel in
her leg. Please go give blood to those who need it. Please"

"I still haven't told my children that their Ruhila Auntie is no more. I don't
know how to. I can't. They're still in shock & wounded."

"My son almost had his head blown off. Missed by an inch. Hit wall. Bounced &
killed the little boy next to him."

"I had a young lady who had fallen on me & she was calling her Dad to say
goodbye & I love you. It broke my heart she had given up..."

"I've finally broken the news to the kids about their beloved Ruhila Auntie. My
daughter's sobs will forever weigh on my soul."

Shirley (@ShirleyGhetto)

"Im under the matresses!!!!! This might be my last tweet #Westgate mall. :'(
:'("

"I love you guys."

"OMG I was with kevin and he's at the parking. I'm safe in here but guys, pray
for him guys, I think they took him!!"

"3 thugs are arguing about something. One of them is tryna convince two to
surrender."

"Its getting calm. Pray for us guys. #Westgate.Pray for Kevin."

"When the first gunshot was fired, we ran into the mall instead of away.
#Westgate"

"I don't care anymore. If they shoot let them come shoot.It doesn't even seem
like we'll make it out anyway #Westgate"

"The cop who tried to save us, Thank you. I hope they didnt kill him."

"Had mistaken this guys next to me as thugs. Thank God. #Westgate"

"Kenya police,Check the people leaving! I think some gunmen are escaping among
them. Black shirts #Westgate"

"Some guy at the parking has been shot for his phone ringing. Please Do NOT call
anyone. #Westgate"

"Is it safe to come out from hiding? Its quiet. Have the cops tackled the
culprits? Please keep me updated. #Westgate"

"The lady hostage who was shot. I'm told she's a journalist. That scream was
deafening. R.I.P #Westgate"

"Cop who scared away the gunmen to the parking lot. May God be with his soul.
#westgate"

"How is it out there? Is the backup here yet? #Westgate"

"I feel like I'm ready for anything now. All the fear is gone #Westgate"

"No, I dont wanna die this young! :'(. #Westgate"

"So this is how it feels like when you feel you might die the next minute. I
think I'm ready to walk out now."

"I can see the guys in green now. Should I or should I not show myself. The guys
I was with just left."

"I trust the guys in green. I think I'm gonna come out of hiding now. This feels
like a movie."

"I hope this won't be my last tweet."

"I'm OK."

"I made it out of the mall yesterday. The 2 guys I was in hiding with made it
out too. Thank you all for the concern. God bless Kenya."

"The cop who tried to lead us upstairs was sniped in the hip. No one knew where
the bullet came from. Some fell downstairs and played dead"

"I have talked to mum like nothing happened. Told her I'm in bed. I didn't wanna
scare her.The shock on her, I didn't want that."

"I think I'm the only one who didn't contact my parent. I didn't know how she
would deal with the shock. She doesn't even know I was in there."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

UN chief, Security Council condemn terrorist attack in Kenya

LENGTH: 165 words


September 22, 2013

Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and the Security Council have condemned the
terrorist attack at a shopping mall in Kenya's capital, Nairobi, which killed
scores of people and wounded many more.



"This premeditated act, targeting defenceless civilians, is totally
reprehensible," Mr. Ban said last night in a statement from his spokesperson.

"The United Nations stands in solidarity with the Kenyan people at this time,"
Mr. Ban noted.

In a separate statement , UN Security Council members condemned the terrorist
attack "in the strongest possible terms" and reiterated their determination to
combat all forms of terrorism in accordance with their responsibilities under
the UN Charter.

Mr. Ban and the 15-member Security Council extended their condolences to the
families of those killed, and to President Uhuru Kenyatta, with whom the UN
chief spoke by telephone earlier in the day.

Mr. Ban has said he trusts that those responsible for the attack will be brought
to justice.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Terrorist Attack at Westgate Shopping Mall in Nairobi, Kenya

LENGTH: 262 words


September 21, 2013

John Kerry, Secretary of State Washington, DC - Today's terrorist massacre of so
many innocents is a heartbreaking reminder that there exists unspeakable evil in
our world which can destroy life in a senseless instant. I want to express my
deepest condolences - and the condolences of our entire nation - to the families
and friends of the victims in Nairobi today. While the casualty count is still
to be determined, we know already that there are at least 30 innocent men,
women, and children dead and 60 injured, including several American citizens. We
have offered our assistance to the Government of Kenya and stand ready to help
in any way we can.



Although we have no reports of any Americans killed today, we have lost a member
of our own State Department family: the wife of a foreign service national
working for the U.S. Agency for International Development. The men and women of
USAID work courageously around the world to help people striving for a better
life. While we mourn with her family today, we also pledge our commitment to do
whatever we can to assist in bringing the perpetrators of this abhorrent
violence to justice, and to continue our efforts to improve the lives of people
across the globe.

Attacks like this can't change who we are, a people committed to peace and
justice for all, but rather must reaffirm our determination to counter extremism
and promote tolerance everywhere. As we prepare to bring the world's leaders
together at the United Nations next week, we are reminded again in tragedy of
our common humanity.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Secretary-General appalled by terrorist attack on church in Pakistan

LENGTH: 184 words


September 22, 2013

Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has said he is "appalled" by today's terrorist
attack on a Christian church in north-western Pakistan, and urged the Government
to do everything possible to find and bring the perpetrators to justice.



The bombing reportedly killed more than 75 people and wounded over 100 others as
they were attending Sunday mass in Peshwar.

"The Secretary-General condemns this atrocious bombing attack in the strongest
possible terms," his spokesperson said .

In the statement, Mr. Ban said he was "deeply concerned" about the repeated acts
of blind violence against religious and ethnic minorities in Pakistan.

"These acts of terror cannot be justified by any cause," the UN chief stressed,
extending condolences to the families of the victims, the people and Government
of Pakistan.

Mr. Ban also today reiterated the UN's solidarity with the Government's ongoing
struggle against terrorism and extremism.

He also urged authorities to continue taking steps to build tolerance and
strengthen relationships between diverse religious and ethnic communities in the
country.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 10:22 PM GMT

First picture of nine-year-old British girl who died in Kenya terrorist attack:
Father forced to wait outside mall before learning of wife and daughter's death

BYLINE: ANNA EDWARDS and MARK DUELL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2457 words



     ·    Defence Secretary Philip Hammond says British death toll could still
          rise
     ·    Two more British victims identified as Warwickshire mother and
          daughter
     ·    Zahira Bawa, 41, and her daughter Jenah, 9, were from Leamington Spa
     ·    British architect Ross Langdon and partner Elif Yavuz also shot dead
     ·    Harvard graduate Miss Yavuz was eight and a half months pregnant
     ·    62 people slaughtered by terrorists believed to be Somali Islamists
     ·    British man's four relatives slain in horrific attack on mall in
          Nairobi


This is the first picture of a young British victim of the terrorist attack on a
shopping centre in the Kenyan capital of Nairobi.

Jenah Bawa, nine, from Leamington Spa, died alongside her mother Zahira during
the attack that claimed 62 lives.

Mrs Bawa and her daughter were among six Britons now confirmed to have died
after armed terrorists stormed a shopping centre in the country - but that
figure may rise further, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond said tonight.

Scroll down for videos

Jenah's distraught father Louis was forced to identify the bodies of his wife,
41, and daughter after he flew to Kenya when he could not contact them after
news of the atrocity broke.

The marketing worker was forced to wait outside the mall to receive news of
their fate - and it was said that he learned the pair had died after police
asked him to identify photos of dead bodies found within the complex.

In a TV interview outside the centre - filmed before the deaths were confirmed -
Mr Bawa said: 'The emotion is, I'm absolutely breaking up. All I'm hoping is
that they are safe, that they are hiding.'

It is thought Mrs Bawa and her daughter were found among the dead inside a
second-floor supermarket within the sprawling retail centre.

Jenah's grandmother Shakuntna Bawa, 63, today told reporters that the family had
been devastated by the tragedy in Kenya's capital city on Saturday, saying: 'We
knew that they were missing.

'But we heard yesterday that unfortunately they had been killed. I feel pretty
shocked - the whole family is in shock. I can't say anything else at the moment.
It's very sad - but what can we do?'

She added: 'My sister saw Louis speaking on television and rang me. At that
stage we still believed there was a chance Jenah and Zahira might be okay
because there were a lot of people missing.

'But the police have confirmed to Louis that his wife and daughter were killed.
He tried to go down to the morgue to identify their bodies but there were guards
there.

'He was eventually let in after many hours and has now confirmed they died. I
have not seen Jenah for five years ever since the family moved to Kenya, but she
was beautiful.'

Mr Bawa married Kenya-born Zahira in 1998 and his daughter Jenah was born in
2005. He is a marketing executive with a multinational mobile phone accessories
firm, Dubai-based DCI Mobile.

It comes after the revelation that British architect and Ross Langdon, who had
dual Australian nationality, and his heavily-pregnant partner Elif Yavuz, were
also shot dead by the terrorists.

And a photo taken moments after they were hit appears to show the 33-year-old
cradling Miss Yavuz, in an attempt to protect her and their unborn child, as
they both lie motionless in pools of blood.

As they lay dying, terrorists hunted down other innocent civilians, spraying
bullets and leaving their victims screaming in agony.

Mr Langdon, 33, had been involved with a number of projects across Africa, which
included designing an HIV-Aids hospital in Kenya free of charge.

The London-based architect could be seen photographed with Ugandan president,
Yoweri Museveni, in a picture posted on his Facebook profile earlier this year.

Mr Langdon, who studied architecture at the University of Tasmania then the
University of Sydney, worked for several companies before founding his own firm
Regional Associates Ltd in May 2008.

Born and brought up in south-eastern Tasmania, his work included projects in
Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania.

Harvard graduate Ms Yavuz was eight-and-a-half months pregnant at the time of
her death.

The malaria specialist was working in Kenya for the Bill, Hillary and Chelsea
Clinton Foundation, which was founded by the former U.S president.

On her Facebook profile she was photographer shaking hands with former US
President Bill Clinton during a visit to a Clinton Foundation project last
month.

Born in Holland, Ms Yavuz had lived in Cambridge, Massachusetts, while studying
at the renowned Harvard University.

Esther Waters-Crane, a British expat who was an acquaintance of Elif's,
described her grief at losing the expectant mother, and how Kenya has reacted to
the unprovoked attack.

She said: 'I'm so, so sad about Elif. We had been in regular contact about her
birth her in Nairobi and

I feel sick/angry/furious/shocked by this tragic, tragic waste of lovely people.

'Nairobi is awash with helicopters right now.

'I'm at home and the explosions from Westgate are so loud they sound like
they're on my road.

'We're all in pieces about this- a very very sad time for Nairobi and for dear
Kenya.'

The architect's mother told of the 'excruciating loss' she was suffering.

In a message on Facebook, Mrs Linden Langdon said the loss of her son Ross was
immeasurable.

Mr Langdon's family has asked for privacy as they grieve over his death, that of
his partner Elif Yavuz and their unborn child - but his mother decided to put a
few words out on social media to tell the world of the grief his relatives were
suffering.

'We have lost my beautiful son Ross Langdon, his lovely partner Elif Yavuz and
their much loved baby just two weeks away from birth,' Mrs Langdon wrote on her
son's Facebook page.

'The loss is immeasurable, absurd and excruciating.'

Today the architectural practice where he worked as a director said in a
statement: 'We are deeply saddened by the tragic loss our friend and colleague
Ross Langdon and his partner Elif Yavuz.

'Profoundly talented and full of life, Ross enriched the lives of all those
around him.

'Ross's leadership on projects throughout East-Africa was inspirational.

'Ross was living his dream, greatly contributing to the lives of people within
highly disadvantaged communities and supporting habitat conservation for some of
the world's most threatened species.

'Ross will be very, very sorely missed. Our deepest condolences and thoughts are
with Ross and Elif's families at this very difficult time.'

Mr Langdon last year gave a talk at TEDxKrakow in Poland. TED (Technology,
Entertainment, Design) is a global set of conferences owned by the private
non-profit Sapling Foundation, under the slogan 'ideas worth spreading'.

On a blog for TEDxKrakow, which calls itself an independently organised TED
event, tributes were paid to the architect.

The site said: 'It was with great sadness that we learnt of the tragic murder of
Ross Langdon and his wife Elif Yavuz in the terrorist attacks in Nairobi on
Saturday. They were expecting their first baby in a couple of weeks.

'Ross spoke at TEDxKrakow in 2012 about his work as an architect in Africa. He
devoted his life to creating sustainable architecture that is integrated into
communities, and he left us with hope for humanity.

'It's impossible to make sense of this senseless and shocking loss of life. We
send our condolences to both their families.'

Tributes to the couple have flooded in via social media.

One friend, Arah Nekoei, wrote: 'We will miss you, Elif Yavuz, Ross Langdon and
the one that we never got to know.'

A British businessman has revealed that four members of his family were killed
in the Nairobi terror attack.

Samir Bharma, from Spinney Hills, Leicester, was last making arrangements to fly
to the Kenyan capital.

It is understood his relatives who were killed were taking part in a recording
of a television programme called Masterchef Junior.

He said of his dead family members: 'They were young people who were taking part
in a cookery contest that was taking place in the centre. Unfortunately they
have all passed away.

'An aunt - my dad's cousin - she's critical in hospital. I've spoken to my
father who is there, but contact is difficult.

'It's a very difficult time and I'm trying to arrange flights now.'

Another Leicester man described how his parents and brother and sister were in
the shopping mall when the terrorists struck.

The man, in his 20s, wishes to remain anonymous after his mother warned him that
terrorists had hacked into Facebook accounts of Nairobi residents and left the
chilling warning 'we are watching you'.

He said his mother had called him from outside the mall: 'She was just passing
by in the upper mall.

The whole thing was taking place on the ground floor and she just saw gunmen
wandering around everywhere and shooting people. She saw her best friend being
shot straight in the head.

'My sister just froze to the spot. My brother dragged my sister out into the
parking lot.. At that point the parking lot was secure and people could leave.

'My brother saw his best friend's body outside. He had literally been shot.'

The man said his parents had gone to the hospital to help medical staff cope
with the casualties.

Islamic terrorists who have been barricaded in a Kenyan shopping mall today
threatened to kill all their remaining hostages as special forces moved in to
end the two day siege.

Witnesses said they heard this morning multiple large explosions within the vast
Westgate Shopping Centre in Nairobi and there were reports of gunfire in the
streets outside.

Thick black smoke was then seen billowing from the mall.

The Foreign Office confirmed today that four Britons have now been killed in the
atrocity.

Kenyan troops have moved in to end the siege but spokesman for terror group Al
Shabaab Ali Mohamud Rage said in a statement posted on an Islamist website that
those held inside will 'bear the brunt of any force' used by soldiers against
the militants.

The statement read: 'We authorise the mujahedeen inside the building to take
actions against the prisoners as much as they are pressed.

'We are telling Christians advancing onto the mujahedeen to have mercy for their
prisoners who will bear the brunt of any force directed against the mujahedeen.'

The Al-Qaeda linked group claimed to be in contact with the fighters inside the
mall and said the gunmen were battling both Kenyan and Israeli forces.

HOW THE ATTACKERS TARGETED VICTIMS FROM AROUND THE WORLD - INCLUDING POETS,
CHILDREN, PARENTS AND DIPLOMATS

BRITAIN/ AUSTRALIA

Ross Langdon was an architect who worked in Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania,
creating eco-lodges and socially sustainable tourism in ecologically sensitive
locations.

THE NETHERLANDS

Langdon's partner, Elif Yavuz, 33, was expecting their first child in early
October.

A 2013 graduate of Harvard University's Department of Global Health and
Population, she had completed her dissertation research on malaria in eastern
Africa and was working with the Clinton Health Access Initiative, the university
said in a note to faculty, staff and students.

PERU

Juan Ortiz-Iruri was a retired tropical disease specialist for UNICEF who had
lived 25 years in Africa, according to UNICEF and Peruvian Foreign Ministry
spokesman Alejandro Neyra. His son Ricardo Ortiz told Radio RPP that he entered
the mall accompanied by his daughter, a 13-year-old born in the U.S.'The version
from my sister is that sadly my father fell to the floor and showed no signs of
life,' Ortiz said. He said his sister suffered a hand injury, but is out of
danger. Ortiz-Iruri had worked in Kenya, Malawi, Zimbabwe and Liberia.

GHANA

Kofi Awoonor, a Ghanaian poet, professor and former ambassador to Brazil, Cuba
and the United Nations, died after being wounded in the attack, Ghana's
presidential office confirmed. Ghana's ministry of information said Awoonor's
son was injured and is responding to treatment. Awoonor's work drew its
inspiration from the traditions of his native Ewe tribe.

UKNOWN NATIONALITY

Ruhila Adatia-Sood, whose husband was a foreign worker for the U.S. Agency for
International Development in Nairobi was killed, the organization said in a
press statement. She was a popular radio and TV personality in Kenya and
tributes poured in for her on Twitter and Facebook.

KENYA

President Uhuru Kenyatta's nephew and nephew's fiancee are among the dead.

INDIA

Two Indians, 8-year-old Parmashu Jain and 40-year-old Sridhar Natarajan, were
killed, and four others were wounded in the attack, an External Affairs Ministry
spokesman said.

CANADA

Two Canadians, including a diplomat, died in the attack, according to Prime
Minister Stephen Harper. He paid tribute to the victims and noted the loss of
diplomat Annemarie Desloges, who served in Canada's High Commission to Kenya as
a liaison officer with the Canada Border Services Agency. Her spouse Robert Munk
was wounded in the attack, but has since been released from the hospital, the
Canadian Press reported.

SWITZERLAND

The Swiss government confirmed that one of its citizens was injured in the
attack. It said its embassy in Nairobi is in contact with the victim's family
and local officials, but would not provide further detail on the victim's name.

BRITAIN

At least four U.K. nationals were killed in the attack, according to the Foreign
Office, which warned the number of such fatalities is 'likely to rise as further
information becomes available.'

FRANCE

Two French women were killed, President Francois Hollande said.

SOUTH AFRICA

One South African citizen was killed, according to the country's International
Relations Department.

CHINA

A 38-year-old Chinese woman with the surname Zhou who worked in the real estate
industry was killed in the attack, China's official Xinhua News Agency reported.
Her son was injured in the attack and was in stable condition in a hospital,
according to the Chinese Embassy in Kenya.

U.S.

Five American citizens were injured, U.S. officials said.

NEW ZEALAND

Andrew McLaren, 34, a New Zealander who managed a factory in Kenya for the
avocado oil company Olivado, was wounded in the attack, the New Zealand Ministry
of Foreign Affairs confirmed. He was hospitalized in stable condition.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 1:20 AM GMT

Did the White Widow order attack? How Kenyan anti-terror police believe British
woman, 29, may be behind mall massacre

BYLINE: ANDREW MALONE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 922 words



     ·    Samantha Lewthwaite grew up as normal teenager in Buckinghamshire
     ·    Married British Muslim Jermaine Lindsay who was a 7/7 suicide bomber
     ·    Woman in a veil appeared to be commanding other terrorists in Nairobi


Last night, as the bodies were still being counted at the shopping mall, one
British woman was notably slow to join the condemnation.

For Samantha Lewthwaite, the daughter of a former British soldier who grew up
attending school discos in Buckinghamshire, views these awful events as a cause
for jubilation.

Kenyan anti-terror police revealed yesterday that Lewthwaite - who is known to
many as the White Widow - may be the brains behind the operation to bring terror
to the heart of Kenya, a country once  synonymous with the sexual high-jinks of
the Happy Valley expatriate set, but rapidly becoming a new battleground in the
war between Islamists and the West.

'I suspect this woman Lewthwaite is behind this attack,' a senior anti-terror
source told me last night as survivors described how a woman in a veil appeared
to be commanding the other terrorists as they hunted down and killed non-Muslim
shoppers.

The idea that she might have ordered the attack - or even led it herself - is
not far-fetched at all.

Having converted to Islam as a young woman and married a man who went on to be a
7/7 London suicide bomber, she has become a key figure in the terror group
behind this weekend's attack.

Lewthwaite has even been involved in training a group of all-female suicide
attackers at camps in lawless neighbouring Somalia.

It is an extraordinary, macabre journey into darkness for the 29-year-old, who
grew up as a normal teenager in Aylesbury before meeting Jermaine Lindsay, a
British Muslim, in an online chat room when she was 17. The pair married three
years later.

When her husband was named as one of four suicide bombers who blew up Tube
trains and a bus in 2005, killing 52 people, Lewthwaite initially condemned her
late husband's attack and denied any knowledge of his plan.

This was a lie. More than eight years later, Lewthwaite is one of Al Qaeda's
main recruiters in East Africa and is an official spokesman for Al Shabaab (The
People), the terrorist group behind the horror in Nairobi.

As well as railing against 'infidels in the West', Lewthwaite had previously
used a Twitter account to denounce a rival foreign terrorist in the text-speak
of a teenager.

'Fyi [for your information] sam lewthwaite thinks u r a irritating obnoxious
contemptible little Muj PRAT,' she wrote. ('Muj' is a contraction of mujahideen
- a jihadist).

The object of her anger was Omar Shafik Hammami, a former student from Alabama.
Last week he was shot dead in an ambush by terrorists loyal to the White Widow.

'May his fate serve as a lesson to all those who want to follow in his footsteps
as a poster boy for jihad,' Lewthwaite wrote gleefully on Twitter.

To add to her name for ruthlessness, the White Widow did not mention in her
tweets that a British man reputed to be her second husband was also killed in
the ambush.

Her fearless reputation within Africa's growing Islamic terror network has been
strengthened by her own involvement as a mujahid - or warrior - during a series
of bombings and shootings in Kenya's tourist areas.

Known to her devoted followers as dada muzungu - Swahili for white sister -
Lewthwaite moved to Kenya with her three children in 2007.

A small, dumpy woman, she cut off all links with her family in Britain and
became immersed in East Africa's Islamic terror networks, forging links with
other British fanatics who had come to Kenya to wage 'jihad' against
non-believers. It was last year that details of Lewthwaite's secret new life
emerged in grisly detail.

A white woman, later identified as Lewthwaite, had led a group of terrorists who
fired grenades into a bar in Mombasa, the Kenyan coastal tourist resort popular
with Britons. Three people, including a child, were killed and more than 50
injured.

In truth, I was deeply sceptical when news was first leaked two years ago about
the White Widow's alleged role as a terrorist with the group now causing carnage
in Nairobi.

Yet now, having spent time among her acolytes in the Islamic stronghold where
she once lived near Mombasa, and in briefings with police, prosecutors and
senior investigators during subsequent investigations in Nairobi, I have no
doubt that Lewthwaite is a cold-blooded killer and a dangerous ideologue.

Senior officers in Kenya have told me they will kill her on sight. So far,
however, she has avoided arrest by wearing all-concealing Islamic dress as she
has flitted between Somalia, Kenya and Tanzania.

Meanwhile, the group she is allied to continues to wreak havoc in the region.

Al Shabaab grew out of the chaos of Somalia, and has seen jihadists wage a
brutal war to impose strict sharia law in the East African state.

'I suspect this woman Lewthwaite is behind this attack'

Senior anti-terror source

But Kenyan forces, supported by Britain and America, have been waging war across
the border in Somalia in an attempt to keep the Islamists from power.

With the war against Al Shabaab in Somalia proving highly effective, Kenya's
support has made it a key enemy of the Islamists.

Even before this weekend's attack, the activities of Lewthwaite and her fellow
terrorists had turned Kenya into a place of fear and paranoia.

Clearly, the White Widow has a taste for blood. It remains to be seen whether
she will live long enough to kill again.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 12:15 AM GMT

Three of Kenya mall massacre gunmen 'are American': Sixty-eight dead and four US
citizens wounded as terrorist attack nears bloody conclusion with special forces
moving in to free hostages

BYLINE: LOUISE BOYLE, ELLIE BUCHDAHL, STUART WOLEDGE and RYAN GORMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3292 words



     ·    Kenyan security forces are reported to have taken control of most of
          the mall over 36 hours after they launched attack
     ·    'This will end tonight. Our forces will prevail. Kenyans are standing
          firm against aggression, and we will win,' Kenya's Disaster Operations
          Center tweeted on Sunday
     ·    Canadian diplomat Annemarie Desloges, 29, and pregnant Kenyan radio
          journalist Ruhila Adatia among the dead
     ·    Somalian terrorist group al Shabaab, which has links to al Qaeda,
          claimed responsibility for the attack which they live-blogged on
          Twitter
     ·    Terrorist organization released a statement saying it warned Kenya to
          remove troops from Somalia
     ·    The upscale mall is a favorite shopping spot for Western expat and
          wealthy Kenyan families
     ·    Witness says attackers told shoppers non-Muslims were the targets;
          estimated 30 hostages remain in the mall
     ·    So far at least 68 people have been reported to have died and 175
          people injured


Three of the terrorists who killed 68 people in a despicable attack on an
upmarket Kenyan shopping mall are reportedly Americans, it has been quoted as
the Kenyan military reported that it had rescued hostages and secured 'most
parts' of the center.

Al Shabaab sources told  CNN on Sunday that nine extremists had been named on
their Twitter account along with their nationalities and allegedly included U.S.
citizens. The account has now been suspended by the site.

The Kenya Defence Forces posted on its Twitter account that 'most of the
hostages hostages have been rescued' and that four security forces had taken
control of 'most parts of the building.'

The revelation came as a large explosion rocked the upmarket Kenyan mall on
Sunday where Islamic extremists are holding hostages after launching an attack
which left at least 68 people dead.

Witnesses at the Westgate shopping center in Nairobi said the explosion - which
was followed by silence - is by far the largest as the siege nears the 36-hour
mark. Up to 15 militant attackers were in the mall on Sunday night holding an
estimated 30 captives, said Kenyan officials. More than 175 people have been
wounded.

The Kenyan military stormed the four-story mall and there have been sporadic gun
battles with extremists. Kenyan troops were seen carrying in at least two
rocket-propelled grenades - and, earlier, military helicopters hovered over the
mall.

It came after the wife of a U.S. embassy worker was identified as one of the
dead. Four Americans are among the 175 wounded in the attack by

al Qaeda-linked extremists, who opened fire in the mall after reportedly
allowing Muslims to flee.

Reuters had earlier reported that Secretary of State John Kerry said the wife of
a U.S. diplomat working for the U.S. Agency for International Development was
killed. However the State Department said that it was in fact the wife of a
national working for the U.S. embassy in Nairobi.

There are currently no reports of American casualties.

WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT: SCROLL DOWN FOR LIVE COVERAGE

According to  NBC News, the FBI is actively investigating whether as many as
five Americans were part of the terror cell which launched the deadly mall
attack.

However, sources close to the investigation have cautioned that authorities have
not confirmed this and at present do not know for sure who is involved and their
nationalities.

The suggestion that Americans were involved in the deadly terror attack
originated from the Twitter feed claiming to belong to the Somali al-Qaeda
affiliate al-Shabab, which is claiming responsibility for the outrage.

That account lists specific names and the homes states of the alleged American
terrorists - of which two are purportedly from the St. Paul-Minneapolis area in
Minnesota and another from Kansas City in Missouri.

St. Paul-Minneapolis has the largest Somali population outside of Mogadishu,
with some 85,700 members.

It is thought that the FBI will have already acted on the information available
to them and will have acertained whether the individuals are in the country or
have traveled abroad.

Kenya's Red Cross said that 49 people were reported missing. Officials did not
make an explicit link but that number could form the basis of the number of
people held captive.

The Red Cross added on Sunday that the death toll had risen from 59 to 68 after
nine more bodies were recovered in a joint rescue mission.

Kenyan police said on Twitter on Sunday that a 'MAJOR' assault by security
forces had started to end the two-day siege.

'This will end tonight. Our forces will prevail. Kenyans are standing firm
against aggression, and we will win,' Kenya's Disaster Operations Center
tweeted.

The assault came about 36 hours after up to 15 al Shabaab extremists stormed the
mall from two sides, throwing grenades and firing on civilians.

Kenya's interior minister Joseph Ole Lenku said the military had identified the
attackers' locations but that the operation is very 'delicate'.

'We have confirmed the location of the criminals but will not give (out) the
details,' he said. 'We don't want to lose innocent life.'

A State Department official told MailOnline on Sunday: 'The situation is
ongoing.  There are no new reports of American citizen casualties.

'The United States remains committed to continuing our close cooperation with
the Kenyan government to combat the shared threat of international terrorism.'

One nearby hospital has taken in at least 128 patients and performed 28
surgeries to remove bullets and shrapnel in the first 24 hours since the attacks
began Saturday, according to the Associated Press.

'We have at least two critical patients currently, one with bullets lodged near
the spine,' M.P. Shah Hospital Chairman Manoj Shah told the AP. He added that
four of the 19 fatalities at this particular hospital were children.

As the massacre unfolded, witnesses described terrifying scenes in which men,
women and children of all ages and nationalities were brutally cut down by
gunfire.

Around 1,000 people were evacuated from the mall with many running from the
center with their hands raised while others crawled on their bellies to safety.

The Westgate Mall is a popular weekend spot with wealthy Kenyans and foreign
expats with its array of big-brand stores, coffee shops and sushi restaurants.

On Sunday, President Barack Obama called Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta to
express his condolences.

'President Obama reiterated U.S. support for Kenya's efforts to bring the
perpetrators of the attack to justice,' the White House said in a statement.

The names of the dead began to emerge over the weekend as the siege continued.
Canadian diplomat Anne-Marie Desloges, 29, and a pregnant Kenyan radio
journalist Ruhila Adatia were identified as being killed in the terrorist
attack.

A renowned Ghanaian poet and statesman Kofi Awoonor was killed. The esteemed
professor was a former ambassador Brazil, Cuba and the United Nations.

Elaine Dang, 26, a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley, has
been named as one of the injured and is recovering in hospital today. She
tweeted on Sunday: 'I am recovering. Thank you for all the love and support - in
Kenya and overseas. Terrorism knows no religion.'

She then posted a picture of herself and added: 'Proof that I am OK - hanging
out with some of my best friends in Nairobi.'

The mall, a popular haunt for rich Kenyans and expats, is dotted with bodies
lying in pools of blood. Some victims were shot dead as they sat in their cars,
while others have been left with horrific injuries.

Gunfire erupted briefly on Sunday inside the Nairobi shopping mall where
Islamist militants are holed up with hostages.

The terrorists, using guns and grenades, slaughtered 68 people in the attack,
according to Kenyan Interior Minister Joe Lenku. A large Kenyan security force
has laid siege to the mall and taken control of its security cameras.

Five hostages were released on Sunday at around 2am local time. It is thought
that Israeli soldiers are assisting with the rescue mission: 'The Israelis have
entered and they are rescuing the hostages and the injured,' a source told AFP.

Two wounded Kenyan security forces officers were carried out of the mall this
morning after a barrage of gunfire was heard.

Two gunmen have been killed by authorities, but as many as 15 remain, CNN
reported. Is is believed that one of the militant fighters is a woman.

Jonathan Maungo, a private security guard, told Reuters: 'They entered through
blood, that's how they'll leave.'

Terrified shoppers told of how they huddled in back hallways and prayed they
would not be found by the militants. When the way appeared clear, crying mothers
clutching small children and blood-splattered men sprinted out of the mall.

At one burger restaurant, a man and woman lay in a final embrace after they had
been killed, before their bodies were removed. Pop music was still playing over
the loudspeaker.

Witness Elijah Kamau said the gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave and that
non-Muslims would be targeted, as they began their attack.

The gunmen threw grenades and then opened fire, sending shoppers and staff
fleeing for their lives.

Charles Karani, 41, an IT engineer, said: 'I hid under a car with my daughters,
and I saw the men line up maybe 40 people and ask them who was Muslim, and if
they were to prove it by saying the name of the Prophet's mother. Those who got
it wrong were shot.

'There was blood everywhere. Two ladies under the car with me had gunshot wounds
on their legs.

'Another Indian gentlemen was hit in the face by a bullet but he seemed not to
be gravely hurt. Other people for sure are dead. I saw four people lying, not
moving.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab, which is linked to al Qaeda, has claimed
responsibility for the atrocity in which men armed with guns and grenades
stormed the mall and targeted non-Muslims.

In what is believed to be a first, terrorists live-tweeted the attack on their
Twitter account until it was suspended.

The savage attack took place on the International Day of Peace, which is usually
celebrated by temporary cease-fires in conflict zones in order to allow for
humanitarian aid, according to the United Nations.

'We have reports of American citizens injured in the attack, and the U.S.
Embassy is actively reaching out to provide assistance,' Marie Harf, deputy
spokesman for the State Department said in the statement.

'We condemn this senseless act of violence that has resulted in death and injury
for many innocent men, women, and children.'

Citing privacy concerns, the U.S. Embassy declined to identify the Americans
involved but an official did tell the Associated press that four Americans were
injured in the assault.

Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta says he shares the grief of the nation - his
nephew and nephew's fiancee are among the dead.

'We shall hunt down the perpetrators wherever they run to,' said President
Kenyatta. 'We shall get them. We shall punish them for this heinous crime.

'We are as brave and invincible as the lions on our coat of arms, my government
stands ready... I urge all Kenyans to stand together and see this dark moment
through,' the clearly shaken president continued.

'The despicable perpetrators of this cowardly act hoped to intimidate, divide
and cause despondency amongst Kenyans.We have overcome terrorist attacks before.
We will defeat them again.'

He urged Kenyans to 'remain calm and vigilant' and asked them to donate blood to
help treat the injured.

A confidential United Nations report cited by the New York Times called the
attack 'a complex, two-pronged assault' with two squads of gunmen opening fire
while storming the mall from different floors. Witnesses told the paper one of
the gunmen was a woman.

MASSACRE AT THE MALL: TIMELINE OF THE TERRORIST ATTACK

The timeline is on Kenyan time, seven hours ahead of Eastern Standard Time in
the U.S.

Saturday, 12.30pm: Terrorists storm the Westgate Mall in Nairobi, an upmarket
shopping center, through the front entrance.

Initially, shoppers believe the attack to be a robbery.  Reports of grenade
explosions

12.45pm: Up to 15 gun-wielding suspects swarm the mall as terrified shoppers run
for their lives and others shelter in closets, refrigerators and back hallways.

1pm: Kenyan security forces launch an assault on the mall to flush out the
gunman

3pm: The first bodies are removed from the mall including those who were shot
dead at lunch tables and a couple lying in a final embrace.

4pm: Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta says he has lost several family members
before vowing that terrorists would be defeated.

Among the 39 being reported dead are the wife of an American diplomat along with
Canadian and Ghanian diplomats.

9pm: al Shabaab, a Somali-militant group with links to al Qaeda, claim
responsibility for the attack.

2am: Five hostages are released. Up to 15 remain inside while their relatives
hold a vigil at a Red Cross center nearby

11am: Bursts of gunfire from the building as Kenyan security forces close in.
Israeli troops brought in for support

Sunday 2pm: 59 people dead; with 175 injuredand 15 hostages still trapped

Several armed units and soldiers could be seen on Kenyan television streaming
into the area surrounding the mall as the siege approached the 20-hour mark.
Reports also indicated the gunmen were firing on authorities staged in the
parking lot as the sun came up on Sunday. Continuous sporadic gunfire was heard
throughout the morning.

Hannah Chisholm, visiting Nairobi from the UK, said she and 60 others barricaded
themselves in a large storeroom.

'We kept running to different places but the shots were getting louder so we
barricaded ourselves along with about 60 others into a large storeroom. There
were children hiding with us as well as someone who had been shot,'she told the
BBC.

'The gunfire was loud and we were scared but at that point we thought the gunmen
were thieves so we assumed they wouldn't try to reach the storeroom,' she added.



Diplomat Annemarie Desloges, 29, was killed in the terror attack, the Canadian
government confirmed on Sunday.

Mrs Desloges was shopping with her husband when the attack took place, according
to the Vancouver Sun. She was a liaison officer with the Canada Border Services
Agency, working on immigration issues, the paper noted. Mrs Deloges had been
living in Kenya for two years.

Britain's Foreign Office said at least three UK nationals were killed in the
attack and warned that the number of such fatalities is 'likely to rise as
further information becomes available'.

It was reported today that a person holding dual Australian and British
citizenship was killed in the attack.

French President Francois Holland said two French women were killed.

One South African citizen was killed, said the country's International Relations
Department.

Two Indians were killed and four wounded in the attack, said Syed Akbaruddin,
spokesman for India's External Affairs Ministry.

Dutch Foreign Minister Frans Timmermans said a 33-year-old Dutch woman died in
the attack and that seven other Dutch citizens who were in the mall escaped
unharmed. The victim's identity was not released.

A 38-year-old Chinese woman was killed in the shopping mall 'terror attack', the
Chinese Embassy in Kenya said in a statement. Her son was injured and
hospitalized in stable condition, according to the statement posted on the
embassy's website.

Pregnant Kenyan radio journalist Ruhila Adatia was confirmed among the dead.
Prior to going shopping for baby clothes, Ms Adatia was hosting a children's
cooking competition in the mall's parking lot.

The popular presenter posted several pictures taken posing with fans to
Instagram in the hours before the attack.

Fellow journalist Kamal Kaur, who was with Ms Adatia in the mall when she was
shot dead, told KTN that her children had been injuried. Both children suffered
shrapnel wounds to the legs and one had a head injury, she said.

AL-SHABAAB AT A GLANCE


     ·    Translated from Arabic means 'the Youth'
     ·    Evolved from being the de-facto police in Mogadishu, Somalia into
          terrorism
     ·    Began suicide bombings in 2009 while attempting to overthrow Somali
          transitional government
     ·    The largest Somalian terror organization
     ·    Affiliated with al Qaeda
     ·    Has recruited members from many countries, including the U.S.
     ·    14 youths from Minnesota were charged in 2009 for trying to join the
          group
     ·    Also claimed responsibility for 2010 attack in Uganda that killed 74
          at a soccer match
     ·    Main targets are Kenya and Uganda because they fund Somali government


Source:  al-Jazeera America

'She was so excited about her baby, I don't know what to do... I'm lost, I'm
lost,' a hysterical Ms Kaur told the station between uncontrollable crying.

'Images of the day keep flashing in front of my eyes. Dead bodies, injured
people, wailing, crying, scared, Ms Kaur tweeted hours after the attack.

'He stood there with a gun. Aiming it where the kids were. And the b*****d shot
them,' Ms Kaur tweeted.

Al-Shabaab, also known as Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen (HSM), claimed
responsibility for the atrocity on Twitter.

The terrorist organization said that it had previously warned the Kenyan
government that, if they did not remove military forces from Somalia, there
would be 'severe consequences'.

'For long we have waged war against the Kenyans in our land, now it's time to
shift the battleground and take the war to their land,' terrorists tweeted,
before launching into a chilling account of the attack as it unfolded.

The militant group wrote: 'The Mujahideen entered Westgate Mall today at around
noon and are still inside the mall, fighting the Kenyan Kuffar inside their own
turf.'

The organization claimed it had killed more than 100 Kenyan 'kuffar', a
derogatory term used to describe non-Muslims.

'Since our last contact, the Mujahideen inside the mall confirmed to @HSM_Press
that they killed over 100 Kenyan kiffar & battle is ongoing.' the tweets
continued.

'What Kenyans are witnessing today at #Westgate is retributive justice for
crimes committed by their military, albeit largely miniscule in nature,' read
the final tweet.

Twitter soon suspended the Twitter account, citing terms of service regarding
violence or threats. Twitter has declined any further comment.

Witnesses who escaped the attack said anyone who could recite a Muslim prayer to
their captors was allowed to leave unscathed. But the attackers turned their
guns on anyone who could not prove they were Islamic.

Another survivor claimed that the gunmen told Muslims to stand up and leave and
that only non-Muslims would be targeted when they opened fire at the upmarket
mall of the Westlands district around midday on Saturday.

'Militants went into the mall and executed people: women and children, anyone
who got in their path,' New York Times staff photographer Tyler HIcks told the
paper in an interview. Mr Hicks was in the mall during the attack.

Police initially believed the attack was an attempt by about ten armed men to
rob a shop. But Elijah Kamau, another survivor witness, said that the gunmen had
announced that they were targeting non-Muslims as they began their attack at the
center.

Some of those who escaped were 'challenged to recite a Muslim prayer and were
then let out', according to Allan Sayers, who contacted MailOnline and said he
was in the Westgate mall five minutes before the attack.

Mr Sayers said people were still in text and phone contact with some of the
hostages.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                           September 23, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

A cry from the slaughterhouse;
Mother's tweets reveal full horror of mall terror attack

BYLINE: ETAN SMALLMAN

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,7

LENGTH: 242 words


A TERRIFIED survivor of the Nairobi shopping centre terror attack described the
full horror of the carnage in a succession of tweets.

Radio presenter Kamal Kaur used Twitter to detail how her son 'almost had his
head blown off' by gunmen who stormed the Westgate mall on Saturday, killing 68
people including three Britons.

Her colleague Ruhila Adatia, who was six months pregnant, was one of those
killed in the assault.

'I still haven't told my children that their Ruhila Auntie is no more,' she
wrote, tweeting as @kamz26. 'I don't know how to. I can't. They're still in
shock and wounded.' Ms Kaur, who was attending a children's cookery event in the
centre, told Channel 4 News: 'In my corner where I was, I had at least 30, 35
kids with me. At that moment, the guys came out. People were hysterical,
obviously.

'They threw two grenades at us and they shot at us.' Somali terror group
al-Shabaab claimed  responsibility for the attack and last night said a
24-year-old man from London was among the gunmen.

Using a Twitter account that has since been suspended, it published a list of
six people it claimed took part in the slaughter.

The group said it was holding at least 36 people hostage in the mall, which was
last night surrounded by police and military.

Prime minister David Cameron said: 'It is an absolutely sickening and despicable
attack of appalling brutality. Because the situation is ongoing we should
prepare ourselves for further bad news.'

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Grief: Kamal Kaur, left, with Ruhila Adatia, who was shot

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTRscot


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           September 23, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Three Brits die in terror attack on shopping mall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 439 words


THREE Britons have been confirmed dead after the terror attack in Nairobi - and
the Foreign Office has warned the number could rise.

Prime Minister David Cameron described the assault on the Westgate shopping
centre as an "absolutely sickening and despicable act of appalling brutality".
Mr Cameron said people in the UK should prepare for "further bad news" as the
situation www.developed.UK embassy staff from Ethiopia have travelled to assist
with the efforts in Nairobi and a rapid deployment team has been sent from
London, the Foreign Office said.

Foreign Secretary William Hague has chaired a meeting of the Government's
emergency committee, Cobra, to co-ordinate the response to the situation. A
sombre Mr Cameron said: "What we know is that three British nationals have been
killed. Because the situation is ongoing we should prepare ourselves for further
bad news. "Our thoughts also should be with the Kenyan government and the Kenyan
people."

Mr Cameron said he had offered the Kenyan authorities "every assistance".

Mr Cameron said: "Obvi-ously, the first priority is to make sure we do
everything for the British nationals caught up in this, so we're strengthening
the consular services. We've also offered the Kenyans help in terms of policing
and advice and intelligence collaboration, and other areas which we will be able
to help with."

A day after ten to 15 gunmen stormed the Westgate Mall, attacking shoppers with
guns and grenades, an unknown number of hostages remained in the building.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the outrage in
the affluent Westlands district of the capital, popular with expats.

Government officials said at least 59 people were confirmed dead and 175 others
were wounded in the atrocity, while around 1,000 were rescued from the upmarket
mall.

Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta has pledged to hunt down and punish the
terrorists.

In a televised address he said he had "personally lost family members, his
nephew and his fiancee, in the attack".

Mr Kenyatta said: "These are young, lovely people I personally knew and loved."

He promised retribution against the terrorists, who reportedly include armed
women, adding: "They shall not get away with their despicable and beastly acts.
Like the cowardly perpetrators now cornered in the building, we will punish the
masterminds swiftly and very painfully."

Labour leader Ed Miliband said: "This is an appalling attack.

Our thoughts are with the families of the victims and the others caught up in
this dreadful atrocity. I offer Labour's full support to the Government as the
Kenyan authorities seek to bring this to an end."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shock: Groups of onlookers gather on a road looking the Westgate Mall
in Nairobi, Kenya, after the attack by an armed group.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2013 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Plymouth Herald

                           September 23, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Three Britons die in Nairobi terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 256 words


DAVID CAMERON has warned the country to brace itself for "more bad news" after
the deaths of three British nationals in the Nairobi terror attack were
confirmed.

The Prime Minister said the UK had offered Kenya assistance, including
intelligence cooperation, in response to the rampage by Islamic extremists in a
shopping centre which left dozens dead and more injured.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack,
with about 10 to 15 gunmen believed to remain holed up in the Westgate mall
holding a number of captives more than 24 hours after the violence began.

A sombre Mr Cameron said: "It is an absolutely sickening and despicable attack
of appalling brutality. What we know is that three British nationals have been
killed."

He added: "Because the situation is ongoing we should prepare ourselves for
further bad news. "Our thoughts also should be with the Kenyan government and
the Kenyan people at this time."

Mr Cameron said he had offered the Kenyan authorities "every assistance" in a
call to president Uhuru Kenyatta, who lost members of his own family in the
attack.

The Prime Minister was at pains to stress that the perpetrators did not
represent the majority of Muslims but had carried out the atrocity "in the name
of terror, violence and extremism". Mr Cameron said: "These appalling terrorist
attacks that take place, where the perpetrators claim they do it in the name of
a religion, they don't. They do it in the name of terror, violence and extremism
and their warped view of the world."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PLH


                       Copyright 2013 The Plymouth Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                           September 23, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Kenya terror attack leaves 3 [...]

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE, TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 6 words


Kenya terror attack leaves 3 Brits deadP7

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Kenya terror attack: At least 3 Britons dead

BYLINE: Chris Marshall And Claire Gardner

LENGTH: 1777  words


Kenya's military launched a major assault late last night and claimed it had
rescued "most" of the remaining hostages held by al-Qaeda-linked militants in a
Nairobi mall.

The two-day stand-off had already killed 68 people including three Britons.

Up to 15 terrorists were thought to still be inside the Watergate shopping
centre, but according to Kenyan officials the army had taken control of most of
the complex.

Military spokesman Colonel Cyrus Oguna said: "We cannot reveal the numbers of
gunmen we suspect are there, but we estimate the operation will end very soon.

"We do not negotiate with terrorists and that position has not changed. Everyone
who has been rescued is being checked to make sure none of the terrorists
escaped during the dragnet."

Eyewitness reports claimed the attackers from the al-Shabaab group included a
white woman.

British-born Samantha Lewthwaite, 29, widow of one of the attackers involved in
the 7/7 bombings in London, has repeatedly been linked with al-Shabaab and is
wanted in connection with a plot to bomb tourists in the city of Mombasa.

The military assault, which began shortly before sundown yesterday, came as two
helicopters circled the mall with one skimming very close to the roof. A loud
explosion rang out, far larger than any previous grenade blast or gunfire
volley.

"This will end tonight. Our forces will prevail. Kenyans are standing firm
against aggression, and we will win," Kenya's National Disaster Operation Centre
said on Twitter.

Many of the rescued hostages - mostly adults - were suffering from dehydration,
Col Oguna said. He refused to release the number of hostages rescued or those
still being held but said some of the attackers had "most probably" been killed
in the operation, which began in the morning and culminated last night.

The assault came about 30 hours after ten to 15 al-Shabaab extremists stormed
the mall from two sides on Saturday, throwing grenades and firing on civilians.

Kenya's Red Cross said the death toll had risen to 68 after nine more bodies
were recovered in a rescue mission. Officials also said more than 175 people
were injured, including many children.

Loud exchanges of gunfire emanated from inside the four-storey upmarket mall
throughout yesterday.

Kenyan troops were seen carrying in at least two rocket-propelled grenades.

Al-Shabaab militants reacted angrily to the helicopters on Twitter and warned
that the Kenyan military action was endangering hostages.

A United States state department spokeswoman condemned the "despicable massacre
of innocent men, women and children" by the militants.

US law enforcement, military and civilian personnel in Nairobi were providing
advice and assistance as requested by Kenya, spokeswoman Marie Harf said.

Al-Shabaab, Somalia's al-Qaeda-linked rebel group, claimed responsibility for
the attack that specifically targeted non-Muslims and the attackers included
some women.

The Islamic extremist rebels said the attack was retribution for Kenyan forces'
2011 push into neighbouring Somalia.

Last night, a 24-year-old man from London was named as one of the gunmen by a
Twitter account purporting to be an al-Shabaab spokesman.

The account listed a string of names it claimed were involved in the attack
before being closed down, as previous usernames linked to the terrorist group
had been.

Reports that the white woman was one of the attackers fuelled speculation that
British terror suspect Samantha Lewthwaite, nicknamed the "White Widow",  could
have been linked to the plot.

Lewthwaite, who was married to July 7 bomber Jermaine Lindsay, was named on a
Kenyan police wanted list last year over links to a suspected terrorist cell
planning bomb attacks.

In March 2012, it was reported that Lewthwaite, 29, who is originally from
Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, had fled across the border from Kenya to Somalia.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are aware of the reports and are looking
into them. It is difficult to substantiate. We are looking at the names and
seeing what we can find out."

Britain was warned to brace itself for "more bad news" after at least three
Britons were among dozens of people killed in the terrorist attack.

One man with a Muslim-sounding surname but a Western Christian name told how he
covered up the first name on his ID with his thumb as he was approached by one
of the attackers who wanted to see the identity card.

"They told me to go. Then an Indian man came forward and they said, What is the
name of (the Prophet) Muhammad's mother?'. When he couldn't answer, they just
shot him."

Prime Minister David Cameron described the attack as an "absolutely sickening
and despicable act of appalling brutality" after the Foreign Office warned the
number of British dead was likely to rise.

There were no further details last night of the British dead, but the Foreign
Office said the victims' families had been informed.

Nationals from Canada, China, France, Ghana, Kenya, the Netherlands and the US
were among the dead. Several children were killed, and the wounded ranged in age
from two to 78.

Many victims were at a cooking competition when assailants opened fire on them,
witnesses said.

Confirming the number of British dead, Mr Cameron said: "Because the situation
is ongoing, we should prepare ourselves for further bad news." The Prime
Minister said he had offered the Kenyan authorities "every assistance" in a call
to president Uhuru Kenyatta. He also indicated intelligence assistance could be
provided.

"These appalling terrorist attacks that take place, where the perpetrators claim
they do it in the name of a religion, they don't," he said.

"They do it in the name of terror, violence and extremism and their warped view
of the world.

"The situation is ongoing and, as I say, that's why I think we have to brace
ourselves for more bad news as this continues."

Two diplomats - one each from Canada and Ghana - are known to be among the dead.

President Kenyatta, whose nephew and his fiancée were also killed, said earlier
yesterday that all the gunmen were in one place within the building.

"With the professionals on site, I assure Kenyans we have as good a chance to
successfully neutralise the terrorists as we can hope for," he said.

Background: African republic finds itself drawn into bloody ideological battles

Kenya is no stranger to terrorist attacks, most of which have been carried out
Islamic extremists linked to al-Qaeda.

The most notorious was the 1998 US embassy suicide bombing in Nairobi, when
trucks laden with explosives were parked outside embassies in Nairobi and in Dar
es Salaam, Tanzania, and detonated. In Nairobi, 212 people were killed, and
4,000 wounded.

Since Kenyan troops were sent along with American, French and Ethiopian forces
to defend the transitional government in southern Somalia in 2011, there have
been a number of small-scale grenade and bomb attacks on churches, bars, bus
stations, military sites and shopping centres around Nairobi and Mombasa.

In May 2012, a shopping complex on Nairobi's Moi Avenue was blown up, wounding
30 people. The following month, a bar in Mombasa was hit by a grenade attack,
killing one and injuring several others.

In recent weeks, Kenyan police claimed to have disrupted a major terrorist
attack, arresting two people in Nairobi.

The victims: World counts the cost as nations report their loss

KENYA: President Uhuru Kenyatta said his nephew and nephew's fiancée are among
the dead.

INDIA:  Eight-year-old Parmashu Jain and 40-year-old Sridhar Natarajan killed
and four wounded in the attack.

BRITAIN: Foreign Office said at least three UK nationals killed and warned the
number of such fatalities is "likely to rise as further information becomes
available".

FRANCE: President Francois Hollande said two women died.

SOUTH AFRICA: One citizen killed.

CANADA: Two Canadians, including diplomat Annemarie Desloges, died in the
attack.

USA: The wife of a foreign service national working for the US Agency for
International Development was killed, and four American citizens were injured,

GHANA: Poet Kofi Awoonor, a professor and served as an ambassador in Brazil,
Cuba and the United Nations, died.

NETHERLANDS: A 33-year-old Dutch woman died but seven other Dutch citizens in
the mall escaped unharmed.

CHINA: A 38-year-old woman waskilled and her son injured.

Analysis by Andrew Silke: Lethal firepower against soft targets is favoured
strategy

In attacking Nairobi, Al-Shabaab has used the most potent tactic in the modern
terrorist's arsenal: heavily armed, roving gunmen attacking soft targets.

Certainly in the UK, this type of attack has officially been the number one
threat scenario in recent years. In India, the Mumbai attack in 2008
demonstrated just how dangerous such tactics are.

While a team of al-Qaeda suicide bombers could cause carnage,  such violence is
localised and usually over in seconds or minutes. In Nairobi, the violence
spread and endured, causing hysteria, panic and confusion.

Security planners in Whitehall dislike the term "Mumbai-style" and discourage
its use, but there is no disguising that it is the scenario which worries them
the most. Drawn-out gun battles not only result in heavy casualties and possible
hostage taking, but also create the media interest the terrorists desire.

Nairobi is unquestionably Al-Shabaab's highest-profile operation to date. No
attack carried out in Somalia could have received similar attention, even if the
death toll had been ten, 20 or even  30 times higher. By staging it in one of
the most affluent parts of bustling, popular Nairobi, the group ensured it got
the world's attention. By using a Mumbai-style strategy, it also ensured this
attention would be prolonged and intense. Serious questions will be raised about
how the government and the security forces responded, and whether the Kenyan
military should be fighting in Somalia to begin with. Indian security forces
were ridiculed for how they responded to Mumbai and, inevitably, the Kenyan
authorities can expect the same.

Why has Al-Shabaab carried out this attack? Within the wider region it has
seemed for some time that the group was in disarray. The movement went from
controlling large parts of Somalia to being pushed out of the cities.
Al-Shabaab's declaration of affiliation with al-Qaeda in 2012 may be seen as an
act of desperation made by a fractured movement in serious decline.

Now the militants have sent a message - keeping the Kenyan military in Somalia
will have bloody consequences. Crucially, the attacks also send a message to
supporters, that the movement is still a force to be reckoned with.

o Professor Andrew Silke is director of terrorism studies at the University of
East London.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS scotlandonsunday


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Kenya terror attack: Four Britons dead

BYLINE: Chris Marshall And Claire Gardner

LENGTH: 1253  words


FOUR Britons have now been confirmed among the scores killed when terrorists
stormed a shopping centre in Nairobi.

The Foreign Office gave an update on casualties after Defence Secretary Philip
Hammond chaired a meeting of the Cobra emergency committee in Whitehall.

David Cameron is returning to Downing Street to oversee the British response to
the crisis, as Kenyan security forces attempt to clear the Westgate Mall and
free any surviving hostages.

Powerful explosions earlier sent thick smoke billowing from the mall where
militants from Somalia's al Qaeda-linked al Shabaab group threatened to kill
hostages on the third day of a raid in which at least 59 have already died.

The blast was followed by other smaller detonations and volleys of gunfire but
there was no indication of the fate of people whom the authorities say are being
held by 10 to 15 Islamist gunmen who took the complex by storm on Saturday.

As troops ran into new positions, one security official at the scene said: "It
is us who caused the explosion, we are trying to get in through the roof." He
declined to be named.

Military spokesman Colonel Cyrus Oguna declined comment when asked whether
security forces had set off the detonations or whether militants had set off
explosives inside the building.

A plume of oily black smoke was still pouring from the building after half an
hour.

A senior officer had said police were "closing in" on the militants after
rescuing more trapped people overnight. But officials have been suggesting since
Sunday that the siege may be near an end, while the guerrillas seemingly remain
at large.

Interior Minister Joseph Ole Lenku said "a few" people were still hostage: "Our
disciplined forces ... have been extremely careful to find the balance between
neutralising the attackers and getting as many people to safety as possible," he
added.

A spokesman for al Shabaab, which has demanded Kenya pull its troops out of
neighbouring Somalia, warned they would kill hostages if Kenyan security forces,
who are being assisted by Western and Israeli experts, tried to storm their
positions:

"Israelis and Kenyan forces have tried to enter Westgate by force but they could
not," Sheikh Ali Mohamud Rage said in an audio statement posted online. "The
mujahideen will kill the hostages if the enemies use force."

On Twitter, the group posted: "As the operation gathers momentum inside
#Westgate, the Mujahideen are for the 3rd day still in full control of the
situation on the ground."

The Red Cross said on Monday that the death toll since Saturday's initial
lunchtime bloodbath stood at 69. But Interior Minister Lenku said that was wrong
and that only 59 were dead.

The Red Cross also said it had also recorded 63 people being reported by
relatives as missing.

Survivors' tales of the military-style assault by squads of attackers hurling
grenades and spraying automatic fire, has left little doubt the hostage-takers
are willing to kill. Previous raids around the world, including at a desert gas
plan in

Algeria nine months ago, suggest they are also ready to die.

Background: African republic finds itself drawn into bloody ideological battles

Kenya is no stranger to terrorist attacks, most of which have been carried out
Islamic extremists linked to al-Qaeda.

The most notorious was the 1998 US embassy suicide bombing in Nairobi, when
trucks laden with explosives were parked outside embassies in Nairobi and in Dar
es Salaam, Tanzania, and detonated. In Nairobi, 212 people were killed, and
4,000 wounded.

Since Kenyan troops were sent along with American, French and Ethiopian forces
to defend the transitional government in southern Somalia in 2011, there have
been a number of small-scale grenade and bomb attacks on churches, bars, bus
stations, military sites and shopping centres around Nairobi and Mombasa.

In May 2012, a shopping complex on Nairobi's Moi Avenue was blown up, wounding
30 people. The following month, a bar in Mombasa was hit by a grenade attack,
killing one and injuring several others.

In recent weeks, Kenyan police claimed to have disrupted a major terrorist
attack, arresting two people in Nairobi.

The victims: World counts the cost as nations report their loss

KENYA: President Uhuru Kenyatta said his nephew and nephew's fiancée are among
the dead.

INDIA:  Eight-year-old Parmashu Jain and 40-year-old Sridhar Natarajan killed
and four wounded in the attack.

BRITAIN: Foreign Office said at least four UK nationals killed and warned the
number of such fatalities is "likely to rise as further information becomes
available".

FRANCE: President Francois Hollande said two women died.

SOUTH AFRICA: One citizen killed.

CANADA: Two Canadians, including diplomat Annemarie Desloges, died in the
attack.

USA: The wife of a foreign service national working for the US Agency for
International Development was killed, and four American citizens were injured,

GHANA: Poet Kofi Awoonor, a professor and served as an ambassador in Brazil,
Cuba and the United Nations, died.

NETHERLANDS: A 33-year-old Dutch woman died but seven other Dutch citizens in
the mall escaped unharmed.

CHINA: A 38-year-old woman waskilled and her son injured.

Analysis by Andrew Silke: Lethal firepower against soft targets is favoured
strategy

In attacking Nairobi, Al-Shabaab has used the most potent tactic in the modern
terrorist's arsenal: heavily armed, roving gunmen attacking soft targets.

Certainly in the UK, this type of attack has officially been the number one
threat scenario in recent years. In India, the Mumbai attack in 2008
demonstrated just how dangerous such tactics are.

While a team of al-Qaeda suicide bombers could cause carnage,  such violence is
localised and usually over in seconds or minutes. In Nairobi, the violence
spread and endured, causing hysteria, panic and confusion.

Security planners in Whitehall dislike the term "Mumbai-style" and discourage
its use, but there is no disguising that it is the scenario which worries them
the most. Drawn-out gun battles not only result in heavy casualties and possible
hostage taking, but also create the media interest the terrorists desire.

Nairobi is unquestionably Al-Shabaab's highest-profile operation to date. No
attack carried out in Somalia could have received similar attention, even if the
death toll had been ten, 20 or even  30 times higher. By staging it in one of
the most affluent parts of bustling, popular Nairobi, the group ensured it got
the world's attention. By using a Mumbai-style strategy, it also ensured this
attention would be prolonged and intense. Serious questions will be raised about
how the government and the security forces responded, and whether the Kenyan
military should be fighting in Somalia to begin with. Indian security forces
were ridiculed for how they responded to Mumbai and, inevitably, the Kenyan
authorities can expect the same.

Why has Al-Shabaab carried out this attack? Within the wider region it has
seemed for some time that the group was in disarray. The movement went from
controlling large parts of Somalia to being pushed out of the cities.
Al-Shabaab's declaration of affiliation with al-Qaeda in 2012 may be seen as an
act of desperation made by a fractured movement in serious decline.

Now the militants have sent a message - keeping the Kenyan military in Somalia
will have bloody consequences. Crucially, the attacks also send a message to
supporters, that the movement is still a force to be reckoned with.

o Professor Andrew Silke is director of terrorism studies at the University of
East London.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS scotlandonsunday


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Kenya terror attack: Four Britons dead

BYLINE: Chris Marshall And Claire Gardner

LENGTH: 1253  words


FOUR Britons have now been confirmed among the scores killed when terrorists
stormed a shopping centre in Nairobi.

The Foreign Office gave an update on casualties after Defence Secretary Philip
Hammond chaired a meeting of the Cobra emergency committee in Whitehall.

David Cameron is returning to Downing Street to oversee the British response to
the crisis, as Kenyan security forces attempt to clear the Westgate Mall and
free any surviving hostages.

Powerful explosions earlier sent thick smoke billowing from the mall where
militants from Somalia's al Qaeda-linked al Shabaab group threatened to kill
hostages on the third day of a raid in which at least 59 have already died.

The blast was followed by other smaller detonations and volleys of gunfire but
there was no indication of the fate of people whom the authorities say are being
held by 10 to 15 Islamist gunmen who took the complex by storm on Saturday.

As troops ran into new positions, one security official at the scene said: "It
is us who caused the explosion, we are trying to get in through the roof." He
declined to be named.

Military spokesman Colonel Cyrus Oguna declined comment when asked whether
security forces had set off the detonations or whether militants had set off
explosives inside the building.

A plume of oily black smoke was still pouring from the building after half an
hour.

A senior officer had said police were "closing in" on the militants after
rescuing more trapped people overnight. But officials have been suggesting since
Sunday that the siege may be near an end, while the guerrillas seemingly remain
at large.

Interior Minister Joseph Ole Lenku said "a few" people were still hostage: "Our
disciplined forces ... have been extremely careful to find the balance between
neutralising the attackers and getting as many people to safety as possible," he
added.

A spokesman for al Shabaab, which has demanded Kenya pull its troops out of
neighbouring Somalia, warned they would kill hostages if Kenyan security forces,
who are being assisted by Western and Israeli experts, tried to storm their
positions:

"Israelis and Kenyan forces have tried to enter Westgate by force but they could
not," Sheikh Ali Mohamud Rage said in an audio statement posted online. "The
mujahideen will kill the hostages if the enemies use force."

On Twitter, the group posted: "As the operation gathers momentum inside
#Westgate, the Mujahideen are for the 3rd day still in full control of the
situation on the ground."

The Red Cross said on Monday that the death toll since Saturday's initial
lunchtime bloodbath stood at 69. But Interior Minister Lenku said that was wrong
and that only 59 were dead.

The Red Cross also said it had also recorded 63 people being reported by
relatives as missing.

Survivors' tales of the military-style assault by squads of attackers hurling
grenades and spraying automatic fire, has left little doubt the hostage-takers
are willing to kill. Previous raids around the world, including at a desert gas
plan in

Algeria nine months ago, suggest they are also ready to die.

Background: African republic finds itself drawn into bloody ideological battles

Kenya is no stranger to terrorist attacks, most of which have been carried out
Islamic extremists linked to al-Qaeda.

The most notorious was the 1998 US embassy suicide bombing in Nairobi, when
trucks laden with explosives were parked outside embassies in Nairobi and in Dar
es Salaam, Tanzania, and detonated. In Nairobi, 212 people were killed, and
4,000 wounded.

Since Kenyan troops were sent along with American, French and Ethiopian forces
to defend the transitional government in southern Somalia in 2011, there have
been a number of small-scale grenade and bomb attacks on churches, bars, bus
stations, military sites and shopping centres around Nairobi and Mombasa.

In May 2012, a shopping complex on Nairobi's Moi Avenue was blown up, wounding
30 people. The following month, a bar in Mombasa was hit by a grenade attack,
killing one and injuring several others.

In recent weeks, Kenyan police claimed to have disrupted a major terrorist
attack, arresting two people in Nairobi.

The victims: World counts the cost as nations report their loss

KENYA: President Uhuru Kenyatta said his nephew and nephew's fiancée are among
the dead.

INDIA:  Eight-year-old Parmashu Jain and 40-year-old Sridhar Natarajan killed
and four wounded in the attack.

BRITAIN: Foreign Office said at least four UK nationals killed and warned the
number of such fatalities is "likely to rise as further information becomes
available".

FRANCE: President Francois Hollande said two women died.

SOUTH AFRICA: One citizen killed.

CANADA: Two Canadians, including diplomat Annemarie Desloges, died in the
attack.

USA: The wife of a foreign service national working for the US Agency for
International Development was killed, and four American citizens were injured,

GHANA: Poet Kofi Awoonor, a professor and served as an ambassador in Brazil,
Cuba and the United Nations, died.

NETHERLANDS: A 33-year-old Dutch woman died but seven other Dutch citizens in
the mall escaped unharmed.

CHINA: A 38-year-old woman waskilled and her son injured.

Analysis by Andrew Silke: Lethal firepower against soft targets is favoured
strategy

In attacking Nairobi, Al-Shabaab has used the most potent tactic in the modern
terrorist's arsenal: heavily armed, roving gunmen attacking soft targets.

Certainly in the UK, this type of attack has officially been the number one
threat scenario in recent years. In India, the Mumbai attack in 2008
demonstrated just how dangerous such tactics are.

While a team of al-Qaeda suicide bombers could cause carnage,  such violence is
localised and usually over in seconds or minutes. In Nairobi, the violence
spread and endured, causing hysteria, panic and confusion.

Security planners in Whitehall dislike the term "Mumbai-style" and discourage
its use, but there is no disguising that it is the scenario which worries them
the most. Drawn-out gun battles not only result in heavy casualties and possible
hostage taking, but also create the media interest the terrorists desire.

Nairobi is unquestionably Al-Shabaab's highest-profile operation to date. No
attack carried out in Somalia could have received similar attention, even if the
death toll had been ten, 20 or even  30 times higher. By staging it in one of
the most affluent parts of bustling, popular Nairobi, the group ensured it got
the world's attention. By using a Mumbai-style strategy, it also ensured this
attention would be prolonged and intense. Serious questions will be raised about
how the government and the security forces responded, and whether the Kenyan
military should be fighting in Somalia to begin with. Indian security forces
were ridiculed for how they responded to Mumbai and, inevitably, the Kenyan
authorities can expect the same.

Why has Al-Shabaab carried out this attack? Within the wider region it has
seemed for some time that the group was in disarray. The movement went from
controlling large parts of Somalia to being pushed out of the cities.
Al-Shabaab's declaration of affiliation with al-Qaeda in 2012 may be seen as an
act of desperation made by a fractured movement in serious decline.

Now the militants have sent a message - keeping the Kenyan military in Somalia
will have bloody consequences. Crucially, the attacks also send a message to
supporters, that the movement is still a force to be reckoned with.

o Professor Andrew Silke is director of terrorism studies at the University of
East London.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS thescotsman


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Kenya terror attack: At least 3 Britons dead

BYLINE: Chris Marshall And Claire Gardner

LENGTH: 1777  words


Kenya's military launched a major assault late last night and claimed it had
rescued "most" of the remaining hostages held by al-Qaeda-linked militants in a
Nairobi mall.

The two-day stand-off had already killed 68 people including three Britons.

Up to 15 terrorists were thought to still be inside the Watergate shopping
centre, but according to Kenyan officials the army had taken control of most of
the complex.

Military spokesman Colonel Cyrus Oguna said: "We cannot reveal the numbers of
gunmen we suspect are there, but we estimate the operation will end very soon.

"We do not negotiate with terrorists and that position has not changed. Everyone
who has been rescued is being checked to make sure none of the terrorists
escaped during the dragnet."

Eyewitness reports claimed the attackers from the al-Shabaab group included a
white woman.

British-born Samantha Lewthwaite, 29, widow of one of the attackers involved in
the 7/7 bombings in London, has repeatedly been linked with al-Shabaab and is
wanted in connection with a plot to bomb tourists in the city of Mombasa.

The military assault, which began shortly before sundown yesterday, came as two
helicopters circled the mall with one skimming very close to the roof. A loud
explosion rang out, far larger than any previous grenade blast or gunfire
volley.

"This will end tonight. Our forces will prevail. Kenyans are standing firm
against aggression, and we will win," Kenya's National Disaster Operation Centre
said on Twitter.

Many of the rescued hostages - mostly adults - were suffering from dehydration,
Col Oguna said. He refused to release the number of hostages rescued or those
still being held but said some of the attackers had "most probably" been killed
in the operation, which began in the morning and culminated last night.

The assault came about 30 hours after ten to 15 al-Shabaab extremists stormed
the mall from two sides on Saturday, throwing grenades and firing on civilians.

Kenya's Red Cross said the death toll had risen to 68 after nine more bodies
were recovered in a rescue mission. Officials also said more than 175 people
were injured, including many children.

Loud exchanges of gunfire emanated from inside the four-storey upmarket mall
throughout yesterday.

Kenyan troops were seen carrying in at least two rocket-propelled grenades.

Al-Shabaab militants reacted angrily to the helicopters on Twitter and warned
that the Kenyan military action was endangering hostages.

A United States state department spokeswoman condemned the "despicable massacre
of innocent men, women and children" by the militants.

US law enforcement, military and civilian personnel in Nairobi were providing
advice and assistance as requested by Kenya, spokeswoman Marie Harf said.

Al-Shabaab, Somalia's al-Qaeda-linked rebel group, claimed responsibility for
the attack that specifically targeted non-Muslims and the attackers included
some women.

The Islamic extremist rebels said the attack was retribution for Kenyan forces'
2011 push into neighbouring Somalia.

Last night, a 24-year-old man from London was named as one of the gunmen by a
Twitter account purporting to be an al-Shabaab spokesman.

The account listed a string of names it claimed were involved in the attack
before being closed down, as previous usernames linked to the terrorist group
had been.

Reports that the white woman was one of the attackers fuelled speculation that
British terror suspect Samantha Lewthwaite, nicknamed the "White Widow",  could
have been linked to the plot.

Lewthwaite, who was married to July 7 bomber Jermaine Lindsay, was named on a
Kenyan police wanted list last year over links to a suspected terrorist cell
planning bomb attacks.

In March 2012, it was reported that Lewthwaite, 29, who is originally from
Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, had fled across the border from Kenya to Somalia.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are aware of the reports and are looking
into them. It is difficult to substantiate. We are looking at the names and
seeing what we can find out."

Britain was warned to brace itself for "more bad news" after at least three
Britons were among dozens of people killed in the terrorist attack.

One man with a Muslim-sounding surname but a Western Christian name told how he
covered up the first name on his ID with his thumb as he was approached by one
of the attackers who wanted to see the identity card.

"They told me to go. Then an Indian man came forward and they said, What is the
name of (the Prophet) Muhammad's mother?'. When he couldn't answer, they just
shot him."

Prime Minister David Cameron described the attack as an "absolutely sickening
and despicable act of appalling brutality" after the Foreign Office warned the
number of British dead was likely to rise.

There were no further details last night of the British dead, but the Foreign
Office said the victims' families had been informed.

Nationals from Canada, China, France, Ghana, Kenya, the Netherlands and the US
were among the dead. Several children were killed, and the wounded ranged in age
from two to 78.

Many victims were at a cooking competition when assailants opened fire on them,
witnesses said.

Confirming the number of British dead, Mr Cameron said: "Because the situation
is ongoing, we should prepare ourselves for further bad news." The Prime
Minister said he had offered the Kenyan authorities "every assistance" in a call
to president Uhuru Kenyatta. He also indicated intelligence assistance could be
provided.

"These appalling terrorist attacks that take place, where the perpetrators claim
they do it in the name of a religion, they don't," he said.

"They do it in the name of terror, violence and extremism and their warped view
of the world.

"The situation is ongoing and, as I say, that's why I think we have to brace
ourselves for more bad news as this continues."

Two diplomats - one each from Canada and Ghana - are known to be among the dead.

President Kenyatta, whose nephew and his fiancée were also killed, said earlier
yesterday that all the gunmen were in one place within the building.

"With the professionals on site, I assure Kenyans we have as good a chance to
successfully neutralise the terrorists as we can hope for," he said.

Background: African republic finds itself drawn into bloody ideological battles

Kenya is no stranger to terrorist attacks, most of which have been carried out
Islamic extremists linked to al-Qaeda.

The most notorious was the 1998 US embassy suicide bombing in Nairobi, when
trucks laden with explosives were parked outside embassies in Nairobi and in Dar
es Salaam, Tanzania, and detonated. In Nairobi, 212 people were killed, and
4,000 wounded.

Since Kenyan troops were sent along with American, French and Ethiopian forces
to defend the transitional government in southern Somalia in 2011, there have
been a number of small-scale grenade and bomb attacks on churches, bars, bus
stations, military sites and shopping centres around Nairobi and Mombasa.

In May 2012, a shopping complex on Nairobi's Moi Avenue was blown up, wounding
30 people. The following month, a bar in Mombasa was hit by a grenade attack,
killing one and injuring several others.

In recent weeks, Kenyan police claimed to have disrupted a major terrorist
attack, arresting two people in Nairobi.

The victims: World counts the cost as nations report their loss

KENYA: President Uhuru Kenyatta said his nephew and nephew's fiancée are among
the dead.

INDIA:  Eight-year-old Parmashu Jain and 40-year-old Sridhar Natarajan killed
and four wounded in the attack.

BRITAIN: Foreign Office said at least three UK nationals killed and warned the
number of such fatalities is "likely to rise as further information becomes
available".

FRANCE: President Francois Hollande said two women died.

SOUTH AFRICA: One citizen killed.

CANADA: Two Canadians, including diplomat Annemarie Desloges, died in the
attack.

USA: The wife of a foreign service national working for the US Agency for
International Development was killed, and four American citizens were injured,

GHANA: Poet Kofi Awoonor, a professor and served as an ambassador in Brazil,
Cuba and the United Nations, died.

NETHERLANDS: A 33-year-old Dutch woman died but seven other Dutch citizens in
the mall escaped unharmed.

CHINA: A 38-year-old woman waskilled and her son injured.

Analysis by Andrew Silke: Lethal firepower against soft targets is favoured
strategy

In attacking Nairobi, Al-Shabaab has used the most potent tactic in the modern
terrorist's arsenal: heavily armed, roving gunmen attacking soft targets.

Certainly in the UK, this type of attack has officially been the number one
threat scenario in recent years. In India, the Mumbai attack in 2008
demonstrated just how dangerous such tactics are.

While a team of al-Qaeda suicide bombers could cause carnage,  such violence is
localised and usually over in seconds or minutes. In Nairobi, the violence
spread and endured, causing hysteria, panic and confusion.

Security planners in Whitehall dislike the term "Mumbai-style" and discourage
its use, but there is no disguising that it is the scenario which worries them
the most. Drawn-out gun battles not only result in heavy casualties and possible
hostage taking, but also create the media interest the terrorists desire.

Nairobi is unquestionably Al-Shabaab's highest-profile operation to date. No
attack carried out in Somalia could have received similar attention, even if the
death toll had been ten, 20 or even  30 times higher. By staging it in one of
the most affluent parts of bustling, popular Nairobi, the group ensured it got
the world's attention. By using a Mumbai-style strategy, it also ensured this
attention would be prolonged and intense. Serious questions will be raised about
how the government and the security forces responded, and whether the Kenyan
military should be fighting in Somalia to begin with. Indian security forces
were ridiculed for how they responded to Mumbai and, inevitably, the Kenyan
authorities can expect the same.

Why has Al-Shabaab carried out this attack? Within the wider region it has
seemed for some time that the group was in disarray. The movement went from
controlling large parts of Somalia to being pushed out of the cities.
Al-Shabaab's declaration of affiliation with al-Qaeda in 2012 may be seen as an
act of desperation made by a fractured movement in serious decline.

Now the militants have sent a message - keeping the Kenyan military in Somalia
will have bloody consequences. Crucially, the attacks also send a message to
supporters, that the movement is still a force to be reckoned with.

o Professor Andrew Silke is director of terrorism studies at the University of
East London.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Kenya terror attack survivors' traumatic stories

BYLINE: Kenfrey Kiberenge

LENGTH: 801  words


There were no warnings, no time to flee. The terrorists arrived at the busy
shopping centre around lunchtime, pulling up outside in saloon cars, then the
killing began.

The first grenades were thrown at the security officers guarding Westgate
shopping mall. The gang opened fire indiscriminately, taxi drivers were gunned
down as they waited for fares.

Inside, hundreds of shoppers were in the upmarket retail centre enjoying their
weekend as the gunmen and women stormed in.

In the panic, some shoppers ran for their lives, others took cover behind
counters as the attackers threw grenades and sprayed the crowds with machine gun
fire.

The dead were left strewn around tables of unfinished meals. At one burger
restaurant, a man and woman lay in a final embrace. Pop music was still playing
on the sound systems.

Ben Mulwa was in his car with a friend at a security checkpoint when the first
shots were fired.

"The gunfire was sustained, and I left the car and hid behind a flowerbed," he
said. "A security guard lay next to me and he was shot in the head and died
immediately. A bullet fired at me missed by a whisker and I lay as if dead."

About ten minutes later, he heard security officers calling for those who could
exit the shopping centre safely to do so.

"That's when I realised I had been shot in the leg," Mr Mulwa said.

Rufus Gitao was inconsolable as he told of his three-hour ordeal trying to have
his injured son rescued from the mall.

After learning that Westgate was under attack, Mr Gitao said he phoned his son,
a shopworker. "He told me: Dad, I've been shot in the neck and hand but please
don't call me again because they are saying anybody who is Christian will be
executed," recounted Mr Gitao.

He raced to the shopping centre but could not get past a security cordon.

After three hours, security officers managed to pull out Mr Gitao's 27-year-old
son, alive but unconscious from blood loss.

Another woman who was too shaken to give her name said she was rescued unhurt at
4:30pm on Saturday - four hours after the attack began.

A worker on the ground floor of the shopping centre, she said she watched in
horror as the attack unfolded.

"A Toyota was driven to the entrance where the security guards were standing.
They then threw grenades at the guards, killing some of them.

"Another group of attackers joined those from the vehicle as they entered the
building, shooting indiscriminately," she said. The woman said she hid under a
seat, together with four of her colleagues, to save her life.

"They [attackers] were speaking in Somali language; I haven't seen such terror
in my life," she said.

During a lull in the firing the attackers called out in Swahili, a language
widely spoken in Kenya and the rest of east Africa, for Muslims to identify
themselves and leave.

One man told how he covered up the Christian name on his ID with his thumb as he
was approached one of the attackers who wanted to see the identity card. "They
told me to go. Then an Indian man came forward and they said, "What is the name
of (the Prophet) Muhammad's mother?' When he couldn't answer they just shot
him."

A taxi driver identified as John said he was arriving from the city centre when
the gunmen attacked. He said his friend David Asala was by his cab when the
attackers struck.

"I just saw men whose faces were covered shoot at the watchmen at the gate. We
[taxi drivers] parked outside next to the gate and they shot at us without a
word," he recounted from his hospital bed. "People coming from inside were
ordered to speak Somali and those who failed were shot."

Mr Asala, who had a bullet lodged in his left thigh, said he was lucky to be
alive. "I fell down and maybe they thought I was dead. Most of my colleagues
were shot in the stomach and some in the head," he added.

Some witnesses said the female gang leader was white. This assertion is lent
credence by the fact that Al-Shabaab, which has claimed responsibility for the
attack, does not recognise female leaders, but would use help from those who
knew areas frequented by Westerners.

Most of the victims are reported to be wealthy Kenyans and foreigners who
frequent the shopping centre.

Profile of terror group

Al-Shabaab, which means The Youth' in Arabic, emerged as a radical force in
Somalia in 2006, fighting Ethiopian forces which had entered the country to
support the weak interim government.

Led by Ahmed Abdi Godane, it has links to al-Qaeda and is known to count foreign
jihadists among its 7,000 to 9,000 members.

While it has lost control of Somalia's cities, it has imposed strict Sharia law
in rural areas, including stoning to death women accused of adultery and
amputating the hands of thieves.

The group was responsible for a double suicide bombing in Uganda, which killed
76 people watching the 2010 football World Cup final on television.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           September 23, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Kenya terror attack sickening - Cameron

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 419 words


DAVID Cameron last night warned the country to brace itself for "more bad news"
after the deaths of three British nationals in the Nairobi terror attack were
confirmed.

The Prime Minister said the UK had offered Kenya assistance, including
intelligence cooperation, in response to the rampage by Islamic extremists in an
upmarket shopping centre which has left dozens dead and many more injured.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack,
with about 10 to 15 gunmen believed to remain holed up in the Westgate mall
holding a number of captives more than 24 hours after the violence began.

A sombre Mr Cameron said: "It is an absolutely sickening and despicable attack
of appalling brutality. What we know is that three British nationals have been
killed."

He added: "Because the situation is ongoing we should prepare ourselves for more
bad news. Our thoughts should be with the Kenyan government and the Kenyan
people at this time."

Mr Cameron said he had offered the Kenyan authorities "every assistance" in a
call to president Uhuru Kenyatta, who lost members of his own family in the
attack.

The Prime Minister was at pains to stress that the perpetrators did not
represent the majority of Muslims but had carried out the atrocity "in the name
of terror, violence and extremism".

Mr Cameron said: "These appalling terrorist attacks that take place, where the
perpetrators claim they do it in the name of a religion, they don't. They do it
in the name of terror, violence and extremism and their warped view of the
world. They don't represent Islam or Muslims in Britain or anywhere else in the
world."

Government officials in Kenya said at least 59 people were confirmed dead and
175 others were wounded while about 1,000 were rescued from the mall.

Mr Kenyatta said his nephew and his fiancee were killed in the attack.

"These are young lovely people I personally knew and loved," he said, promising
retribution against the terrorists, whose number reportedly include armed women.

"They shall not get away with their despicable and beastly acts."

The shopping mall was rocked by an explosion as the siege continued, with a
heavy military presence including troops armed with rocket launchers deployed to
the scene.

Al-Shabaab, also known as Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen, earlier tweeted that
there will be "no negotiations whatsoever". It said it had previously warned the
Kenyan government that, if they did not remove military forces from Somalia,
there would be "severe consequences".

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           September 23, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Kenya terror attack sickening - Cameron

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 419 words


DAVID Cameron last night warned the country to brace itself for "more bad news"
after the deaths of three British nationals in the Nairobi terror attack were
confirmed.

The Prime Minister said the UK had offered Kenya assistance, including
intelligence cooperation, in response to the rampage by Islamic extremists in an
upmarket shopping centre which has left dozens dead and many more injured.

Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack,
with about 10 to 15 gunmen believed to remain holed up in the Westgate mall
holding a number of captives more than 24 hours after the violence began.

A sombre Mr Cameron said: "It is an absolutely sickening and despicable attack
of appalling brutality. What we know is that three British nationals have been
killed."

He added: "Because the situation is ongoing we should prepare ourselves for more
bad news. Our thoughts should be with the Kenyan government and the Kenyan
people at this time."

Mr Cameron said he had offered the Kenyan authorities "every assistance" in a
call to president Uhuru Kenyatta, who lost members of his own family in the
attack.

The Prime Minister was at pains to stress that the perpetrators did not
represent the majority of Muslims but had carried out the atrocity "in the name
of terror, violence and extremism".

Mr Cameron said: "These appalling terrorist attacks that take place, where the
perpetrators claim they do it in the name of a religion, they don't. They do it
in the name of terror, violence and extremism and their warped view of the
world. They don't represent Islam or Muslims in Britain or anywhere else in the
world."

Government officials in Kenya said at least 59 people were confirmed dead and
175 others were wounded while about 1,000 were rescued from the mall.

Mr Kenyatta said his nephew and his fiancee were killed in the attack.

"These are young lovely people I personally knew and loved," he said, promising
retribution against the terrorists, whose number reportedly include armed women.

"They shall not get away with their despicable and beastly acts."

The shopping mall was rocked by an explosion as the siege continued, with a
heavy military presence including troops armed with rocket launchers deployed to
the scene.

Al-Shabaab, also known as Harakat al-Shabaab al-Mujahideen, earlier tweeted that
there will be "no negotiations whatsoever". It said it had previously warned the
Kenyan government that, if they did not remove military forces from Somalia,
there would be "severe consequences".

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 9:21 PM GMT

White widow claims intensify amid reports a white woman terrorist was killed in
Kenya attack;
The prospect that British terror suspect Samantha Lewthwaite was involved in the
Kenya massacre intensified amid reports the body of a white woman terrorist had
been recovered.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 458 words


A Kenyan intelligence officer and two soldiers each claimed one of the
al-Shabaab terrorists who had been killed in the Westgate attack was a white
female.

Earlier, a senior Kenyan intelligence source said video footage from within the
complex did show a white woman among the attackers.

He said she was actively involved and believed to be British.

The Foreign Office and British spy agencies have already said they cannot rule
out the possibility that Lewthwaite, who is the widow of 7/7 suicide bomber
Germaine Lindsay, was involved but there was no evidence at this stage.

However, a senior Whitehall source said that it was likely it will emerge that a
woman of non-African descent and possibly Caucasian was among the killers.

A shop owner in the Westgate complex also claimed a white woman pointed a gun at
one of her assistants.

Lewthwaite, who is already wanted in Kenya on terror charges, has been dubbed
the "white widow" because of her links to Lindsay, who blew up an underground
train at King's Cross in 2005, killing 26 people.

The UK spy agencies and counter-terrorism police are also investigating an
English speaking spokesman for the Somali-based al-Shabaab who has defended the
actions in mainstream media who appears to be British.

Abu Omar carried out a series of phone interviews insisting there would be no
negotiations with the group, who has taken hostages in the centre.

Two years ago a man calling himself Abu Omar and claiming to be British appeared
in a newspaper feature helping distribute food from al-Shabaab at a Somali
refugee camp.

A now-defunct Twitter account said to speak for al-Shabaab claimed on Sunday
that a Liban Adam, 23, and Ahmed Nasir Shirdoon, 24, both from London, were
among the Westgate killers but it has not been possible to verify.

Lewthwaite is already suspected of plotting to attack venues popular with
Westerners such as shopping centres and hotels in Kenya and has been on the run
in East Arica for almost two years.

She has been charged by the Kenyans in her absence of being part of a terror
cell, which allegedly involved other Britons, that planned attacks in the
country in 2011.

She has been regularly linked with al-Shabaab.

Kenyan Interior Minister Joseph Ole Lenku insisted that reports a woman was
involved in the Westgate attack were wrong and that some of the male terrorist
has dressed up as women to get in to the complex.

However, an intelligence source there signalled as yet unpublished CCTV footage
reveals the opposite.

Three other sources, an intelligence officer and two soldiers, told Reuters that
one of the killed attackers was a white woman.

State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu said that "nothing is being ruled out"
concerning Lewthwaite's possible involvement.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 5:36 PM GMT

Nairobi terror attack mastermind who was too hotheaded even for Osama bin Laden;

The militant behind the Nairobi assault was deemed too radical and hot-headed
even by Osama bin Laden, who rebuffed his request for a formal alliance with
al-Qaeda.

BYLINE: By Alex Spillius

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 674 words


The global terror leader warned Ahmed Abdi Godane, the "emir" of al-Shabaab,
against forcing sharia law on the local population before it was ready.

In a letter found in bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad after his death, he said
Godane should "remain devout, patient and persistent in upholding high moral
values ... towards the community".

Bin Laden advised the young, aspiring global jihadist not to harm too many
Muslim civilians in his attacks on Amisom, the African security mission in
Somalia, suggesting he should "review this matter".

The letter was dated August 7, 2010, a month after al-Shabaab suicide bombers
killed 74 people watching the World Cup final in Kampala, which the group said
were launched in retaliation for Uganda's participation in Amisom. That attack -
three years before the devastating Keya mall atrocity - led to Washington
placing a $7 million bounty on Godane.

The declassified bin Laden document was among 17 published by the Combating
Terrorism Centre at West Point, the US military academy.

His recommendations to Godane, a Somalian thought to be aged 36, partly reflect
a slight mellowing in tactics before his death in May 2011. But bin Laden
thought a public association would have benefited neither of them, despite
Godane's admiration, made clear in apparent in a 2009 al-Shabaab video declaring
he was "at your service Osama".

Bin Laden's concerns about Godane's impetuousness were shared by other
al-Shabaab leaders.

"Both were critical - they said he was going too fast and being too harsh in his
implementation of sharia law," said Stig Hansen, author of a book on al-Shabaab
and a professor at the Norwegian University of Life Sciences.

"The real problem was Godane was ignoring the due process of the group's sharia
courts and imposing ad hoc solutions," he said.

As al-Shabaab lost ground to Amisom, Godane's military decisions were questioned
and internal arguments intensified, reaching a bloody climax this summer.

In June, Godane loyalists killed two co-founders of the movement, including his
former deputy and long time friend, Ibrahim Al-Afghani, and chased away Mukhtar
Robow, the spokesman.

Afghani had criticised the leader's fatwas against pop music, foreign films and
even televised football. Muslim men, it was decreed, had no business watching
other men "jumping up and down". More wholesome forms of recreation were
encouraged, such as Koranic recital contests.

Earlier this month Godane eliminated Alabama-born Omar Hammami, better known as
al-Amriki (the "American"), who had criticised his methods. A British citizen of
Pakistani origin going by the name Osama al-Britani, was reportedly killed in
the same incident.

The attack on the Westgate mall is seen by some analysts as an attempt to
reinvigorate al-Shabaab, whose territory has dwindled since Godane took over in
2008 when his predecessor was killed by an American air strike.

Perhaps for that reason, there are no known photographs of Godane, who
communicates by audio messages - very rarely on video - and written musings on
jihadi forums.

Born in 1977 in the breakaway republic of Somaliland, he reportedly worked
selling charcoal in his home city Hargiesa before winning a scholarship to study
economics in Pakistan in 1998 or 1999 funded by a Saudi Arabian religious
foundation.

Former colleagues have said that he spent some of that period receiving military
training in Afghanistan. He later reportedly worked as an accountant in a firm
that specialised in overseas remittances, a key part of terror-funding.

Before his time in South Asia he joined a now disbanded radical group in
Somaliland called al-Itihaad al-Islamiya. He was implicated by the US State
department in the killing of Richard and Enid Eyeington, a British couple who
ran a popular school in Somaliland.

According to unconfirmed reports from Somali media, Godane has a home in
Sharjah, in the United Arab Emirates, where his wife and their children have
lived since 2008. The reports also claimed he visited them twice in 2010, using
a Kenyan passport.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 12:29 PM GMT

Kenya 'safe', says tourist board;
Kenyan tourism authorities have sought to reassure travellers about the
country's safety, despite the ongoing terror attack at a mall in Nairobi.

BYLINE: By Oliver Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 451 words


At least 69 people, including four Britons, have already been killed by gunmen
since the attack was launched on Saturday night, and around 15 armed terrorists
were still thought to be in the Westgate shopping centre on Monday morning.

A statement from Phyllis Kandie, the cabinet secretary for commerce and tourism
insisted that prospective visitors to the country would be safe.

"The tourism sector joins other Kenyans in consoling the bereaved families,
including those of foreigners, who have lost their lives during the Westgate
attacks," she said. "We wish to assure tourists that Kenya is peaceful and our
security agencies are doing everything possible to ensure that everyone is safe.
Visitors are thus welcome to visit all our tourist facilities across the country
which are operating normally.

"Tour operators and travel agents have confirmed that tourism activities
continue uninterrupted. The government has also scaled up security in other
social places across the country."

She added that two conferences, the Africa Hotel and Investment Forum and the
Eco Tourism and Sustainable Tourism Conference, will still go ahead in Nairobi
this week.

Her statement comes after the Kenyan president urged foreign governments not to
issue travel warnings to its citizens so as to avoid harming the country's
valuable tourism industry.

Kenyan tourism has suffered in recent years with the abduction of two foreign
tourists and the murder of another on the Lamu archipelago in 2011. Those
incidents came just as the industry was recovering from the disputed Kenyan
elections of 2007/08, and subsequent violence that left hundreds dead.

An acid attack on two British tourists also took place in Zanzibar, an island
off neighbouring Tanzania, last month.

The Foreign Office has amended its travel advice to include mention of the
Westgate attack, but is yet to warn Britons against travel to Nairobi, or Kenya
as a whole, meaning anyone due to travel will not be able to cancel their trips
free of charge.

"A major attack has taken place at the Westgate shopping centre in the Westlands
district of Nairobi," it said. "The incident is still ongoing, with reports of a
number of casualties and hostages. Armed Kenyan security forces are on the
scene. We advise British nationals to avoid the area and exercise extreme
caution. Concerned British nationals are advised to contact the FCO helpline on
+44 (0)20 7008 0000 and to keep monitoring travel advice."

It already advises against all but essential travel to Nairobi's Eastleigh
district, and other "low income areas", such as its townships and slums, as well
as to all areas within 60km of the Kenya-Somalia border.

See www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/kenya

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 8:07 AM GMT

Kofi Awoonor: the literary world pays tribute;
International writers, poets and festival organisers have paid tribute to Kofi
Awoonor, the Ghanaian poet killed in the Westgate terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Alice Vincent Nairobi

SECTION: CULTURE

LENGTH: 453 words


Writers and poets from around the world have joined in mourning following the
news that Professor Kofi Awoonor, a Ghanaian poet and diplomat, died after
sustaining injuries during the terrorist attack on Westgate Mall in Nairobi,
Kenya.

Professor Awoonor, who was 78, was in the city to participate in the Storymoja
Hay Festival, a celebration of writing and storytelling. He was due to perform
on Saturday evening as part of a pan-African poetry showcase.

Professor Awoonor's death was confirmed by the Ghanaian High Commission in
Nairobi in the early hours of Sunday morning. One of the main aims of the
Festival is to encourage reading and literacy among Kenya's young people.

A statement issued by the Festival said: "We were honoured to be graced by his
appearance at Storymoja Hay Festival, and deeply humbled by his desire to impart
knowledge to the young festival audience. Professor Awoonor was one of Africa's
greatest voices and poets and will forever remain a beacon of knowledge and
strength and hope." The Festival was brought to an end on Saturday evening "in
sympathy with those who have lost their lives or were injured" and for the
safety of attendees.

Professor Awoonor was joined by his countrymen at the four day event, in what he
called "the best representation of Ghanaian authors that we have ever had".
Among them were poet Nii Parkes and writer and film-maker Kwame Dawes. Both paid
tribute to Professor Awoonor on Twitter, with Parkes writing: "I muse on gifts
given and swiftly taken away. I waited my whole life to meet my uncle, Kofi
Awoonor, and 2 days later he is gone." Dawes posted: "Kofi Awoonor's death is a
sad sad moment here in Nairobi. We have lost one of the greatest African poets
and diplomats. I've lost my uncle."

Warsan Shire, a Somalian poet who was due to speak at the Festival, tweeted that
Professor Awoonor was "one of our greatest poets".

Book blogger Kinna Reads congratulated Professor Awoonor for his command of
language, saying "He spoke Fanti as fluently as Ewe". Professor Awoonor's early
poetry was heavily influenced by the dirge-singing traditions of his native Ewe
tribe.

Professor Awoonor's first collection, Rediscovery and Other Poems, was published
in 1964, and he wrote three subsequent collections and a prose poem between then
and 1971. Following his incarceration for helping a 'political criminal' in the
Seventies, Professor Anoowor wrote mainly non-fiction. He became an important
diplomat for Ghana, and was the country's Ambassador to the United Nations
between 1990 and 1994.

Earlier this year it was announced that The Promise of Hope, a collection of
Professor Awoonor's new and selected poems from 1964 to 2013 will be published
in March 2014.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 23, 2013 Monday 7:21 AM GMT

Nairobi attack: 'It's a very sad day for the Kenyans';
Kenyans struggle to come to terms with the terror attacks on a mall as a
combined police and military force continues to surround the scene of a hostage
standoff with Islamic extremist attackers.

LENGTH: 202 words


Kenyan authorities said Islamic extremist attackers held an unknown number of
hostages in the shopping centre located in the Westlands area of Nairobi, after
killing at least 39 and injuring 150 on Saturday.

Trucks brought a fresh contingent of soldiers from the Kenya Defence Forces to
the mall shortly after dawn on Sunday morning.

A barrage of gunfire erupted from the Westgate shopping centre at one point,
according to Associated Press journalists at the scene.

Moments later two wounded Kenyan security forces were carried out.

Somalia's radical rebel group, al-Shabab, claimed responsibility for the attack
in which they specifically targeted non-Muslims.

Meanwhile, Nairobi's hospital facilities have been trying to cope with the
crisis.

Guru Nanak Ramgarhia Sikh hospital received some of the dead and injured after
two other facilities in the capital were inundated.

Hospital matron Bamra Surinder said they had received two bodies "littered with
bullets" from the scene.

"We have been very busy," she said.

Officials said Kenyans had turned out in droves to donate blood.

Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta called the security operation under way
"delicate" and said a top priority was to safeguard hostages.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Thame Gazette

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Aylesbury's Samantha Lewthwaite linked with Nairobi terrorist attack

LENGTH: 216  words


Aylesbury 7/7 widow Samantha Lewthwaite may be involved in the Nairobi shopping
centre massacre which has left at least 69 people dead, according to reports.

Reports suggest the 29 year old, who married London bomber Jermaine Lindsay, may
even be among the militants who are still holding hostages at the Westgate
complex.

Lewthwaite, known as the White Widow, is allegedly a key member of al-Shabaab,
the group which has claimed responsibility for the attack.

The group boasted on Twitter about the mother of three being a member, writing
on an account that has since been shut down: "Sherafiyah lewthwaite aka samantha
is a vrave (sic) lady! were (sic) happier to have her in our ranks!"

An anti-terror source told the Daily Mail: "I suspect this woman Lewthwaite is
behind this attack."

There have also been reports of a balaclava-clad white woman holding a gun being
seen in the shopping centre.

More than 170 people have been injured since the attack began in Kenya's capital
on Saturday, with between 10 and 15 attackers still believed to be inside the
building.

Lewthwaite has previously been linked with running bomb-making tutorials and an
alleged plot to blow up shopping centres and hotels in Kenya.

It has also been claimed she has spent time living in a house in Mombasa,
Kenya's second city.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTTG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Thame Gazette

                           September 23, 2013 Monday

Aylesbury's Samantha Lewthwaite linked with Nairobi terrorist attack

LENGTH: 358  words


Aylesbury 7/7 widow Samantha Lewthwaite may be involved in the Nairobi shopping
centre massacre which has left at least 62 people dead, according to reports.

It has been claimed the 29 year old, who married London bomber Jermaine Lindsay,
may even be among the militants who are still holding hostages at the Westgate
complex.

Lewthwaite, known as the White Widow, is allegedly a key member of al-Shabaab,
the group which has claimed responsibility for the attack.

The group boasted on Twitter about the mother of three being a member, writing
on an account that has since been shut down: "Sherafiyah lewthwaite aka samantha
is a vrave (sic) lady! were (sic) happier to have her in our ranks!"

An anti-terror source told the Daily Mail: "I suspect this woman Lewthwaite is
behind this attack."

There have also been reports of a balaclava-clad white woman holding a gun being
seen in the shopping centre.

However, the Foreign Office has said there is no evidence Lewthwaite is involved
and Kenya's interior minister has said all the terrorists are men.

Councillor Raj Khan, who knew Lewthwaite before the 7/7 attack, said people
should not jump to conclusions.

Mr Khan said: "I'm worried that the picture that has been demonising her may be
premature because it has not been substantiated.

"Unless there is hard evidence we should not just unnecessarily jump to
conclusions.

"Whether she is part of this horrific tragedy or not, we will remain as one
community."

Mr Khan described Lewthwaite as a family friend' before she disappeared.

He said: "She was an innocent young person.

"She would do anything to accommodate other people, she was a very good human
being.

"She did everything to help others."

More than 170 people have been injured since the attack began in Kenya's capital
on Saturday, with a number of attackers still believed to be inside the
building. Security forces have been trying to end the siege this afternoon.

Lewthwaite has previously been linked with running bomb-making tutorials and an
alleged plot to blow up shopping centres and hotels in Kenya.

It has also been claimed she has spent time living in a house in Mombasa,
Kenya's second city.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTTG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           September 23, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

More bad news to come out of Kenya terror attack - PM

BYLINE: DAVID HUGHES ; JAMES EDGAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 383 words


David Cameron has warned the country to brace itself for "more bad news" after
the deaths of three British nationals in the Nairobi terror attack were
confirmed.

The Prime Minister said the UK had offered Kenya assistance, including
intelligence co-operation, in response to the rampage by Islamic extremists in
an upmarket shopping centre which has left dozens dead and many more injured.
Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack,
with last night about 10 to 15 gunmen believed still holed up in the Westgate
mall holding a number of captives more than 24 hours after the violence began.

A sombre Mr Cameron said: "It is an absolutely sickening and despicable attack
of appalling brutality. What we know is that 1 three British nationals have been
killed." He added: "Because the situation is ongoing we should prepare ourselves
for further bad news.

"Our thoughts also should be with the Kenyan government and the Kenyan people at
this time."

Mr Cameron said he had offered the Kenyan authorities "every assistance" in a
call to president Uhuru Kenyatta, who lost members of his own family in the
attack.

The Prime Minister was at pains to stress that the perpetrators did not
represent the majority of Muslims but had carried out the atrocity "in the name
of terror, violence and extremism". Setting out the UK's response, he added:
"Obviously the first priority is to make sure we do everything for the British
nationals caught up in this, so we're strengthening the consular services that
we have and the people that we have to look after our people.

Foreign Secretary William Hague chaired a meeting of the Government's emergency
committee Cobra to co-ordinate the response to the situation.

Labour leader Ed Miliband offered his support to the Government and said: "Those
who carried out this attack will be condemned across the globe. The cold-blooded
killing of innocent women, children and men is as despicable as it is shocking."
Government officials in Kenya said at least 59 people were confirmed dead and
175 others were wounded while about 1,000 were rescued from the mall.

Mr Kenyatta said his nephew and his fiancee were killed in the attack.

"These are young lovely people I personally knew and loved," he said, promising
retribution against the terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An armed police officer takes cover during a bout of gunfire outside
the Westgate Mall in Nairobi
PICTURE BEN CURTIS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2013 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Russia: Possible terror attack targeted Dagestani top pension official - paper

LENGTH: 929 words


The head of the Dagestani branch of the Russian Pension Fund, Sagid
Murtazaliyev, could have been the target of jailed mayor Said Amirov's alleged
plans to carry out a terrorist attack, Dagestani weekly newspaper Chernovik has
suggested. The report argued that Amirov had "difficult relations" with many
influential politicians in Dagestan and that Murtazaliyv openly confronted him
and even vied for the mayoral seat. Makhachkala's long-serving mayor, Amirov,
was arrested in June on charges of complicity in an investigator's murder. The
Russian Investigative Committee recently launched a new criminal case against
Amirov on charges of preparing a terrorist attack against an unnamed
high-ranking Dagestani official. The following is an excerpt from an editorial
report published on Chernovik's website on 13 September, headlined "Amirov's
land and air"; subheadings inserted editorially:

The Main Investigative Directorate of the Russian Investigative Committee
launched a new criminal case against former mayor of Makhachkala, Said Amirov,
this week. Investigators will have to prove his complicity in a graver crime -
preparation of a terrorist attack against a high-ranking official in the
republic. The new criminal case had been preceded by a number of investigative
and search measures.

Police arrived almost simultaneously at Amirov's native village, Dzhangamakhi
(Levashinskiy District), and the house of the former mayor's son, Dagestani MP
Magomed Amirov, in Parkhomenko Street, a little away from Amirov senior's house.
Despite the fact that in terms of the level of secrecy and immediacy these
campaigns could not be compared to the Amirov detention operation in June, the
scale with which these were carried out was just as imposing. The special
operation involved a military helicopter and armoured vehicles (Urals and BTR).

Arms cache

According to the scanty information that is available, during the search,
law-enforcers found an arms cache in one of the districts of the republic. The
cache contained Strela shoulder-fired missiles - Strela and Strela-2 (GRAU-9K32)
with the NATO reporting name SA-7 Grail, which entered service in 1967. It is
designed to shoot down air targets at medium and low altitudes. It is fired from
shoulder level, as well as from combat and transport vehicles. It is composed of
a surface-to-air missile system with an infrared detection unit, a power source
and a trigger mechanism. According to information that has been published, in
Magomed Amirov's house investigators found several digital data units which may
contain interesting information for the investigation.

It is possible that the missile was found in Amirov's village house which could
have served as a cache. The new criminal case also implicates Magomed
Abdulgalimov (aka Kolkhoznik), who was detained earlier and is a former aide to
the Kizlyar prosecutor, and Amirov's nephew, Yusup Dzhaparov, who served as
deputy head of the town of Kaspiysk before his arrest. The Russian Investigative
Committee believes that the missile was designed to eliminate a high-ranking
Dagestani official with whom Amirov had a serious political disagreement.
However, the name of the official has not been reported.

[passage omitted]

Said Amirov, Kolkhoznik and Dzhaparov are currently kept at the Lefortovo
pre-trial detention facility of the FSB on charges of organizing the murder of
investigator Arsen Gadzhibekov in 2011.

Possible targets

Let us however go back to the missile, or more precisely, to where it could have
hit. It is no secret that Said Amirov has difficult relations with many
influential politicians for whom the fatal Strela could have been designed.
According to some reports, the missile was meant to shoot down a plane carrying
Sagid Murtazaliyev, head of the Dagestani branch of the Russian Pension Fund.
According to some reports, an apartment was rented near the airport runway from
where to carry out the operation. For unknown reasons (according to one theory,
Murtazaliyev changed his itinerary), the fatal shot was delayed. It is possible
that the arrests of the suspects hampered the implementation of those plans.

This theory has a right to exist since, according to what we have found out, a
little over a year ago the conflict between Amirov and Murtazaliyev entered an
especially active phase. The latter was once invited to the office of the then
Dagestani president, Magomedsalam Magomedov, where MP Magomed Amirov awaited
him. The sides discussed handing over the republic's Pension Fund to the junior
Amirov - at least the president and the mayor's son insisted on this.
Murtazaliyev seemed to agree but on one condition: in exchange to the
Makhachkala mayor's seat. The conversation further proceeded in a very harsh
manner. As a result, the sides stayed on their positions. According to some
reports, Murtazaliyev at the time felt that his life was indeed under threat and
even left the republic for a certain period of time.

On 20 May, two blasts went off outside the building of the Federal Bailiff
Service Directorate for Dagestan, as a result of which four people were killed
and 40 others were injured. According to an unofficial theory, the blasts could
have targeted the head of the Federal Bailiff Service Directorate, Said Amirov's
son, Dalgat.

[passage omitted]

[BBCM note: Following his detention, Said Amirov retained the post of
Makhachkala mayor but was suspended from the post by a ruling of Moscow's
Basmannyy district court until the end of the investigation into his case.]

Source: Chernovik, Makhachkala, in Russian 13 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Minister says terror attacks on soldiers should not raise fears in Israel

LENGTH: 223 words


Excerpt from report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem
Post website on 24 September

[Report by Lahav Harkov: "Ya'alon: Recent terror attacks should not raise fears
of Third Intifada"]

Defence Minister Moshe Ya'alon said Tuesday [24 September] that the two terror
attacks in which IDF soldiers were killed over the weekend should not raise
fears in Israel of a third intifada breaking out in the West Bank. Ya'alon
stated that the defence establishment was "looking at the current period and we
see no reason for any kind of alarm, or signs of an intifada. There is no
connection between the two terror attacks and we believe that the IDF will
succeed in calming the situation on the ground."

As he hosted haredi soldiers and youth volunteers at his succa at the Defence
Ministry in Tel Aviv, Ya'alon sent his condolences to the families of Tomer
Hazan, killed by a Palestinian co-worker who led him to the West Bank on Friday
and Gal Kobi, who was shot by a Palestinian sniper in Hebron on Sunday. "We will
not rest until we catch the last terrorist involved in these attacks," Ya'alon
vowed.

The defence minister stated that the terror attacks prove that Israel must
"continue to hold the sword, despite being a peace-seeking people." [Passage
omitted]

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 24 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

SAfrica: Researcher contextualises Al-Shabab terror attack on Kenyan mall

LENGTH: 605 words


Text of report by privately-owned South African speech-based station Talk Radio
702 website on 23 September

[Telephonic interview with Anneli Botha, senior researcher for the International
Crime in Africa Programme at the Institute of Security Studies, by Talk Radio
702 announcer Udo Carelse on the 'Redi Tlabi' programme]

[Talk Radio 702 announcer Udo Carelse] Let us get some deeper analysis now about
the situation leading up to Saturday's attack. We chat with senior researcher
for International Crime in Africa Programme at the Institute of Security
Studies, Anneli Botha. Good morning and welcome to the show first of all.

[Botha] Good morning, Udo.

[Carelse] We have been given sort of context to why this attack has taken place
at this time. But for people who were not listening, just get to the background
here in terms of why this attack has come at the time that it has?

[Botha] Alla€¦[pauses] I mean, it all came back from the crisis in Somalia. The
instability in Somalia started off in 1991. And out of that came a lot of groups
and you also had attacks in US Embassy attacks and following the rise of the
Islamic courts union, their linkage with al-Shabaab. And then recently, first
and foremost yes, Ethiopian forces went there in Somalia. That led to quite a
few reprisal attacks within Somalia itself. And then later on, as a caller
before rightly mentioned, Kenya decided to also move into Somali in 2011. That
led to this attack. But also before that, al-Shabaab also struck beyond Somalia
into Uganda in 2010. Also a country that has moved into its territory against
al-Shabaab.

[Carelse] American lawmakers have suggested just recently that terror attacks
and terrorists specifically are becoming more sophisticated in the way that they
operate. Is this a clear sign that the lawmakers in the States are correct?

[Botha] Well, I think that the terrorists, for you to be effective in what you
are trying to achieve, you have to always stay one step ahead of those that are
trying to come after you. It is tragic to see the events in Kenya but it is just
the way terrorism works; it is that you have to attract the attention of
international media to get your message across and the only way to do that,
unfortunately, is through these types of attacks.

[Carelse] Now that they are established links between al-Shabaab and Al-Qa'idah,
this attack on Saturday, is this a reflection that Al-Qa'idah is on the rise and
dangerous?

[Botha] Well, I am very cautious to blame Al-Qa'idah for everything. Yes, Ayman
al-Zawahri made a few statements in the past of we have to take hostages, we
have to target Western targets and we should not go after Muslims. And all of
those things came out in this fatal attack. But I think the causes of terrorism
extend way beyond any Al-Qa'idah. And to address that we have to look at those
types of causes.

[Carelse] Now, there has been a couple of calls, one editorial particularly in
South Africa saying that irrespective of whether we in South Africa are directly
vulnerable, there needs to be a greater gearing of resources and consolidated
effort to make sure that all African nations have a much stronger counter-terror
strategy in place. Your thoughts?

[Botha] Absolutely, absolutely. Counter-terrorism is not the responsibility of
only one country that is being targeted but all countries on the continent. It
is the only way you can counter this.

[Carelse] Anneli Botha, senior researcher at the International Crime in Africa
programme at the Institute of Security Studies. Thank you so much for your time.

Source: Talk Radio 702 website, Johannesburg, in English 0743 gmt 23 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Ghana advised to join fight against terrorism in Africa following Kenyan attack

LENGTH: 272 words


Text of report by Ghanaian radio station Joy FM owned by the Multimedia
Broadcasting Corporation on 23 September

[Unattributed report: "Ghana Must Take Counter-Terrorism Measures Seriously
-Security Analyst"]

A security analyst, Mr Emmanuel Sowatey says in the wake of the terror attacks
in Kenya this week, Ghana must take vigorous counter-terrorism measures as well
as join the fight against terrorism in Africa.

Mr Sowatey said the country can no longer sit aloof in the face the increasing
threats posed by terrorists on the continent.

He was speaking on Joy FM's Super morning Show Monday.

A terrorist attack, claimed by Somalia's Al Shabab, at the Westgate Mall in
Nairobi, Kenya led to the death of close to 70 people, among them, Ghana's
former Chairman of the Council of State, Professor Kofi Awoonor who died of
gunshot wounds.

Mr Sowatey said government must strengthen the country's security to ensure that
what happened in Kenya does happen in Ghana.

"We need the funding, political will and we also need to educate ordinary
Ghanaians on what they can do to contribute to strengthening our security".

A Senior Fellow of the Centre for International Affairs and Diplomacy (LECIAD)
of the University of Ghana, Dr Vladimir Antwi Danso said the global approach for
fighting terrorism has failed over the years.

He suggested that the war on terrorism must have a multilateral approach rather
than using the United Nations which is state-centric.

Dr Antwi Danso said Africa needs to move to an era where there are independent
rapid response teams to help nations when any attack occurs.

Source: Joy FM, Accra, in English 0000 gmt 23 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

US, Nigerian leaders sympathise with Kenya following terror attack - report

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report by state-owned Nigerian TV from Abuja on 24 September

United States President Barack Obama has hosted President Goodluck Jonathan on
bilateral talks between Nigeria and the United States ahead of the opening of
the 68th session of the UN General Assembly in New York. President Jonathan
described both countries as natural allies committed to global peace and
security. He commended the United States for the initiatives on power and youths
in Africa.

President Obama commended President Jonathan on the last elections, saying it is
a demonstration of what to expect in 2015. He noted that the Nigerian economy is
growing.

Both leaders sympathized with the Kenyan Government over the recent attacks,
reiterating their commitment to fighting terrorism.

Source: NTA TV, Abuja, in English 0000 gmt 24 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Full text of Kenyan leader's 24 September statement on terror attack

LENGTH: 1800 words


Text of report entitled " Statement by His Excellency Hon Uhuru Kenyatta, CG.,
president and commander in chief of the defence forces of the Republic of Kenya
on the Westgate attack, Nairobi. September 24, 2013" by Kenya State House
governmental website on 24 September; subheadings inserted editorially

Fellow Kenyans and Friends of Kenya, the operation is now over.

Fellow Kenyans, last weekend, terrorists alighted in Nairobi and unleashed
unspeakable and unforgivable atrocity on Kenyans and our visitors.

Attack left 61 civilians dead, 240 injured

The agents of terror themselves craven wretches and lowly cowards had the agenda
of perpetrating grievous mayhem in our country, senselessly killing, maiming and
traumatizing harmless, innocent people. We confronted this evil without
flinching, contained our deep grief and pain, and conquered it. As a nation, our
head is bloodied, but unbowed. The criminals found us unafraid, as we ever shall
be. We cannot be conquered. Our confrontation with the terrorists at Westgate
mall left 240 casualties.

I report with great sadness that 61 civilians lost their lives in the attack.
[Six] 6 Security officers also made the ultimate sacrifice to defeat the
criminals.

Forensic teams are still at work at the scene of the tragedy and will put
together a final report.

Towards the tail end of the operation three floors of the Westgate mall
collapsed and there are several bodies still trapped in the rubble including the
terrorists'.

Starting tomorrow, I have instructed the Interior Ministry to keep Kenyans
informed of the progress of the forensic investigations.

Of the injured, 62 were operated on and remain hospitalized. Many others
suffered non- physical trauma and shock and are receiving counselling at various
facilities throughout the city. It has not been an easy time for anyone of us,
least of all the affected. Our losses are immense. To honour the memory of those
who lost their lives in this attack, I have declared 3 days of National Mourning
starting tomorrow, during which official flags will fly at half-mast throughout
the country.

US, British citizens

Ladies and gentlemen, As I had vowed earlier, we have ashamed and defeated our
attackers. That part of our task has been completed by our multi-agency security
team. [Five] 5 terrorists were killed with gunfire. 11 suspects are in custody
in connection with the attack. Intelligence reports had suggested that a British
woman and two or three American citizens may have been involved in the attack.
We cannot confirm the details at present.

Forensic experts are working to ascertain the nationalities of the terrorists. I
promised that we shall have full accountability for the mindless destruction,
deaths, pain, loss and suffering we have all undergone as a national family.
These cowards will meet justice, as will their accomplices and patrons, wherever
they are.

"Wonderful" response from all Kenyans

Fellow Kenyans, friends of Kenya: Our solidarity, patience and resolve has seen
us through the worst of this crisis. It is to you that I turned, for strength,
love and aid to those afflicted by this encounter with the forces of evil. You
came out in ways that exceeded the wildest expectations. You have been generous,
compassionate and patriotic. I am deeply moved and very proud to be your
president.

To the survivors of that terrible ordeal, the entire nation has waited anxiously
for your safe deliverance, and we are all relieved to see you.

Fellow Kenyans, the response of the people throughout the country has been
nothing short of wonderful. I have always known that our country is a splendid
nation of fine, patriotic citizens. The unity, selflessness and empathy shown to
the affected over the last three days has been touching and exemplary. We could
not, in all fairness, ask more of you, and yet the revelation of your nobility
continues to amaze. Without a task force, organizing committee or chain of
command, you have risen up as one and stood firmly with your country, your
brothers and sisters. You have raised more than 60 million shillings through
mobile money to help the affected.

You have also donated food, clothing and other supplies, not only for the
afflicted, but also to keep the volunteers going. You have gifted fellow
Kenyans, and our visitors blood, without pausing to consider whether they were
Giriama, Dasanach, Turkana, Kuria or Embu, West African, Pakistani, British or
German. Your response to appeals for blood donations has been literally
overwhelming. There is, evidently, no limit to your patriotic sacrifice.

I am humbled and encouraged. Thank you all for your patience and understanding
in the anxious moments when we waited for this nightmare to end.

My brothers and sisters, I thank the doctors, nurses, counselors and other
volunteers who thought nothing of their comforts and personal engagements when
called upon to be their brother's keepers. We have all been touched by your
selflessness. I appreciate the excellent work of our security forces. The
dedication and professionalism of the valiant officers in containing a delicate
and dangerous situation has made Kenyans proud. You continue to exemplify our
national values in action. No one among us take for granted the fact that every
time you accost evildoers, you put your life on the line for our sake. For this
reason, I stand here to pay a special tribute to our security forces. I salute
national leaders of every stripe who stood together to reassure the nation that
deep inside, where it counts most, we are one, indivisible national family.

For sharing the nation's pain and anxiety, and for reaffirming the core
principles of leadership, you have encouraged the nation. Let no one amongst us
ever be blamed for dividing the people of Kenya.

Solidarity by "friends of Kenya"

Friends of Kenya, terrorism is a global problem that requires global solutions.
Kenya will stand with our friends in tackling terrorism and I ask our friends to
stand with us. Our many friends throughout the world came through with moral
support and offers of various forms of assistance.

This solidarity has encouraged us immensely, and we will never forget your
brotherly concern for our wellbeing. My brothers President Yoweri Museveni of
Uganda, Jakaya Kikwete of Tanzania, Paul Kagame of Rwanda, Salva Kiir of
Southern Sudan and Pierre Nkurunziza of Burundi have called daily to encourage
us.

Other African and global leaders, including presidents Goodluck Jonathan of
Nigeria, Jacob Zuma of South Africa, and Hailemariam Desalegn, Prime Minister of
Ethiopia, as well as United States president Barack Obama, the prime ministers
of Israel and Britain have also expressed their sympathies and best wishes.

The people of Kenya thank you. The operation to contain terrorists, pacify and
stabilize our region and continent continues, and there will be opportunity to
consult and cooperate in future.

"We must never forget" fallen

My people, our friends, the majority of the people who lost their lives to the
terrorist attack were innocent, harmless civilians.

They were people of various nationalities, races, ethnic, cultural, religious
and other walks of life.

They were in Kenya, and in Nairobi because the people of Kenya welcomed them
warmly and freely.

As one family, the people of Kenya continue to mourn them. We must never forget
them.

Just like their lives, their memory will remain precious in our hearts.

Let us always remember that they were compelled by the mindless actions of evil,
cowardly terrorists, to make the unnecessary, yet ultimate sacrifice.

We will stand by each other, and we must stand by the families of the fallen.

My Government will assist the families to cope with their grief and loss.

We pray that God, our Creator, will comfort them with divine hope and assurance,
and give them strength to face the coming days.

I ask all of you, brothers and sisters, to remember them by staying united,
tolerant, caring, generous and loyal to one another, and to our nation.

There are many people who have suffered painful bodily injury, and those who
suffer afflictions invisible to the eye. We pray for your quick and full
recovery.

Kenya "shall rise as one"

Fellow Kenyans, we have been badly hurt, and feel great pain and loss. But we
have been brave, united and strong. Kenya has stared down Evil and triumphed. We
have prevailed just by being who we typically are, and have been from the time
of our forefathers.

In caring and giving; in loving and uniting; in never tiring, and not
hesitating, in resolutely looking forward and never turning back, we have
defeated our enemies and shown the whole world what our values can accomplish.

As we put this tragic period behind us, let us stay true to who we are. Our
attackers wished to destroy the essential character of our society.

They failed. Kenya endured. Kenya endures. With our openness and inclusivity, we
shall confront and overcome all the challenges facing us as a nation.

We shall rise as one, defend and build this nation together. In one accord we
have triumphed. In one accord, we shall prosper.

The incident which we now put behind was certainly not welcome.

Yet it has strengthened us and renewed our resolve to live as one strong, open,
stable, democratic and prosperous Republic, where people of all races, cultures
and faiths pursue happiness together.

We must live as a diverse, tolerant society with neither bias nor barriers to
all people of goodwill.

Our openness, enterprise and generosity have brought us through adversity to
where we are, and will impel us achieve our collective and individual dreams.

Amid the horror and confusion of the past few days, you have found it in
yourselves to be incredibly strong and generous.

You have held each other's hand, and extended this love to our visitors.

Your resilience and compassion have saved many lives and brought hope and
comfort to countless families.

I have drawn strength and inspiration from your wonderful example.

My resolve to ensure that my Government delivers to you is strengthened even
more by the certainty that I lead a nation of fine folk who deserve our best
work.

Let us work in unity, in the spirit with which we defeated the monster of
terrorism, to heal the wounds inflicted on us, and to confront the obstacles in
our way to prosperity.

We must put development and happiness within our reach.

We will ensure that Kenya always retains its honour among nations.

The Glory of Kenya, is the Fruit of our collective Labour.

That is what our founding fathers inscribed in our National Anthem.

Because of what we have done, we have not been shaken.

As long as Kenya remains our home, we are indomitable.

I urge you to remain calm and vigilant.

Our country is safe...

God bless you all, and God bless Kenya.

Source: Kenya State House governmental website, Nairobi, in English 24 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 8:20 PM GMT

Nairobi attack: Terrorists who killed at least 67 at shopping mall 'defeated'
says Kenyan President

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 858 words


The terrorists who took control of a Nairobi mall and held off Kenyan security
forces for four days have been defeated after killing at least 67 civilians and
government troops, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta says.

Those killed include 61 civilians whose bodies have been recovered so far and
six security forces, while nearly 200 were injured, including 62 who remain in
hospital.

Three floors of the mall collapsed and several bodies were trapped in the
rubble, said Mr Kenyatta. His office later said a terrorist's body was among
those in the debris.

Five other attackers were killed by gunfire, he said.

"We have ashamed and defeated our attackers," he said in the televised address
to the nation.

He said 11 other suspects had been arrested; authorities had previously
announced the arrest of seven at the airport and three elsewhere.

"These cowards will need justice as well their accomplices and patrons, wherever
they are," Mr Kenyatta said.

He declared three days of national mourning starting tomorrow.

Kenyan forces had for more than two days said they were in the "final phase" of
the operation, only to be battled back by the militants inside the building.

Explosions rang from the upmarket Westgate mall in Nairobi throughout today, and
the chatter of gunfire from inside the building could also be heard. Fresh smoke
rose from the building in the afternoon.

The Kenyan Red Cross had previously said 62 people had been killed, and it
seemed certain that the number of confirmed deaths would rise as security forces
comb the building.

Nairobi's city morgue had already braced for the arrival of a large number of
bodies of people killed, an official said.

Kenyan Red Cross spokesman Abbas Gullet said it was still not known how many
more may be dead inside the building.

"It is certainly known that there are more casualties," he said.

A government official told The Associated Press that the morgue was preparing
for up to an additional 60 bodies, though the official didn't know an exact
count.

Earlier the al Qaida-linked attackers used social media to give accounts of the
fighting inside the mall that conflicted with the government reports.

"There are countless number of dead bodies still scattered inside the mall, and
the mujahideen are still holding their ground," the Somali rebel group al Shabab
said earlier in the day in a Twitter message considered to be genuine.

It added that the hostages are "still alive looking quite disconcerted but,
nevertheless, alive."

But there were no tweets from the al Shabab account immediately after Mr
Kenyatta's address.

Al Shabab, whose name means "The Youth" in Arabic, said the mall attack was in
retribution for Kenyan forces' 2011 push into neighbouring Somalia. African
Union forces pushed the group out of Somalia's capital in 2011.

"You could have avoided all this and lived your lives with relative safety," the
group Tweeted. "Remove your forces from our country and peace will come."

Mr Kenyatta said "initial reports had suggested that a British woman and two or
three American citizens may have been involved in the attack," but that "we
cannot confirm the details at the moment".

He said experts were working to try to determine the nationalities of the
terrorists.

A security expert with contacts inside the mall described the attackers as "a
multinational collection from all over the world."

Earlier, Kenyan Foreign Minister Amina Mohamed had said "two or three Americans"
and "one Brit" were among those who attacked the mall.

She said in an interview with the PBS "NewsHour" programme that the Americans
were 18 to 19 years old, of Somali or Arab origin and lived "in Minnesota and
one other place" in the US. The attacker from Britain was a woman who has "done
this many times before," she said.

US officials said they were looking into whether any Americans were involved.

Britain's foreign office said it was aware of the Kenyan foreign minister's
remarks, but would not confirm if a British woman was involved.

Al Shabab, responding to a request from AP, denied that any women had attacked
the mall.

"We have an adequate number of young men who fully committed and ready to
sacrifice their lives for the sake of Allah and for the sake of their religion,
so there is no need for us to employ our sisters in the battlefield and thereby
expose them to unnecessary risk. So these are just baseless rumours that have no
substance," said the al Shabab press office in what is thought to be an
authentic email address.

The attack began on Saturday when some 12 to 15 militants invaded the mall,
carrying grenades and firing on civilians inside the complex, which includes
shops for Nike, Adidas and Bose and is popular with foreigners and wealthy
Kenyans.

The militants specifically targeted non-Muslims, and at least 18 foreigners were
among the dead, including six Britons, as well as citizens from France, Canada,
the Netherlands, Australia, Peru, India, Ghana, South Africa and China. Nearly
200 people were wounded, including five Americans.

The attack was the deadliest terrorist attack in Kenya since the 1998 al Qaida
truck bombing of the US Embassy in Nairobi, which killed more than 200 people.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 5:04 PM GMT

Kenya: Friends and family of Co Down raised White Widow 'shocked' at link to
terror attack

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 681 words


The friends and family of the Co Down raised White Widow Samantha Lewthwaite
have reacted with shock and disbelief to claims that she is behind the Kenyan
shopping mall massacre.

Speculation is rife that the terror suspect, who was married to the July 7
suicide bomber Jermaine Lindsay, was one of the masterminds behind the atrocity
which has claimed more than 60 lives.

Dubbed the White Widow, Lewthwaite is wanted in connection with an atrocity in
Kenya, her alleged role in bomb-making factories and terrorist activity in
Yemen.

Born to a British soldier from England and a Northern Irish Catholic mother,
Lewthwaite spent her early years in the family's home in Banbridge's Whyte Acres
estate.

The claims caused Lewthwaite's frail grandmother to be taken to hospital in
Northern Ireland, while those who knew her growing up in Aylesbury said they
were "astonished and amazed".

Known as the White Widow, the 29-year-old mother-of-three is the daughter of
English soldier Andy Lewthwaite, who met and married Irish Catholic Christine
Allen while serving in Northern Ireland during the 1970s.

She enjoyed an unremarkable childhood in Banbridge, Co Down, before moving to
Aylesbury at a young age. In 1995 her parents split.

After converting to Islam at 17, Lewthwaite changed her name to Sherafiyah and
married Lindsay, who detonated the bomb at King's Cross Tube station, killing 26
people in July 2005.

At the time she claimed to have been horrified by the killings, but in 2009
disappeared with her three children and only resurfaced two years later after
travelling to Kenya on a false passport.

Kenya's foreign minister, Amina Mohamed, has fuelled further speculation by
claiming a British woman who has allegedly been involved in terrorism "many
times before" was among the militants who laid siege to the Westgate mall,
leaving at least six Britons dead.

As Lewthwaite's global notoriety peaked, the shockwaves reached Banbridge, where
Lewthwaite's grandmother, Elizabeth Allen, was taken to hospital.

Family friends said the pressure of the situation has taken its toll on the
pensioner's health and mental well-being.

She had been given a panic alarm to contact security services in case the terror
suspect made contact.

Joan Baird, a veteran Ulster Unionist councillor in Banbridge who knows the
family, said: "This is so distressing for everyone. Mrs Allen is 85 and she is
in and out of hospital. It is just so distressing."

In Aylesbury there was disbelief that the "average, British, young, ordinary
girl" who was a "follower not a leader" could have gone on to mastermind
extremist acts.

Councillor Raj Khan, who knew Lewthwaite socially, said she was "pleasant and
courteous" and had a "very great personality" but lacked confidence.

"She was not strong-headed. And that's why I find it absolutely amazing that she
is supposed to be the head of an international criminal terrorist organisation,"
Mr Khan said.

Niknam Hussain, a former mayor of Aylesbury and current chairman of the
independent advisory group at Thames Valley Police, also knew Lewthwaite.

He said: "I'm astonished and amazed. I can't believe it's true in any which way.

"Until they provide us with proof, I think it's innocent until proven guilty, to
be honest."

Mr Hussain added: "To ascribe a level of sophistication that she could control a
whole terrorist empire, I'm sorry, I don't think that Tom Clancy could write
anything like that."

Mr Hussain also knew Lewthwaite's husband, and described him as seeming
"perfectly normal".

Those who were acquainted with Lewthwaite as a youngster insisted she was not
linked in any way to the Jamia Ghausia Mosque or to the mainstream Muslim
community in Aylesbury despite her desire to "learn Islam quite deeply".

She met Lindsay, a Jamaican-born Muslim convert who never made a secret of his
extremist views, on an Islamic chatroom.

Brought up by his mother in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, where he alarmed his
teachers by attempting to radicalise impressionable younger pupils, he went on
to kill 26 people travelling between King's Cross and Russell Square on the
Piccadilly line.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 9:26 AM GMT

White Widow Samantha Lewthwaite could be among dead terrorism suspects who
attacked a Nairobi shopping mall in Kenya

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 1475 words


Speculation is growing that terrorism suspect Samantha Lewthwaite from Northern
Ireland, dubbed the White Widow, had been killed as Kenyan military forces
attempted to end the three-day siege at a Nairobi shopping mall.

Americans and a British woman were among the terrorists who attacked the mall,
killing more than 60 people, Kenya's foreign minister said today.

Amina Mohamed said the attackers included "two or three Americans" and "one
Brit". She told the PBS NewsHour programme that the Americans were 18 to 19
years old, of Somali or Arab origin and lived "in Minnesota and one other place"
in the US.

The woman is believed to be Lewthwaite, from Banbridge, who is already wanted in
Kenya on terror charges.

A Muslim convert, she had been dubbed the "white widow" because of her marriage
to Jermaine Lindsay, who blew up an underground train at King's Cross in London
in 2005, killing 26 people.

She has been on the run in east Africa for two years after allegedly plotting to
attack Western targets in Kenya.

Her father was a British soldier posted in Northern Ireland during the Troubles,
who married a local woman.

Lewthwaite converted to Islam in her teenage years and later married Lindsay,
one of the 7/7 London bombers.

She then married another jihadist while on the run in Africa where she became a
leader of the al-Shabaab terror grouping.

Lewthwaite later arranged the assassination of a terror rival in an attack that
also claimed the life of her second husband, Habib Ghani. She did not even
acknowledge the fact he had been murdered.

Family friends in Banbridge yesterday said the publicity surrounding Lewthwaite
in recent years had deeply affected her grandmother who lives near the town
centre.

Elizabeth Allen is said to be devastated by the revelations regarding her
grand-daughter.

It is understood the stress on Ms Allen, who is in her late 80s, is such she was
hospitalised recently.

The frail pensioner previously told how she was issued with a panic alarm with
which she was to contact police if Lewthwaite ever made contact with her.

Kenyan security forces battled al Qaida-linked terrorists in the upmarket mall
for a third day in what they said was a final push to rescue the last few
hostages in a siege that has left at least 62 people dead.

While the government announced that "most" hostages had been released, a
security expert with contacts inside the mall said at least 10 were still being
held by a band of attackers described as "a multinational collection from all
over the world".

US officials said they were looking into whether any Americans were involved.
State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said the department had "no definitive
evidence of the nationalities or the identities" of the attackers.

The security expert, who insisted on anonymity to talk freely about the
situation, said many hostages had been freed or escaped in the previous 24-36
hours, including some who were in hiding.

But there were at least 30 hostages when the assault by al-Shabab militants
began on Saturday, he said, and "it's clear" that Kenyan security officials
"haven't cleared the building fully".

Flames and dark plumes of smoke rose above the Westgate shopping complex for
more than an hour yesterday after four large explosions rocked the surrounding
neighbourhood. The smoke was pouring through a large skylight inside the mall's
main department and grocery store, where mattresses and other flammable goods
appeared to have been set on fire, a person with knowledge of the rescue
operation said.

The explosions were followed by volleys of gunfire as police helicopters and a
military jet circled overhead, giving the neighbourhood the feel of a war zone.

By evening, Kenyan security officials claimed the upper hand.

"Taken control of all the floors. We're not here to feed the attackers with
pastries but to finish and punish them," police inspector General David Kimaiyo
said on Twitter.

Kenya's interior minister Joseph Ole Lenku said the evacuation of hostages had
gone "very, very well" and that Kenyan officials were "very certain" that few if
any hostages were left in the building.

But with the mall cordoned off and under heavy security it was not possible to
independently verify the assertions. Similar claims of a quick resolution were
made by Kenyan officials on Sunday and the siege continued. Authorities have
also not provided any details on how many hostages were freed or how many still
remain captive.

Three attackers were killed in the fighting yesterday, authorities said, and
more than 10 suspects arrested. Eleven Kenyan soldiers were wounded in the
running gun battles.

Somalia's al Qaida-linked rebel group, al-Shabab, which said it carried out the
attack, said the hostage-takers were well-armed and ready to take on the Kenyan
forces.

An al-Shabab spokesman, Sheik Ali Mohamud Rage, said in an audio file posted on
a militant website that the attackers had been ordered to "take punitive action
against the hostages" if force was used to try to rescue them.

The attackers have lots of ammunition, the militant group said in a Twitter
feed, adding that Kenya's government would be responsible for any loss of
hostages' lives.

A Western security official in Nairobi said the only reason the siege had not
yet ended would be because hostages were still inside.

Westgate mall, a vast complex with multiple banks that have secure vaults and
bulletproof glass partitions, as well as a casino, was difficult to take, the
official said. "They are not made for storming," he said of the labyrinth of
shops, restaurants and offices. "They're made to be unstormable."

At least 62 people were killed in the assault on Saturday by 12 to 15 al-Shabab
militants wielding grenades and firing on civilians inside the mall, which
includes shops for such retail giants as Nike, Adidas and Bose and is popular
with foreigners and wealthy Kenyans.

The militants specifically targeted non-Muslims, and at least 18 foreigners were
among the dead, including six Britons, as well as citizens from France, Canada,
the Netherlands, Australia, Peru, India, Ghana, South Africa and China. Nearly
200 people were wounded, including five Americans.

Fighters from an array of nations participated in the assault, according to
Kenya's chief of defence forces General Julius Karangi. "We have an idea who
these people are and they are clearly a multinational collection from all over
the world," he said.

Al-Shabab, whose name means "The Youth" in Arabic, said the mall attack was in
retribution for Kenyan forces' 2011 push into neighbouring Somalia. It was the
deadliest terrorist attack in Kenya since the 1998 al Qaida truck bombing of the
US embassy in Nairobi, which killed more than 200 people.

An extremist Islamic terrorist force that grew out of the anarchy that crippled
Somalia after warlords ousted a long-time dictator in 1991, al-Shabab is
estimated to have several thousand fighters, including a few hundred foreigners,
among them militants from the Middle East with experience in the Iraq and
Afghanistan conflicts. Others are young, raw recruits from Somali communities in
the United States and Europe.

For years Minnesota has been the centre of a government investigation into the
recruiting of fighters for al-Shabab. Authorities say about two dozen young men
have left Minnesota since 2007 to join the group. Minnesota's Somali community
is the largest in the US.

Somali president Hassan Sheikh Mohamud said the attack showed that al-Shabab was
a threat not just to Somalia but to the international community.

Reports that some of the attackers may have been Somalis who lived in the United
States illustrate the global nature of the militant group, the Somali leader
said in a speech at Ohio State University.

"Today, there are clear evidences that Shabab is not a threat to Somalia and
Somali people only," he said. "They are a threat to the continent of Africa, and
the world at large."

As the crisis passed the 48-hour mark, a video emerged that was taken by someone
inside the mall's main department store when the assault began. It video showed
frightened and unsure shoppers crouching as long, loud volleys of gunfire could
be heard.

Kenyans in many parts of the country stood in long lines yesterday to donate
blood to aid the nearly 200 people injured in the attack. Fund raisers collected
hundreds of thousands of dollars, though government officials warned of scam
artists taking advantage of the tragedy.

Ms Mohamed said Kenya needed to work with other governments to fight the
increasing terrorist threat and "much more with the US and the UK, because both
the victims and the perpetrators came from Kenya, the United Kingdom and the
United States. From the information we have, two or three Americans and so far
I've heard of one Brit".

She added: "That just goes to underline the global nature of this war that we
are fighting."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Bucks Free Press

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Police prepared for terror attack as reports link Bucks woman with Kenyan
atrocity

BYLINE: Andy Carswell

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 353 words


POLICE have said they are prepared for a terrorist attack on Bucks, as
speculation mounts over whether a former Aylesbury woman is behind the militant
siege on a Kenyan shopping mall.

Samantha Lewthwaite - the former wife of July 7 bomber Germaine Lindsay - is
believed to be a key figure in the planning of the attack on the Westgate
shopping centre in Nairobi.

The death toll from the atrocity currently stands at 62 and there is mounting
speculation that Miss Lewthwaite, known as the White Widow, has been killed
during the siege.

Two people from London have been confirmed as being among the dead.

Speaking at a public meeting in Amersham last night, the Thames Valley's Police
and Crime Commissioner Anthony Stansfeld said it was not outside the realms of
possibility a terrorist attack could happen in Bucks.

Responding to a question from the audience, Mr Stansfeld made reference to the
2006 terror plot to blow up transatlantic aeroplanes by smuggling home made
bombs on board, which led to homes and woodland around the High Wycombe area
being searched.

Two men with High Wycombe connections were later jailed for life for their part
in the plot.

He said: "Extensive measures are taken but we can never guarantee something 100
per cent.

"Every measure that can reasonably be taken is taken. I'm very aware we do have
issues in our area - we had a major plot four or five years ago. We are not
immune to it in the leafy towns of south Bucks.

"Our counter terrorism system is probably one of the best in the world."

Mr Stansfeld said the counter terrorism unit for the whole of the south east has
recently been moved to the Thames Valley region.

Chiltern and South Bucks' Area Commander Steve Hockin, a former firearms
officer, said: "I trained with colleagues from all of the emergency services to
establish what our response to a gunman atrocity would look like.

"We've practiced this. I have even given input to our firearm officers what our
approach would be.

"If God forbid it ever happens, our role is to save life and to prevent the
offenders taking more life. We've trained for it and I'm as confident as we can
be."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Bucks Herald

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Kenyan official claims British woman involved in terrorist attack

LENGTH: 391  words


Kenya's foreign minister has fuelled speculation that Aylesbury's Samantha
Lewthwaite may be involved in the Nairobi terrorist attack.

Amina Mohamed told PBS NewsHour a British woman is believed to be among the
group and that she has done this many times before'.

Some reports have also suggested a white woman is among three militants killed
when Kenyan forces stormed Nairobi's Westgate complex.

Lewthwaite, who married 7/7 London bomber Jermaine Lindsay and is known as the
White Widow, is allegedly a key member of al-Shabaab, the group which has
claimed responsibility for the attack, which has left at least 62 people dead.

There were also been reports of a balaclava-clad white woman holding a gun being
seen in the shopping centre, although other Kenyan officials have said all the
terrorists are men, with some dressed as woman.

There has been no confirmation of the 29 year old mother-of-three's involvement
in the attack, but the Daily Mail claims a senior Kenyan anti-terror officer
said: "We believe she was commanding the operation but her fate is not yet
known. It is understood she was a sniper also."

A Foreign Office spokesman said of the claims about Lewthwaite: "We are aware of
them and we are looking into them.

"We are not speculating about this."

Lewthwaite, who went to the Grange school, has been on the run since being
linked with a plot to blow up a shopping centre in Mombasa, Kenya's second city.

Councillor Raj Khan, who knew Lewthwaite before the 7/7 attack, said people
should not jump to conclusions.

Mr Khan said: "I'm worried that the picture that has been demonising her may be
premature because it has not been substantiated.

"Unless there is hard evidence we should not just unnecessarily jump to
conclusions.

"Whether she is part of this horrific tragedy or not, we will remain as one
community."

Mr Khan described Lewthwaite as a family friend' before she disappeared.

He said: "She was an innocent young person.

"She would do anything to accommodate other people, she was a very good human
being.

"She did everything to help others."

Kenyan security forces say they have taken control of all floors of the shopping
centre, which was raided by militants on Saturday, although an explosion and
gunfire was heard on Tuesday morning.

Around 170 people are believed to have been injured, with six Britons confirmed
among the dead.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCBH


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Bucks Herald

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Former mayor's uncle shot during Kenyan terrorist attack

LENGTH: 391  words


A former mayor of Aylesbury says she is in disbelief after her uncle was shot in
the chest by terrorists in Kenya.

Ranjula Takodra hails from the East African country and lived in Nairobi as a
teenager, regularly returning to visit her family who still live in the capital
city.

She said her mother's brother, Manu Vadolia, who is in his late 50s, was one of
the first people to be shot by the terrorists on Saturday as he was in his car
outside the Westgate shopping centre.

"He was stuck in traffic right outside the entrance," said the Walton Court and
Hawkslade councillor.

"Some guy had a machine gun and shot all the cars in a line and my uncle's car
happened to be one of them.

"He got hit near the heart and just managed to call my aunty to tell her what
happened.

"He collapsed after that and got taken to hospital, then these guys (the
terrorists) have gone inside the shopping centre.

Mrs Takodra said her family thinks her uncle may have actually been planning to
go inside Westgate.

"My niece told me that sometimes he goes in there as he does handy work for
them. Maybe he was heading there to visit somebody."

She said her uncle, who has visited Mrs Takodra in Aylesbury on several
occasions, is now in a stable condition in hospital.

"I am just hoping he will be all right.

"It is extremely frightening for everyone, it's been extremely traumatic. The
situation is really tense.

"My sister has been to visit my uncle in hospital and said it was heartbreaking
to see everybody there."

Mrs Takodra knows Westgate well, shopping there whenever she visits Nairobi.

"There's something for everybody.

"If you go to London you go to Westfield or Brent Cross and in Nairobi everybody
goes there. It is a really lovely place.

"It has a market right on the rooftop and I like to go there to buy ornaments
and presents for people. There is a lovely coffee area for people too."

"I understand from my niece that there was a cookery competition going on for
young people (at the time the terrorists stormed the building).

"It is just awful to think they were in there, how they would have felt.

"It is a nightmare, it makes my skin crawl.

"When it happens to you or your family you feel it but my heart goes out to
anybody going through this trauma."

She said the linking of Aylesbury white widow' Samantha Lewthwaite to the
atrocity was the last thing we want'.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCBH


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Terror attack re-ignites unity among Kenyans

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 741 words


NAIROBI -- The heavy downpour on Sunday night failed to vanquish the gallant
spirit of Kenya's Brenda Kungu as she patiently waited for her turn to donate
blood at a makeshift emergency center in Nairobi.

Volunteers from Kenya Red Cross and dozens of security officers were on standby
to manage the long queue of well wishers who turned up to donate blood and help
save the lives of compatriots injured during the terrorist attack at Westgate
shopping mall.

Kungu was at the makeshift blood donation center at dawn on Sunday but had to
dash home to attend to pressing family matters only to return in the evening and
find a multitude lining up to donate blood.

"Kenyans have earned the distinction of being able to discard walls that divide
us and unite in tragedy. When you look at all these people in the queue, can you
tell their ethnicity or religious beliefs?" Kungu posed to Xinhua during an
interview.

The female volunteer with a gender advocacy organization had mobilized dozens of
friends on Sunday morning to join patriotic Kenyans on a mission to save lives
of terror victims.

Kungu was all smiles as a paramedic inserted a syringe on her veins and blood
oozed into a neat plastic container.

"I wish it was medically appropriate to donate blood twice, and I would be the
first person to jump into the queue. We cannot afford to slouch on our coaches
as fellow Kenyans suffer from senseless attacks," Kungu said after donating
blood.

She was later joined by a group of friends who heartily told of their experience
with paramedics as they extracted pints of blood to be delivered to emergency
wards where victims of terrors were being treated.

Even as the elements become unbearable on Sunday night, the long queue of blood
donors did not subside until Kenya Red Cross officials made a fervent appeal for
postponement of the exercise on Monday.

The young and old from across the racial, ethnic and religious divide turned up
to donate blood.

As for Ishmael Mohammed, the gory pictures of the injured pricked his conscience
hence a resolve to abandon daily obligations to save lives of fellow
compatriots.

"I Am not a regular blood donor but emergency situations demand that we shed off
our prejudices in service of fellow man. Anyone can be a victim of terror
attacks regardless of ethnic and religious background. The life of one single
Kenyan supersedes everything else," Mohammed told Xinhua as he sipped water
provided by volunteers.

Corporate organizations and individual well wishers were in the frontline
donating food, drinks and medicine to victims of terror attacks as well as
security forces and journalists.

At the rescue mission went full throttle at the Westgate shopping mall on Sunday
evening, volunteers braved heavy rains to distribute water and snacks to a
battery of local and foreign journalists.

"I live nearby and could not afford to ignore the tragedy that struck fellow
Kenyans and that is why I decided to donate time and resources towards this
noble cause of saving innocent lives," Kevin Osido, a Program Officer with an
International NGO told Xinhua at Westgate Shopping Mall.

The Kenyan government and relief agencies on Saturday made a passionate appeal
for blood donation to save lives of victims of terror attacks at mall.

Cabinet Secretary for Interior and Coordination of national government, Joseph
Ole Lenku requested Kenyans to turn up in large numbers and donate blood at
designated centers in Nairobi and other towns.

Kenyans were undaunted on Monday as they thronged a public park to donate blood.

Those who spoke to Xinhua revealed a renewed sense of patriotism as the east
African nation grappled with the aftermath of a vicious terror attack at the
up-scale Westgate shopping mall.

"We thank the government and Kenya Red Cross for extending blood donation
exercise. At no time in the history of this country have we witnessed such an
outpouring of sympathy and concern for the suffering," said Mary Wamuyu, a
middle aged civil servant queuing to donate blood.

As midday approached, vehicles belonging to leading Kenyan corporate brands
snaked their way into the public park to deliver food and water to blood donors.

"This spirit of brotherhood should remain intact and no matter how fringe
elements are determined to divide us through acts of terror, Kenya remains a
peculiar nation that is able to rise above adversity and earn its place in
history," said a female Kenya Red Cross Volunteer who requested anonymity.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Was the 'white widow' among attackers?;
THE ASSAULT One of shopping mall terrorists was Caucasian woman, sources report,
raising prospect that July 7 bomber's wife was killed by security forces

BYLINE: Mike Pflanz; Aislinn Laing; Gordon Rayner; Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 966 words


INTELLIGENCE officers are trying to establish whether a white woman reported to
be among three dead hostage-takers in Nairobi is the British terror suspect
Samantha Lewthwaite.

A Kenyan intelligence officer and two soldiers each claimed that one of the
al-Shabaab terrorists killed by the security forces in the Westgate shopping
mall was a white female, contradicting official sources who insisted all the
attackers were men.

Another Kenyan intelligence source said video footage showed a white woman among
the terrorists. He said she was actively involved and was believed to be
British. A shop owner also claimed that a white woman pointed a gun at one of
her assistants.

The Foreign Office and British spy agencies have said they cannot rule out the
possibility that Lewthwaite, the widow of the July 7 bomber Germaine Lindsay,
was involved. A senior Whitehall source told The Daily Telegraph it was "likely"
that a woman of non-African, and possibly Caucasian, descent will prove to have
been among the killers.

Lewthwaite, 29, a Muslim convert who is already wanted in Kenya on terror
charges, has been labelled the "white widow" because of her marriage to Lindsay,
who blew up an Underground train at King's Cross in 2005, killing 26 people. She
has been on the run in East Africa for two years after allegedly plotting to
attack Western targets in Kenya.

British security services and counter-terrorism police are also investigating an
English-speaking and apparently British spokesman for al-Shabaab who has
defended the Somali group. Abu Omar carried out a series of telephone interviews
yesterday insisting there would be no negotiations. Two years ago a man calling
himself Abu Omar and claiming to be British appeared in a newspaper feature
helping distribute food from al-Shabaab at a Somali refugee camp.

A Twitter account said to speak for al-Shabaab, which has now been removed from
the website, claimed on Sunday that two London men were among the Westgate
killers, but this has not been corroborated.

Yesterday, despite repeated assurances from the Kenyan authorities that security
forces controlled almost all of the mall, and that the rescue of hostages was
going well, an unknown number of gunmen and hostages remained inside.

The official death toll stood at 62 last night, with 69 missing. Kenyan special
forces were inching their way through the mall as the hostages faced their third
night being held by the terrorists.

Questions were asked about the socalled final assault that Kenya's army said was
launched at dusk on Sunday but was still going on more than 24 hours later.

"We think the operation will come to an end soon," said Joseph Ole Lenku,
Kenya's interior minister.

"We are in control of all the floors. The terrorists are running and hiding in
some stores. The whole building is cordoned off. There is no room for escape."

Officials have refused to say how many hostages are trapped in case some are
still hiding from the gunmen.

The Kenyan government's confidence that troops had secured the entire fourstorey
building by mid-afternoon yesterday was dented as a series of explosions ripped
through the complex.

Black smoke was seen rising above the building, growing thicker by the minute as
a fire said to have been started by the attackers took hold. There were
uncon-firmed reports that the explosions were detonated by the security forces
as they tried to blow a hole in the roof to get in behind the terrorists'
positions.

Whether the attempt was a success remained unclear, but for the rest of the day
troops and armed policemen continued to scour the building. Among the many
incongruous images was television footage of soldiers making their way down the
escalator of a toy department.

According to one report, the terrorists and remaining hostages, including
children as young as two, were holed up inside the Millionaire's Casino on the
top floor of the mall.

Reports that confusion between different branches of Kenya's security services
had cost precious hours in the early stages of the response were denied last
night. Anti-terror police who were first on the scene came underfire from army
colleagues who mistook them for the attackers, according to two separate
sources. British and Israeli advisers have been involved in the response since
the siege's earliest hours, but were not officially said to have entered the
mall as part of the armed response.

Al-Shabaab signalled that the hostages would be used as human shields, saying
they would "bear the brunt of any force directed against the Mujahideen". It
also said its gunmen had plenty of ammunition, as well as having the advantage
of watching news coverage of the assault on their positions on television.

Next to the mall, a Hindu temple was being used as a makeshift triage centre,
with staff wearing bin bags over their clothes to prevent them becoming
bloodsoaked.

Panic swept through the centre following a rumour that one of the gunmen had
escaped and was heading for the temple, sending hundreds of medics and
journalists sprinting for cover.

It proved to be a false alarm, but security forces were so nervous of a second
attack that they used tear gas to disperse a crowd of curious onlookers.

Harrowing accounts of the carnage continued to emerge from survivors. Aquilah
Kauser Ishaq, 32, a marketing manager for a Nairobi radio station, was on the
top floor when she and her friends heard explosions. Outside in the car park,
children were taking part in a cookery class. "There was a brother and sister
running away," said Miss Ishaq. "They were shot dead in front of us."

Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, said: "It is possible we will discover
further [dead] British nationals."

'The terrorists are running and hiding in some stores. The whole building is
cordoned off. '

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Smoke rises from the mall yesterday, left. Samantha Lewthwaite pictured
above with her husband, Germaine Lindsay, and son, and below in photographs as a
teenager
BENNETT JEROME DELAY/AP; JIM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Snowden in terror of US spy attack

BYLINE: RECORD REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 73 words


WHISTLEBLOWER Edward Snowden is living in fear of an attack by US secret
services, his lawyer said yesterday.

Even the former CIA agent's parents don't know the address of his hideaway in
Moscow - where he has applied for asylum - and he only goes out in disguise.

His lawyer Anatoly Kucherena said: "I have definite information which suggests
the danger level is very high."

He added: "I am his only link with the outside world at the moment."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THREATENED Snowden

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday
                                   2 Edition

British woman linked to Nairobi terror attack

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 323 words


A BRITISH woman who has allegedly been  involved in terrorism "many times
before" was among the militants who laid siege to a Kenyan mall, the country's
foreign minister has claimed.

Amina Mohamed said the extremist acted alongside "two or three" Americans, as
security forces began a fourth day of fighting at the shopping  centre where at
least six  Britons are believed to have died.

The revelation will fuel speculation that British terror suspect Samantha
Lewthwaite, the widow of July 7 bomber Jermaine Lindsay, was involved in the
atrocity, which has claimed more than 60 lives.

Lewthwaite, dubbed the "White Widow", is known to be in East Africa and is
wanted by Kenyan police over  alleged links to a terrorist cell that planned to
bomb the country's coast.

In March last year officials said she had fled to Somalia and that officers were
hunting a woman who used several identities, including hers.

The Kenyan authorities  previously claimed all the  militants involved in the
 Nairobi attack were men, but  Ms Mohamed contradicted that statement during a
US television interview today.

The terrorist al-Shabab group says its gunmen are still alive and holding
hostages in the Nairobi shopping centre.

The al-Qaeda-linked organisation made the claims after Kenyan government
assurances of success in the fourth day of the stand-off.

Al-Shabab said the hostages "are still alive, looking quite disconcerted but,
nevertheless, alive."

Sporadic gunfire could be heard from inside the building today as government
forces pressed on inside.

The British victims are thought to include architect Ross Langdon, 33, who had
dual nationality with Australia. He was shot dead with  his pregnant Dutch
girlfriend Elif Yavuz.

Kenyan police claimed  officers had regained control of the shopping centre last
night, but another explosion and more gunfire were reportedly heard at around
6.30am today. Authorities have confirmed the deaths of 62 civilians.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: * The hostage situation continued today. Among the dead are Ross
Langdon and Elif Yavuz, below

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Kenyan tourism events begin amid tight security after Nairobi terror attack

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 135 words


Two international tourism trade events go ahead in Kenya with a 'business as
usual' message following the shopping mall atrocity at the weekend which killed
at least 62 incl four Britons, and injured over 170. The Africa Hotel Investment
Forum and the Ecotourism and Sustainable Tourism Conference take place amid
tight security in the capital Nairobi. East Africa Commerce and Tourism
secretary Phyllis Kandiecabinet said 'normal activities are going on in all
parts of the country despite this grave and enormous challenge', adding that
tour operators and travel agents have confirmed that tourism activities
'continue uninterrupted'.
 Kenyan security forces say they are now in control of the Nairobi shopping
centre stormed by suspected al-Shabab militants

Event Start Date: 2013-09-24

Event End Date: 2013-09-24

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Comment: Behind terror is corruption: The Kenya attacks should shatter the crude
picture of Africa's future as one of crime v supermarkets

BYLINE: Giles Foden

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 624 words


At a burger restaurant, the body of a man and woman lie in a final embrace. As
Kenyan soldiers launch their assault, pop music is still playing from
loudspeakers.

The grisly consequences of an attack by al-Shabaab on Nairobi's Westgate
shopping centre are still unfolding. As families mourn, Kenya is once again
counting the cost of its position as a regional bulwark against militant Islam.
The country has been here before: in 1998 al-Qaida bombed the US embassy in the
Kenyan capital; and in 2002 a terror attack against an Israeli-owned passenger
aircraft and hotel took place in Mombasa. Westgate, too, is Israeli owned, but
this may be less significant than it might appear.

More important, for the future of Kenya and the continent, are the two competing
visions of Africa that the attacks project, a tension for which the crude
shorthand is: "crime versus supermarkets". Al-Shabaab emerged from the tradition
of the shifta, a word long applied in east Africa to bandits, but also to rebel
groups. The continuity between the two usages challenges the tendency to
separate terrorism and criminality into discrete phenomena.

Al-Shabaab is responding, specifically, to Kenyan involvement in a joint African
peacekeeping force in Somalia. But like al-Qaida before it (the two groups
linked formally in 2011), al-Shabaab is really attacking the very idea of
capitalism; not through any greatly developed sense of revolution, but through
an inverted sense of what is good for Africa.

In Kenya crime and terrorism are deeply linked, not least by the failure of
successive Kenyan governments to control either. Indeed, the Kenyan president,
Uhuru Kenyatta (whose nephew has been killed in the attack), and the
vice-president, William Ruto, both face charges of crimes against humanity in
relation to their alleged role in election violence - Ruto's trial at The Hague
has been adjourned to allow him to come home to deal with the crisis.

These attacks are part of a spectrum of banditry, with corruption at one end,
terrorism at the other, and regular robbery in the middle. Some Kenyans will
feel that the conditions in which the attacks have happened have arisen because
of economic growth in a vacuum of governance. Money that should have been spent
on security and other aspects of national infrastructure has been disappearing
for generations.

Corruption as well as geopolitics made possible a horrific situation in which
Muslim shoppers in Westgate were apparently left alive and non-Muslims killed,
in a ghoulish travesty of the mixed nature of Kenyan identity.

Ordinary Kenyans rightly want to be able to shop safely, and there is a long
history of them doing just that, irrespective of their religion. An Ismaili
Muslim from India, the great Allidina Visram (1851-1916), more or less
single-handedly invented the retail trade in Kenya. Muslims have been at the
heart of Kenyan commerce for hundreds of years.

The past decade has seen rapid growth of the Kenyan and other African economies.
This story of "Africa rising" is intrinsically tied up with the development of
an African middle class, which has brought confidence and investment. A lot of
money has gone into commercial property, and particularly the building of
supermarkets. But without governance it all looks very shaky.

You can gesture at the transnational problem of Islamist terrorism all you like,
but it's hot air unless you invest in proper security in your own country, with
safeguards to civil liberties. For now Kenya must mourn its dead. But unless the
corruption stops, and real investment is made in the social fabric, Kenya will
once again be faced with systemic shocks it is hardly able to deal with.

Giles Foden is the author of Zanzibar, and The Last King of Scotland

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Six Britons among dead in terror attack on Kenya shopping mall

BYLINE: LUCY ADAMS CHIEF REPORTER

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 389 words


SIX British nationals have been killed in the terror attack on a shopping mall
in Kenya, David Cameron said last night.

A public health consultant who was due to take up a post at the Liverpool School
of Tropical Medicine (LSTM) is among the victims.

Thick smoke poured from the besieged Nairobi mall last night where Kenyan
officials said their forces were closing in on Islamists holding hostages on the
third day since Somalia's al Shabaab launched the raid that has killed at least
62 people.

It remained unclear how many gunmen and hostages were still cornered in the
Westgate shopping centre, after a series of loud explosions and gunfire were
followed by black smoke billowing from one part of the complex.

Last night the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) reported that three terrorists have
been killed and 11 Kenyan soldiers injured in the operation.

The KDF said more than 200 people have been rescued so far. Some 65 are
receiving treatment in hospital.

Officials said more than 10 individuals have been arrested for questioning in
relation to the attack and fire-fighters have contained the fire at the mall.

Officials said the gunmen were from "all over the world" and al Shabaab's
Twitter feed suggested one of the men was Ahmed Naseer Shirdoon, 24, from
London.

One of the victims, Ross Langdon had British-Australian citizenship. Mr
Langdon's company, Regional Associates, said he died alongside his pregnant
partner, Elif Yavuz.

Devastated relatives confirmed Zahira Bawa, 41, and her nine-year-old daughter
Jenah from Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, were gunned down in the attack.

Louis Bawa flew out to Kenya when he was unable to contact his wife after news
of the atrocity broke. The marketing worker was forced to wait outside the
Westgate mall to receive news of Zahira and Jenah's fate.

It was reported he found the pair had died after police asked him to ID photos
of dead bodies found within the shopping complex.

In a heartbreaking TV interview outside the centre - filmed before the deaths
were confirmed -he  said: "I'm absolutely breaking up. All I'm hoping is that
they are safe, that they are hiding and they are waiting for a time when it is
safe to come out."

Yesterday Jenah's grandmother Shakuntna Bawa, of Leamington Spa, said: "The
whole family is in shock."

US President Barack Obama said the attack was an "outrage."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DANGER: Security personnel and journalists duck behind a vehicle as
heavy gunfire erupts from the Westgate Mall in Nairobi. Picture: Jerome Delay/AP
BLASTS: Powerful explosions sent thick smoke billowing from the Nairobi mall.
VICTIMS: Ross Langdon and partner Elif Yavuz, who was pregnant.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 9:06 PM GMT

Indyplus video: Kenya terror attack

SECTION: INDEPENDENT PLUS

LENGTH: 26 words


Watch footage of the four-day siege of the Westgate shopping centre in Nairobi,
which left more than 60 people dead and hundreds injured in the video below:

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 4:25 PM GMT

Kenya shopping mall attack: Was British 'White Widow' Samantha Lewthwaite among
militants killed in Nairobi massacre?;
Kenyan foreign minister says British woman experienced in terrorist activities
was among attackers at Nairobi shopping centre

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 681 words


The Kenyan foreign minister has fuelled speculation that the wife of a 7/7
bomber is among militants who laid siege to a Kenyan mall, after saying a
British woman who had engaged in terrorism "many times before" was involved.

Comments made by Amina Mohamed have now spurned belief that the woman in
question could be "White Widow" Samantha Lewthwaite, already wanted by Kenyan
police over alleged links to a terrorist cell suspected of plotting to bomb the
countries coast.

Ms Mohamed said a female terrorist acted alongside "two or three" Americans as
security forces began a fourth day of fighting at the shopping centre where at
least six Britons are believed to have died.

"From the information that we have, two or three Americans (were involved) and I
think, so far, I have heard of one Brit... a woman... and I think she has done
this many times before," she told the PBS NewsHour programme.

Ms Mohammed's comments directly contradicted Kenyan Interior Minister Joseph Ole
Lenku, who had said earlier on Monday that all of the terrorists were male, but
some had dressed as women, leading to the confusion over their gender.

Muslim convert Lewthwaite, who was married to 7 July suicide bomber Jermaine
Lindsay, disappeared with her children in March last year and has been on the
run in east Africa for approximately two years after being wanted in connection
with an alleged plot to attack hotels and restaurants in Kenya.

Speculation is now growing that Lewthwaite could among those militants dead
after one intelligence officer and two soldiers told Reuters that one of the
dead attackers was a white woman.

Asked if the dead woman was Lewthwaite, the intelligence officer said: "We don't
know."

While the government announced Sunday that most hostages were free, a security
expert with contacts inside the mall said at least 10 were still being held by
the band of attackers.

Mr Lenku had said the evacuation of hostages had gone "very, very well" and that
Kenyan officials were "very certain" that few if any hostages were left in the
building.

But a Twitter account believed to belong to al-Shabaab said hostages inside "are
still alive, looking quite disconcerted, but, nevertheless, alive."

The terror attack began on Saturday, when gunman started shooting inside the
exclusive Westgate Mall in the Kenyan capital of Nairobi, often frequented by
expatriates and tourists. Gunmen killed or held hostage non-Muslims, whilst
Muslims were allowed to leave.

Somalia based Islamist group al-Shabaab have claimed responsibility of the
attack, which officials say has killed 62 and injured 175 civilians.

Ms Mohamed said countries fighting these terrorists must "up their game" in the
wake of the massacre, adding: "I think this new attack tells us that we did not
do enough."

The Kenyan government needs to work "much more with the US and the UK because
both the victims and the perpetrators came from Kenya, the United Kingdom and
the United States", she said.

Prime Minister David Cameron said it appeared at least six Britons had died as
he returned from a Balmoral break with the Queen to chair a meeting of the
emergency Cobra committee in Whitehall last night.

But Defence Secretary Philip Hammond warned the death toll could be even higher.
"It is possible we will discover further British nationals once the building is
fully secure," he said.

Speaking in Pakistan, broadcast on the BBC, Home Secretary Theresa May said:
"I'm aware of the reports that there has been a British woman involved.

"At this time until we've seen the investigation completed, It's not possible to
comment further. As I indicated earlier, I'm not able to give further details."

Further reading:

British boy freed after telling jihadist: 'You're a bad man'Hero ex-Marine
re-entered mall 12 times to save 100 peopleThe victims came from around the
world. So did their killers'All hostages freed' as Kenyan soldiers take control
of mallKenyans are more united in tragedy's aftermathThe victims: The architect
and his pregnant wifeVideo: Amateur footage from Kenya shopping mall attackIan
Birrell: How to fight al-Shabaab

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 24, 2013 Tuesday 12:47 PM GMT

Kenya shopping mall attack: Tweets from survivors reveal the terror;
The horrific scenes witnessed by a Radio Africa journalist and a young woman who
hid among mattresses are recorded in heartbreaking successive social media posts

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 909 words


Survivors of the Westgate mall terrorist attack have spoken about their ordeals
on Twitter, recording in detail their fear and suffering through the events of
the siege which has now claimed 68 lives and injured more than 170.

Radio Africa journalist Kamal Kaur used social media to tell her heart-breaking
story, in which she saw her six-months pregnant colleague and friend Ruhila
Adatia killed.

Also witnessing that shooting, as well as the apparent attempts of one terrorist
to escape disguised as a fleeing hostage, was a girl who names herself only as
Shirley.

These are the posts which record their harrowing experiences:

Kamal Kaur (@kamz26)

"My kids were hurt. We're ok. Unable to call or msg. Thank you for love &
prayers. Donate blood. Please. I saw children in need. Please."

"Image of the boy I was trying to save but got shot instead of my son keeps
swimming in front of my eyes. How do I sleep after seeing that?"

"Crying. And praying. I lay in a pool of someone's blood, a dead little boy
lying on my side. Trying to call for help, keeping others calm."

"I saw my little boy, my son help a small girl out from Java's service entrance.
I could only send him love from where I was watching."

"Please tell me if everyone is out of the mall. Please. I can't stop crying."

"My Ruhila is gone..."

"Bodies of children were everywhere. Children. Innocent little children. Holding
on to me asking me where their mummies were."

"The one guy I saw had magazines of bullets attached everywhere on him. Big gun
that showered bullets. Randomly shooting at people. And kids."

"Just saw a pic of my daughter helped out of Westgate in New York Times. God
bless you. I'm forever indebted. I didn't know where she was."

"Please go give blood. I'm begging you. If you'd seen what I saw you'd not think
twice about it."

"I still have dry blood in my hair. Not mine. It's of that little boy who was
shot instead of my son..."

"Images of the day keep flashing in front of my eyes. Dead bodies, injured
people, wailing, crying, scared."

"Wide awake. My daughter has started running a fever. She still has shrapnel in
her leg. Please go give blood to those who need it. Please"

"I still haven't told my children that their Ruhila Auntie is no more. I don't
know how to. I can't. They're still in shock & wounded."

"My son almost had his head blown off. Missed by an inch. Hit wall. Bounced &
killed the little boy next to him."

"I had a young lady who had fallen on me & she was calling her Dad to say
goodbye & I love you. It broke my heart she had given up..."

"I've finally broken the news to the kids about their beloved Ruhila Auntie. My
daughter's sobs will forever weigh on my soul."

Shirley (@ShirleyGhetto)

"Im under the matresses!!!!! This might be my last tweet #Westgate mall. :'(
:'("

"I love you guys."

"OMG I was with kevin and he's at the parking. I'm safe in here but guys, pray
for him guys, I think they took him!!"

"3 thugs are arguing about something. One of them is tryna convince two to
surrender."

"Its getting calm. Pray for us guys. #Westgate.Pray for Kevin."

"When the first gunshot was fired, we ran into the mall instead of away.
#Westgate"

"I don't care anymore. If they shoot let them come shoot.It doesn't even seem
like we'll make it out anyway #Westgate"

"The cop who tried to save us, Thank you. I hope they didnt kill him."

"Had mistaken this guys next to me as thugs. Thank God. #Westgate"

"Kenya police,Check the people leaving! I think some gunmen are escaping among
them. Black shirts #Westgate"

"Some guy at the parking has been shot for his phone ringing. Please Do NOT call
anyone. #Westgate"

"Is it safe to come out from hiding? Its quiet. Have the cops tackled the
culprits? Please keep me updated. #Westgate"

"The lady hostage who was shot. I'm told she's a journalist. That scream was
deafening. R.I.P #Westgate"

"Cop who scared away the gunmen to the parking lot. May God be with his soul.
#westgate"

"How is it out there? Is the backup here yet? #Westgate"

"I feel like I'm ready for anything now. All the fear is gone #Westgate"

"No, I dont wanna die this young! :'(. #Westgate"

"So this is how it feels like when you feel you might die the next minute. I
think I'm ready to walk out now."

"I can see the guys in green now. Should I or should I not show myself. The guys
I was with just left."

"I trust the guys in green. I think I'm gonna come out of hiding now. This feels
like a movie."

"I hope this won't be my last tweet."

"I'm OK."

"I made it out of the mall yesterday. The 2 guys I was in hiding with made it
out too. Thank you all for the concern. God bless Kenya."

"The cop who tried to lead us upstairs was sniped in the hip. No one knew where
the bullet came from. Some fell downstairs and played dead"

"I have talked to mum like nothing happened. Told her I'm in bed. I didn't wanna
scare her.The shock on her, I didn't want that."

"I think I'm the only one who didn't contact my parent. I didn't know how she
would deal with the shock. She doesn't even know I was in there."

Further reading:

British boy freed after telling jihadist: 'You're a bad man'Hero ex-Marine
re-entered mall 12 times to save 100 peopleThe victims came from around the
world. So did their killersWas wife of 7/7 bomber among attackers?'All hostages
freed' as Kenyan soldiers take control of mallKenyans are more united in
tragedy's aftermathThe victims: The architect and his pregnant wifeVideo:
Amateur footage from Kenya shopping mall attackIan Birrell: How to fight
al-Shabaab

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 24, 2013 Tuesday 12:45 PM GMT

Kenya shopping mall attack: Who is the 'White Widow' Samantha Lewthwaite?;
She converted to Islam married Jermaine Lindsay in 2002 before he killed 26
people when he blew himself up in the July 7 terrorist attacks in London

BYLINE: Catherine Wylie

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 559 words


Samantha Lewthwaite was just an average British girl who was "empty in
confidence", a councillor who knew her has said.

Dubbed the "white widow", Lewthwaite, who has links with Aylesbury,
Buckinghamshire, converted to Islam at the age of 15 and married Jermaine
Lindsay in 2002 before he killed 26 people when he blew himself up in the July 7
terrorist attacks in London in 2005.

The mother of three is known to be in East Africa and is wanted by Kenyan police
over alleged links to a terrorist cell that planned to bomb the country's coast.

In March last year, officials said she had fled to Somalia and that officers
were hunting a woman who used several identities, including hers.

Councillor Raj Khan, whose family knew Lewthwaite's family socially in
Aylesbury, said he is surprised at speculation she is involved in the attack in
Kenya due to how he remembers her.

"She was an average, British, young, ordinary girl. She had a very great
personality. She didn't have very good confidence," he said.

Mr Khan recalled a meeting with Lewthwaite and Lindsay regarding a housing issue
which took place three or four weeks before the July 7 bombings, and he said she
was just as he remembered her.

"Certainly when I was around her, she was the same person, lacking in
confidence.

"She was not strong-headed. And that's why I find it absolutely amazing that she
is supposed to be the head of an international criminal terrorist organisation,"
he said.

Mr Khan said he was "perplexed" that someone he knew, who was so "empty in
confidence", was being linked to international terrorism.

He said he prays that she is not involved, adding: "...and of course my worry is
that if she in involved, is she under some kind of duress? Is there other
factors involved?

"Or indeed, is it Samantha? I mean there are so many questions to be answered at
the moment before one can make a view."

Mr Khan said her family will be "very upset" if she is involved.

"Of course like anyone else, they will be very hurt, very upset, very, very
upset, but I think they too will be waiting for proof, not speculation," he
said.

Mr Khan said he does not think the speculation surrounding Lewthwaite will cause
divisions in Aylesbury due to the community's maturity.

"Of course if it is Samantha indeed, of course they'll be very hurt, very upset,
as indeed any human being would be, but in terms of causing any differences in
our community I think the community is far more mature for that kind of thing,"
he said.

Lindsay, who killed 26 people between King's Cross and Russell Square on the
Piccadilly line was a Jamaican-born Muslim convert who never made a secret of
his extremist views.

He was brought up by his mother in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, where he
alarmed his teachers by attempting to radicalise impressionable younger pupils.

Lindsay and Lewthwaite moved to Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, in September 2003.

PA

Further reading:

British boy freed after telling jihadist: 'You're a bad man'Hero ex-Marine
re-entered mall 12 times to save 100 peopleThe victims came from around the
world. So did their killersWas wife of 7/7 bomber among attackers?'All hostages
freed' as Kenyan soldiers take control of mallKenyans are more united in
tragedy's aftermathThe victims: The architect and his pregnant wifeVideo:
Amateur footage from Kenya shopping mall attackIan Birrell: How to fight
al-Shabaab

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 24, 2013 Tuesday 12:44 PM GMT

Kenya shopping mall attack: Hero former Royal Marine re-entered Westgate
shopping centre 12 times to save 100 people from terrorists;
Ex-soldier emerges as one of the heroes of the shopping mall terror attack

BYLINE: John Hall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 310 words


A former Royal Marine has emerged as one of the heroes of the Kenyan shopping
mall terror attack after it emerged that he saved 100 people from AK47-wielding
jihadists using only a handgun.

The ex-soldier, who cannot be named or pictured for security reasons, was having
coffee with friends at the Westgate mall in Nairobi when an estimated 13
terrorists burst into the building and began killing people.

Witnesses say the former serviceman returned to the building at least twelve
times during the deadly terror attack, leading around 100 people to safety as
bullets and explosions brought chaos to the upmarket shopping centre.

The ex-Royal Marine's story came to light after he was photographed leading two
upset women to safety with a gun tucked into the waistband of his jeans.

Sources in Kenya have told news agencies that the man said is a former Royal
Marine who now lives in the country full-time, with one friend saying: "What he
did was so heroic... he went back in 12 times and saved 100 people."

The friend added: "Imagine going back in when you knew what was going on
inside".

The British military regularly train and operate in East Africa, often using
Kenya as a base for tracking UK citizens suspected of being involved in
terrorist activities in Somalia and Kenya.

A large number of former soldiers continue to live in the country after their
service ends, working as security personnel for private agencies and the Kenyan
government.

Further reading:

British boy freed after telling jihadist: 'You're a bad man'The victims came
from around the world. So did their killersWas wife of 7/7 bomber among
attackers?'All hostages freed' as Kenyan soldiers take control of mallKenyans
are more united in tragedy's aftermathThe victims: The architect and his
pregnant wifeVideo: Amateur footage from Kenya shopping mall attackIan Birrell:
How to fight al-Shabaab

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 24, 2013 Tuesday 10:15 AM GMT

Kenya shopping mall attack: Was British 'White Widow' Samantha Lewthwaite among
militants killed in siege?;
Kenyan foreign minister says British woman experienced in terrorist activities
was among attackers at Nairobi shopping centre

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 613 words


A British woman who has allegedly been involved in terrorism "many times before"
was among the militants who laid siege to a Kenyan mall, the country's foreign
minister has claimed.

Comments made by Amina Mohamed have now fuelled beliefs that the woman in
question could be "White Widow" Samantha Lewthwaite, already wanted by Kenyan
police over alleged links to a terrorist cell suspected of plotting to bomb the
countries coast.

Ms Mohamed said the female terrorist acted alongside "two or three" Americans as
security forces began a fourth day of fighting at the shopping centre where at
least six Britons are believed to have died.

"From the information that we have, two or three Americans (were involved) and I
think, so far, I have heard of one Brit... a woman... and I think she has done
this many times before," she told the PBS NewsHour programme.

Ms Mohammed's comments directly contradicted Kenyan Interior Minister Joseph Ole
Lenku, who had said earlier on Monday that all of the terrorists were male, but
some had dressed as women, leading to the confusion over their gender.

Muslim convert Lewthwaite, who was married to 7 July suicide bomber Jermaine
Lindsay, disappeared with her children in March last year and has been on the
run in east Africa for approximately two years after being wanted in connection
with an alleged plot to attack hotels and restaurants in Kenya.

Speculation is now growing that Lewthwaite could among those militants dead
after one intelligence officer and two soldiers told Reuters that one of the
dead attackers was a white woman.

Asked if the dead woman was Lewthwaite, the intelligence officer said: "We don't
know."

While the government announced Sunday that most hostages were free, a security
expert with contacts inside the mall said at least 10 were still being held by
the band of attackers.

Mr Lenku had said the evacuation of hostages had gone "very, very well" and that
Kenyan officials were "very certain" that few if any hostages were left in the
building.

But a Twitter account believed to belong to al-Shabaab said hostages inside "are
still alive, looking quite disconcerted, but, nevertheless, alive."

The terror attack began on Saturday, when gunman started shooting inside the
exclusive Westgate Mall in the Kenyan capital of Nairobi, often frequented by
expatriates and tourists. Gunmen killed or held hostage non-Muslims, whilst
Muslims were allowed to leave.

Somalia based Islamist group al-Shabaab have claimed responsibility of the
attack, which officials say has killed 62 and injured 175 civilians.

Ms Mohamed said countries fighting these terrorists must "up their game" in the
wake of the massacre, adding: "I think this new attack tells us that we did not
do enough."

The Kenyan government needs to work "much more with the US and the UK because
both the victims and the perpetrators came from Kenya, the United Kingdom and
the United States", she said.

Prime Minister David Cameron said it appeared at least six Britons had died as
he returned from a Balmoral break with the Queen to chair a meeting of the
emergency Cobra committee in Whitehall last night.

But Defence Secretary Philip Hammond warned the death toll could be even higher.
"It is possible we will discover further British nationals once the building is
fully secure," he said.

Further reading:

The victims came from around the world. So did their killers'White Widow': An
ordinary British girl empty in confidence'All hostages freed' as Kenyan soldiers
take control of mallKenyans are more united in tragedy's aftermathThe victims:
The architect and his pregnant wifeVideo: Amateur footage from Kenya shopping
mall attackIan Birrell: How to fight al-Shabaab

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Journal

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Six Britons believed to be dead in terror attack

BYLINE: Matthew Cooper

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 353 words


ARELATIVE of a British child believed killed in the terror attacks on a shopping
mall in Kenya spoke of her shock tonight, as the Government said it believed six
Britons were dead.

Louis Bawa, of Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, is understood to have lost his
daughter Jenah, eight, and Kenyan-born wife Zahira in the attacks, which have
left more than 60 dead.

Earlier, Prime Minister David Cameron chaired a Cobra meeting to review the
situation and said reports now indicated six British casualties.

Following the meeting in the Cabinet Office, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond
said final confirmation on the sixth casualty's nationality was still needed but
warned the British death toll could rise.

Relatives of Mr Bawa said both he and his daughter were born in Britain, but his
wife was originally from Kenya and met her husband while studying in the UK.

They said Mr Bawa was also currently living in Kenya but was not at the mall
when the attack occurred.

Speaking at her home in Leamington Spa, Mr Bawa's aunt, Shakuntla Bawa, said he
was in deep shock at the deaths of his wife and daughter.

Writing on Twitter after the Whitehall meeting, Mr Cameron said: "I've just
chaired a meeting of Cobra. Tragically the latest reports are that six British
nationals have been killed in the Kenya terror attacks."

And speaking to reporters outside the Cabinet Office, Mr Hammond said the
estimated death toll had risen from four to a likely six.

He said: "Of the additional two, one is confirmed and another one we believe to
be a British national and we are awaiting final confirmation but we are pretty
certain we now have six British nationals who have died.

"The total number of people dead we believe exceeds 60 and it is possible we
will discover further British nationals once the building is fully secure." When
asked about reports that Britons may have been involved in the execution of the
attack, Mr Hammond replied: "I've seen those reports but there's no evidence to
support those claims."

Responsibility for the attack has been claimed by al-Shabab - an Islamist group
based in neighbouring Somalia with links to al Qaida.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A plume of black smoke billows over the Westgate Mall following large
explosions and heavy gunfire in Nairobi

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2013 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 24, 2013 Tuesday 11:48 PM GMT

Commandos to keep watch on Delhi malls after Nairobi terror attack

BYLINE: SHIBAJI ROYCHOUDHURY

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 552 words


The Delhi Police have stepped up security in and around the shopping malls
across the national Capital, after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) directed
them to evaluate safety arrangements in the wake of the terror attack at
Nairobi's Westgate mall.

Besides deploying armed commandos and increasing the number of police personnel
on surveillance duty, the police are carrying out security audits of all the
shopping malls in the city.

Mock drills are being conducted at the malls in Delhi and parts of NCR to check
the preparedness of private security staff deployed there.

One such mock drill was conducted at the D.R. City Centre Mall in Shalimar Bagh
on Monday.

"Until now private security guards used to alone monitor and keep a check on
shoppers at malls. We have decided to deploy police personnel at the entry and
exit points. Armed commandos will be present in and around the malls to deal
with any emergency situation like the one in Kenya's capital," a senior police
officer said.

Email threats

Emails threatening to blow up shopping malls were received by the Delhi Police
in the past, police sources said.

In its directive issued on Sunday, the MHA has directed the Delhi Police to
immediately evaluate the security setup of every mall in the Capital. The police
have been asked to take all necessary measures to plug any security loop hole
found during safety checks.

"Even the security measures related to parking facilities have been discussed.
Other than thorough security check of cars entering the parking arena, officials
will have to deploy security personnel for constant surveillance (of a parking
facility)," the official added.

Bomb detectors will be used to check every vehicle entering the parking
facility. Apart from the Nairobi incident, the forthcoming Navratra, Ramlila and
Durga Puja festivities have also been another factor that prompted the MHA to
issue the security alert to the Delhi Police.

"We will give no leeway. People have to understand that it is for their own
safety. During the festival season, the footfall at shopping malls increase
drastically. Hence, increasing security is the need of the hour," an MHA
official said.

He added that sleuths have been directed to conduct extensive security checks
even if people are inconvenienced in the process.

Keeping the two factors in mind, the Delhi Police have been carrying out
debriefing sessions for the security staff of shopping malls.

The force has also joined hands with the Traffic Police and Civil Defence
personnel for surveillance of areas outside the malls during peak shopping
malls. Civil Defence personnel will also be posted at crowded local markets such
as Lajpat Nagar, Sarojini Nagar, Karol Bagh and Pallika Bazaar.

Vehicle checks

Police personnel have been instructed to check all the vehicles bearing
registration plates of other states. All border checkpoints have been directed
to keep tab on vehicles entering city limits, especially during night hours.

"We have increased the number of security personnel and deployed them for
constant surveillance of the mall. We are also coordinating with the police and
have increased CCTV surveillance," Benu Sehgal, vice-president and mall head,
DLF Place Saket, told Mail Today.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 1:37 PM GMT

'All Muslims leave' order... then gang target victims who can't name Prophet's
mother: Britons caught in crossfire as masked gunmen slaughter 43 in Kenyan mall
and terrorists blog attack live on twitter

BYLINE: ELLIE BUCHDAHL, STUART WOLEDGE, ABUL TAHER and WILLIAM TURVILL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2589 words



     ·    Foreign Secretary William Hague confirms British citizens are caught
          up in the terrorist attack in Nairobi
     ·    The US State Department has also confirmed Americans were at the
          shopping centre
     ·    Kenyan president Uhuru Kenyatta has vowed to 'hunt down the
          perpetrators wherever they run to'
     ·    Somalian terrorist group al-Shabaab, which has links to Al-Qaeda, has
          now claimed responsibility for the attack
     ·    The terrorist organisation released a statement saying it warned Kenya
          to remove troops from Somalia
     ·    Hostages are being held by at least five attackers still in building
     ·    The army and special forces are helping police flush out the gunmen
     ·    Upmarket mall is a favourite shopping spot for expats and wealthy
          Kenyans
     ·    Police opened fire after gunmen launched attack at midday today
     ·    Security guards wheel out bodies in shopping trolleys from Westlands
          Shopping Centre
     ·    Witness says attackers told shoppers non-Muslims were the targets of
          the masked terrorists


British nationals were last night 'undoubtedly' caught in the terrorist atrocity
in the Kenyan capital Nairobi, which has left at least 43 people dead and 200
injured at a shopping centre, said Foreign Secretary William Hague.

It has now been claimed the terrorist organisation responsible for the horror
was Tweeting updates while it carried out its attack on the Westlands Shopping
Centre earlier today.

Mr Hague said a British rapid deployment consular team was on its way to Kenya
and the Government will chair an emergency Cobra committee meeting.

But he could not confirm if any British nationals were killed or injured. The
Foreign Office confirmed that British consular staff were already at the scene
and were visiting hospitals where the dead and injured were taken.

Fierce gunfire could be heard coming from inside Nairobi's Westgate shopping
mall on Sunday, an AFP correspondent at the scene said, adding that two wounded
Kenyan soldiers were evacuated from the complex and taken away by ambulance.

GRAPHIC WARNING CONTENT -- SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

France's president said that two French women were killed. Two Canadians were
killed, including a diplomat, said the Candadian prime minister. Four American
citizens were reported injured but not killed in the attack, the State
Department said Saturday.

Around 68 casualties were taken to the Aga Khan hospital in Nairobi, said a
worker at the hospital. Bancy Wanjiru added that among them were six white
foreigners whom she believed were British nationals.

The terrorists stormed the Westgate Mall and sprayed shoppers with bullets.
Witnesses said the attackers told all Muslims to leave as they were only after
non-Muslims.

Those shoppers who tried to leave were asked by the  terrorists to name the
Prophet Mohammed's mother. If they failed to give her correct name of Amina they
were shot dead, said one eye witness.

After Muslim shoppers had left the mall, the terrorists reportedly threw
grenades and fired AK-47s.

Last night, the Somali terrorist group Al Shabab, which is linked to Al Qaeda,
claimed responsibility for the attacks, and said the atrocity was revenge for
the presence of Kenyan troops in Somalia.

According to the website Slate , the terrorists had been Tweeting progress while
it carried out its attack.

Al Shabab said on Twitter: 'The message we are sending to the Kenyan govt &
Public is and has always been just one: remove all your forces from our
country.'

The shootings came as British-born Jermaine Grant was due to go on trial in
Mombasa. He is accused of plotting a bombing campaign against tourist hotels in
Kenya with several accomplices, one of whom is Briton Samantha Lewthwaite, widow
of the 7/7 bomber Germaine Lindsay.

The terrorists were yesterday holed up in the shopping complex with as many as
30 hostages, many of whom are thought to be Westerners.

A number of the gunmen's victims are thought to be  children. As the atrocity
unfolded, at least two dozen people were wheeled out of the complex on
stretchers and in shopping trolleys.

Desperate shoppers could be seen running away as security forces surrounded the
building and made an arrest.

Charles Karani, 41, an IT engineer, said: 'I hid under a car with my daughters,
and I saw the men line up maybe 40 people and ask them who was Muslim, and if
they were to prove it by saying the name of the Prophet's mother. Those who got
it wrong were shot.

'There was blood everywhere. Two ladies under the car with me had gunshot wounds
on their legs.

'Another Indian gentlemen was hit in the face by a bullet but he seemed not to
be gravely hurt. Other people for sure are dead. I saw four people lying, not
moving.

'A grenade was thrown and it rolled near us, my daughter said, "Papa, there's a
grenade" - but thank God it didn't go off and I kicked it away.'

The gunmen wore white bandanas, Mr Karani said, and appeared to work in teams,
each taking control of a different floor of the five-storey building.

He also said officials had confirmed to him that the attacker they arrested was
a Kenyan Muslim convert.

Last night Prime Minister David Cameron spoke to Kenyan president Uhuru Kenyatta
to pass on his condolences and pledge that Britain was ready to provide
assistance.

Mr Kenyatta said in a televised address that security forces were in the process
of 'neutralising the attackers and securing the mall' but he said it was a
'delicate' operation.

He urged Kenyans to 'remain calm and vigilant' and asked them to donate blood to
help treat the injured.

And he vowed: "We shall hunt down the perpetrators wherever they run to. We
shall get to them and we shall punish them for this heinous crime."

Mr Hague would not confirm whether any casualties or hostages were British.
However, Sir Simon Fraser, head of the diplomatic service, indicated that
Britons were involved. He tweeted last night: 'The Foreign Office and British
High Commission working hard on Nairobi shooting and hostage crisis to help all
involved esp Brits.'

The Westgate Mall is in the upmarket Westlands suburb of Nairobi and is popular
with Westerners. Al Shabab had previously warned it would target the mall.

Another eyewitness who gave his name as Jay, said: 'They were not speaking
Swahili. They spoke something that seemed like Arabic or Somali, but I'm not
sure as I don't speak those languages.

'I saw people being executed after being asked to say something.' He claimed
that he had seen 11 bodies inside the mall.

Ombati Cyrus, a local Kenyan journalist who was among the first at the scene,
said that he  saw around 30 bodies being dragged out of the shopping centre in
trolleys and stretchers.

He added: 'The majority of bodies I saw were white. I heard that the terrorists
targeted whites deliberately. The terrorists were Arabs or Somalis.'

Police helicopters circled overhead as armed police shouted 'get out, get out!'
and scores of shoppers fled the building.

Smoke poured out of one entrance and witnesses said they heard grenade blasts.

It is believed that the UN - which has one of the biggest operations in Africa
in Nairobi - warned last month that the threat of an 'attempted large-scale
[terror] attack' in the country was 'elevated'.

Witness Patick Kuria said: 'We started by hearing gunshots downstairs and
outside. Later we heard them come inside. We took cover. Then we saw two gunmen
wearing black turbans. I saw them shoot.'

Hannah Chisholm, a Briton  visiting Nairobi, said she and 60 others barricaded
themselves into a large storeroom. She told the BBC: 'We kept running to
different places but the shots were getting louder so we barricaded ourselves
into a large storeroom. There were children hiding with us, as well as someone
who had been shot.'

Mr Hague said in a televised speech last night: 'Our thoughts are with the
people of Kenya and with innocent people who may be caught up in this.

'This is clearly a complex attack, clearly a terrorist attack and a particularly
callous, cowardly and brutal attack targeting innocent people of all ages and so
many different backgrounds.

'There are undoubtedly British nationals caught up in this and so we should be
ready for that and be aware of that.

'Again, we don't have any sufficiently precise details at the moment.

'It is a fast-moving situation and it is still going on at the time we are
speaking.'

According to the Sunday Telegraph, a pregnant woman was among several Britons
caught up in the attack.

Terrorist gunmen remain at the scene and police officers supported by the army
are still fighting to bring the situation to an end.

Sky News has reported that the US State Department has confirmed US citizens are
among the casualties, and French news agency AFP has said two French citizens
were among the dead.

A young boy is believed to have been among those killed.

At a news conference, Internal Security Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo said
'terrorists and threats have been present in Kenya for quite some time now'.

The army, including special forces, have now been drafted in to help police
flush out the gunmen.

There were unconfirmed reports of two large explosions, with several smaller
explosions. Two people were reportedly injured on the road.

'We have officers at the scene trying to get out the group shooting inside. They
have not been located,' a senior police official said.

'Officers are approaching the situation with caution because there are innocent
civilians inside,' he said.

Armed police arrived on the scene nearly half an hour later and could be heard
shouting 'get out, get out' as scores of shoppers fled the building.

Smoke billowed out of the entrance, which was believed to have been caused by
the grenade attack.

Dutch embassy employee Rob Vandijk said he had been eating at a restaurant in
the shopping mall when gunmen threw hand grenades inside the building.

People began to scream and drop to the ground, he said, as machine gun fire rang
out across the busy mall.

Officials have not given the exact death toll as police and gunmen are
continuing to exchange fire, but reporters said they had seen at least 15
bodies.

Police say that attackers are holding seven hostages in the building, and other
people remain hidden inside.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Kenyan soldiers were also deployed to take part in the operation to bring the
shopping complex back under control.

Police helicopters circled over the building as sporadic gunfire could be heard
more than two hours after the attack was launched.

Police cordoned off the roads surrounding the mall in central Nairobi's
Westlands neighborhood.

Manish Turohit, 18, who escaped after hiding in the parking garage for two
hours, says he saw gunmen with AK-47s and vests with hand grenades on them
inside the centre.

Police initially believed the attack was an attempt by about ten armed men to
rob a shop.

But Elijah Kamau, a witness, told AP that the gunmen had announced that they
were targeting non-Muslims as they began their attack at the centre.

Some of those who escaped were 'challenged to recite a Muslim prayer and were
then let out', according to Allan Sayers, who contacted MailOnline and said he
was in the Westgate mall five minutes before the attack.

Mr Sayers said people were still in text and phone contact with some of the
hostages.

'There are still many hostages still inside and reports of many more dead,' he
said.

Nairobi police chief Benson Kibue said it was a terrorist attack and the Kenya
Ministry of Interior has said the shooting may have been an 'attack by
terrorists'.

'They don't seem like thugs, this is not a robbery incident,' said Yukeh
Mannasseh who was on the top floor when the shooting started.

'It seems like an attack. The guards who saw them said they were shooting
indiscriminately.'

Somali's rebel group al-Shabab vowed in late 2011 to carry out a large-scale
attack in Nairobi in retaliation for Kenya's sending of troops into Somalia to
fight the Islamic insurgents.

The Somali militant group al-Shabaab had earlier threatened to strike the mall,
as it is a popular destination for the city's expatriate community.

One victim said that he had been shot by a man who appeared to be Somali, while
others noted the gunmen were speaking in a foreign language.

'The gunmen tried to fire at my head but missed. There are definitely many
casualties,' Sudjar Singh, who works at the shopping centre, told AFP.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Errol Fernandes, a Kenyan businessman said: 'There were two guys - they came in
from the car park on the roof. One had dreadlocks, he had an AK47 and was firing
randomly.

'I just ran into the café kitchen and then we all hid in the refrigerator, until
we were told to run out of the fire escape.

'I'm sure there must be many dead and injured.'

'The gunmen tried to fire at my head but missed. There are definitely many
casualties,' Sudjar Singh, who works at the shopping centre, told AFP.

'I saw three of the attackers dressed in black and with covered faces and they
were carrying heavy rifles,' said another witness.

Kenyan soldiers were also deployed to take part in the operation to bring the
shopping complex back under control.

Police cordoned off the roads surrounding the mall in central Nairobi's
Westlands neighborhood.

Kenya's interior minister said the mall shooting may be "an attack by
terrorists."

Asked if foreign security services were involved in the operation to flush out
the attackers, he said, 'At this stage it has not become necessary yet.'

The picture above prompted a woman to contact MailOnline, saying the woman with
the two children is her sister-in-law.

'These aren't all nameless individuals, these are real people and don't me and
my family know it today,' she said.

'What the picture doesn't show is the gun shot wound she has just come out of
surgery for.

'Brave woman who I am so proud to call my family.'

An AFPTV reporter said police and security guards were trying to secure a
multi-screen cinema complex inside the mall where many had taken shelter.

The reporter said she saw at least 20 people rescued from a toy shop on one of
the upper floors of the building.

A shop manager who managed to escape said it had appeared 'the shooters had
taken control of all the mall'.

Attacks by Somali Islamists in Kenya often involve gunmen armed with automatic
weapons and grenades, with targets including bars, nightclubs and restaurants in
various parts of the country.

There was a suspected al-Shabaab attack which left five dead and three injured
at a restaurant in the eastern city of Garissa in January, and in August last
year one person was killed and six more were left injured in the Eastleigh area
of Nairobi on the eve of a visit by Hillary Clinton, then the United States
secretary of state.

Last month 18 of the 19 US embassies and consulates across the Middle East and
Africa were closed after a message between al Qaida officials about plans for a
major terror attack was intercepted.

The Foreign Office says it is 'urgently looking into' the incident and has
echoed Kenyan police with warnings to Britons to avoid the area.

Foreign Secretary William Hague said: 'We are in close contact with the Kenyan
authorities on the ground in Kenya and at ministerial level in the United
Kingdom.

'The prime consideration at present is the welfare of members of the public
caught up in this incident.'

Concerned British nationals are advised to monitor FCO travel advice and to
contact 020 7008 0000.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 6:19 AM GMT

As many as three American TEENAGERS were involved in the terror attack on
Nairobi shopping mall claims Kenyan foreign minister

BYLINE: JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 862 words


Up to three Americans and one British person were among those who attacked the
Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi, Kenya's foreign minister said on Monday.

The revelation would support information posted onto Twitter, which suggested
the terror cell which carried out the attack was 15-strong and contained many
nationalities, including citizens of the United States.

More than 60 people have been killed in the assault on the upscale mall, which
has lasted for three days. The foreign minister, Amina Mohamed, said in an
interview with PBS' 'NewsHour' program that the Americans were 18 to 19 years
old, of Somali or Arab origin and lived 'in Minnesota and one other place' in
the U.S.

The attacker from Britain was a woman who has 'done this many times before,'
Mohamed said which lends weight to speculation that the so-called 'White Widow',
Samantha Lewhwaite may have taken part in the raid.

Indeed, insiders from the Kenyan military said yesterday that one white woman
was among the terrorists who had been killed, further backing up the theory that
Lewthwaite, who is the widow of one of the bombers who carried out the July 7th
terror attack on the London Underground took part in the siege.

U.S. officials said they were looking into whether any Americans were involved.
State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Monday the department had 'no
definitive evidence of the nationalities or the identities' of the attackers.

White House spokesman Ben Rhodes said U.S. officials have seen 'reports coming
out of al-Shabab that indicate information along those lines,' referring to
possible involvement of Americans in the attack.

'But we have to run those to ground, of course,' he said. 'We do monitor very
carefully and have for some time been concerned about efforts by al-Shabab to
recruit Americans or U.S. persons to come to Somalia.

'This is an issue that has been tracked very closely by the U.S. government, and
it's one that we'll be looking into in the days ahead.'

There was no answer at the Kenyan Mission at the United Nations on Monday night.

Mohamed said Kenya needs to work with other governments to fight the increasing
terrorist threat and 'much more with the U.S and the U.K., because both the
victims and the perpetrators came from Kenya, the United Kingdom and the United
States. From the information we have, two or three Americans and so far I've
heard of one Brit.'

She added: 'That just goes to underline the global nature of this war that we
are fighting.'

This comes as Kenya said its security forces had taken control of the Nairobi
shopping mall where Islamist fighters killed at least 62 people, and that police
were doing a final sweep of shops early Tuesday after the last of the hostages
had been rescued.

An overnight eerie silence outside the mall was broken at daybreak following a
loud burst of gunfire heard coming from inside the Westgate mall, suggesting
that the complex had not yet been secured. A lone military chopper circled
above.

A trickle of survivors escaped the building throughout the day on Monday, but
the fate of people listed as missing was unclear.

Somalia's al Qaeda-linked al Shabaab group has claimed responsibility for the
attack, which began at lunchtime on Saturday. Kenyan officials say there were 10
to 15 attackers.

President Barack Obama offered U.S. support, saying he believed Kenya - the
scene of one of al Qaeda's first major attacks, in 1998, and a neighbour of
chaotic Somalia - would continue to be a regional pillar of stability.

Kenyan security forces believed the end was in sight for the siege at the
upmarket shopping mall in the capital, saying its forces were 'in control' as
the ordeal entered its fourth day.

A government official said there was no resistance from the attackers late on
Monday night after a barrage of gunfire and blasts throughout the day, but that
the security forces were cautious in case some attackers were hiding in the
building.

'Our forces are combing the mall floor by floor looking for anyone left behind.
We believe all hostages have been released,' the Ministry of Interior said on
Twitter.

The siege has followed a pattern of bursts of gunfire and activity followed by
long lulls.

Patronised by well-to-do Kenyans and expatriates, Westgate mall epitomised the
African consumer bonanza that is drawing foreign investment - from West and East
- to one of the world's fastest growing regions.

British Defence Secretary Philip Hammond said he believed six Britons had died
in the attack. Other known foreign victims are from China, Ghana, France, the
Netherlands and Canada. Kenyan officials said the total death toll was at least
62.

Interior Minister Joseph Ole Lenku said the militants had set fire to mattresses
in a supermarket on the mall's lower floors and his ministry later said the
blaze was under control. Two attackers were killed on Monday, taking the total
of dead militants so far to three, he told a news conference.

Speculation rose about the identity of the attackers. Ole Lenku said they were
all men but that some had dressed as women.

Despite his comments, one intelligence officer and two soldiers told Reuters
that one of the dead militants was a white woman.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Soldiers clearing up in terror attack mall

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 80 words


KENYAN troops are said to be in the final stages of clearing the Nairobi
shopping mall stormed by Islamist militants - as a sixth Briton was confirmed
among the dead.

Police said that three terrorists had been killed and others injured as security
forces moved into the Westgate complex in an attempt to bring the three-day
stand-off to an end. Eleven soldiers from the Kenyan Defence Force were also
wounded.

Kenyan authorities said 62 people had been confirmed dead and 170 injured.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2013 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Kenya terror attack: Scene outside Westgate mall

BYLINE: Kenfrey Kiberenge

LENGTH: 686  words


It WAS a scene straight from an action movie when the besieged Westgate shopping
mall was turned into a battle zone.

Military artillery, sporadic explosions and heavy gunfire stopped and started
throughout the day, as the Kenya Defence Forces continued to battle al-Shabaab
militants.

At least 20 explosions went off inside the building, as acrid black smoke
billowed from the popular shopping venue. We were told the military had sealed
off every entrance and exit to the mall to prevent the terrorists getting out.

At times, the place was quiet. Then, suddenly, out of nowhere, people would be
crawling on the ground as loud and, at times continuous, gunfire sounded out.
The smell of smoke and teargas got so overpowering at times that many people
were forced way back from the scene.

At the nearby Oshwal Centre - the Red Cross's people-tracing hub - anxious
relatives walked around in a collective daze. With every hour that passed, hopes
of them being reunited with their loved ones dwindled. Their pain was
unmistakable. And heart-breaking.

By mid-afternoon, the attackers had started firing into the Oshwal Centre,
forcing an immediate lockdown. The noise was deafening and terrifying. But
within minutes, military firepower had forced the attackers to retreat.

However, the move forced the military to ban the media from the centre, and
journalists and media crews were pushed a further 300 metres away from the area.

We could not see much, but the sound of gunfire and the looming tear gas
continued.

A stream of ambulances moved in and out of the area. We were later told they
were transporting both injured people and the dead from the mall.

Government updates on the situation, which had turned into a stand-off, became
more infrequent as the day wore on.

Many people with missing relatives were too terrified to speak to the nearby
media, and we grappled for any indication of what was going on.

At one point, an Indian man, who told how his wife and child were trapped
inside, threatened to storm in himself in a bid to rescue his loved ones. The
wait was too painful for him. He felt helpless. We all did.

A scuffle ensued as police officers slowly and calmly restrained him. We asked
if he believed he would see them alive again. He said no.

For hours, it seemed like everyone in Kenya - if not the whole world - was
holding their breath, following speculation the terrorists had decided to burn
down the building, not caring if they lived or died.

Interior secretary Joseph Ole Lenku later reassured the nation the terrorists
were burning mattresses in a bid to distract the security officers as they
sought an escape route.

His announcement that "only a few hostages remained" by mid-afternoon did not go
down well with missing relatives, who were shocked at the news.

"Why is Mr Lenku acting so heartless and casual when I do not know the
whereabouts of my sister and brother?" asked Carol Marete, as she waited
anxiously outside the Oshwal Centre.

One man who had managed to escape, Anthony Odhiambo, returned to the scene of
the siege in the afternoon. Clearly still shaken, he told how he had come back
looking "for closure".

"This is unbelievable, just unbelievable" he said.

A few minutes later, we met Meshack Orari, who learned his 25-year-old daughter
had died. He told how he had frantically tried to call her mobile phone.

The heartbroken father, who lives up-country, had travelled hundreds of
kilometres to get to the place where she died in an attempt to get some answers
as to why she had been killed.

"She had just completed a diploma in tourism management and just wanted to make
her own money," he said, fighting back tears.

Another woman told how she had just learned her husband was among the dead.

Kenyans around the country remained glued to their television sets for any
update on the situation, which has sent shockwaves around the world.

Some onlookers had started gathering near the mall by evening, and police were
forced to throw tear gas at some of them to keep them back.

The terror attack has stoked feelings of unity and patriotism among Kenyans. It
has also broken their hearts.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 8:22 PM GMT

Nairobi shopping mall attack: Islamist terror is now a hi-tech global brand;
The al-Shabaab terror gang are part of a new breed who see social media as just
another weapon

BYLINE: By Con Coughlin

LENGTH: 880 words


As Kenyan security forces made their final search yesterday for survivors of the
Nairobi terror attack, it was not the devastation of the Westgate shopping mall
that will have been causing them most concern. With at least 65 dead - including
six Britons - and more than 100 injured, last weekend's assault by al-Shabaab
terrorists on the shopping complex represents the most deadly terrorist attack
Kenya has suffered since the bombing of the US Embassy in Nairobi in 1998, which
killed more than 200 people.

On that occasion it did not take counter-terrorism experts long to work out who
was responsible. Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda network had made numerous threats to
target American facilities, and President Clinton responded by launching cruise
missile attacks against al-Qaeda's bases in Sudan and Afghanistan.

But if the initial reports of the investigation into the latest atrocity are
anything to go by, taking retaliatory action against the culprits will not be as

 straightforward as it was back in the Nineties.

Al-Qaeda has come a long way since its early days, when groups of fanatical
jihadi fighters hatched desperate plots to attack the West from remote caves
hidden away in the Hindu Kush. These days, as the Kenyan authorities are
discovering, al-Qaeda has developed into a truly global brand, a multinational
terror force that is just as capable of drawing recruits from the prosperous
mid-West of the United States as the slums of downtown Mogadishu.

While al-Shabaab ("the youth"), the Somali-based al-Qaeda affiliate, has claimed
responsibility for the shopping mall atrocity, Kenyan investigators have been
alarmed to discover the cosmopolitan character of those involved in the
killings. Apart from the Somalis who took part, the 15 terrorists who stormed
the mall at noon last Saturday are said to have included extremists from the US,
Britain, Canada, Sweden, Syria, Finland, Russia, Dagestan and Kenya.

Not since the mujahideen were fighting the Soviet Union in Afghanistan in the
Eighties has the Islamist cause acquired such a trans-national hue. Back then it
was simply a question of thousands of jihadis - the majority drawn from the Arab
world - making their way to the CIA-run training camps on the Pakistani border
to volunteer to fight against the infidel Russians.

These days, though, new adherents to the extremist movement are more likely to
have been recruited and radicalised over the internet rather than by having to
make their way to some remote and inhospitable location.

As part of al-Qaeda's quest for global reach, a new generation of Islamist
radicals has enthusiastically embraced modern communications technology,
skilfully exploiting the internet and social media to disseminate a nihilistic
ideology to all corners of the world.

The ability of the terrorists to adapt new technology for their own perverse
ends was graphically demonstrated during the Nairobi attacks when those claiming
to represent the al-Shabaab leadership in Somalia used Twitter to post images of
the gunmen terrorising innocent shoppers, as well as publishing a list
purporting to name those taking part.

It is entirely feasible, of course, that the Twitter accounts were not genuine,
and that al-Shabaab was trying to give investigators false leads, thereby using
up valuable resources while some of the perpetrators made good their escape.
That is certainly one of the lines of inquiry being pursued by intelligence
officials as they try to establish the identities of those involved.

Another ruse may have been al-Shabaab's claim that some of the terrorists were
women, which has led to speculation that Samantha Lewthwaite, the "white widow",
took part.

Lewthwaite has been on the run since her husband took part in the July 7 terror
attacks in London in 2005, and is known to have travelled to Somalia on several
occasions. It is, however, possible that some of the male terrorists simply
dressed as women to make it easier for the terror cell to avoid detection as it
made its way to the mall.

Al-Shabaab's clever use of modern communication tools certainly lends credence
to the Kenyan authorities' claim that a number of American and British jihadis
were involved in the operation's planning and execution. In the US,
investigators are concentrating their efforts on the "Minnesota martyrs", a
group of jihadis who are said to have been recruited from an area of Minneapolis
with a sizeable community of Somali immigrants. FBI officials in the area have
expressed concern about high-quality videos that are being used to glorify
al-Shabaab's involvement in Somalia's long-running civil war, which may have
been used to persuade impressionable men to sign up to jihad.

In Britain, meanwhile, MI5 officers are revisiting the familiar jihadist trail,
checking the mosques and university campuses that have in the past been used to
distribute videos made by popular al-Qaeda propagandists, such as Anwar
al-Awlaki, the US-born cleric killed by a drone strike in 2011. Awlaki was the
first of the modern breed of Islamist to grasp the importance of the internet in
radicalising young Muslims, and his ground-breaking videos have helped to create
the new multinational generation of terrorists, with all the implications this
is likely to have for our future wellbeing.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 6:05 PM GMT

Kenya attack: 'White Widow' Samantha Lewthwaite was 'a lovely young girl';
Councillor Raj Khan, who knew Samantha Lewthwaite's family socially in
Aylesbury, says she was "a lovely young girl", and that he finds it hard to
imagine she could be an international terrorist, following links with the
Nairobi shopping centre terror attack.

LENGTH: 360 words


Nairobi terror attack: live
In pictures: Nairobi shopping mall attack

The friends and family of a radicalised British housewife from "leafy
Buckinghamshire" have reacted with shock and disbelief to claims that she is
behind the Kenyan shopping mall massacre.

Speculation is rife that terror suspect Samantha Lewthwaite, who was married to
the July 7 suicide bomber Jermaine Lindsay, was one of the masterminds behind
the atrocity which has claimed more than 60 lives.

Known as the White Widow, the 29-year-old mother-of-three is the daughter of
English soldier Andy Lewthwaite, who met and married Irish Catholic Christine
Allen while serving in Northern Ireland during the 1970s.

She enjoyed an unremarkable childhood in Banbridge, Co Down, before moving to
Aylesbury at a young age. In 1995 her parents split.

After converting to Islam at 17, Lewthwaite changed her name to Sherafiyah and
married Lindsay, who detonated the bomb at King's Cross Tube station, killing 26
people in July 2005.

At the time she claimed to have been horrified by the killings, but in 2009
disappeared with her three children and only resurfaced two years later after
travelling to Kenya on a false passport.

Kenya's foreign minister, Amina Mohamed, has fuelled further speculation by
claiming a British woman who has allegedly been involved in terrorism "many
times before" was among the militants who laid siege to the Westgate mall,
leaving at least six Britons dead.

In Aylesbury there was disbelief that the "average, British, young, ordinary
girl" who was a "follower not a leader" could have gone on to mastermind
extremist acts.

Councillor Raj Khan, who knew Lewthwaite socially, said she was "pleasant and
courteous" and had a "very great personality" but lacked confidence.

"She was not strong-headed. And that's why I find it absolutely amazing that she
is supposed to be the head of an international criminal terrorist organisation,"
Mr Khan said.

Sources: ITN/PA

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 4:33 PM GMT

Kenya mall attack: FBI investigates reports of US terrorists;
The FBI said today it was investigating, but unable to confirm, the Kenyan
government's claim that "two or three Americans" were among the Westgate Mall
gunmen.

BYLINE: By Raf Sanchez Washington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 452 words


Amina Mohamed, the Kenyan foreign minister, said American teenagers of Somali or
Arab origin were among the terrorists who killed more than 60 people over a
three-day siege in Nairobi.

Ms Mohamed told PBS that she believed some of the attackers were from Minnesota,
home to the largest Somali population in North America and long-feared as a
recruiting ground for extremists.

The FBI's field office in Minnesota said it was "very interested" in the Kenyan
government's claims but was waiting for "the facts and the information to come
out of Kenya".

"We are looking into reports of Americans being involved but are unable to
confirm at this point," said Kyle Loven, an FBI spokesman.

While the FBI was working closely with the State Department to monitor the news
out of Kenya its agents were not yet at the stage where they were tracking
individual names or visiting addresses.

Privately FBI officials expressed caution as the situation in Nairobi continued
to chaotically unfold and sometimes contradictory information emerged from
Kenyan government spokespeople.

ABC News                      reported that a team from the FBI's New York field
office, which has jurisdiction for Africa, would fly to Nairobi to begin an
investigation. The FBI declined to comment on the report.

Ms Mohamed gave few details in her interview with US television on Monday night,
saying: "From the information that we have two or three Americans and so far
I've heard of one Brit."

She added: "The Americans, from the information we have, are young men between
maybe 18 and 19, of Somali origin or Arab origin, and lived in Minnesota and one
other place."

President Barack Obama condemned the attack in his annual speech to the United
Nations, saying: "In Kenya we've seen terrorists target innocent civilians in a
crowded shopping mall, and our hearts go out to the families of those who've
been affected."

The killings by al-Shabab, the Somalia militant group, has led to a fresh
spotlight being cast on Minnesota, home to around more than 30,000 Somalis.

The US believes around 20 young men have been radicalised and traveled to
Somalia since 2007, although some of them may have been killed in the years of
fighting since.

Nine people were convicted in a Minnesota court in May of fundraising within the
US to provide funds for al-Shabab, a group the US has designated as a terrorist
organisation.

Abdirizak Bihi, a Somali community activist whose nephew joined al-Shabab and
died in Somalia, condemned the attack.

"Any time there is terrorist action, the whole community is anxious, sad and
afraid,'' Mr Bihi told USA Today . "Our hope is this doesn't involve one of
those stupid kids."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 3:39 PM GMT

Kenya terror attack: Bill Clinton's tribute to British victim's partner;
Bill Clinton, the former US president, has paid tribute to the pregnant partner
of a British man killed alongside her in the Kenya terror attack, describing her
as "brilliant."

BYLINE: By Rosa Silverman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 334 words


Ross Langdon, 33, an award-winning architect with dual British-Australian
nationality, was expecting his first child with Elif Yavuz in two weeks' time
but both died in the Nairobi shopping centre siege.

Ms Yavuz, a Harvard-educated Dutchwoman working for the Clinton Foundation, was
hailed by the former leader, his wife Hillary and daughter Chelsea as someone
dedicated to helping others.

Nairobi terror attack: live
In pictures: Nairobi shopping mall attack

In a statement on the foundation's site, they said: "We were shocked and
terribly saddened to learn of the death of Elif Yavuz in the senseless attacks
in Nairobi.

"Elif devoted her life to helping others, particularly people in developing
countries suffering from malaria and HIV/Aids.

"She had originally worked with our Health Access Initiative during her doctoral
studies, and we were so pleased that she had recently rejoined us as a senior
vaccines researcher based in Tanzania.

"Elif was brilliant, dedicated, and deeply admired by her colleagues, who will
miss her terribly.

"On behalf of the entire Clinton Foundation, we send our heartfelt condolences
and prayers to Elif's family and her many friends throughout the world."

Friends and family of Mr Langdon and Ms Yavuz are planning to hold a memorial
ceremony for them in Uganda tomorrow.

The couple were based in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, but had spent time in Uganda
and first met in the capital, Kampala.

A smaller group of Mr Langdon's friends who are unable to travel to Africa will
meet in the next few days to commemorate him in London, where he had also lived.

Mr Langdon, who was born and brought up in south-eastern Tasmania, had worked on
projects in several African countries and has been described as "inspirational"
and "profoundly talented".

His friend Peter Adams said his death represented "a major global loss."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 3:22 PM GMT

Kenya terror attack: 'pale-skinned' gunwoman shot at me, claims shop worker;
An employee at a crafts shop in the Kenyan shopping centre attacked by
terrorists has described the moment a "pale-skinned" woman shot at her at the
start of the siege.

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz in Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 445 words


The woman, who gave her name only as Caroline, said the attacker opened fire at
her with a volley of bullets in the Westgate centre on Saturday.

She described how she was cowering beneath a hand-cart where the artworks she
sold were displayed when she locked eyes with the gunwoman on the balcony of the
floor above.

Nairobi terror attack: live
In pictures: Nairobi shopping mall attack

"She was high up but not far from me, close enough that I saw her looking along
the floor where I was until she saw me," she told the Telegraph.

"She stopped and aimed at me and then opened fire. All of the bullets did not
hit me, I don't know how that happened.

"She stopped firing at me for a moment and looked away and I jumped up and ran
around a corner and that's how I escaped.

"She had pale skin and long black hair, and was wearing a baggy black top. I
can't remember very much, but I remember she had pale skin."

Amina Mohamed, the Kenyan foreign minister, has said a British woman was among
the militants who attacked the up-market mall.

Ms Mohamed's description of the terrorist as a woman who has "done this many
times before" fuelled speculation it was Samantha Lewthwaite, whose husband was
the July 7 bomber Jermaine Lindsay.

The crafts store worker who was shot at said she did not think her assailant was
European and suggested she could be "Arab or Indian", but added: "I cannot be
sure because I was so terrified and I just wanted to run away from there."

Lewthwaite, a 29-year-old mother of three known as the "White Widow", is known
to be in East Africa and is wanted by Kenyan police over alleged links to a
terrorist cell that planned to bomb the country's coast.

The Foreign Office and British spy agencies have said they cannot rule out the
possibility that Lewthwaite was involved in the attack on the shopping centre.

Lewthwaite's grandmother, Elizabeth Allen, has meanwhile been admitted to
hospital due to stress.

The frail pensioner from Banbridge, Co Down, had been given a panic alarm to
contact security services in case the terror suspect made contact.

Family friends say the pressure of the situation and the global notoriety of her
granddaughter have taken their toll on her health and mental well-being.

Joan Baird, a veteran Ulster Unionist councillor in Banbridge who knows the
family, said: "This is so distressing for everyone. Mrs Allen is 85 and she is
in and out of hospital. It is just so distressing.

"Certainly, everybody in the town is shocked and distressed by the news."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 2:51 PM GMT

Nairobi terror attack: 'SAS hero' saves up to 100 lives;
An off-duty SAS member has been credited with saving dozens of lives in the
Kenyan shopping centre siege.

BYLINE: By Rosa Silverman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 358 words


The man, who is said to be from Britain's Special Forces but cannot be
identified for security reasons, had been drinking a coffee at the Westgate mall
in Nairobi when militants stormed it on Saturday.

He reportedly went back and forth between the building and the outside world
around 12 times, helping people escape from the complex.

Nairobi shopping mall attacks: live
In pictures: Nairobi shopping mall attacks

One picture showed him helping two women out, a gun tucked into his waistband.

A friend in Nairobi told the Daily Mail : "What he did was so heroic. He was
having coffee with friends when it happened.

"He went back in 12 times and saved 100 people. Imagine going back in when you
knew what was going on inside."

On-duty Special Air Service soldiers were also at the scene last night, helping
the Kenyan authorities in their final attempt to free the hostages.

A team of the soldiers was advising the local military as they stormed the
shopping centre, and were on standby to take part.

Amina Mohamed, Kenya's foreign minister, said today that a British woman
extremist and "two or three" Americans were among the terrorists behind the
attack.

"From the information that we have, two or three Americans (were involved) and I
think, so far, I have heard of one Brit... a woman ... and I think she has done
this many times before," she told the US's PBS NewsHour programme.

The Kenyan government needs to work "much more with the US and the UK because
both the victims and the perpetrators came from Kenya, the United Kingdom and
the United States", she added.

David Cameron, the Prime Minister, who returned from a Balmoral break with the
Queen to chair a meeting of the emergency Cobra committee in Whitehall
yesterday, said it appeared at least six Britons had died in the incident.

Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, warned the death toll could be even
higher.

"It is possible we will discover further British nationals once the building is
fully secure," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 24, 2013 Tuesday 12:09 PM GMT

Why are we still so shocked by female killers?;
As intelligence officers establish whether Samantha Lewthwaite, known as the
'white widow' of a July 7 bomber, was involved in the Kenya shopping mall terror
attack. Dr Brooke Magnanti examines why the idea of a female killer is still so
astonishing.

BYLINE: By Dr Brooke Magnanti formerly known as Belle de Jour

LENGTH: 655 words


As the exact circumstances of events in the Nairobi shopping mall attack
continue to unfold, international investigators are starting to pursue a new
line of inquiry: one that asks whether the celebrated 'white widow,' Samantha
Lewthwaite, a Muslim convert already wanted in Kenya on terror charges, could
have been directly involved.

Al Shabab, the group that has claimed responsibility for the attack, has denied
Lewthwaite's involvement and more generally there have been denials that
Westerners were involved at all. A senior Whitehall source, by contrast, said it
was "likely" that a white woman was among the killers.

The fascination with Lewthwaite, whose husband was involved in one of the 7/7
suicide bombings in 2005 and killed 26 people, has grown rapidly in the last two
years while she has been sought in East Africa.

There is something compelling about any story of women and murder, in part
because it seems to go against all we know, or assume we know, about women and
about crime. The vast majority of violent crimes are committed by men; and
within this the smaller subset of religiously-motivated crime is even more
male-dominated.

Mutters of 'what woman could ever do such a thing' have been rife on comment
sections and forums whenever the subject of the 'white widow' comes up. How, the
thinking seems to go, could a woman even conceive of associating herself with a
terror group?

The assumption is at its heart a sexist one, in the category of 'benevolent
sexism': women are presumed to be not only the weaker sex - therefore incapable
of carrying out such a crime - but also the more sentimental one, incapable of
even contemplating it.

Thus the women who murder, the Myras, Rosemarys, the black widows and mothers,
are presumed to be so far outside what is 'normal' female behaviour that they
are reviled in a way that their male counterparts rarely are. Murder planned and
committed by a woman is seen not just as a crime, but a crime against nature.

And those are the ones we demonise the most. In our own time, Myra Hindley has
been the iconic murderess, a figure so recognisable it was only a year ago
(after living in the UK some 13 years) I saw a picture of Ian Brady and realised
I wouldn't have been able to say who it was. Myra's defiant stare and white
bouffant, by contrast, are instantly recognisable. Would the furore over Marcus
Harvey's portrait of her made using casts of infants' hands have caused such a
sensation if it had been Brady?

It's certainly true to say that without weapons, few women have the physical
power necessary to commit an opportunistic murder 'of passion'... but our own
criminal history shows the current notion of women as innocents is far from the
truth.

Who could forget the case of Mary Bell, who became infamous at the age of 11,
after strangling two small boys to death "solely for the pleasure and
excitement" of killing?

In the 1830s, Mary Ann Burdock, a charming landlady, shocked Bristol when she
was convicted of poisoning a lodger for her inheritance. In the 20th century,
Amelia Dyer, who took payments from single mothers and others who "farmed" their
unwanted children out to the countryside for a good healthy childhood, was found
to have been murdering many of her charges.

Of course, those murders were motivated seemingly by money alone. Lewthwaite's
motivation is a more basic, more obvious one; her nickname of the white widow
says it all. She is motivated by a particular version of religious jihad, and by
the great pain of losing her husband. She is motivated by emotion.

But regardless of motivations, the female killer remains a far more potent and
somehow enthralling concept than a male murderer. Maybe it's a hangover from
Agatha Christie's novels; maybe it's the idea that only women can bring life
into the world; or maybe society is still processing that women's desires,
however wrong and sick they may be, can be just the same as men's.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 24, 2013 Tuesday 11:59 AM GMT

Kenya terror attack: White Widow Samantha Lewthwaite was 'average, British
girl';
The family of a British woman whose possible involvement in the siege at a
Kenyan shopping centre is being investigated was said to be awaiting proof of
her involvement today.

BYLINE: By Rosa Silverman and agencies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 545 words


Amina Mohamed, the Kenyan foreign minister, said a British woman was among the
militants who attacked the Westgate mall in Nairobi on Saturday.

Her description of the terrorist as a woman who has "done this many times
before" fuelled speculation it was Samantha Lewthwaite, whose husband was the
July 7 bomber Jermaine Lindsay.

Lewthwaite, a mother of three, is known to be in East Africa and is wanted by
Kenyan police over alleged links to a terrorist cell that planned to bomb the
country's coast.

Nairobi terror attack: live
In pictures: Nairobi shopping mall attack

Intelligence officers are trying to establish whether the white woman reported
to be among three dead hostage-takers was Lewthwaite.

Councillor Raj Khan, whose family knew her family socially in Aylesbury, Bucks,
said her family would be "very upset" if she was involved and said he prayed she
was not.

"Of course like anyone else, they will be very hurt, very upset, very, very
upset, but I think they too will be waiting for proof, not speculation," he
said.

He said he was surprised at speculation Lewthwaite was involved in the attack as
she had appeared to him "an average, British, young, ordinary girl."

He said: "She had a very great personality. She didn't have very good
confidence."

Dubbed the "White Widow", Lewthwaite converted to Islam at the age of 15 and
married Lindsay in 2002 before he killed 26 people when he blew himself up in
the 2005 London terror attacks.

In March last year, officials said she had fled to Somalia and that officers
were hunting a woman who used several identities, including hers.

Cllr Khan recalled a meeting with Lewthwaite and Lindsay regarding a housing
issue that took place three or four weeks before the July 7 bombings, and said
she was just as he remembered her.

"Certainly when I was around her, she was the same person, lacking in
confidence," he said.

"She was not strong-headed, and that's why I find it absolutely amazing that she
is supposed to be the head of an international criminal terrorist organisation."

He was "perplexed" that someone he knew, who was so "empty in confidence", was
being linked to international terrorism, he said.

He added: "Of course, my worry is that if she is involved, is she under some
kind of duress? Are there other factors involved?

"Or indeed, is it Samantha? I mean there are so many questions to be answered at
the moment before one can make a view."

Speaking in Pakistan, Theresa May, the Home Secretary, said: "I'm aware of the
reports that there has been a British woman involved.

"At this time, until we've seen the investigation completed, it's not possible
to comment further."

The Foreign Office and British spy agencies have said they cannot rule out the
possibility that Lewthwaite was involved.

Her late husband Lindsay was a Jamaican-born Muslim convert who never made a
secret of his extremist views.

He was brought up by his mother in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, where he
alarmed his teachers by attempting to radicalise impressionable younger pupils.

He and Lewthwaite moved to Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, in September 2003.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 24, 2013 Tuesday 11:01 AM GMT

Nairobi terror attack: Americans and Briton 'among the gunmen';
At least two Americans and one Briton were among the gunmen that stormed the
Westgate mall in Nairobi, killing at least 69 people, the Kenyan foreign
minister has said.

BYLINE: By Bonnie Malkin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 388 words


Amina Mohamed said in an interview with "PBS Newshour" that "two or three
Americans" and "one British woman" were among the militants in the attack.

She said the Americans were 18 to 19 years old, of Somali or Arab origin and
lived "in Minnesota and one other place" in the United States. The British
jihadist was a woman who has "done this many times before," Ms Mohamed said,
adding to speculation that it was the "White Widow", Samantha Lethwaite.

Nairobi shopping mall attack: live

In pictures: Nairobi shopping mall attack

US officials said that they were trying to confirm if any of the assailants were
American.

A State Department spokesman said there was "no definitive evidence of the
nationalities"

An FBI spokesman in Minneapolis, home to a large Somali population, said the
bureau was investigating reports Americans were involved in the attack but said
the task was "complicated" by the ongoing siege in Nairobi.

"We are aware that names are floating around there but we're not in a position
to confirm any identities at this point," said Kyle Loven. "If and when the
situation is resolved we'll move forward with any information we receive."

White House deputy national security adviser Ben Rhodes said he had no direct
information that Americans had participated in the attack, but could not rule it
out.

"We do monitor very carefully and have for some time been concerned about
efforts by al Shabaab to recruit Americans or US persons to come to Somalia," he
said.

Last night Barack Obama, whose father was born in Kenya, said the United States
stood with Kenyans against "this terrible outrage".

"We will provide them with whatever law enforcement support that is necessary.
And we are confident that Kenya will continue to be a pillar of stability in
eastern Africa," he said in New York.

Military chief Julius Karangi said the attackers came from all over the world.
"We are fighting global terrorism here," he said, without giving their
nationalities.

Lewthwaite is wanted in connection with an alleged plot to attack hotels and
restaurants in Kenya. Asked if the dead woman was Lewthwaite, one Kenyan
intelligence officer said: "We don't know."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 24, 2013 Tuesday 10:34 AM GMT

Kenya terror attack: disgracefully, the BBC still won't call these murderers
'terrorists'

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 379 words


Here's how the BBC describes the terrorists who have slaughtered at last 69
people in the Westgate mall in Nairobi:

Now, we don't expect the Beeb to describe the al-Shabab killers as "animals" in
a news report. That was the word used, perfectly appropriately, by Louis Bowa,
who is waiting for the bodies of his wife and eight-year-old daughter to be
recovered from the shopping mall. It's a metaphor and would look strange in a
piece of reporting. The right word is "terrorists". For example:

British businessman condemns terrorists who murdered his daughter

... which is a Telegraph headline. And, from the body of one of our reports:

As the terrorists roamed the mall with guns and grenades...

Let's get this straight. There is nothing wrong with using the term "militants"
to describe the al-Shabab gunmen. But they are terrorists, by any criterion, and
that word should also be used.

The Beeb won't do it, however. It virtually bans the word from reporting, lest
it be used "inappropriately". Many BBC journalists, who are overwhelmingly on
the Left, support the causes for which armed gunmen fight in, say, Palestine.
Therefore there's no question of describing Hamas as a terrorist organisation.
This I can just about understand, given that Hamas is also a powerful political
party, though I don't agree with the policy.

But in what universe are Islamists who spray women and children with bullets in
a shopping centre not terrorists? The BBC may say: we have a rule and we have to
apply it universally. This is nonsense. That's what editors are for.

But hang on. On re-reading a BBC report, I see that it does use the T-word:

Kenyan officials said earlier that three "terrorists" had been killed, and that
10 people had been arrested.

Those inverted commas are more contemptible than not using the word at all. And
remember: you pay for this.

· Colin Freeman: The day I met Africa's Islamist warriors
· Con Coughlin: Kenya is paying the price for being our ally
· Cristina Odone: Being a Christian carries a death sentence now

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 8:41 AM GMT

Nairobi terror attack: President Obama says we stand with the Kenyan people;
In his first public comments on the Nairobi shopping mall attacks, President
Barack Obama says the US will stand with the Kenyan people "against this
terrible outrage that's occurred".

LENGTH: 165 words


President Obama confirmed that the USwas providing "whatever law enforcement
support that is necessary" to deal with the tragedy.

The US President made his first public comments on the attack while meeting with
Nigeria's president on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly.

"The United States will continue to work with the entire continent of Africa and
around the world to make sure that we are dismantling these networks of
destruction," President Obama said.

Mr Obama said he had contacted Kenyan President, Uhuru Kenyatta, who lost family
members in the attack, over the weeked to offer his support and condolences.

Kenya's Foreign Minister Amina Mohamed has confirmed that two US citizens and a
British woman were among the attackers.

Kenyan troops say they have now taken control of the shopping centre which has
been in the hands of terrorists almost four days after an attack was launched
that killed at least 69 people.

Source APTN

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 7:59 AM GMT

Nairobi terror attack: Kenyan Foreign Minister says British woman among the
attackers;
The Kenyan Foreign Minister Amina Mohamed says one British woman and at least
two Americans were among the attackers who stormed the Nairobi shopping mall
killing at least 69 people.

LENGTH: 149 words


Kenya's foreign affairs secretary said her government was more heavily committed
to fighting terrorism in the wake of the attack by Islamic extremists on a mall
in Nairobi.

"It is a global challenge and it will require responses at all levels," Ms
Mohamed said.

The foreign minister also confirmed that a British woman who has "done this many
times before," was involved in the attack. the comments add to speculation that
"White Widow", Samantha Lethwaite was involved.

US officials said that they were trying to confirm if any of the assailants were
American, however a said there was still "no definitive evidence of the
nationalities".

Kenyan troops say they have now taken control of the shopping centre which has
been in the hands of terrorists almost four days after an attack was launched
that killed at least 69 people.

Source PBS News Hour / APTN

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 7:14 AM GMT

Nairobi terror attack: SAS hero saves up to 100 lives;
An off-duty SAS member has been credited with saving dozens of lives in the
Kenyan shopping centre siege.

BYLINE: By Rosa Silverman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 317 words


The man, who is said to be from Britain's Special Forces but cannot be
identified for security reasons, had been drinking a coffee at the Westgate mall
in Nairobi when militants stormed it on Saturday.

He reportedly went back and forth between the building and the outside world
around 12 times, helping people escape from the complex.

One picture showed him helping two women out, a gun tucked into his waistband.

A friend in Nairobi told the Daily Mail : "What he did was so heroic. He was
having coffee with friends when it happened.

"He went back in 12 times and saved 100 people. Imagine going back in when you
knew what was going on inside."

On-duty Special Air Service soldiers were also at the scene last night, helping
the Kenyan authorities in their final attempt to free the hostages.

A team of the soldiers was advising the local military as they stormed the
shopping centre, and were on standby to take part.

Amina Mohamed, Kenya's foreign minister, said today that a British woman
extremist and "two or three" Americans were among the terrorists behind the
attack.

"From the information that we have, two or three Americans (were involved) and I
think, so far, I have heard of one Brit... a woman ... and I think she has done
this many times before," she told the US's PBS NewsHour programme.

The Kenyan government needs to work "much more with the US and the UK because
both the victims and the perpetrators came from Kenya, the United Kingdom and
the United States", she added.

David Cameron, the Prime Minister, who returned from a Balmoral break with the
Queen to chair a meeting of the emergency Cobra committee in Whitehall
yesterday, said it appeared at least six Britons had died in the incident.

Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, warned the death toll could be even
higher.

"It is possible we will discover further British nationals once the building is
fully secure," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 24, 2013 Tuesday 2:24 AM GMT

Nairobi terror attack: Americans and Briton 'among the gunmen';
At least two Americans and one Briton were among the gunment that stormed the
Westgate mall in Nairobi, killing at least 69 people, the Kenyan foreign
minister has said.

BYLINE: By Bonnie Malkin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 346 words


Amina Mohamed said in an interview with "PBS Newshour" that "two or three
Americans" and "one Brit" were among the militants in the attack.

She said the Americans were 18 to 19 years old, of Somali or Arab origin and
lived "in Minnesota and one other place" in the United States. The British
jihadist was a woman who has "done this many times before," Ms Mohamed said,
adding to speculation that it was the "White Widow", Samantha Lethwaite.

US officials said that they were trying to confirm if any of the assailants were
American.

A State Department spokesman said there was "no definitive evidence of the
nationalities"

An FBI spokesman in Minneapolis, home to a large Somali population, said the
bureau was investigating reports Americans were involved in the attack but said
the task was "complicated" by the ongoing siege in Nairobi.

"We are aware that names are floating around there but we're not in a position
to confirm any identities at this point," said Kyle Loven. "If and when the
situation is resolved we'll move forward with any information we receive."

White House deputy national security adviser Ben Rhodes said he had no direct
information that Americans had participated in the attack, but could not rule it
out.

"We do monitor very carefully and have for some time been concerned about
efforts by al Shabaab to recruit Americans or US persons to come to Somalia," he
said.

Last night Barack Obama, whose father was born in Kenya, said the United States
stood with Kenyans against "this terrible outrage".

"We will provide them with whatever law enforcement support that is necessary.
And we are confident that Kenya will continue to be a pillar of stability in
eastern Africa," he said in New York.

Military chief Julius Karangi said the attackers came from all over the world.
"We are fighting global terrorism here," he said, without giving their
nationalities.

Lewthwaite is wanted in connection with an alleged plot to attack hotels and
restaurants in Kenya. Asked if the dead woman was Lewthwaite, one Kenyan
intelligence officer said: "We don't know."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    September 24, 2013 Tuesday 10:43 AM GMT

MI5 hunts for Britons linked to Kenya terror attack

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham, Tom Coghlan and Jerome Starkey in Nairobi

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 1265 words


MI5 is trawling records of Britons with links to extremists in Somalia amid
concerns that sympathisers could follow up the shopping mall massacre in Kenya
with terror attacks in the UK.

Intelligence officials are looking at the files of a number of young men who
have returned to Britain after training or attempting to get training with
al-Shabaab, the terrorist group behind the Westgate shopping centre attack in
Nairobi.

The search comes amid claims that at least one British woman was among those
that led the assault which has now claimed the lives of at least 62 people,
including six Britons.

MI5 is liaising with Kenyan security officials to identify Britons who could
have been involved in the massacre after a Twitter account linked to al-Shabaab
named a Briton among the hostage-takers.

As the siege entered a fourth day, the still of night was shattered shortly
after daybreak with an explosion and gunfire as special forces moved in.

The offensive at around 6.30am local time was described as being a "final push"
to rescue the last remaining hostages thought to be still in the mall.

Security sources later said that the attack was to tackle "one or two" Islamist
militants who were still holed up inside the shopping centre.

They added the militants were located and isolated on one of the upper floors of
the complex around the casino.

A short while after starting the operation security forces were seen carrying a
body out of the mall, which remained on fire, with flames and smoke visible.

The Ministry of Interior tweeted this morning: "Our forces are combing the mall
floor by floor looking foranyone left behind. We believe all hostages have been
released."

adding his forces were"in control" of the building.

Earlier Kenyan Foreign Minister Amina Mohamed said "two or three Americans" and
"one Brit" were among those who attacked the mall.

She said in an interview with the PBS NewsHour programme that the Americans were
18 to 19 years old, of Somali or Arab origin and lived "in Minnesota and one
other place" in the US The attacker from Britain was a woman who has "done this
many times before," she said.

Her comments will fuel speculation that British terror suspect Samantha
Lewthwaite, who was married to the July 7 bomber Jermaine Lindsay, was involved.

Lewthwaite, dubbed the "White Widow", is known to be in East Africa and is
wanted by Kenyan police over alleged links to a terrorist cell that planned to
bomb the country's coast.

In March last year officials said she had fled to Somalia and that officers were
hunting a woman who used several identities, including hers.

The fresh fighting came as Kenyan security chiefs sought to reassure their
countrymen that they were "in full control" of the crisis, following earlier
explosions and gunfire that had sent rescue workers diving for cover.

A large fireball was seen at the four-storey building shortly after sunset.

Joseph Ole Lenku, the Kenyan Interior Minister, said that two of the attackers
had been killed and most of the hostages freed. It is believed that at least 175
people have been injured.

Last night Kenyan officials said their forces were "in control" of the mall and
all the hostages were believed to have been released. Kenyan special forces were
not encountering any resistance.

"Our special forces are inside the building checking the rooms. Obviously it's a
very, very big building," Manoah Esipisu, a government spokesman, said.

It was unclear, however, what had happened to the remaining attackers.

Among the dead Britons was Ross Langdon, 33, and his pregnant partner Elif
Yavuz, who was due to give birth to the couple's first child in two weeks. Mr
Langdon, an architect who was working pro-bono on an HIV hospital, was found
holding his partner, a Dutch national.

British consular officials waited for news at a triage centre near the shopping
mall where Kenyan volunteers donned binliners so that they could carry out the
corpses when the fighting stopped.

After a lull in hostilities on Sunday night, fighting at the mall resumed at
dawn yesterday when witnesses reported more than 15 minutes of heavy and
sustained gunfire. Kenyan troops were seen congregating outside the building and
then running around its flank shortly before 10am.

Four explosions at about 1.30pm were followed by a plume of smoke which towered
into the overcast sky throughout the afternoon.

Mr Lenku blamed the terrorists, who he said were burning mattresses to try to
distract the advance. However, a security source said the fire was started by
stun grenades as Kenyan forces fought their way into the supermarket.

At one point there were at least five military aircraft, including two light
attack helicopters, a larger Mi17, and two small, fixed-wing planes, circling
low around the mall.

Officials said that this was part of a cordon "so there is no escape for the
terrorists". At least 11 Kenyan soldiers have been wounded during the operations
to retake the mall, but officials refused to confirm reports that at least three
of them had died.

Israeli special forces are understood to be helping their Kenyan counterparts.
British special forces were also at the scene yesterday, but were not thought to
be directly involved in clearing the building.

General Julius Karangi, the head of the Kenya Defence Forces, said he was
gathering a detailed picture of the perpetrators' backgrounds. He added that
they were a "multinational collection," after the Foreign Office confirmed it
was investigating reports on a jihadi website that one of the attackers was
British.

"This is not a local event," he said. "We are fighting a global event. We have
an idea who they are, their nationalities." Police said they had arrested ten
people for questioning, including one suspect who was held at Nairobi's
international airport yesterday.

Officers used teargas to disperse crowds of onlookers outside the mall
yesterday, amid fears that a secondary attack could be imminent.

Mr Lenku denied claims that a wanted British terror suspect, Samantha
Lewthwaite, was leading the assault, claiming that all the assailants were men.
The 29-year-old widow of Germain Lindsay, one of the suicide bombers who killed
52 people in London on July 7, 2005, is alleged to be linked to al-Shabaab, the
Somali terrorist group which has claimed responsibility for Saturday's attack.

However, Mr Lenku said some of the terrorists had dressed in women's clothes,
which may have explained survivors' reports of a female commander.

Al-Shabaab said that the attack was a response to Kenya's decision to send
troops into Somalia in support of an African Union force, which helped to oust
al-Shabaab from power. A spokesman said their fighters would never negotiate.

There are an estimated 100,000 Somalis living in Britain, but only about 50
young men are thought to be fighting with al-Shabaab.

However, the group's ranks have been swelled by other Westerners of Pakistani,
Bangladeshi, Middle Eastern and West African origin.

They have travelled to Somalia from across the country, largely from areas of
London including Hounslow, Mile End and Kentish Town but also from Cardiff,
Leicester, Derby and elsewhere. Few have been allowed to leave but some have
returned to get involved in publicity and fundraising in Britain, security
sources say. British extremists have risen up the ranks within al-Shabaab and
the associated group known as Al-Qaeda in East Africa.

Liaison between the UK and Kenyan officials is complicated by a ban on MI6 and
MI5 automatically sharing secrets because of concern over Nairobi's human rights
record.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    September 24, 2013 Tuesday 10:42 AM GMT

'Experienced' British woman took part in terror attack, Kenyan minister says

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham, Tom Coghlan and Jerome Starkey in Nairobi

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 908 words


A British woman who has allegedly been involved in terrorism "many times before"
was among the militants who laid siege to a Kenyan shopping centre, the
country's foreign minister has claimed.

Two or three Americans were also among those whose attack on a mall claimed the
lives of at least 62 people.

Amina Mohamed told the PBS NewsHour programme that the Americans were 18 to 19
years old, of Somali or Arab origin and lived "in Minnesota and one other place"
in the US.

Her comments will fuel speculation that British terror suspect Samantha
Lewthwaite, who was married to the July 7 bomber Jermaine Lindsay, was involved.

Lewthwaite, dubbed the "White Widow", is known to be in East Africa and is
wanted by Kenyan police over alleged links to a terrorist cell that planned to
bomb the country's coast.

A British security source told Reuters of Lewthwaite's purported involvement:
"It is a possibility. But nothing definitive or conclusive yet."

In March last year officials said she had fled to Somalia and that officers were
hunting a woman who used several identities, including hers.

MI5 is liaising with Kenyan security officials to identify Britons who could
have been involved in the massacre. However this process is complicated by a ban
on automatically sharing secrets because of concern over Nairobi's human rights
record.

As the siege entered a fourth day, the still of night was shattered shortly
after daybreak with an explosion and gunfire as special forces moved in.

The foreign minister's interview was shown shortly before a new offensive began
at around 6.30am local time, described as being a "final push" to rescue the
last remaining hostages thought to be still in the mall.

Security sources later said that the attack was to tackle "one or two" Islamist
militants who were still holed up inside the shopping centre.

They added that the militants were located and isolated on one of the upper
floors of the complex around the casino.

A short while after starting the operation security forces were seen carrying a
body out of the mall, which remained on fire, with flames and smoke visible.

The Ministry of Interior tweeted this morning: "Our forces are combing the mall
floor by floor looking for anyone left behind. We believe all hostages have been
released."

Meanwhile in Britain MI5 is trawling records of Britons with links to extremists
in Somalia amid concerns that sympathisers could follow up the shopping mall
massacre in Kenya with terror attacks in the UK.

Intelligence officials are looking at the files of a number of young men who
have returned to Britain after training or attempting to get training with
al-Shabaab, the terrorist group behind the Westgate shopping centre attack in
Nairobi.

Among the dead Britons was Ross Langdon, 33, and his pregnant partner Elif
Yavuz, who was due to give birth to the couple's first child in two weeks. Mr
Langdon, an architect who was working pro-bono on an HIV hospital, was found
holding his partner, a Dutch national.

British consular officials waited for news at a triage centre near the shopping
mall where Kenyan volunteers donned binliners so that they could carry out the
corpses when the fighting stopped.

Israeli special forces are understood to be helping their Kenyan counterparts.
British special forces were also at the scene yesterday, but were not thought to
be directly involved in clearing the building.

General Julius Karangi, the head of the Kenya Defence Forces, said he was
gathering a detailed picture of the perpetrators' backgrounds. He added that
they were a "multinational collection," after the Foreign and Commonwealth
Office confirmed it was investigating reports on a jihadi website that one of
the attackers was British.

"This is not a local event," he said. "We are fighting a global event. We have
an idea who they are, their nationalities." Police said they had arrested ten
people for questioning, including one suspect who was held at Nairobi's
international airport yesterday.

Officers used teargas to disperse crowds of onlookers outside the mall
yesterday, amid fears that a secondary attack could be imminent.

Al-Shabaab said that the attack was a response to Kenya's decision to send
troops into Somalia in support of an African Union force, which helped to oust
al-Shabaab from power. A spokesman said their fighters would never negotiate.

There are an estimated 100,000 Somalis living in Britain, but only about 50
young men are thought to be fighting with al-Shabaab.

However, the group's ranks have been swelled by other Westerners of Pakistani,
Bangladeshi, Middle Eastern and West African origin.

They have travelled to Somalia from across the country, largely from areas of
London including Hounslow, Mile End and Kentish Town but also from Cardiff,
Leicester, Derby and elsewhere.

Few have been allowed to leave but some have returned to get involved in
publicity and fundraising in Britain, security sources say. British extremists
have risen up the ranks within al-Shabaab and the associated group known as
Al-Qaeda in East Africa.

It emerged today that one of the terrorists spared the life of four-year-old
Elliott Prior, from Windsor in Berkshire, who stood in front of his injured
mother Amber and six-year-old sister Amelie and shouted: "You're a bad man, let
us leave."

The gunman gave Elliott and Amelie a Mars Bar each and let the family go,
reportedly telling them: "Please forgive me, we are not monsters."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    September 24, 2013 Tuesday 12:18 AM GMT

MI5 hunts for Britons linked to terror attack

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham, Tom Coghlan and Jerome Starkey in Nairobi

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 936 words


MI5 is trawling records of Britons with links to extremists in Somalia amid
concerns that sympathisers could follow up the shopping mall massacre in Kenya
with terror attacks in the UK.

Intelligence officials are looking at the files of a number of young men who
have returned to Britain after training or attempting to get training with
al-Shabaab, the terrorist group behind the Westgate shopping centre attack in
Nairobi.

The attack has now claimed the lives of at least 62 people, including six
Britons.

M15 is liaising with Kenyan security officials to identify Britons who could
have been involved in the massacre after a Twitter account linked to al-Shabaab
named a Briton among the hostage-takers.

Kenyan security chiefs sought to reassure their countrymen that they were "in
full control" of the crisis, as explosions and gunfire sent rescue workers
diving for cover.

A large fireball was seen at the four-storey building shortly after sunset.

Joseph Ole Lenku, the Kenyan Interior Minister, said that two of the attackers
had been killed and most of the hostages freed. It is believed that at least 175
people have been injured.

Last night Kenyan officials said their forces were "in control" of the mall and
all the hostages were believed to have been released. Kenyan special forces were
not encountering any resistance.

"Our special forces are inside the building checking the rooms. Obviously it's a
very, very big building," Manoah Esipisu, a government spokesman, said.

It was unclear, however, what had happened to the remaining attackers.

Among the dead Britons was Ross Langdon, 33, and his pregnant partner Elif
Yavuz, who was due to give birth to the couple's first child in two weeks. Mr
Langdon, an architect who was working pro-bono on an HIV hospital, was found
holding his partner, a Dutch national.

British consular officials waited for news at a triage centre near the shopping
mall where Kenyan volunteers donned binliners so that they could carry out the
corpses when the fighting stopped.

After a lull in hostilities on Sunday night, fighting at the mall resumed at
dawn yesterday when witnesses reported more than 15 minutes of heavy and
sustained gunfire. Kenyan troops were seen congregating outside the building and
then running around its flank shortly before 10am.

Four explosions at about 1.30pm were followed by a plume of smoke which towered
into the overcast sky throughout the afternoon.

Mr Lenku blamed the terrorists, who he said were burning mattresses to try to
distract the advance. However, a security source said the fire was started by
stun grenades as Kenyan forces fought their way into the supermarket.

At one point there were at least five military aircraft, including two light
attack helicopters, a larger Mi17, and two small, fixed-wing planes, circling
low around the mall.

Officials said that this was part of a cordon "so there is no escape for the
terrorists". At least 11 Kenyan soldiers have been wounded during the operations
to retake the mall, but officials refused to confirm reports that at least three
of them had died.

Israeli special forces are understood to be helping their Kenyan counterparts.
British special forces were also at the scene yesterday, but were not thought to
be directly involved in clearing the building.

General Julius Karangi, the head of the Kenya Defence Forces, said he was
gathering a detailed picture of the perpetrators' backgrounds. He added that
they were a "multinational collection," after the Foreign Office confirmed it
was investigating reports on a jihadi website that one of the attackers was
British.

"This is not a local event," he said. "We are fighting a global event. We have
an idea who they are, their nationalities." Police said they had arrested ten
people for questioning, including one suspect who was held at Nairobi's
international airport yesterday.

Officers used teargas to disperse crowds of onlookers outside the mall
yesterday, amid fears that a secondary attack could be imminent.

Mr Lenku denied claims that a wanted British terror suspect, Samantha
Lewthwaite, was leading the assault, claiming that all the assailants were men.
The 29-year-old widow of Germain Lindsay, one of the suicide bombers who killed
52 people in London on July 7, 2005, is alleged to be linked to al-Shabaab, the
Somali terrorist group which has claimed responsibility for Saturday's attack.

However, Mr Lenku said some of the terrorists had dressed in women's clothes,
which may have explained survivors' reports of a female commander.

Al-Shabaab said that the attack was a response to Kenya's decision to send
troops into Somalia in support of an African Union force, which helped to oust
al-Shabaab from power. A spokesman said their fighters would never negotiate.

There are an estimated 100,000 Somalis living in Britain, but only about 50
young men are thought to be fighting with al-Shabaab.

However, the group's ranks have been swelled by other Westerners of Pakistani,
Bangladeshi, Middle Eastern and West African origin.

They have travelled to Somalia from across the country, largely from areas of
London including Hounslow, Mile End and Kentish Town but also from Cardiff,
Leicester, Derby and elsewhere. Few have been allowed to leave but some have
returned to get involved in publicity and fundraising in Britain, security
sources say. British extremists have risen up the ranks within al-Shabaab and
the associated group known as Al-Qaeda in East Africa.

Liaison between the UK and Kenyan officials is complicated by a ban on MI6 and
MI5 automatically sharing secrets because of concern over Nairobi's human rights
record.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MI5 hunts for Britons linked to terror attack;
First victims of shopping mall massacre named ; MI5 hunts for Britons linked to
Kenya attack

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham ; Tom Coghlan ; Jerome Starkey

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 949 words


MI5 is trawling records of Britons with links to extremists in Somalia amid
concerns that sympathisers could follow up the shopping mall massacre in Kenya
with terror attacks in the UK.

Intelligence officials are looking at the files of a number of young men who
have returned to Britain after training or attempting to get training with
al-Shabaab, the terrorist group behind the Westgate shopping centre attack in
Nairobi.

The attack has now claimed the lives of at least 62 people, including six
Britons.

M15 is liaising with Kenyan security officials to identify Britons who could
have been involved in the massacre after a Twitter account linked to al-Shabaab
named a Briton among the hostage-takers.

Kenyan security chiefs sought to reassure their countrymen that they were "in
full control" of the crisis, as explosions and gunfire sent rescue workers
diving for cover.

A large fireball was seen at the fourstorey building shortly after sunset.
Joseph Ole Lenku, the Kenyan Interior Minister, said that two of the attackers
had been killed and most of the hostages freed. It is believed that at least 175
people have been inJured.

Last night Kenyan officials said their forces were "in control" of the mall and
all the hostages were believed to have been released. Kenyan special forces were
not encountering any resistance.

"Our special forces are inside the building checking the rooms. Obviously it's a
very, very big building," Manoah Esipisu, a government spokesman, said.

It was unclear, however, what had happened to the remaining attackers.

Among the dead Britons was Ross Langdon, 33, and his pregnant partner Elif
Yavuz, who was due to give birth to the couple's first child in two weeks. Mr
Langdon, an architect who was working pro-bono on an HIV hospital, was found
holding his partner, a Dutch national.

British consular officials waited for news at a triage centre near the shopping
mall where Kenyan volunteers donned binliners so that they could carry out the
corpses when the fighting stopped.

After a lull in hostilities on Sunday night, fighting at the mall resumed at
dawn yesterday when witnesses reported more than 15 minutes of heavy and
sustained gunfire. Kenyan troops were seen congregating outside the building and
then running around its flank shortly before 10am.

Four explosions at about 1.30pm were followed by a plume of smoke which towered
into the overcast sky throughout the afternoon.

Mr Lenku blamed the terrorists, who he said were burning mattresses to try to
distract the advance. However, a security source said the fire was started by
stun grenades as Kenyan forces fought their way into the supermarket.

At one point there were at least five military aircraft, including two light
attack helicopters, a larger Mi17, and two small, fixed-wing planes, circling
low around the mall.

Officials said that this was part of a cordon "so there is no escape for the
terrorists". At least 11 Kenyan soldiers have been wounded during the operations
to retake the mall, but officials refused to confirm reports that at least three
of them had died.

Israeli special forces are understood to be helping their Kenyan counterparts.

British special forces were also at the scene yesterday, but were not thought to
be directly involved in clearing the building.

General Julius Karangi, the head of the Kenya Defence Forces, said he was
gathering a detailed picture of the perpetrators' backgrounds. He added that
they were a "multinational collection," after the Foreign Office confirmed it
was investigating reports on a Jihadi Continued on page 5, col 1

Continued from page 1 website that one of the attackers was British.

"This is not a local event," he said. "We are fighting a global event. We have
an idea who they are, their nationalities."

Police said they had arrested ten people for questioning, including one suspect
who was held at Nairobi's international airport yesterday.

Officers used teargas to disperse crowds of onlookers outside the mall
yesterday, amid fears that a secondary attack could be imminent.

Mr Lenku denied claims that a wanted British terror suspect, Samantha
Lewthwaite, was leading the assault, claiming that all the assailants were men.
The 29-year-old widow of Germain Lindsay, one of the suicide bombers who killed
52 people in London on July 7, 2005, is alleged to be linked to al-Shabaab, the
Somali terrorist group which has claimed responsibility for Saturday's attack.

However, Mr Lenku said some of the terrorists had dressed in women's clothes,
which may have explained survivors' reports of a female commander.

Al-Shabaab said that the attack was a response to Kenya's decision to send
troops into Somalia in support of an African Union force, which helped to oust
al-Shabaab from power. A spokesman said their fighters would never negotiate.

There are an estimated 100,000 Somalis living in Britain, but only about 50
young men are thought to be fighting with al-Shabaab.

However, the group's ranks have been swelled by other Westerners of Pakistani,
Bangladeshi, Middle Eastern and West African origin.

They have travelled to Somalia from across the country, largely from areas of
London including Hounslow, Mile End and Kentish Town but also from Cardiff,
Leicester, Derby and elsewhere.

Few have been allowed to leave but some have returned to get involved in
publicity and fundraising in Britain, security sources say. British extremists
have risen up the ranks within al-Shabaab and the associated group known as
Al-Qaeda in East Africa.

Liaison between the UK and Kenyan officials is complicated by a ban on MI6 and
MI5 automatically sharing secrets because of concern over Nairobi's human rights
record.

Continued from page 1 website [...]

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

East African regional bodies discuss terrorist attacks in Kenya

LENGTH: 239 words


Text of report in English by Ethiopian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on 24
September

Foreign Ministers of IGAD [Inter-Governmental Authority on Development] and the
East African Community (EAC) met in New York on Monday (23 September), on the
margins of the United Nations General Assembly.

The foreign minister of Kenya, Ambassador Amina Mohamed, briefed her foreign
ministerial colleagues from Burundi, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Somalia, South
Sudan, Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda on the terrorist attack by Al-Shabab on the
Westgate shopping mall which claimed the lives of over sixty innocent civilians,
and left many more injured.

Following discussion, the ministers expressed their deep condolences for the
tragic events and underlined their solidarity with the people and government of
Kenya. They issued a communique strongly condemning the terrorist attack, and
emphasized their determination to support all efforts to bring the perpetrators
and designers of this appalling and heinous act to justice. They reaffirmed
their full commitment to counter terrorism and extremism in all its forms and
manifestations. The meeting also proposed that the chiefs of security and
intelligence throughout the region should hold an urgent meeting as soon as
possible to create a regional mechanism to coordinate their efforts to
collectively fight terrorism.

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Addis Ababa, in English 24 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

Ethiopia condemns terrorist attack in Kenya mall

LENGTH: 177 words


Text of report in English by Ethiopian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on 24
September

Addis Ababa, 24 September: The government of Ethiopia has condemned the
terrorist attack against civilians in a Nairobi shopping mall, which caused the
loss of many lives, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.

The spokesperson of the ministry, Ambassador Dina Mufti, told ENA [Ethiopian
News Agency] on Tuesday [24 September] that the government of Ethiopia will
stand with the government and people of Kenya in the fight against terrorism. He
said Ethiopia considered this cowardly attack committed last Saturday [21
September] in Nairobi as an attack against all member states of IGAD
(Inter-Governmental Authority on Development) and the AU in general.

He expressed the solidarity of the government of Ethiopia with the government
and people of Kenya. The Ethiopian government extended condolences to the
families of the deceased and wished a speedy recovery to the injured, the
spokesperson said.

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Addis Ababa, in English 24 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

Turkey's top Muslim cleric condemns Kenya, Pakistan terror attacks

LENGTH: 179 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 25
September

(Todays Zaman) - Religious Affairs Directorate President Mehmet Gormez has
stated that he wants to announce to the whole world that Muslims strongly
condemn the latest terrorist attacks targeting non-Muslims in Pakistan and
Kenya.

A pair of suicide bombers blew themselves up outside a 130-year-old church in
Pakistan after Sunday mass, killing at least 78 people in the deadliest attack
on Christians in the predominantly Muslim South Asian country. At least 67
people have been confirmed dead and 175 others injured after an
al-Qaeda-affiliated terrorist group, al-Shabab, laid siege to a shopping mall in
the Kenyan capital city of Nairobi over the weekend.

Gormez stated that those who attacked Christians in Kenya and Pakistan are the
people with same ideologies that attack Muslims from various sects in
neighbouring Iraq. Gormez indicated that these terrorist groups try to justify
their "evil and disturbing" attacks with religion.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 25 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

Zimbabweans condemn terror attack in Kenyan mall

LENGTH: 851 words


Text of report by London-based Zimbabwe independent SW Radio Africa website on
24 September

[Report by Nomalanga Moyo: "Zimbabweans Condemn Kenya Mall Terror Attack"]

Zimbabweans have condemned the terrorist attacks on a shopping mall in Nairobi,
Kenya, in which at least 62 people have been killed and around 175 others have
been left injured.

The attacks began on Saturday by armed Somali Islamist militants from the Al
Shabab terrorist group, who stormed the Westgate shopping mall, shooting and
throwing grenades at shoppers.

The terrorists also took some hostages in a crisis that spilled into its fourth
day Tuesday, with Kenyan authorities promising painful punishment to the
attackers.

At least 18 foreigners are reported to have died including six Britons, and
citizens from France, Canada, Netherlands, Australia, Peru, India, Ghana, South
Africa and China.

So far, there are no indications that any Zimbabweans were caught up in the mall
massacre, according to the Zimbabwean ambassador to Kenya Kelebert Nkomani.

In a response to an emailed enquiry by SW Radio Africa Tuesday, Nkomani said:
"The embassy is not aware of any Zimbabwean national who may have been caught up
in the tragic attacks at Westgate Mall."

"I must, however, underline that it is too early to say this will remain so to
the end as the list of those who sadly passed on has not yet, to our knowledge,
been made public. You will also be aware that there are still many people in
hospitals," the ambassador said.

Following the attacks Saturday, Zimbabweans have reacted with revulsion at what
has been described by many as a 'Godless' and 'heartless' act.

Writing on the social networking website Facebook, rights defender Arnold Tsunga
wrote: "My thoughts are with the wonderful people of Kenya. No one deserves to
live in fear. I hope that the perpetrators of the heinous act are brought to
justice."

Human rights group the Crisis in Zim Coalition issued a statement condemning "in
the strongest of terms the attacks on defenceless civilians in the name of
religion by the Islamist terror group Al Shabab."

"We cannot overstate the severity of the breach of fundamental human rights and
freedoms that have been visited on the citizens of Kenya by these terrorist
activities," the Coalition said in a statement on Tuesday.

The statement added: "We stand in solidarity with our African brothers and
sisters in Kenya and beyond during this time of collective apprehension
occasioned by an escalation of religious fundamentalism on the continent."

Speaking to SW Radio Africa, Crisis Coalition spokesman Thabani Nyoni said the
tragedy also highlighted the need for effective conflict resolution on the
continent.

"At an interstate level, this attack is a spill-over from the conflict and
instability in Somalia, which also points to the dangers of not effectively
dealing with and resolving security issues. Within the Zimbabwean context, this
speaks to the need for tolerance. We have seen elsewhere in Africa what happens
when intolerance takes hold," Nyoni said.

"As a people we need to respect each other's religious, cultural, and political
rights because if we don't, we expose ourselves to such violent expressions of
intolerance," Nyoni added.

In another Facebook post, the MDC led by Welshman Ncube condemned what the party
said was "heinous acts of cowardice which are inhuman and barbaric."

"We extend our heartfelt sympathies to the people of Kenya. Our prayers and
thoughts are with the families who lost loved ones and those who have been
injured in this dreadful and callous atrocity. We encourage President Uhuru
Kenyatta to maintain resolve and gain strength from the knowledge that all peace
loving, war and terror abhorring citizens of our continent and the world wish
Kenya well," the MDC said.

South Africa-based media expert Loveness Chikozho said the attack was a "Godless
and heartless act", and called for peaceful resolution to grievances.

Chikozho said: "However one looks at it, this was an attack on the most
vulnerable in society, unarmed civilians mostly women and children who likely to
be the majority of shoppers."

"It is difficult to see the religious element in this massacre. Already, genuine
Moslems are distancing themselves from this form of Islam which kills innocents.
If these Somali militants had a political grievance which could have been
resolved through dialogue, they have shut the door to this avenue," Chikozho
added.

The Somali terrorist movement said it carried out the attack in retaliation
against Kenyan military operations in Somalia.

Fed up with the constant intrusions into its territory by Somali Al Shabab
militants who were kidnapping tourists and aid workers, Kenya launched a
military campaign into Somalia in 2011.

Kenyan forces succeeded in driving Al Shabab out of its stronghold in the Somali
port city of Kismayo in 2012, a defeat which severely crippled the terror group.

Kenya has maintained its military presence in Somalia as part of a UN
peacekeeping force, much to the irritation of the Jihadist militants.

Source: SW Radio Africa website, London, in English 0000 gmt 24 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                    September 25, 2013 Wednesday 4:59 PM GMT

Mystery Irish ex-Army hero saved hundreds in terror attack at Nairobi mall

BYLINE: By Tom Brady

SECTION: REPUBLIC OF IRELAND

LENGTH: 366 words


A former Irish Army ranger helped save hundreds of terrified shoppers who were
trapped inside the Westgate mall as it came under terrorist attack at the
weekend.

The hero, who does not want his identity to be revealed, was part of a group of
four who fought off some of the al Qa'ida linked attackers to rescue the
terrified shoppers.

A close friend revealed last night that the ex-soldier was about to leave the
mall when the attack began and he ran back inside with a former British soldier.

They were provided with guns by two Asian men and the four ran into an
underground car park where they found over 200 shoppers and staff hiding behind
parked trucks.

They brought the group up a ramp onto a street and then returned to the mall
where they found another 100 people.

The men also helped to bring them out of the mall.

But when the two ex-soldiers tried to gain access to the third floor, where some
colleagues were based, they came under fire from the roof.

They returned fire and moved into a restaurant where others were in hiding.

After a further exchange of gunfire, they found another large group of shoppers
and engaged with the gunmen again as they brought them to safety.

The close friend told the Irish Independent last night: "They left no one
behind.

"In escorting those people from the premises they took more fire from the upper
floor before escaping.

"This man then spent three hours using his paramedical training to help the
injured, including people who had been shot or hit by hand grenade shrapnel, and
then turned restaurant tables into temporary stretchers to shuttle them to
safety.

"His skills saved the lives of many. Eye witness accounts say he did an
extraordinary job", the friend added.

The former soldier spent several years in the Army Ranger Wing.

He is from the Midlands and is currently working as a consultant with an
international company based in Africa.

He had been in Nairobi on business and was making a social visit to the mall
when the shooting started.

His friend said he slipped out of the mall afterwards in blood-soaked jeans and
t-shirt and "stayed out of the limelight, despite tweets and appeals on Facebook
from people, who wanted to thank him for his efforts".

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Bucks Herald

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

Confusion remains over Samantha Lewthwaite's involvement in terror attack as
media spotlight shines on Aylesbury

LENGTH: 589  words


As Kenyan authorities declared an end to the Nairobi shopping mall siege,
conflicting reports have continued to emerge about the involvement of
Aylesbury's Samantha Lewthwaite in the attack,

Twitter accounts and other officials claiming to represent Al Shabaab, the
Somali militant group that says it is responsible for the massacre, have given
differing views on the former Grange pupil's role.

The group was at one point reported to say there were no women involved in the
attack, but it was later claimed through a Twitter account that Lewthwaite,
known as the White Widow, had overseen the deadly operation.

Aylesbury has been mentioned around the world in countless reports of the
incident at the Westgate complex, which began on Saturday, with media crews from
Russia, America and France trying to track down her family in the town, along
with the UK's national press.

Particular focus has been on the home of Lewthwaite's father, Andrew, who lives
in Southcourt.

Photographers have been camped outside his semi-detached house and various media
outlets have been reporting from the scene, as well as Northern Road, where
Lewthwaite used to live with 7/7 bomber Jermaine Lindsay.

The Bucks Herald approached Mr Lewthwaite, but he declined to comment on the
speculation surrounding his daughter, saying: "I don't want to speak to anyone."

On Monday night reports of Lewthwaite's involvement in the attack were fuelled
by comments from Kenya's foreign minister, Amina Mohamed, who told PBS NewsHour
a British woman was believed to be among the militant group, adding that she has
done this many times before'.

On Tuesday, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta confirmed there were intelligence
reports that one Briton was among the attackers.

There have also been claims a balaclava-clad white woman holding a gun was
giving orders to the terrorists, as well as reports from the Reuters news agency
that a white woman is among three militants killed when Kenyan forces stormed
the shopping mall.

There has been no confirmation of the 29 year old mother-of-three's involvement
in the attack, but the Daily Mail claims a senior Kenyan anti-terror officer
said: "We believe that she was involved in the attack.

"We cannot doubt the eyewitnesses who say they saw her commanding the
attackers."

A Foreign Office spokesman said of the claims about Lewthwaite: "We are aware of
them and we are looking into them. We are not speculating about this."

Lewthwaite, a Muslim convert, has been on the run since she was linked with a
plot to blow up a shopping centre in Mombasa, Kenya's second city, in 2011.

Iftekhar Bashir, president of the Aylesbury Mosque, was a teacher at the Grange
when Lewthwaite was a student there but says he only knew her in passing.

Mr Bashir said: "If all this is true then it's very sad to hear."

Councillor Raj Khan, who knew Lewthwaite before the 7/7 attack, said people
should not jump to conclusions.

Mr Khan said: "I'm worried that the picture that has been demonising her may be
premature because it has not been substantiated. Unless there is hard evidence
we should not just unnecessarily jump to conclusions. Whether she is part of
this tragedy or not, we will remain as one community."

Mr Khan described Lewthwaite as a family friend' before she disappeared.

He said: "She was an innocent young person.

"She would do anything to accommodate other people, she was a very good human
being.

"She did everything to help others.

"I would not think for a moment that she could be the head of an international
terrorist organisation."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCBH


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

British convert stored bomb material for tourist resort attack, court told;
TERROR TRIAL

BYLINE: Zoe Flood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 359 words


A BRITON linked to the "white widow" Samantha Lewthwaite kept potentially
explosive chemicals in his Kenyan home as part of an alleged terrorist plot to
target tourist resorts, a court heard yesterday.

Police discovered the materials in the Mombasa home of Jermaine Grant, an
alleged accomplice of Lewthwaite, in a raid in 2011, a Scotland Yard detective
told the court in the coastal city.

Security was tight at the trial of the suspected Islamist militant, with
paramilitary police flanking the Shanzu law courts in the wake of the Westgate
shopping centre massacre in Nairobi.

Prosecutors allege that Grant, 30, a Muslim convert from London, was a close
associate of Lewthwaite, whose possible involvement in the terrorist attack this
week has been the subject of worldwide speculation. Lewthwaite, who has also
been charged with terrorism offences in her absence, has been linked to Grant
but has been on the run for nearly two years.

In March, Kenya's state prosecutor, Jacob Ondari, alleged that Lewthwaite was
planning an armed operation to free Grant from custody. He advised that the
trial be moved to the maximum-security Shimo La Tewa prison where convicted and
suspected pirates are held.

Kenyan police arrested Grant in Mombasa in December 2011 and on searching his
house found a range of what they say were bomb materials. He denies being in
possession of bomb-making materials and conspiring to carry out an attack.

Robert John Garrick, one of three Metropolitan Police officers expected to
testify at the trial this week, said that he had found chemicals "that put
together in a particular way can be used to make explosives".

Mr Garrick told the court that chemicals including battery acid were found,
which when combined are "very unstable".

Grant was charged yesterday with five new counts relating to the procurement of
false documents. Earlier this month he was acquitted of robbery charges in a
separate trial in Nairobi.

Standing in a courtroom cell surrounded by police, Grant denied each fresh
charge. He appeared alongside two Kenyans who face similar charges, including
the woman whom police say is Grant's wife, Warda Breik Islam.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jermaine Grant, a Muslim convert from London, is on trial in Mombasa on
terrorism charges
Kenyan soldiers move in formation, clearing the top floor balcony and interior
of Westgate Mall during the siege in Nairobi
C DE SOUZA/ GETTY IMAGES; ENTERPRISE NEWS AND PICTURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Citizen journalism helps the truth to come out;
It was iPhone footage of the terrorist attack in Kenya that showed the world the
horrors inside Westgate mall

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 589 words


AS THE terrifying gunshots ring out repeatedly, jerky mobile phone footage
conveys the sudden terror of shoppers fleeing from gunmen, some screaming, but
many remarkably calm. They run for their lives, weaving between the aisles of a
supermarket in a desperate search for safety.

One man describes into his phone the attack "by terrorists", while others huddle
for safety behind a storeroom door. It is shocking footage, the terror of the
situation brought home by the realisation that this is what actual gunfire
sounds like; how genuine terror looks.

In Nairobi, as with other recent events such as the Boston Marathon bombings,
the Woolwich attack and the Costa Concordia disaster, it is footage from the
general public that has provided the news images which have resonated around the
world.

The power of the iPhone and other mobile devices has entirely transformed the
nature of such tragedies. In truth, the traditional, mainstream news
broadcasters are outside the shopping centre filming very little live as the
sound of shooting rages within. It is the mobile phone footage that has emerged
which gives us the clearest indication of the true horrors inside.

Such "citizen journalism" brings tragedy to life in a way we have never quite
seen before in broadcast history. Of course, from the Vietnam War onwards, we
have seen first-hand reporting of terrifying, lifethreatening situations, but
these accounts were being provided by professional journalists and their crews.
They chose to be there and were paid for so doing. Brave, of course, but they
had a choice.

Those caught in Westgate shopping centre had no choice. Filming is a risky act
of bravery in itself. Their "amateur" footage - however grainy or blurry -
reveals the truth and helps hold the authorities to account, in this case
countering the Kenyans' repeated assurances that the awful, chaotic situation
was "under control" or even "over".

Yes, citizen journalism has had a mixed press, in part from journalists anxious
about the threat to their livelihoods. At its best, in its purest form as seen
here, it provides news organisations with innumerable extra eyes and ears to
help the truth get told. It may also bypass media groups via social media.

Citizen journalism is now a crucial part of modern-day newsgathering. It allows
us to witness events from corners of our world we would never before have
accessed. It is here to stay and will be a key part of our armour when we launch
London Live.

Stefano.hatfield@londonlive.co.uk www.Twitter.com: @stefanohat ¦SO MANY of you
have been in touch about potential jobs at London Live. I've tried to respond
personally but it is difficult keeping up. At the moment there is a tiny team
beavering away in a windowless corner of the Standard and the Independent's
offices in Kensington High Street. If that hasn't put you off, then watch this
space over the next couple of weeks for news. And tell your friends in
television. We will be launching a major recruitment drive for fresh talent both
in front of and behind the camera but we will be favouring people with some
previous experience. So, get polishing those CVs and showreels.

Want to get involved with shaping London Live and the Evening Standard itself?
Sign up for our new London Views panel. We will ask your opinions up to a couple
of times a month, and there are rewards for taking part. Go to
www.LondonViews.org to learn more.

London Live launches in spring 2014 on Freeview 8, Sky 117, Virgin 159, mobile,
web, taxis and outdoor media. Twitter: @LondonLive

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ARSON COULD HAVE June Hier's home when KILLED US ALL;
Mum tells of terror after fire attack on neighbour's home

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1 words

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: June Hierons and sons Connor and Dylan Roth who were home when a man
set fire to their neighbour's house KATIE LUNN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EGM


                    Copyright 2013 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    September 25, 2013 Wednesday 8:01 PM GMT

Cambridge graduate Niall Saville "devastated" by loss of wife in Kenya terror
attack

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 263 words


A BRITON whose wife died in the terrorist attack on Kenya's Westgate Shopping
Mall said he was "devastated and heartbroken" by her death.

Cambridge graduate Niall Saville, who was shot in the shoulder during the siege
in Nairobi, lost his South Korean wife Moon Hee Kang.

Mrs Kang died after suffering grenade wounds sustained during the attack when a
group of terrorists targeted the mall with grenades and assault rifles.

A joint statement issued by the Foreign Office from the Saville and Kang
families described the victim as a "bright, loving, kind and genuine person".

The statement said: "The Saville family wish to confirm that Niall was injured
in the Nairobi attack on Saturday, and that his wife, Moon Hee Kang, was fatally
wounded.

"The Saville and Kang families are devastated and heartbroken by the sudden loss
of Moon Hee.

Saville's wife Moon Hee Kang died in the Kenya terror attack [RAYMONDS PRESS]

"She was very close to the Saville family and brought so much joy to all of
their lives. She and Niall had lived in numerous locations around the world
together, but they always had time for both families.

"Moon Hee was a bright, loving, kind and genuine person who will be greatly
missed. Both families need to focus on grieving and supporting Niall through his
recovery and request that there is no more intrusion into their lives."

The families called on being given the time and privacy to mourn alone and asked
for Mr Saville to be left to grieve.

They also offered their thanks to hospital staff and the Red Cross for their
help and support during the difficult time.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    September 25, 2013 Wednesday 4:17 PM GMT

Terrorist group al-Shabab claim death toll from Kenya shopping mall terror
attack is 137

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 458 words


THE Islamic terrorist group behind the four-day siege of Nairobi's Westgate
Shopping Centre claimed today the death toll is almost double what has been
confirmed.

Al-Shabab,which claimed responsibility for the Kenya attack, alleged on Twitter
that 137 people were killed in the atrocity.

The country's President Uhuru Kenyatta had said at least 72 people had died in
the attacks, including 61 civilians, five terrorists and six security officers.

Tweets from the account believed to be run by al-Shabab also claimed that the
government used "chemical gases" to end the siege after a stand off between
police and terrorists.

Kenyan government spokesman Manoah Esipisu said: "Al-Shabab is known for wild
allegations and there is absolutely no truth to what they're saying."

The four-day seige in Nairobi claimed the lives of at least 61 civilians [EPA]

Mr Esipisu also rejected claims that chemical weapons were used and that the
civilian death toll stands at 61.

The news comes as Kenya begin a three day period of national mourning following
the deadly four-day siege.

Across the country flags have flown at half-mast as relatives of the victims
hold funerals for those killed in the attacks.

Officials have said the death toll is likely to rise and estimates range from a
few casualties to dozens of bodies possibly still inside the mall.

The American ambassador to Kenya said US experts are helping Kenyan forces
search for bodies and evidence in the collapsed mall.

Incredible footage has shown an officer rescuing a family in the mall
[ENTERPRISE NEWS AND PICTURES]

The FBI are aiding Kenya forensic experts to reconstruct what happened in the
attack while a Scotland Yard team is also helping.

Officials in Kenya said 11 suspects have been arrested in connection with the
attack who are being questioned about it.

Incredible footage has emerged of a heroic police officer rescuing a mother and
her two children after they were told to pretend to be dead.

The brave officer crawled along the floor slowly to reach the family, who were
hiding behind a panel, and once he reached them he rushed them to safety.

The Foreign Office also confirmed that a British national has been arrested in
connection with the attack.

Police have not confirmed the involvement of Samantha Lewthwaite [ENTERPRISE
NEWS AND PICTURES]

However, British High Commissioner Christian Turner said the 35-year-old is
"not of significant interest".

Police have not confirmed whether Muslim convert Samantha Lewthwaite, widow of
7/7 bomber Germaine Lindsay, was involved in the attack.

Nicknmaed the White Widow the Buckinghamshire mother of three is the world's
most wanted woman.

She has an arrest warrant in Kenya on bomb making charges and she has close ties
to the Al-Shabab terrorist group.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

Nairobi siege: Perpetrators: Attack may boost terrorist group

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 391 words


The Somalia-based Islamist group known as al-Shabaab will emerge stronger and
more unified after its terrorist attack in Nairobi, and could provide other
extreme groups with an example to follow, counter-insurgency analysts warned
yesterday.

Al-Shabaab's message is that it is "down but not out" - that it is "losing
territory but not people", said David Kilcullen, a former adviser to David
Petraeus, then US commander in Iraq.

The purpose of the Westgate mall attack was to send Kenyans a message - it was
the consequence of sending troops to Somalia, said Kilcullen, who was in London
to launch his book, Out of the Mountains: The Coming Age of the Urban Guerrilla.

He suggested that al-Shabaab wanted to provoke overreaction by the Kenyan
security forces and gain more support, especially in Eastleigh, the eastern
district of Nairobi where most of the 250,000 Somalis in the Kenyan capital
live.

Kilcullen said al-Shabaab, which announced last year that it had allied itself
with al-Qaida, was supported by about 5,000 fighters, many of them Kenyans,
Tanzanians and Ugandans, but also that there were about 40 westerners, most of
whom were American with a few British.

British security sources estimate that 50 or so Britons have joined al-Shabaab
in Somalia. But that figure is believed to have fallen. British
counterintelligence officials say that Syria is now the "jihadist destination of
choice".

Like other analysts, Kilcullen predicted that there would be further attacks in
east African countries, including Uganda, which had sent troops to fight
al-Shabaab in Somalia as part of an African Union force, and Ethiopia, which had
deployed troops across the border in Somalia.

"(Nairobi) was clearly a successful operation which required training and
audacity, and will boost the organisation," said Raffaello Pantucci, senior
research fellow at the Royal United Services Institute.

But he said it would be surprising, given the effort and individuals required,
if al-Shabaab mounted another attack on the same scale in the immediate future.
More likely was a series of low-level attacks.

Kilcullen compared the attack on the upmarket Nairobi shopping mall with the
2008 attack by terrorists in Mumbai. That incident caused concern for MI5.

Captions:

50

The number of Britons who have joined al-Shabaab in Somalia, according to
British security sources

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'WE'RE SO RELIEVED SHE'S SAFE';
Warrington woman caught up in Kenya terror attack

BYLINE: THOMAS MARTIN

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 246 words


THE family of a Warrington woman caught up in the Kenyan terrorist horror told
how their daughter escaped the Westgate shopping mall before sprinting down the
city streets and sheltering in an outdoor compound.

Bethan Rayner, an architect who runs a bespoke furniture business with her
husband Naeem, was in a popular cafe in the complex with him and their
seven-month-old daughter Hami when the insurgents struck.

The 35-year-old has since spoken twice to her anxious parents Ian, 62, and
Tricia, 61, back home in Warrington on Skype since the atrocity.

Tricia said: "It was very frightening.

"They were very fortunate the cafe is on the edge of the complex and on the
ground floor so they could get out pretty quickly.

"Bethan ran down the street and took shelter in a compound so they remained
safe.

"She was quite traumatised when I spoke to her afterwards.

"But they are safe and well and it's a relief to know they haven't been harmed.

"We had other relatives also in the mall who were trapped in a bank for four
hours, so that was scary.

"The bank staff opened the vault so they could take refuge in there.

"I've spoken to their mother who was frightened.

"So much horrible stuff goes on in the world."

Bethan, who moved to Kenya eight years ago, has been involved in design work for
a new cathedral in the valley town of Kericho.

Father Ian said: "We've always known with Somalia there's the chance of
problems, so we've been wary at times in the past with our daughter being in
Kenya."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LUCKY ESCAPE: Bethan Raynor with her daughter Hami

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2013 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Nuneaton News

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

Nuneaton RFC full-back Ruaridh McConnochie discusses fleeing Kenua after
terrorist attacks

BYLINE: MATT DAVIES

LENGTH: 482  words


NUNEATON RFC full-back Ruaridh McConnochie has revealed how he fled Kenya with
the England Royals team following devastating terror attacks.

The 21-year-old was making his international debut in the Safaricom Sevens when
al-Shabab Somali militants stormed the Westgates Shopping Centre, killing at
least 62 people.

As a result the team decided to rush back to England after talks at the end of
day one of Africa's biggest sevens tournament.

He said: "The hotel is about five minutes from where it all happened so we
weren't too far away from it all.

"We heard on Saturday there had been a series of shootings. Local news weren't
sure if it was a bank robbery gone wrong or terrorism to start with.

"When we found out it was an act of terrorism the team had a meeting to discuss
the situation. Being out there playing rugby for your country is great but your
personal safety is more important.

"We felt it wasn't worth the risk, no matter how small.

"On the first day I didn't really think about it. We didn't think they would
target the rugby except to put people off going.

"At no point did I feel completely unsafe but it was quite an experience. We got
the last flight out of Nairobi and then I got home early on Monday morning."

The University of Gloucestershire student did get to play some rugby as England
made it through the group stage before deciding to return home a day early.

They went down 12-10 to Kenya Harlequins in their opening match - Rob Vickerman
and Sam Edgerley scoring - but hit their stride after that.

They beat Homeboyz 36-7, Mat Turner scoring a hat-trick, then saw off Grenoble
35-17 in a game featuring two tries from Bristol youngster Auguy Slowick.

McConnochie had expected to travel out as one of the junior members of the
squad, so he was shocked to discover he would have a prominent role.

"I played a lot, much more than I expected too. I was the main playmaker, but I
only found that out when I got there," he said.

"It was a great experience. I managed to learn a lot from some experienced guys.

"The pace of the game was completely different to sevens I've played and the
altitude turned out to be a real killer."

He is now waiting to see if he will get another chance of international honours,
something he would very much like to happen again.

"I'd love to have another chance to do it again. I've got a debrief by the end
of the week so we'll find out how each of us did," he said.

"If it doesn't happen then at least I've had a fantastic experience."

McConnochie, who hails from Kent, will returns to Nuns action at the weekend.

The team will be looking to recover from Saturday's defeat to Old Halesonians.
The full-back says there is no reason to panic at this stage.

"It's a shame to lose but it's still early. It sounds like we didn't take our
chances," he said.

"I think missing a few players hurt us. There were quite a few new players in
the team at the same time."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NN


                    Copyright 2013 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

Kenya terror attack: Six Britons dead

BYLINE: Chris Marshall And Claire Gardner

LENGTH: 1260  words


THE death toll of Britons caught up in a terrorist attack in a Nairobi shopping
centre has risen to six, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond has confirmed.

The Foreign Office gave an update on casualties after Defence Secretary Philip
Hammond chaired a meeting of the Cobra emergency committee in Whitehall.

David Cameron is returning to Downing Street to oversee the British response to
the crisis, as Kenyan security forces attempt to clear the Westgate Mall and
free any surviving hostages.

Powerful explosions earlier sent thick smoke billowing from the mall where
militants from Somalia's al Qaeda-linked al Shabaab group threatened to kill
hostages on the third day of a raid in which at least 59 have already died.

The blast was followed by other smaller detonations and volleys of gunfire but
there was no indication of the fate of people whom the authorities say are being
held by 10 to 15 Islamist gunmen who took the complex by storm on Saturday.

As troops ran into new positions, one security official at the scene said: "It
is us who caused the explosion, we are trying to get in through the roof." He
declined to be named.

Military spokesman Colonel Cyrus Oguna declined comment when asked whether
security forces had set off the detonations or whether militants had set off
explosives inside the building.

A plume of oily black smoke was still pouring from the building after half an
hour.

A senior officer had said police were "closing in" on the militants after
rescuing more trapped people overnight. But officials have been suggesting since
Sunday that the siege may be near an end, while the guerrillas seemingly remain
at large.

Interior Minister Joseph Ole Lenku said "a few" people were still hostage: "Our
disciplined forces ... have been extremely careful to find the balance between
neutralising the attackers and getting as many people to safety as possible," he
added.

A spokesman for al Shabaab, which has demanded Kenya pull its troops out of
neighbouring Somalia, warned they would kill hostages if Kenyan security forces,
who are being assisted by Western and Israeli experts, tried to storm their
positions:

"Israelis and Kenyan forces have tried to enter Westgate by force but they could
not," Sheikh Ali Mohamud Rage said in an audio statement posted online. "The
mujahideen will kill the hostages if the enemies use force."

On Twitter, the group posted: "As the operation gathers momentum inside
#Westgate, the Mujahideen are for the 3rd day still in full control of the
situation on the ground."

The Red Cross said on Monday that the death toll since Saturday's initial
lunchtime bloodbath stood at 69. But Interior Minister Lenku said that was wrong
and that only 59 were dead.

The Red Cross also said it had also recorded 63 people being reported by
relatives as missing.

Survivors' tales of the military-style assault by squads of attackers hurling
grenades and spraying automatic fire, has left little doubt the hostage-takers
are willing to kill. Previous raids around the world, including at a desert gas
plan in

Algeria nine months ago, suggest they are also ready to die.

Background: African republic finds itself drawn into bloody ideological battles

Kenya is no stranger to terrorist attacks, most of which have been carried out
Islamic extremists linked to al-Qaeda.

The most notorious was the 1998 US embassy suicide bombing in Nairobi, when
trucks laden with explosives were parked outside embassies in Nairobi and in Dar
es Salaam, Tanzania, and detonated. In Nairobi, 212 people were killed, and
4,000 wounded.

Since Kenyan troops were sent along with American, French and Ethiopian forces
to defend the transitional government in southern Somalia in 2011, there have
been a number of small-scale grenade and bomb attacks on churches, bars, bus
stations, military sites and shopping centres around Nairobi and Mombasa.

In May 2012, a shopping complex on Nairobi's Moi Avenue was blown up, wounding
30 people. The following month, a bar in Mombasa was hit by a grenade attack,
killing one and injuring several others.

In recent weeks, Kenyan police claimed to have disrupted a major terrorist
attack, arresting two people in Nairobi.

The victims: World counts the cost as nations report their loss

KENYA: President Uhuru Kenyatta said his nephew and nephew's fiancée are among
the dead.

INDIA:  Eight-year-old Parmashu Jain and 40-year-old Sridhar Natarajan killed
and four wounded in the attack.

BRITAIN: Foreign Office said at least four UK nationals killed and warned the
number of such fatalities is "likely to rise as further information becomes
available".

FRANCE: President Francois Hollande said two women died.

SOUTH AFRICA: One citizen killed.

CANADA: Two Canadians, including diplomat Annemarie Desloges, died in the
attack.

USA: The wife of a foreign service national working for the US Agency for
International Development was killed, and four American citizens were injured,

GHANA: Poet Kofi Awoonor, a professor and served as an ambassador in Brazil,
Cuba and the United Nations, died.

NETHERLANDS: A 33-year-old Dutch woman died but seven other Dutch citizens in
the mall escaped unharmed.

CHINA: A 38-year-old woman waskilled and her son injured.

Analysis by Andrew Silke: Lethal firepower against soft targets is favoured
strategy

In attacking Nairobi, Al-Shabaab has used the most potent tactic in the modern
terrorist's arsenal: heavily armed, roving gunmen attacking soft targets.

Certainly in the UK, this type of attack has officially been the number one
threat scenario in recent years. In India, the Mumbai attack in 2008
demonstrated just how dangerous such tactics are.

While a team of al-Qaeda suicide bombers could cause carnage,  such violence is
localised and usually over in seconds or minutes. In Nairobi, the violence
spread and endured, causing hysteria, panic and confusion.

Security planners in Whitehall dislike the term "Mumbai-style" and discourage
its use, but there is no disguising that it is the scenario which worries them
the most. Drawn-out gun battles not only result in heavy casualties and possible
hostage taking, but also create the media interest the terrorists desire.

Nairobi is unquestionably Al-Shabaab's highest-profile operation to date. No
attack carried out in Somalia could have received similar attention, even if the
death toll had been ten, 20 or even  30 times higher. By staging it in one of
the most affluent parts of bustling, popular Nairobi, the group ensured it got
the world's attention. By using a Mumbai-style strategy, it also ensured this
attention would be prolonged and intense. Serious questions will be raised about
how the government and the security forces responded, and whether the Kenyan
military should be fighting in Somalia to begin with. Indian security forces
were ridiculed for how they responded to Mumbai and, inevitably, the Kenyan
authorities can expect the same.

Why has Al-Shabaab carried out this attack? Within the wider region it has
seemed for some time that the group was in disarray. The movement went from
controlling large parts of Somalia to being pushed out of the cities.
Al-Shabaab's declaration of affiliation with al-Qaeda in 2012 may be seen as an
act of desperation made by a fractured movement in serious decline.

Now the militants have sent a message - keeping the Kenyan military in Somalia
will have bloody consequences. Crucially, the attacks also send a message to
supporters, that the movement is still a force to be reckoned with.

o Professor Andrew Silke is director of terrorism studies at the University of
East London.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS scotlandonsunday


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

Kenya terror attack: Woman says son left traumatised

LENGTH: 201  words


A British woman caught up in the Nairobi terror attack has described how she
fled with her young son and her husband as bullets flew around them.

Lynsey Khatau, 23, who divides her time between Pontllanfraith in South Wales
and the Kenyan city, was shopping with husband Max and Caiz, aged four.

She said she began to think something was wrong when the lights went off but did
not come back on as they usually do during regular power cuts.

"The first thing that happened was that a grenade went off under a car or
something outside - that was the first thing that we heard," she said. "Then
there was shooting, maybe 20 rounds, in less than a minute. We came out - I just
ran, we just ran out.

"They were already inside the mall and we just ran. They were already shooting
inside. It was really horrific. My son is really traumatised. We were going to
die - that was the only thing I was thinking, we're going to die."

Her mother, Sue Mathias, said her daughter told her she had been on the bottom
floor of Westgate shopping centre when the attack began and hid in a small
office before escaping.

Ms Mathias added: "They haven't slept, they haven't wept. I just need them home
so I know I can look after them."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS thescotsman


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

Kenya terror attack: Clinton tribute to pregnant woman

LENGTH: 200  words


FORMER US president Bill Clinton has paid tribute to the pregnant partner of a
Briton killed alongside her in the Kenya terror attack.

Elif Yavuz and Ross Langdon, who were due to have their first child in the next
few weeks, were among those gunned down by the Nairobi terrorists.

Architect Mr Langdon, who had dual nationality with Australia, had worked on
projects in Africa, including Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania, as well as designing
an Aids hospital in Kenya for free.

Harvard graduate Ms Yavuz was working for the Clinton Foundation and yesterday
Mr Clinton, his wife Hillary and daughter Chelsea paid tribute to the expectant
mother.

In a statement on the foundation's site, they said: "We were shocked and
terribly saddened to learn of the death of Elif Yavuz in the senseless attacks.
Elif devoted her life to helping others, particularly people in developing
countries suffering from malaria and HIV/Aids.

"She had originally worked with our Health Access Initiative during her doctoral
studies, and we were so pleased that she had rejoined us as a senior vaccines
researcher based in Tanzania.

"Elif was brilliant, dedicated, and deeply admired by her colleagues, who will
miss her terribly."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

Kenya terror attack: Boy, 4: You're a bad man

LENGTH: 120  words


A FOUR-year-old boy was spared by a terrorist at the shopping centre after
telling him: "You're a very bad man".

Elliott Prior's brave reaction to the gunman reportedly prompted him to spare
him and his six-year-old sister, Amelie, along with their mother, Amber, asking
them for forgiveness and giving the children chocolate bars.

Elliott, from Windsor, Berkshire, is believed to have been trying to protect his
mother, who had been shot in the leg. His uncle Alex Coutts said that when
terrorists asked if any children were alive, Amber stood up and said yes.
Elliott is said to have shouted at one man: "You're a bad man, let us leave."

Mr Coutts added: "He was very brave. The terrorists even gave the kids Mars
bars."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday

Kenya attack: Terrorists travelled from all over world'

BYLINE: Martyn Mclaughlin

LENGTH: 791  words


THE operation to bring those responsible for the Nairobi massacre will span
borders across nations in Europe and North America, amid growing indications
that the perpetrators hail from all around the world.

With increased speculation that a British woman was among those responsible for
the atrocity, which has left at least 62 people dead, Kenyan officials warned
that they were fighting a "global terrorism" attack.

After four days of carnage at the Westgate shopping complex, jihadist blogs and
social networking channels indicate that those who carried out the slaughter
were recruited from Britain, Sweden and Finland, as well as the United States
and Canada. Other information online suggests some nationals were involved from
as far afield as Syria, Russia and Dagestan.

Kenyan interior minister Joseph Ole Lenku said "a multi-national collection from
all over the world" had descended on Nairobi, while General Julius Karangi, head
of the military, referred to "foreigners from so many nations", adding: "We have
an idea who they are, their nationalities. We are fighting global terrorism
here."

Yesterday, Kenyan foreign minister Amina Mohamed said "two or three Americans"
and a British woman were among the militants. The woman, she said, had "done
this many times before", adding that the Americans were "young men, between
maybe 18 and 19" years old, who were of Somali or Arab origin and had lived in
"in Minnesota and one other place".

The minister's comments gave rise to speculation over the possible involvement
of British terrorist suspect Samantha Lewthwaite, the widow of the  7 July 2005
suicide bomber  Germaine Lindsay.

However, there was confusion over Ms Mohamed's remarks - made while attending
the UN General Assembly in New York - with no confirmation either from the
authorities in Nairobi or the Foreign Office in London.

They directly contradict Mr Ole Lenku, who said on Monday that all the attackers
were male - although he suggested some may have been dressed as women. The
Foreign Office said only that it was aware of the foreign minister's comments.

According to Kenya's Star newspaper, two Radio Africa Group employees caught up
in the gun battle said a woman appeared to be giving orders on Saturday
afternoon, while reports from South Africa suggested Briton Lewthwaite may have
travelled to Kenya on a forged South African passport.

Lewthwaite, dubbed "the White Widow", is known to be in east Africa and is
wanted by Kenyan police over alleged links to a terrorist cell that planned to
bomb the country's coast. In March last year, officials said she had fled to
Somalia.

At a press conference in Pakistan, Home Secretary Theresa May, asked about Ms
Mohamed's remarks, said: "I'm aware that there have been reports of a British
woman being involved but until we have seen the investigations completed, it is
not possible to give further details to confirm or deny that issue."

In Britain, MI5 officials have been warning for two years about the number of
young Somali Britons being radicalised and sent for training in Somalia,
estimating that at least 100 have joined the al-Shabaab terror group.

In September 2011, Jonathan Evans, former director-general of MI5, stressed:
"It's only a matter of time before we see terrorism on our streets inspired by
those who are today fighting alongside al-Shabaab."

In the US, security officials are understood to be scrutinising links with the
so-called "Little Mogadishu" Somali community in the Midwest, after claims on
Twitter accounts linked to al-Shabaab also named two men from Minnesota as
participants.

Even before the terror in Nairobi, an online video suggested the city was
fertile ground for finding those amenable to al-Shabaab's cause. The footage,
entitled Minnesota Martyrs: The Path to Paradise, told the story of the
recruitment, training and deaths of three young men recruited in Minneapolis-St
Paul.

The US attorney for Minnesota has estimated that at least 20 young men left for
Somalia between 2007 and 2009, while other US officials have put the number at
more than 50.

Kyle Loven, a spokesman for the FBI in Minneapolis, said yesterday: "The vast
majority of Somali Americans living here are appalled by what's happening; they
are desperate for a solution and we are going to continue to work with the
community."

For its part, al-Shabaab, has rejected suggestions that US and British citizens
were involved in the attack, describing those who spread such theories as
"people who do not know what is going on in the Westgate building".

John Campbell, a former US ambassador to Nigeria, said Islamist insurgencies in
Africa were diffuse and did not suggest an organised network: "There is no cave
in Afghanistan where it's all being worked through."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mum tells of Nairobi terror attack horror

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 96 words


A WOMAN from South Wales has told how she was shot at by militants as she was
caught up in the Nairobi terror attack.

Lynsey Khatau, 23, pictured, told how she fled with her young son and her
husband as bullets flew around them.

The mum, who divides her time between Pontllanfraith in Caerphilly and the
Kenyan city, was shopping with husband Max and Caiz, four.

"It was really horrific.

My son is really traumatised," she said.

"We were going to die - that was the only thing I was thinking, we're going to
die.

"There were people just falling everywhere." ¦ Full story: see page 5

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mum tells of Nairobi terror attack horror

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 96 words


A WOMAN from South Wales has told how she was shot at by militants as she was
caught up in the Nairobi terror attack.

Lynsey Khatau, 23, pictured, told how she fled with her young son and her
husband as bullets flew around them.

The mum, who divides her time between Pontllanfraith in Caerphilly and the
Kenyan city, was shopping with husband Max and Caiz, four.

"It was really horrific.

My son is really traumatised," she said.

"We were going to die - that was the only thing I was thinking, we're going to
die.

"There were people just falling everywhere." ¦ Full story: see page 5

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                    September 25, 2013 Wednesday 4:24 PM GMT

Stefano Hatfield: Citizen journalism helps the truth to come out;
It was iPhone footage of the terrorist attack in Kenya that showed the world the
horrors inside Westgate mall

SECTION: LONDON LIFE

LENGTH: 922 words


As the terrifying gunshots ring out repeatedly, jerky mobile phone footage
conveys the sudden terror of shoppers fleeing from gunmen, some screaming, but
many remarkably calm. They run for their lives, weaving between the aisles of a
supermarket in a desperate search for safety.

One man describes into his phone the attack "by terrorists", while others huddle
for safety behind a storeroom door. It is shocking footage, the terror of the
situation brought home by the realisation that this is what actual gunfire
sounds like; how genuine terror looks.

In Nairobi, as with other recent events such as the Boston Marathon bombings,
the Woolwich attack and the Costa Concordia disaster, it is footage from the
general public that has provided the news images which have resonated around the
world.

The power of the iPhone and other mobile devices has entirely transformed the
nature of such tragedies. In truth, the traditional, mainstream news
broadcasters are outside the shopping centre filming very little live as the
sound of shooting rages within. It is the mobile phone footage that has emerged
which gives us the clearest indication of the true horrors inside.

Such "citizen journalism" brings tragedy to life in a way we have never quite
seen before in broadcast history. Of course, from the Vietnam War onwards, we
have seen first-hand reporting of terrifying, life-threatening situations, but
these accounts were being provided by professional journalists and their crews.
They chose to be there and were paid for so doing. Brave, of course, but they
had a choice.

Those caught in Westgate shopping centre had no choice. Filming is a risky act
of bravery in itself. Their "amateur" footage - however grainy or blurry -
reveals the truth and helps hold the authorities to account, in this case
countering the Kenyans' repeated assurances that the awful, chaotic situation
was "under control" or even "over".

Yes, citizen journalism has had a mixed press, in part from journalists anxious
about the threat to their livelihoods. At its best, in its purest form as seen
here, it provides news organisations with innumerable extra eyes and ears to
help the truth get told. It may also bypass media groups via social media.

Citizen journalism is now a crucial part of modern-day newsgathering. It allows
us to witness events from corners of our world we would never before have
accessed. It is here to stay and will be a key part of our armour when we launch
London Live.

Now celebrities call the shots ...

Selfies were all the rage among celebrities at the Standard's Power 1000 event
in Battersea Power Station. It's another sign of how technology is changing the
relationship between "talent", the media and audiences. We have all become used
to celebrities seeking the perfect pose on red carpets or attempting to hide
their faces from snappers when they're not at their best. Strangely, those rules
go out of the window on the rare occasions when even the celebs are impressed,
and are happy to snap themselves on an iPhone. Being inside the power station
was one such moment. On Sunday's London Open Day, queues were two hours long for
the same privilege. So celebrity chef Gizzi Erskine, for example, was happy to
relax the rules by taking control of the media via Instagram and Twitter. Mind
you, if you looked like her in that dress, you'd tweet a selfie too!

Samuell's sitcom hits the spot

Big smiles here at London Live, the capital's first dedicated TV channel, as we
can at last unveil our first commissioned series ahead of launch next spring,
All About the McKenzies.

Written by, directed and starring the exciting young London talent Samuell
Benta, AATM is a pioneering YouTube comedy series that London Live is bringing
to television for the first time.

Set in London, the sitcom follows the journey of young Samuell McKenzie (Benta)
as he tries to build a life, career and family of his own, while trying to cope
with the mayhem of his own chaotic home in which generations live together under
the same roof.

AATM originally appeared as five-minute "webisodes" online, then went on to win
the "best ensemble cast" award at The LA Web Festival last year.

Benta says: "For a TV network to believe in an individual as opposed to a
production company takes a lot of courage. I am hugely excited to have been
given this opportunity and it marks the start of a great working relationship
with London Live."

* So many of you have been in touch about potential jobs at London Live. I've
tried to respond personally but it is difficult keeping up. At the moment there
is a tiny team beavering away in a windowless corner of the Standard and the
Independent's offices in Kensington High Street. If that hasn't put you off,
then watch this space over the next couple of weeks for news. And tell your
friends in television. We will be launching a major recruitment drive for fresh
talent both in front of and behind the camera but we will be favouring people
with some previous experience.  So, get polishing those CVs and showreels.

Want to get involved with shaping London Live and the Evening Standard itself?
Sign up for the London Views panel we announced last week. We will ask your
opinions up to a couple of times a month - there are rewards for taking part. Go
to LondonViews.org to learn more.

London Live launches in spring 2014 on Freeview 8, Sky 117, Virgin 159, mobile,
web, taxis and outdoor media. Twitter: @LondonLive

Stefano Hatfield is editorial director of London Live;
stefano.hatfield@londonlive.co.uk; Twitter: @stefanohat

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                   September 25, 2013 Wednesday 10:43 PM GMT

Kenya terror attack: new footage shows collapsed roof of Westgate shopping mall;

New footage released by Kenyan Defence Forces shows the still smoking collapsed
roof of the Westgate mall, damaged by rocket-propelled grenades fired by the
Kenyan military in an effort to free hostages held in the mall siege.

LENGTH: 120 words


The roof collapsed when grenades hit a support column at the mall, as troops
fired to distract a militant sniper, according to a Kenyan government official,
who insisted he not be identified because he was sharing security information.

The overall death toll from the attack was expected to rise steeply from the
current figure of 67                      as security forces combed the mall on
Wednesday and found bodies buried under rubble where three floors collapsed
during the siege.

Up to 60 more victims are expected to be recovered from the Nairobi shopping
mall siege, as rescue workers moved in to search the debris.

Source: APTN

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 25, 2013 Wednesday 6:06 PM GMT

Kenya terror attack: new video of Nairobi mall evacuation emerges;
Footage taken at the Westgate mall in Nairobi shows Kenyan police shepherding
innocent victims to safety following the attack by Islamic terrorists.

LENGTH: 127 words


The short clips show terrified victims being lead out of the mall with the hands
up by armed security forces.

Filmed by Joseph Mathenge, a Kenyan journalist at the scene of the attack, the
footage first appeared on YouTube and is believed to have been shot on Saturday
after militants from the al-Shabaab stormed the shopping centre.

The overall death toll from the attack was expected to rise steeply from the
current figure of 67                      as security forces combed the mall on
Wednesday and found bodies buried under rubble where three floors collapsed
during the siege.

Up to 60 more victims are expected to be recovered from the Nairobi shopping
mall siege, as rescue workers moved in to search the debris.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 25, 2013 Wednesday 5:07 PM GMT

Kenya terror attack: survivor recalls seeing 'bits of human flesh on the floor';

Kenyan Shami Allu, 52, who was injured in the attack by al-Shabab Islamic
militants, recounts her horrifying ordeal of being trapped inside the Westgate
mall.

LENGTH: 144 words


Kenyan Shami Allu, 52, who was trapped inside the Westgate mall when the
shooting started, recalled how she and others tried to jump through an opening
to safety.

Speaking from her hospital bed, she said that the group huddled together as they
helped one another to safety when suddenly a grenade was thrown in their
direction, killing several and severely injuring a young child who later died in
Ms Allu's arms.

Ms Allu lay seriously wounded from shrapnel for several hours in a garage,
endeavouring to take cover from the the blasts of gunfire.

She said that she saw "blobs of red" all around her before realising that they
were "bits of human flesh".

Eventually rescued by members of the Kenyan Red Cross, Ms Allu is continuing her
recovery at the M.P. Shah hospital in the Westlands neighbourhood of Nairobi.

Source: APTN

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 25, 2013 Wednesday 4:06 PM GMT

Kenya shopping mall terror attack: as many as 10 Britons may have died;
The British death toll from the terrorist attack on a Nairobi shopping mall may
rise as high as 10, diplomatic officials have warned as bodies are recovered
from the shattered building.

BYLINE: By Ben Farmer Chris Irvine and agencies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 853 words


In pictures: Nairobi shopping mall attack
Shot Briton hailed a hero for saving boy
Kenya counts its losses as terrorists are overcome
Up to 130 feared dead                                              Mall siege as
it happened

Six Britons are confirmed dead but officials said other may be among bodies
still being removed from the Westgate shopping mall, where al-Shabaab militants
battled Kenyan security forces for four days.

The overall death toll was expected to rise steeply from 67
as security forces combed the mall and found bodies buried under rubble where
three floors collapsed during the siege.

The diplomatic source said if further Britons were dead it was expected to be
"less than five".

Up to 60 more victims are expected to be recovered from the Nairobi shopping
mall siege, as rescue workers moved in to search the rubble.

Officials have warned that the death toll could rise by at least 60 as more
bodies are found in the rubble of the mall, where three floors have collapsed.

A Twitter account believed to be from al-Shabaab, the perpetrators of the
attack, claimed today that 137 hostages had died in the siege, a figure
impossible to verify. They also accused Kenyan troops of using "chemical agents"
to end the siege.

Twitter: HSM Press Office - @UKenyatta and his govt are to be held culpable for
#Westgate and for the lives of the 137 hostages who were being held by the
Mujahideen

Forensic experts from the US, Britain and Israel are assisting Kenyan
authorities in their investigation of the attack.

Rescuers wore face masks and some soldiers wrapped scarves around their mouths
because of an overpowering stench inside what was once Nairobi's most upmarket
shopping centre.

Rescue workers reported seeing dozens more bodies inside the building, with
troops ferrying them to a city mortuary in the back of pick-up trucks.

Scotland Yard has said a team of officers has travelled to Nairobi to help with
"post incident procedures" including gathering scientific evidence, as well as
supporting the work of British coroners.

A Foreign Office spokesman has said the UK is doing everything possible to
support Kenya in bringing those responsible for the "vicious attack" to justice.

The siege, which began on Saturday, finally came to an end on Tuesday, with five
militants killed and 11 in custody. Uhuru Kenyatta, the Kenyan president,
declared three days of mourning .

The Foreign Office confirmed that a Briton had been detained in the Kenyan
capital but could not say if the detention was being linked to the mall
shootings, or give details of when and where the person was held.

A spokesman said: "We can confirm the detention of a British national in
Nairobi. We are making contact to offer standard consular assistance."

The Briton is reportedly a 35-year-old man of Somali origin, according to The
Daily Mail, who was detained at Nairobi's Jomo Kenyatta airport on Monday.

Meanwhile, speculation is mounting that Samantha Lewthwaite, a 29-year-old
British terror suspect, was involved in the attack, after Amina Mohamed, Kenya's
foreign minister, said a British woman who had been allegedly involved in
terrorism "many times before" was one of the militants who laid siege to the
shopping centre. A number of Americans, around two or three, are also said to be
involved. Al-Shabaab have denied that any women were involved. The forensic
teams are working to establish the identities of the terrorists.

Although Mr Kenyatta declared the siege over, saying that security forces had
"ashamed and defeated our attackers", gunshots could be heard ringing out from
the mall this morning.

Manoa Esipisu, a government spokesman, told The Associated Press that the shots
were from forces going room to room in the mall, firing protectively before
entering unknown territory.

"During sanitisation once you take control of the place if you go to a room
where you haven't visited before you shoot first to make sure you aren't walking
into an ambush," he said. "But there hasn't been any gunfire from the terrorists
for more than 36 hours."

While Mr Kenyatta said "the worst" of the crisis was over, it was unclear
whether Kenyan security forces had accounted for all the militants.

Lewthwaite, dubbed the "White Widow", is known to be in East Africa and is
wanted by Kenyan police over alleged links to a terrorist cell that planned to
bomb the country's coast.

In March last year officials said she had fled to Somalia and that officers were
hunting a woman who used several identities, including hers.

It has been confirmed that six Britons were killed, but Philip Hammond, the
Defence Secretary, warned the death toll could be higher. "It is possible we
will discover further British nationals once the building is fully secure," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 25, 2013 Wednesday 3:47 PM GMT

Kenya shopping mall terror attack: up to 130 feared dead;
Up to 60 more victims are expected to be recovered from the Nairobi shopping
mall siege, as rescue workers moved in to search the rubble.

BYLINE: By Chris Irvine agencies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 691 words


In pictures: Nairobi shopping mall attack
Shot Briton hailed a hero for saving boy
Kenya counts its losses as terrorists are overcome
Mall siege as it happened

Officials have warned that the death toll could rise by at least 60 as more
bodies are found in the rubble of the mall, where three floors have collapsed.

As it stands, 67 people (61 citizens and six security officials) have died.
Another 63 are listed as missing by the Kenyan Red Cross.

A Twitter account believed to be from al-Shabaab, the perpetrators of the
attack, claimed today that 137 hostages had died in the siege, a figure
impossible to verify. They also accused Kenyan troops of using "chemical agents"
to end the siege.

Twitter: HSM Press Office - @UKenyatta and his govt are to be held culpable for
#Westgate and for the lives of the 137 hostages who were being held by the
Mujahideen

Forensic experts from the US, Britain and Israel are assisting Kenyan
authorities in their investigation of the attack.

Scotland Yard has said a team of officers has travelled to Nairobi to help with
"post incident procedures" including gathering scientific evidence, as well as
supporting the work of British coroners.

A Foreign Office spokesman has said the UK is doing everything possible to
support Kenya in bringing those responsible for the "vicious attack" to justice.

The siege, which began on Saturday, finally came to an end on Tuesday, with five
militants killed and 11 in custody. Uhuru Kenyatta, the Kenyan president,
declared three days of mourning .

The Foreign Office confirmed that a Briton had been detained in the Kenyan
capital but could not say if the detention was being linked to the mall
shootings, or give details of when and where the person was held.

A spokesman said: "We can confirm the detention of a British national in
Nairobi. We are making contact to offer standard consular assistance."

The Briton is reportedly a 35-year-old man of Somali origin, according to The
Daily Mail, who was detained at Nairobi's Jomo Kenyatta airport on Monday.

Meanwhile, speculation is mounting that Samantha Lewthwaite, a 29-year-old
British terror suspect, was involved in the attack, after Amina Mohamed, Kenya's
foreign minister, said a British woman who had been allegedly involved in
terrorism "many times before" was one of the militants who laid siege to the
shopping centre. A number of Americans, around two or three, are also said to be
involved. Al-Shabaab have denied that any women were involved. The forensic
teams are working to establish the identities of the terrorists.

Although Mr Kenyatta declared the siege over, saying that security forces had
"ashamed and defeated our attackers", gunshots could be heard ringing out from
the mall this morning.

Manoa Esipisu, a government spokesman, told The Associated Press that the shots
were from forces going room to room in the mall, firing protectively before
entering unknown territory.

"During sanitisation once you take control of the place if you go to a room
where you haven't visited before you shoot first to make sure you aren't walking
into an ambush," he said. "But there hasn't been any gunfire from the terrorists
for more than 36 hours."

While Mr Kenyatta said "the worst" of the crisis was over, it was unclear
whether Kenyan security forces had accounted for all the militants.

Lewthwaite, dubbed the "White Widow", is known to be in East Africa and is
wanted by Kenyan police over alleged links to a terrorist cell that planned to
bomb the country's coast.

In March last year officials said she had fled to Somalia and that officers were
hunting a woman who used several identities, including hers.

It has been confirmed that six Britons were killed, but Philip Hammond, the
Defence Secretary, warned the death toll could be higher. "It is possible we
will discover further British nationals once the building is fully secure," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                   September 25, 2013 Wednesday 12:44 PM GMT

Kenya terror attack: new footage shows 'play dead' family rescued from Nairobi
mall;
Footage has emerged from Kenya of a woman and two children being led to safety
after appearing to play dead at the Nairobi mall then under attack from Islamic
militants.

LENGTH: 146 words


The short video is believed to have been recorded on Saturday when terrorists
from the al-Shabaab group stormed the Westgate mall in the Kenyan capital of
Nairobi.

In the clip, a woman and two small children are seen lying motionless on the
floor in an apparent attempt to play dead. Smears of blood are seen on the floor
above them.

The trio are then approached by a man, reportedly a police officer, who takes
time to reassure the woman that it is safe to move, before helping her and the
children escape.

The siege finally came to an end on Tuesday after four days. As it stands, 67
people (61 citizens and six security officials) have died. Another 63 are listed
as missing by the Kenyan Red Cross and the death toll is expected to rise as the
mall is cleared.

Filmed by Joseph Mathenge, a Kenyan journalist at the scene of the attack, the
footage first appeared on YouTube.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                   September 25, 2013 Wednesday 12:27 PM GMT

Kenya terror attack: Family 'playing dead' filmed fleeing Nairobi mall;
Footage has emerged from Kenya of a woman and two children being led to safety
after appearing to play dead at the Nairobi mall then under attack from Islamic
militants.

LENGTH: 146 words


The short video is believed to have been recorded on Saturday when terrorists
from the al-Shabaab group stormed the Westgate mall in the Kenyan capital of
Nairobi.

In the clip, a woman and two small children are seen lying motionless on the
floor in an apparent attempt to play dead. Smears of blood are seen on the floor
above them.

The trio are then approached by a man, reportedly a police officer, who takes
time to reassure the woman that it is safe to move, before helping her and the
children escape.

The siege finally came to an end on Wednesday after five days. As it stands, 67
people (61 citizens and six security officials) have died. Another 63 are listed
as missing by the Kenyan Red Cross and the death toll is expected to rise as the
mall is cleared.

Filmed by Joseph Mathenge, a Kenyan journalist at the scene of the attack, the
footage first appeared on YouTube.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                   September 25, 2013 Wednesday 11:57 AM GMT

Kenya terror attack: Shot Briton hailed a hero for saving boy;
A safari company owner was hailed as a hero after it emerged he had been shot
during the Nairobi shopping mall massacre while trying to shield a young boy
from the gunmen.

BYLINE: By By Aislinn Laing, Mike Pflanz, Ben Farmer, in Nairobi, and Jasper
Copping

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 860 words


Simon Belcher was with his wife Amanda at the Westgate shopping centre in the
Kenyan capital, when it was attacked by al-Shabaab terrorists on Saturday
afternoon.

They hid from the gunman under a vehicle on the mall's top floor car park, but
as Mr Belcher tried to protect a four-year-old Kenyan boy, who had also taken
cover there, he was shot in the arm by one of the attackers. The bullet passed
into his stomach. Mrs Belcher was not hit.

Nairobi terror attack: live
In pictures: Nairobi shopping mall attack

The couple were able to escape from the mall before the end of the ensuing siege
and Mr Belcher is being treated in hospital in the city, where he is facing
further surgery. His wife, in a message on his Facebook website, said he was
"not in danger, cracking the most terrible jokes".

Mrs Belcher also issued a defiant message, saying: "Kenya is stronger than ever
and we will beat this as a Nation."

The couple, who live in Kenya, have two children, but they were away at school
in South Africa at the time of the attack. Mr Belcher, whose family moved to
Kenya three generations ago but who was educated in Britain, runs a company
offering luxury, tailor-made safaris.

Friends praised his role in protecting the child. One said: "When the firing
started Simon got underneath a car. He was shielding a four-year-old Kenyan
child who was also hiding there. They were all hidden in the top car park until
the military began firing at the al Shabaab militants.

"The terrorists then all got under cars to escape the gunfire and that's when
they spotted Simon underneath a vehicle. They took a few shots at him and hit
him in the shoulder. He was hurt - but he saved the young Kenyan boy."

A number of dramatic survival stories involving Britons caught up in the Nairobi
mall massacre began to emerge yesterday.

Niall Saville, a 35-year-old development consultant, from Farndon, in
Nottinghamshire, was also wounded in the attack, while his Korean wife, Kang
Moon-hee, 38, a software developer, was killed.

Mr Saville was shot in the shoulder and hit by grenade shrapnel and is also
receiving treatment at a hospital in the city, having identified his wife's body
for officials. She was also shot and suffered shrapnel wounds from a grenade,
dying in hospital on Sunday.

Mr Saville is being comforted by his parents, retired headmaster Lewis Saville
and his wife Margaret, who have flown out to see him.

A University of Cambridge graduate, Mr Saville had previously worked in South
Korea, Singapore, France, Dubai, and Saudi Arabia before settling in Kenya, with
his wife, earlier this year. The couple had been married for five years.

Anita Sanghani and her son Kavi, Britons based in Nairobi, were trapped inside a
mobile phone shop with 44 other people while the terrorists roamed the mall with
guns and grenades. It was six hours before they were able to escape.

Mrs Sanghani said: "I didn't know they were terrorists, I thought they were
robbers. I just closed the doors [of the shop] and my son was calling me, 'Mum,
come back, come back, come quickly."

Kavi Sanghani said: "It was terrifying because everyone was very emotional and
shivering and there were a few people that were young that didn't know anyone
elderly there".

"It was really bad at the beginning, but then we all got together and kept quiet
and laid down and waited for help."

Lynsey Khatau, 23, was shopping with husband Max, and son, Caiz, four, when the
attack began.

Mrs Khatau, who divides her time between Pontllanfraith in South Wales, and
Nairobi, said she began to think something was wrong when the lights went off
but did not come back on, as they usually do during power cuts in the country.

"The first thing that happened was that a grenade went off under a car or
something outside - that was the first thing that we heard. Then there was
shooting, maybe 20 rounds, in less than a minute. We came out - I just ran, we
just ran out.

"When we came out of the supermarket they were already inside the mall and we
just ran. They were already shooting inside. It was really horrific. My son is
really traumatised.

"We were going to die - that was the only thing I was thinking, we're going to
die. There were people just falling everywhere."

Among the dead is Ravindra Ramrattan, a Trinidadian, who had studied at the
London School of Economics and the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, as well
as four relatives of Samir Bhamra, who is the artistic director of a dance
organisation, and lives in Leicester.

Mr Bhamra, who has worked with the Royal Shakespeare Company, said his family
members had been taking part in a television programme called Superchef Junior,
on the roof of the mall.

"They were young people who were taking part in a cookery contest in the centre.
Unfortunately, they have all passed away," he said. "An aunt - my dad's cousin -
is critical in hospital." Writing on the Twitter website, he added: "May those
who fall into shadow rest in peace and those responsible burn in hell."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brave Elliott, 4, stood up to terrorists in Kenya attack

BYLINE: DAVID WELLS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 716 words


A four-year-old boy was spared by a terrorist gunman at a Kenyan shopping centre
after telling him: "You're a very bad man", it has emerged.

Elliott Prior's brave reaction to the man reportedly prompted him to spare him
and his six-year-old sister, along with their mother, asking them for
forgiveness and giving the children chocolate bars.

Elliott, from Windsor, Berkshire, was in a supermarket with mother Amber and
sister Amelie when terrorists stormed the Westgate shopping centre on Saturday,
The Sun reported.

The boy is believed to have been trying to protect his mother, who had been shot
in the leg.

His uncle Alex Coutts told The Sun that when terrorists asked if any children
were alive in the supermarket, Elliott and Amelie's mother stood up and said
yes.

Elliott, four, is said to have shouted at one man: "You're a bad man, let us
leave."

Mr Coutts told the newspaper: "He was very brave. The terrorists even gave the
kids Mars bars."

Kenya last night said it had finally defeated the al-Shabab terrorists who
stormed the Nairobi shopping mall four days ago.

In a televised address to the nation President Uhuru Kenyatta said: "We have
ashamed and defeated our attackers." He said the attack had left 240 casualties,
including 61 dead civilians and six of his security forces. Five terrorists were
killed and another 11 suspects have been taken into custody. The president said
three floors of the Westgate Mall collapsed during the battle to retake it and
that there were "several bodies still trapped in the rubble including the
terrorists."

He declared three days of national mourning.

Towards the end of the operation, three floors of the shopping complex collapsed
and some bodies - including those of some of the terrorists - remained trapped
in the rubble, he said.

"As I had promised earlier, we have ashamed and defeated our attackers.

"That part of our task has been completed by our multiagency security team," he
said.

"I promise that we shall have full accountability for the mindless destruction,
deaths, pain, loss and suffering we have all undergone as a national family.
These cowards will meet justice, as will their accomplices, wherever they are."

But while he said "the worst" of the crisis was now over, it was unclear whether
Kenyan security forces had accounted for all the militants. Earlier, al Shabaab,
the Somali terrorist group which carried out the attack, claimed that its
fighters were still resisting and holding a number of hostages.

A British woman caught up in the Nairobi terror attack has described how she
fled with her young son and her husband as bullets flew around them.

Lynsey Khatau, 23, who divides her time between Pontllanfraith in South Wales
and the Kenyan city, was shopping with husband Max and Caiz, four. She said she
began to think something was wrong when the lights went off but did not come
back on as they usually do during regular power cuts.

"The first thing that happened was that a grenade went off under a car or
something outside - that was the first thing that we heard," she told BBC Wales.

"Then there was shooting, maybe 20 rounds, in less than a minute. We came out -
I just ran, we just ran out.

"When we came out of the supermarket they were already inside the mall and we
just ran. They were already shooting inside.

"It was really horrific. My son is really traumatised.

"We were going to die - that was the only thing I was thinking, we're going to
die. There were people just falling everywhere." Her mother, Sue Mathias, said
she had told her she had been on the bottom floor of Westgate shopping centre
when the attack began and hid in a small office before escaping. She told BBC
News that she was relieved her daughter's husband was there.

"I keep running through my mind all the time if he wasn't there, what would have
happened. And how they kept themselves quiet in this little office," Ms Mathias
said.

"The little boy is fine, it's the emotional stress of it as well. "They haven't
slept, they haven't wept. I just need them home so I know I can look after
them."

She said she found watching news coverage of the atrocity deeply upsetting.

"Every time I watch it I'm crying," she added. "That can't have been my little
girl, that can't have been my grandson."

'You're a bad man, let us leave' Elliott, aged 4, from Windsor

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Elliott with his mother and sister after escaping the mall

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2013 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday

Kenya's Muslim leaders condemn terror attack at Nairobi mall

LENGTH: 173 words


Text of report in English by Somali news website Mareeg on 24 September

Kenya's Muslim leaders have strongly condemned the terror attack at Nairobi's
Westgate Shopping Mall by Somalia's militant group Al-Shabab.

Secretary General of the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims Adan Wachu the act
which targeted on innocent civilians among children is against Islamic religion.
Leaders said the attack is intended to create rifts among the communities and
religious devotees in the country.

Somali Scholars Agency, Sheikh Bashir Ahmed Salad said al-Shabab's attack is not
a religious one, but only to massacre civilians. Al-Qa'idda affiliated terror
group al-Shabab took the responsibility of the attack that left 62 people dead.

Earlier yesterday, Somalia's Prime Minister Abdifarah Shirdon condemned the
attack, saying the attackers are not Muslims. Somali Community in Nairobi's
Eastleigh Suburb were among the volunteers who where donating blood, food and
money to support victims in Westgate attack.

Source: Mareeg website in English 24 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday

EU withholds travel advisory on Kenya in wake of Nairobi terror attack

LENGTH: 540 words


Text of report by Lucas Barasa and Jeremiah Kiplang'at entitled "EU withholds
travel advisory on Kenya" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily
Nation website on 26 September

The European Union will not issue any travel warnings to its citizens wishing to
travel to Kenya, an official said Wednesday [25 September].

Ten Europeans died in the Westgate mall attack and many more were injured, EU's
Managing Director for Africa Nicholas Westcott noted.

However, he added, member countries were not going to issue any travel advisory
to their citizens wishing to travel to Kenya.

"The advisory will remain as it is. Where they are risks we have to alert our
citizens. Yes there are threats, but there should be no significant change in
the advisory from what has been there in past," Mr Westcott said.

The official said Europeans living in Kenya should continue doing so. "Those who
want to come should come but they should all take care wherever they are."

Mr Westcott said it was not clear whether some of the terrorists were European
as reported by sections of the media.

"We don't have any proof of the nationality or identity of the terrorists who
were in the mall. It is too early to say," he told journalists in an interview
at the EU offices in Nairobi.

Mr Westcott, who arrived in the country on Tuesday following the Saturday
attack, said EU personnel were helping to identify those who died in the mall.

The EU boss said peace would only return in the region when Al-Shabab were
driven away from the whole of Somalia.

"We are working together to kick out Al-Shabab from areas where they are still
in control in Somalia," he said.

Mr Westcott, from the European External Action Service, said the EU was spending
500m shillings [5.8m dollars] monthly to fund the Kenya Defence Forces [KDF]
operation under the African Union Mission to Somalia.

Another 3.2bn shillings [37.2m dollars] was being spent on refugees in Kenya.

Noting that terrorism was a global issue and that even EU countries like Britain
and France had been hit by "people who use violence to try and prove their
point," he said his organisation had also given 100m shillings [1.7m dollars] to
Kenya Red Cross to boost its equipment.

The EU was also assisting in training Kenya police to counter terrorism and a
course to track terrorists would start next week.

The EU official called for regional cooperation and intelligence sharing to
combat terrorism as well as proper coordination of the fight against the menace
in the country.

Mr Westcott said the EU was helping Kenya access international data on terrorism
suspects to prevent them from crossing into the country.

He said banks should be involved to alert intelligence agencies whenever they
see suspicious movement of money to cut financing of terrorists.

He was happy that religious leaders in Somalia had declared fatwa against
Al-Shabab.

Mr Westcott paid tribute to KDF for bravery in fighting the terrorists who
attacked Westgate Mall.

Foreign countries have refrained from issuing travel advisories to Kenya five
days after the daring siege on the Westgate Mall.

The countries have broken ranks with their past trends to stand in solidarity
with the Kenya.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 26 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday

Kenyan police fail to link UK citizen to Westgate terror attack

LENGTH: 471 words


Text of report by Kamore Maina entitled "Police fail to link UK citizen to
Westgate" published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 26
September

Police say they will not release Abdirazak Mohammed, the 35-year-old British man
they arrested at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport [JKIA] on Monday [23
September] night.

He was attempting to board a plane for the UK.

Abdirazak is still being questioned by the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit [ATPU]
even though it has no evidence linking him to the Westgate attack.

Sources in the unit said the man was arrested after he arrived at the airport at
9 p.m. [local time] more than three hours after the flight he was supposed to
take had left.

The police say that after questioning the man and his relatives, they found
nothing to link him to the attack.

They examined his passport and had by yesterday ascertained that it was a
genuine one, detectives yesterday said they had no evidence to link him to
terror attack.

Investigators also examined his passport which was thought to be fake and said
it was a genuine.

Sources yesterday said Abdirazak's mother and other relatives who live in
Eastleigh [Nairobi suburb] were questioned and vouched that he had come to visit
in June this year and was due to leave on Monday.

Also being held are two relatives of 35-year-old driver Ali Gitonga who was
arrested by the police at the Westgate on the day of the attack.

Gitonga's wife Khadija Mohammed, and other Muslim leaders have insisted that
Gitonga should be released as it was a case of mistaken identity. Gitonga, who
was first admitted at Aga Khan Hospital after being shot by police, claims he
had gone to the mall to drop the daughters of his employer. He said he managed
to escape but was shot by the police who arrested him.

Gitonga, who was under police guard at the Aga Khan Hospital was on Sunday moved
to the Forces Memorial Hospital where he is still recuperating. His wife has
claimed she has not been allowed to see or even talk to her husband.

Yesterday, Khadija said her cousin Mohammed Sayed and her husband's cousin Nagi
Jaffer who were arrested last Sunday at the Aga Khan Hospital where they had
gone to visit her husband are yet to be released from the Gigiri Police Station
[Nairobi] where they are being held.

Police spokesman Zipporah Mboroki has said she did not know why the police were
holding the suspects. A source close to the investigations yesterday told the
Star that the police had handed over the suspect to military intelligence
officers who were questioning the man.

Efforts to get a comment from the ATPU boss Boniface Mwaniki were futile as he
did not answer his phone yesterday.

Another man being held by the police has been identified as Yusuf Mohammed who
was also arrested at the JKIA on Monday.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 26 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday

Kenya: Tourists "still checking in" despite Westgate terror attack

LENGTH: 385 words


Text of report by Ngari Gichuki entitled "Nairobi's Westgate Mall siege didn't
shake tourism" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard
website on 26 September

Kenya: The Ministry of Tourism has said tourists are still checking in and
authorities are optimistic the numbers will rise despite the terrorist attack on
Nairobi's Westgate Mall.

Speaking at the launch of the 7th Eco-tourism and Sustainable Tourism Conference
(ESTC13) at the Safari Park Hotel, Principle Secretary Ibrahim Mohammed said the
ministry had stepped up marketing strategies.

"Terrorism is a global problem and people from across the globe seem to realise
this. Tourists are still coming into the country to tour our beautiful sceneries
and experience our diverse cultures," he said.

Dr Ibrahim condemned the terrorist attack, terming it a cowardly act that should
not be allowed to devastate Kenyans and gave assurance that security will be
heightened across all tourist destinations to ensure tourists are safe.

He said the ministry has put in place marketing strategies that will see Kenya
become a more popular destination than it is.

Muriithi Ndegwa, the chairperson of the Kenya Tourist Board, who was also
present at the launch, said the ministry and the board are working closely with
the counties to improve the industry.

"We are working closely with the counties to improve the potential of the
tourism industry by providing vital infrastructural support, technological
support and professional know-how. This is aimed at improving the overall
industry," he said.

Ndegwa also demystified the concept of eco-tourism by stating that it's not a
diversion from mainstream tourism. He said the only difference is the
involvement of the community in the running and conservation of sites. He
expressed his satisfaction with the pilot eco-tourism projects that have been
started and are doing exceptionally well.

Costas Christ, a delegate at the forum, strongly condemned the terrorist attack
and expressed confidence that Kenya would soon recover. He also supported the
eco-tourism initiative.

Also attending the forum was the Director of Africa Conservation Centre Lucy
Wariungu, and Eco-tourism and Sustainable Tourism Conference chairperson, Dr
Kelly Bricker.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 26 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday

Nigerian opposition party condemns Kenya terrorist attack

LENGTH: 591 words


Text of report by private Nigerian newspaper The Guardian website on 26
September

[Report by Joseph Wantu: "APC Condemns Kenya Terrorist Attack, Seeks Global
Action on Terrorism; SSS' Excuse on Apo Killings Callous, Unconvincing, Say
Tsav, Umar"]

Last weekend's terrorist attack in Kenya, which left at least 67 people dead and
many more injured or missing, has attracted condemnation from the All
Progressives Congress (APC), which described it as "barbarous and an incredible
act of cruelty."

In a statement Wednesday [25 September] in Awka, Anambra State, by its Interim
National Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the party said that nothing
in the world justified such an inhuman and sadistic attack.

Meanwhile, the erstwhile Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Command, Dr
Abubakar Tsav, has described as callous and unconvincing even to a child, the
reason given by the State Security Service (SSS) for the murder of seven and
maiming of 12 Nigerians in Apo Village, Abuja.

Speaking to journalists in Makurdi, Benue State, Tsav wondered how true it was
that the murdered men were Boko Haram terrorists as alleged, just as he
questioned where their weapons were. He queried: "If they in fact attacked SSS
operatives, who did they kill or injure?

"In an operation of this nature, the force used must be proportionate to the
force threatened. In this case, the SSS shot and killed seven, critically
injured 12 and five are declared missing. In fact, no force was even threatened.
The victims were attacked in their sleep. This is wicked, callous,
unprofessional, most ungodly and designed to serve a purpose."

Similarly, the former military governor of Kaduna State, Col. Abubakar Dangiwa
Umar (rtd), has urged the authorities not to look for alibi or some excuse to
avoid responding to the public outcry over the Apo massacre.

In a letter to The Guardian yesterday, he said it was obvious that the public is
outraged at both the "gruesomeness of the killings and the attempt to explain it
in ways that beggar common sense."

And to "show respect for the people, a thorough and transparent investigation
must be conducted without further delay" to "find answers to the questions that
have been on every one's lips since Friday: 'how can an intelligence gathering
outfit find itself conducting an internal security operation with little or
minimal coordination with the police and the military?'

"What efforts did the SSS make to verify the intelligence they claimed to have
received and how much pain did they bear to avoid or minimize casualties? If
indeed they had established beyond reasonable doubts that the vagabonds residing
in the uncompleted building were members of the dreaded Boko Haram terrorist
group, what did they do with the landlord?

"For the armed services, the question on whether or not to enquire into last
week's catastrophe goes beyond finding out if someone had gone rogue or abused
his powers."

According to the APC, "no cause can be good enough to allow the senseless
killing of innocent people, especially women and children. No religion tolerates
such a sadistic inclination. Therefore, groups like al-Shabab, which hide behind
the facade of religion to kill and maim, are on their own. They do not live for
any higher values beyond their own selfish motives."

It added that, "since terrorism is an assault on global peace, the world must
come together as one to fight the scourge, because it neither respects borders
nor recognizes race, gender or nationality."

Source: The Guardian website, Lagos, in English 26 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday

Hungarian expert predicts terror attacks in Kenya, Uganda

LENGTH: 515 words


Text of report by Hungarian privately-owned newspaper Nepszabadsag website,

[Report by Laszlo Szocs: "Everything That Comes From the West Is Hostile --
Al-Shabaab -- Although the Terrorist Organization Has US Affiliations Too, We
Can Expect Further Attacks in Kenya and Uganda"]

Andras Hettyei, research fellow at the Hungarian Institute of International
Affairs, has said that Al-Shabaab is not considered typical in African political
Islam. This terror organization used to assert control of a large part of
Somalia, but over the past two years, it became weaker in this chaotic country
on the Horn of Africa thanks to the activities of African Union peacekeepers.
Al-Shabaab (the term means "youth" in Arabic) can be compared to the Saudi
Wahhabites and urges the introduction of a caliphate. It rejects Western
influence, and as part of this, it does not tolerate shopping malls that are
similar to the one in Nairobi or musical entertainment; moreover, it also
disapproves of soccer matches. "Al-Shabaab has been present for approximately 10
years and is linked to Al-Qa'ida in a kind of 'franchise system.' It is
difficult to determine to what extent Al-Shabaab follows Al-Qa'ida's orders, but
it adopted its name and attire too as part of 'political marketin! g.' It has
not been generally known so far that there may be women too in its ranks,"
Hettyei explained.

The expert said that Al-Shabaab, which had 5 to 15 thousand members in its
heyday, basically recruits its members from two groups. One of them is comprised
of international jihadists who have already fought in Iraq or Afghanistan, and
the other of mainly financially motivated locals in the "stateless state." These
two communities can communicate with each other in Somali or Arabic in
Al-Shabaab whose revenue has primarily come, in recent years, from Saudi
charcoal exports and the distribution of "Somali coke" or khat, a narcotic plant
imported from Kenya. Somalis cannot cultivate khat because they have a hotter
climate.

Al-Shabaab's US connections were also discussed in connection with the terrorist
attack in Nairobi. "They do have connections in the United States; for instance,
a big community of Somali immigrants lives in the state of Minnesota. The US
authorities are concerned over the recruitment of terrorists there, but they
most probably keep an eye on Al-Shabaab," Hettyei said; he expects attacks in
Kenya and Uganda rather than overseas in the future too. These two African
countries participate in operations against jihadists in Somalia. We may recall
that, in 2010, Al-Shabaab assumed responsibility for a terrorist attack that was
committed in Kampala, Uganda and killed more than 70 people at a restaurant that
was popular with foreigners. The guests were watching the finals of the South
African soccer world championships at that time. Al-Shabaab also carried out
suicide attacks that claimed victims within Somalia, too. [passage omitted on
the AP news agency estimating that Al-Shab! aab's revenue came to $70-100
million in 2011]

Source: Nepszabadsag website, Budapest, in Hungarian 25 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday

Kenya defends spy agency over Westgate terror attack

LENGTH: 403 words


Text of report by Ally Jamah entitled "Kenya government defends National
Intelligence Service over Westgate terror attack" published by Kenyan
privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 26 September

Nairobi, Kenya: The government has defended itself from accusations of
intelligence failures that resulted in the horrific killings by the Al-Shabab
terrorists at Westgate Mall.

Interior Ministry Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo yesterday said the state
intelligence agencies have prevented many terror attacks in the recent past
noting that the Westgate killings are "unfortunate" since it was among the "few
instances" in which the killers had outsmarted government agencies.

"Over the last few years, since terrorism became a major threat to the country,
we have been receiving information about possible terror incidents. We have
pre-empted many of them behind the scenes without telling Kenyans. It is
unfortunate that the Westgate attacks happened," he said.

Iringo declined to confirm whether the government received any specific
intelligence on the Westgate attack from Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, who has
claimed that he had forwarded the information to the National Intelligence
Service (NIS), which refused to act on it.

On Monday [23 September], President Uhuru Kenyatta also defended the
intelligence-gathering agency against criticisms of failure saying they have
successfully prevented attacks in the past and should be strengthened with more
resources and skills to do a better job.

A 19 July, twitter posting by the Al-Shabab group seemed to suggest that the
group was planning a massive attack on Kenyan targets. The posting, on the harsh
tag @HSMPress Office read: "A spectacular Al-Shabaab attack with fifty plus
deaths and guaranteed extended media coverage is finalised. #Kenya or #Somali?
Godane ponders."

"Godane" refers to Al-Shabab leader Ahmed Abdi Godane, also known as Mukhtar Abu
Zubair,

Criticisms have been mounting against NIS's capacity to collect valuable
information that would prevent possible terror attacks with members of
parliament calling for reforms in the intelligence agency to boost its capacity
to protect Kenyans.

The lawmakers expressed outrage at the security lapse that allowed the
terrorists, among them foreigners, into the country smuggling in arms and
holding the military in a standoff for four days.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 26 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday

Mauritanian president condemns "cowardly terrorist" attack on Kenya

LENGTH: 148 words


Text of report by Mauritanian state news agency AMI

Nouakchott, 26 September 2013, [AMI]  President of the Republic Mohamed Ould
Abdelaziz sent this Thursday [26 September] the following condolence telegram to
his Kenyan counterpart Uhuru Kenyatta after his country came under a terrorist
attack which left several civilians dead.

"Your Excellency,

"We received with great grief and sadness the news of the terrorist attack on
your brotherly country which left several innocent civilians dead and caused
significant material losses.

"We express to you on this painful occasion our sincerest condolences and solace
and announce to Your Excellency our solidarity with you on this tragic ordeal
and our denunciation of this cowardly terrorist act.

"Your Excellency, please accept our best regards.

"[Singed] Mohamed Ould Abdelaziz."

Source: AMI news agency, Nouakchott, in Arabic 1423 gmt 26 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

AXE OF HATRED;
Police hunt racists after terror attack on Nigerian family home

BYLINE: STEPHEN McVEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 216 words


A NIGERIAN woman has spoken of her terror after being targeted by thugs in a
suspected racist attack at her home.

Adenike Yisa, 40, was asleep on her sofa in the Sandy Row area of South Belfast
when a hatchet smashed through her living-room window at around 2am on
Wednesday.

Adenike, who has two children, moved from Nigeria to Belfast 10 years ago and
has lived at her Felt Street house for more than a year.

She said: "I was really, really upset. I have never been in that situation in my
life and never had any trouble here.

"I didn't see whoever did this, but I think it was because of the colour of my
skin." Fortunately no one was injured in the attack, with the hatchet narrowly
missing Adenike.

She added: "I was screaming at the top of my voice and shaking like a leaf.
Luckily my children were in their rooms."

South Belfast MLA Anna Lo said: "I am sickened and disgusted by this racist
attack. There is no place in our society for this type of crime.

"I would like to extend my support to this woman and her two young children.

"Those responsible must be urgently apprehended, so I urge anybody with
information to contact the PSNI or Crimestoppers."

Adenike added the attack had traumatised her but insisted she will not move and
will not give in.

Police are treating the incident as a hate crime.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DAMAGE Broken ornament
RELIEF Adenike hugs daughter yesterday after attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Target Britain;
Fanatics behind Kenya massacre planned UK reign of terror with attacks on Ritz
hotel and Eton school

BYLINE: Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 634 words


MUSLIM terrorists behind the Kenya shopping centre massacre planned to attack
high-profile British targets including The Ritz hotel and Eton public school.

Members of the Al Shabaab terror group also set their sights on London suburbs
such as Golders Green and Stamford Hill.

They listed targets in a training manual which contained a blueprint for this
week's gun and bomb rampage at Nairobi's Westgate shopping mall.

Al Shabaab's "international operations" document was recovered after one of its
most feared warlords was gunned down in Somalia.

It said: "Our objectives are to strike London with low-cost operations that
would cause a heavy blow among the hierarchy."

One British-based security expert said yesterday that an Al Qaedabacked attack
on a UK shopping centre was a distinct possibility.

The revelations came amid forensic inquiries into the terror attack in Nairobi
which left at least 67 dead.

Scotland Yard detectives were among foreign investigators combing through the
debris for DNA and ballistics evidence.

At least 18 foreigners - including six Britons - were said to be among the dead.
Five terrorists were also shot and another 11 arrested.

Gunned Unconfirmed reports suggested that when all the bodies have been
recovered, the death toll could rise by another 60, with the British tally
climbing as high as 10.

The Al Shabaab document was found on the body of Al Qaeda commander Fazul
Abdullah Mohammed who was gunned down in Mogadishu, Somalia, two years ago.

Written after the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, where gunmen killed 164 people in
the Indian city, it appears to describe the tactics used in Nairobi.

The two-page paper details plans to hit Eton - whose former pupils include
Princes William and Harry and Prime Minister David Cameron - during an open day.

Referring to the Ritz in Piccadilly, the document says: "The plan is to hit the
hotel when it's fully booked to ensure maximum casualties.

"Key players from all around the world stay in these hotels.

"We plan to book in advance and take plenty of petrol with the brother and then
set the 1st, 2nd, 3rd floor on fire...while we block the stairs so no one can
run down.

"The martyrdom seeker would then make his way to the exits and start killing
anyone fleeing the area." Yesterday, Valentina Soria, a security analyst with
defence publisher IHS Janes, said a Westgate-style attack in the UK was
possible.

She said British intelligence chiefs have been alert to the danger since Mumbai,
but believe the threat would come from Al Qaeda.

She added: "If there was to be an attack in the UK or in Europe then I suspect
it would not have a direct connection with Al Shabaab.

"It would not be linked to that group's central command structure.

They have other more urgent priorities.

But an individual with Al Shabaab connections or training might be involved.

"In terms of whether an attack like that in Nairobi is possible, it is, and the
authorities have been alert to it for a while.

"But such an attack would need a lot of preparation and in recent years Al Qaeda
have been promoting lone wolf-type attacks." Joseph Ole Lenku, Kenya's Interior
Minister, said police were still investigating whether Samantha Lewthwaite,
dubbed the "White Widow", may have taken part in the Nairobi killings.

Islam convert Lewthwaite - the British-born widow of London 7/7 bomber Jermaine
Lindsay - is believed to have been in hiding in East Africa after fleeing the
UK. Westgate witnesses claim to have seen a woman terrorist in a veil who
resembled the mother-of-four from Aylesbury, Bucks.

Meanwhile the Foreign Office said a British man held at Kenya's Jomo Kenyatta
airport on Monday trying to leave the country is not being linked to the attack.

"Our understanding at this stage is that he is not connected to the recent
terrorist incident," said a spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Frome and Somerset Standard

                               September 26, 2013

Grandfather tells of his terror as dogs attacked

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 399  words


A frome grandfather who was viciously attacked by a dog while out running has
spoken of his ordeal.

Runner Michael Welton, 70, is recovering at home after having more than 20
stitches in his arm and hand and a skin graft on his right leg at Frenchay
Hospital, in Bristol.

The incident took place when Mr Welton was jogging along Vallis Vale, near Great
Elm on Monday, September 9, at about 7.50am.

He had just crossed the metal bridge over the river when three small dogs,
believed to be two Jack Russells and a black terrier, appeared from the Mells
path and began to chase him.

Mr Welton, who was wearing shorts and a long-sleeved top, said: "I stopped to
shoo them away as they were very aggressive, but the black dog sunk its teeth
into my right leg.

"It was all quite a blur but next thing I know it had hold of my arm and then my
hand.

"I was screaming and shouting for the owner to get the dog off me, but she
didn't do anything.

"I was in shock but I asked for her name and address and eventually she got the
dogs under some sort of control."

Mr Welton then left to get home, which was a good ten to 15 minutes away, with
blood pouring from the wounds.

He said: "As soon as I came through the door I shouted up to my wife, Jane, that
she would have to take me to the Frome hospital.

"The nurses there were very good and cleaned the wounds as best they could but
they weren't happy and contacted the plastic surgery clinic at Frenchay.

"Frenchay told me I would need an operation for a skin graft and to clean the
wounds properly, as they were worried about infection."

Asked how he felt about the incident, he said this was the third time he had
been attacked by dogs and believed they should be muzzled when out with their
owners.

He said: "Dogs should be muzzled at all times when out with their owners, it
doesn't hurt them and they can still sniff at things.

"This whole incident has been very distressing - what if I had been a child or
fragile person? That is our main concern.

"I think the owner needs to come forward and take responsibility for what has
happened."

The woman is described as white, in her 40s, with dark blonde shoulder-length
hair.

The terrier is described as having wiry hair.

A police spokeswoman said: "We need the woman who owns these dogs to come
forward.

"Or if anyone knows who she is to get in touch."

Anyone with information is asked to contact PC Ward at Frome police on 101.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 185


                    Copyright 2013 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday

Nairobi morgue braced for more bodies: Fears scores more dead may lie in
Westgate mall: Authorities under fire for handling of terror attack

BYLINE: Afua Hirsch in Nairobi

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 874 words


Scores more bodies are believed to be buried under rubble in Kenya's Westgate
shopping mall as gruesome details continued to emerge yesterday from the
aftermath of the four-day terrorist siege.

As one morgue in Nairobi said it was preparing for up to 160 new corpses, an
intelligence source told the Guardian there was evidence that the number of
bodies buried under rubble could be in the hundreds, adding that at least one
attacker was still engaged in conflict with security forces inside the mall,
five days after the shopping centre was stormed on a busy Saturday morning.

"One attacker is still alive," said the source, who is involved in the rescue
operation inside Westgate, and who asked not to be named, adding: "There were
200 workers in Nakumatt (supermarket) and 800 people shopping. The walls of
Nakumatt collapsed. There are a lot of bodies inside."

Al-Shabaab, the Somali-based, al-Qaida-linked group behind the attack, claimed
the government had carried out a "demolition" of the building, burying 137
hostages.

The Kenyan government rejected claims that any militants remained alive, or that
they had demolished part of the building, but said the mall's upper-level car
park had collapsed, bringing the second level down on to the ground floor on top
of at least eight civilians and one or more attackers.

Government spokesman Manoah Esipisu said the number of dead - which stood at 67
- already included the bodies of those buried beneath the rubble, and denied the
figure would rise further.

Kenya's interior minister, Joseph Ole Lenku, said the process of determining the
number of dead and gathering evidence from the mall could take a further week.
He said the US, Israel, Britain, Germany, Canada and Interpol were helping with
the investigation.

"This morning, forensic experts began sifting through the rubble at the Westgate
mall," Lenku said at a press conference close to the centre.

"This process involves finger-printing, DNA and ballistics examination. We do
not expect the numbers of the dead to increase in any significant way. Yes,
there could still be bodies trapped in the rubble. We can only confirm that
after we have gone through the rubble."

The US ambassador to Kenya, Robert Godec, said US experts were providing
technical support and equipment to Kenyan security forces and paramedics.

Six British nationals are among the dead. The British government said that a
number had also been injured and were still in Kenya receiving treatment, but
declined to provide any further information. A spokesman also said he could not
rule out the possibility that one or two British nationals, or dual nationals,
were still missing.

As questions remained about whether any of the attackers was from the UK, the
British high commissioner in Kenya, Christian Turner, confirmed that a Briton
had been arrested but said: "We do not believe that the individual was of
central interest to this operation."

The statement came after intense speculation as to the role of foreign
al-Shabaab recruits in carrying out the attack, following reports that a British
woman and two or three Americans may have been involved. Neither country has
ruled out the claims, but the US attorney general, Eric Holder, said there had
been no verification that Americans were involved.

"Most of the jihadis are diaspora Somalis who have been living in the west,"
said a Kenyan intelligence source, who did not want to be named. "We know this
was an operation by al-Shabaab, with Somalis, probably working with al-Qaida."

More details were beginning to emerge about the attack itself. One military
expert told the Guardian he had information that al-Shabaab had set up inside
the mall, where they had stockpiled weapons and ammunition in preparation for
the siege.

"This is a terrorist cell that has been operating in Kenya for a while," said
Colonel Benjamin Muema, security expert in Nairobi. "It is a cell that knows the
mall, had a blueprint of the building, and was a step ahead of the security
forces."

The government did not rule out that a female attacker was involved. "Regarding
the identity of the terrorists, we want to request the public and the
international community to allow our experts to undertake the forensics," said
Lenku.

Al-Shabaab also made claims about the way the attack was carried out, stating in
an email exchange with Associated Press that foreigners were a "legitimate
target" and that Muslims had been spared.

There is mounting criticism of the Kenyan authorities' handling of the victims
and of the attack itself.

Muema said it represented a serious failure of intelligence. "There was no
intelligence, nobody knew that this attack was going to happen, and everyone was
caught by surprise.

"Then the initial response was to deal with it as a robbery, not as a terrorist
attack, which only served to aggravate the situation.

"And then when the magnitude of the attack was revealed, the agencies were not
unified under a single command structure. No one knew who anyone else was and
there may well have been friendly fire."

Captions:

Members of the Kenyan Sikh community in Nairobi gather to cremate a grandmother
and son who were killed when terrorists took over the Westgate shopping centre
on Saturday Photograph: Kabir Dhanji/EPA

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Harrow Times

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday

Special prayer for victims of Nairobi terror attacks

BYLINE: Anna Slater

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 79 words


People from all faiths can gather at at a Stanmore temple to pray for those
killed in the Nairobi terror attacks.

The Shree Swaminaryan Hindu Temple, in Wood Lane, Stanmore, is holding a prayer
and candle lighting ceremony to pay their respects on Sunday from 6.30pm.

Seventy two people have been confirmed dead and more than 170 were injured,
including three Britons, in the four-day siege at Westgate Mall in the Kenyan
capital.

To attend, e-mail usevents@swaminarayansatsang.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Kenya terror attack puts school trip in doubt

BYLINE: HANNAH FINCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 225 words


A SCHOOL trip to Kenya is in jeopardy after the terr orist attack in Nairobi.

South Dartmoor Community College staff are in talks about whether to proceed
with their trip to the Imprezza Academy in Kenya as part of their recent
fundraising programme.

Seventeen students and three adults are due to fly out on October 17 and return
on November 3. Mustafa Shaikh, A South Dartmoor Community College teacher, has
coordinated the Imprezza Academy fundraising programme.

He said: "In light of the recent events in Nairobi, we have been in open
discussions between staff, parents, carers and students actively involved in our
Kenyan Imprezza Academy programme, as to whether to proceed with the planned
visit.

Decision "We are taking into account continued advice from Devon County Council,
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and Kenyan authorities, which will aid us in
making a well infor med decision."

He said the location, journey plans and accommodation avoid the area affected in
recent events, but the school will not take any risks.

He said: "We will not jeopardise the safety of our students or staff. We do not
wish for anyone to be placed under any risk of harm and will only continue with
the programme if there is a viable solution."

The school is due to make a decision shortly.

Latest reports said 67 people had been killed in the terror gang attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HET


                         Copyright 2013 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 26, 2013
                                 First Edition

71 people missing as rescuers dig through rubble;
TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Catrina Stewart IN NAIROBI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 488 words


Kenya has claimed that only a few bodies are still missing in the Westgate
shopping mall following the end of the four-day siege by Islamist militants
which killed at least 67 people. Yet a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta
defiantly declared the siege over, the Kenyan Red Cross has said that 71 people
are still officially listed as missing, suggesting that the official death toll
could double in the coming days. British officials say that up to 10 Britons may
have died in the attack. Six are so far confirmed dead.

"We strongly believe... that there are insignificant numbers of bodies still
holed up," said Interior Minister Joseph Ole Lenku, cautioning that a full probe
to identify those still in the mall, including up to five dead militants, would
take at least a week. Al-Shabaab, the militant group responsible for the attack,
has countered via its Twitter feed - thought to be genuine - that 137 people
died in the siege. It accused the Kenyan authorities of using chemicals to
subdue the attackers and of demolishing the building to cover up the evidence.

Kenya has dismissed the claims as "wild allegations", saying that when the
militants set fire to mattresses on the third day of the siege, it caused
structural damage to the mall, causing floors to collapse. Aerial video footage
of the mall appeared to suggest an explosion had occurred. The siege began at
Saturday lunchtime when gunmen stormed the Westgate mall, a popular hangout for
affluent Kenyans and expatriates, and began shooting indiscriminately.

It took Kenyan forces an hour to arrive at the scene of the carnage and another
three days for them to overcome the militants, the exact number of whom is not
known. Al-Shabaab claimed the attack was revenge for Kenya's 2011 offensive
against it in Somalia, which has proven a fertile recruiting ground for
militants.

As Kenya counts the cost of the siege, many questions remained unanswered,
including the identity of the attackers, whether British and US nationals were
among the militants and how the militants were able to procure such large
amounts of weaponry without arousing suspicion. Mr Ole Lenku said finding the
answers was an "elaborate process" and added that Kenyan police were being
assisted by international police teams from the US, Britain, Israel and other
countries.

Families mourn loss A Cambridge graduate who lost his wife in the Kenya terror
attack has said he is "devastated and heartbroken by the sudden loss".

Niall Saville from Lincolnshire was shot in the shoulder in the attack on
Nairobi's Westgate shopping centre, and his South Korean wife Moon Hee Kang died
after suffering grenade wounds. In a joint statement issued through the Foreign
Office, the Saville and Kang families said they are "devastated and heartbroken
by the sudden loss of Moon Hee".

"She was very close to the Saville family and brought so much joy to their
lives... they always had time for both families."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 26, 2013 Thursday 10:46 AM GMT

Kenya mall attack: Did terrorists rent shop to hide weapons in advance of
Nairobi massacre?;
Highly unlikely that the bulky machine-guns, rocket-propelled grenades, and
explosive devices could have been carried in

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1181 words


After their initial spree of killings a group of the Islamists who had stormed
Westgate dived into the multi-storey Nakumatt supermarket. Security forces
pursuing them began to come under steady fire: six of them were shot dead
before, outgunned, they pulled out.

The stream of bullets had not come from just Kalashnikov AK-47 rifles the
fighters had been carrying, but heavy calibre machine-gun. Later, there were
booby-trapped bombs; some police officers also reported the 'whoosh and boom' of
grenades being aimed towards them striking walls.

It is highly unlikely that the bulky versions of GPMGs (General Purpose
Machine-Guns) IEDs (improvised explosive devices) and RPG (Rocket Propelled
Grenade) launchers could have been carried into the shopping mall by the
terrorists who had initially gained entry pretending to be tourists even if some
of them were, as the authorities claimed, men enveloped in niqabs.

It is almost certain that these had been secreted beforehand, say security
sources. It is also likely that quite extensive reconnaissance had been carried
out beforehand and that the attackers had detailed knowledge of the vast complex
including floor plans. One line of inquiry being pursued by the Kenyan police is
that they rented retail premises for their arms, which could also have given
them access to the paperwork.

The assault in Nairobi which has left at least 72 dead and 200 injured and
missing was an operation plotted in detail and well in advance by al-Shabaab,
according to Western officials with knowledge of what is being pieced together.

A key element was the gathering of foreign based jihadists with knowledge of
English who are likely to have carried out the early research into the shopping
centre, blending in among the expatriates and middle-class Kenyan customers. The
sustained media campaign by the Islamists which sprang into life during the
attack, with endless tweets and online postings, also suggest at large-scale in
planning.

The country's president, Uhuru Kenyatta, said that "five terrorists" have been
confirmed killed so far at Westland. The bodies of others, say officials, may be
found under the collapsed roof of the complex. But there are signs that others
may have fled in the guise of escaping hostages.

Security officials present a 'mini-Mumbai' scenario in which extensive
reconnaissance was carried out beforehand. In the assault on the Indian city the
key player was Daoud Sayed Gilani, a Pakistani American, also known as David
Headley, on behalf of the Lahskar-e-Taiba group based in Pakistan.

A British defence source said: "Mumbai was of course a far more complex op with
multiple locations and [Lahskar-e-Taiba] had the backing of the resources of an
official agency [the Pakistani secret police ISI] but they used Headley because
he could use his American personae without raising undue suspicion. There were
supposed to be others like him who were never caught.

"Al-Shabaab would have used their foreign passport holders because they would
have found it easier to move about and operate than rural Somalis being brought
across the border. This was hardly a spontaneous event, the way these guys
deployed, the way they carried out tactical withdrawals, the way they were able
to hold out for so long, the fact that they could replenish their ammunition
shows a lot of pre-planning."

A British passport holder arrested at Nairobi airport trying to leave the
country was named as 35 year old Mohammed Abdilazak who, according to the
police, was carrying out the wrong boarding card for his Turkish Airlines flight
which had left six hours earlier, He has claimed that he went frequently to
Kenya to see his mother and insisted he had no connection with the attack.

Al-Shabbab has its own grandiosely named External Operations Arm and the
organisation will be more than happy to take credit for this 'spectacular'.

It has carried out mass murder outside Somalia in the past, 70 people watching
the World Cup final in the Ugandan capital Kampala in 2010. But that was done by
suicide bombing and it was not thought that the group had the capability to
carry out such a sophisticated mission.

This has led to intelligence officials investigating whether it received
significant help from al-Qa'ida to which it has pledged allegiance.

But the question remains how such an elaborate assault was carried out under the
radar of the Kenyan and Western intelligence agencies in a city that has become
the international aid and diplomatic hub for the region, presenting obvious
targets for jihadists.

Locally, say Western officials, this was the result of complacency. Following
the entry of Kenyan troops into Somalia's civil war in October 2011, a series of
bombings had resulted in 32 deaths, but there had been no major incidents.

Kidnapping of foreign holiday-makers and threatening the lucrative tourist
industry, led to increased security precautions on coastal resorts. But measures
taken in Nairobi to protect civilians, including on the public transport
systems, high-rise blocks, churches and shopping centres, soon began to get lax.

There is little indication that Western agencies knew what was coming. Although
there was said to be 'chatter' picked up in electronic surveillance that
something was planned it was nothing, it is claimed, conclusive.

Sir Jonathan Evans, the then head of MI5, had warned three years ago that young
British Muslims were increasingly switching from Pakistan to Somalia to receive
training for jihad. Since then a number trying to cross from Kenya into Somalia
have been turned back, others have been arrested, including Jermaine Grant who
faces charges of possession of explosives intended for bombings in Mombasa, as
was another man subsequently charged with murder in the UK. Habib Ghani, a UK
citizen from Hounslow in west London, is reported to have been shot dead along
with Omar Hammami, an American from Alabama with a Syrian mother, in an
al-Shabaab internal feud earlier this month.

The focus, however, is very much on Samantha Lewthwaite, the 29 year old 'White
Widow' whose husband, Jermaine Lindsay, was one of the 7/7 bombers wanted in
Kenya for alleged terror offences. A number of survivors of the massacre recall
a female terrorist in the group issuing orders. The Kenyan government has given
contradictory accounts on whether one of the participants was a woman.

Security officials say there is no evidence yet that Lewthwaite was involved.
"She has successfully been in hiding and she is a propaganda tool for the
Islamists while she remains free. Why should they sacrifice her in a mission
where there was always the chance of getting killed or captured?" Asked one.
"Also, as far as we know, she has no combat experience, so hardly in position to
give tactical orders."

US officials stated that they were "aggressively investigating" the attack and
claims of involvement by a large number of American citizens. But they
acknowledged that despite Congressional hearings into mosques recruiting for
jihad in Somalia and stepping up of scrutiny there had been no foreknowledge of
what unfolded.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 26, 2013 Thursday 4:56 AM GMT

More than a quarter of young adults in Britain 'do not trust Muslims' because of
terror attacks

BYLINE: SAM WEBB

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 550 words



     ·    Terror attacks believed to have fuelled anti-Muslim sentiment among
          young
     ·    A total of 27 per cent said Britain would be better off with less
          Muslims
     ·    'Young people must mix more with Muslims' says Government advisor


A survey has revealed that many young people distrust Muslims and feel Britain
would be better off if there were less of them in the country.

Of the 1,000 young people questioned in a BBC survey, 27 per cent of 18- to
24-year-olds said they didn't trust Muslims, while a similar number said Britain
would be better off with fewer Muslims.

It also emerged that 60 per cent thought the British public had a negative image
of Muslims and 44 per cent said Muslims do not have the same values as the rest
of the population.

A total of 16 per cent said they didn't trust Hindus or Sikhs, 15 per cent said
they didn't trust Jewish people, while 13 per cent and 12 per cent said they
didn't trust Buddhists and Christians respectively.

Those surveyed say Islamophobia in Britain is stoked by terror groups abroad (26
per cent), the media (23 per cent) and UK Muslims involved int terrorist
atrocities (21 per cent).

Just three in 10 think Muslims are taking sufficient measures to combat
extremism in their communities. However, overall young people are more likely to
agree (48 per cent) than disagree (27 per cent) that Islam is a peaceful
religion.

Akeela Ahmed, from the Cross-government Working Group on Anti-Muslim Hatred,
said young people must mix with Muslims more in order to dispel their
prejudices.

He said: 'These findings indicate that we need to ensure young people are mixing
at local levels and that they're working on projects together so that people can
get to know Muslims and vice versa.'

Fellow group member Professor Matthew Goodwin added: 'Every survey that I have
run, and surveys run by my academic colleagues, makes it quite clear that a
significant proportion of the British population hold negative views of Islam,
and by extension British Muslim communities.'

The Government group blames negative media coverage of Muslims for stoking
anti-Islam sentiment.

The Metropolitan Police released figues in August that suggest there has been a
61 per cent rise in anti-Muslim crime, such as attacks on mosques, in London
over the past year.

There are also claims the killing of Fusilier Lee Rigby in May has fuelled
anti-Muslim sentiment.

The Muslim Council of Britain called the rise in violence since the
25-year-old's death.

'unprecedented'

Muslim Anisha Patel was recently attacked by two men who pulled off her
daughter's veil.

She said: 'The kind of comments, the kind of looks and stares that we're
experiencing at this moment in time is very different to what it was before,'
she said.

'They've become much more hostile, much more bitter, and much more aggressive in
nature. It's actually got to the stage where I'm beginning to feel that I want
to stay in my house.'

A 20-year-old woman who asked to remain anonymous told the BBC she fears and
dislikes Muslims.

'When you hear about terrorism, more often than not it is Muslims that have
carried it out. I just feel they're all out to do that, they're all the same,'
she said.

Young people are also divided over whether or not immigration is good for
Britain overall. Two-fifths say it is a good thing but more than a third
disagree.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Target Britain;
Fanatics behind Kenya massacre planned UK reign of terror with attacks on Ritz
hotel and Eton school

BYLINE: Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 658 words


MUSLIM terrorists behind the Kenya shopping centre massacre planned to attack
high-profile British targets including The Ritz hotel and Eton public school.

Members of the Al Shabaab terror group also set their sights on London suburbs
such as Golders Green and Stamford Hill.

They listed targets in a training manual which contained a blueprint for the gun
and bomb rampage at Nairobi's Westgate shopping mall.

Al Shabaab's "international operations" document was recovered after one of its
most feared warlords was gunned down in Somalia.

It said: "Our objectives are to strike London with low-cost operations that
would cause a heavy blow among the hierarchy."

One British-based security expert said yesterday that an Al Qaedabacked attack
on a UK shopping centre was a distinct possibility.

The revelations came amid forensic inquiries into the terror attack in Nairobi
which left at least 67 dead.

Scotland Yard detectives were among foreign investigators combing through the
debris for DNA and ballistics evidence.

At least 18 foreigners - including six Britons - were confirmed to be among the
dead. Five terrorists were also shot and another 11 arrested.

Unconfirmed reports suggested that when all the bodies have been recovered, the
death toll could rise by another 60, with the British tally climbing as high as
10.

Fleeing The Al Shabaab document was found on the body of Al Qaeda commander
Fazul Abdullah Mohammed who was gunned down in Mogadishu, Somalia, two years
ago.

Written after the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, where gunmen killed 164 people in
the Indian city, it appears to describe the tactics used in Nairobi.

The two-page paper details plans to hit Eton - whose former pupils include
Princes William and Harry and Prime Minister David Cameron - during an open day.

Referring to the Ritz in Piccadilly, the document says: "The plan is to hit the
hotel when it's fully booked to ensure maximum casualties.

"Key players from all around the world stay in these hotels.

"We plan to book in advance and take plenty of petrol with the brother and then
set the 1st, 2nd, 3rd floor on fire...while we block the stairs so no one can
run down. The martyrdom-seeker would then make his way to the exits and start
killing anyone fleeing the area."

Last night Al Shabaab leader Ahmed Godane confirmed the group was responsible
for the Nairobi massacre and said it should be seen as a warning to all
westerners. He said Kenya should prepare for a "long war, blood and destruction"
unless it withdraws troops from Somalia.

Valentina Soria, a security analyst with defence publisher IHS Janes, said a
Westgate-style attack in the UK was possible.

She said British intelligence chiefs have been alert to the danger since Mumbai,
but she believed the threat would come from Al Qaeda.

She added: "If there was to be an attack in the UK or in Europe I suspect it
would not have a direct connection with Al Shabaab. It would not be linked to
that group's central command structure.

"They have other more urgent priorities.

But an individual with Al Shabaab connections or training might be involved.

"In terms of whether an attack like that in Nairobi is possible, it is, and the
authorities have been alert to it for a while. But such an attack would need a
lot of preparation and in recent years Al Qaeda have been promoting lone
wolf-type attacks."

Joseph Ole Lenku, Kenya's Interior Minister, said police were still
investigating whether Samantha Lewthwaite, known as the "White Widow", may have
taken part in the Nairobi killings.

Islam convert Lewthwaite - British-born widow of London 7/7 bomber Jermaine
Lindsay - is believed to have been in hiding in East Africa after fleeing the
UK.

Westgate witnesses claim to have seen a woman terrorist in a veil who resembled
the mother-of-four from Aylesbury, Bucks.

Meanwhile the Foreign Office said a British man held at Nairobi's Jomo Kenyatta
airport on Monday trying to leave the country is not being linked to the attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

THE bloody, murderous terrorist attack [...]

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 66 words


THE bloody, murderous terrorist attack in Kenya is an appalling reminder of why
we must be vigilant.

If Northern Ireland-born 'White Widow', Samantha Lewthwaite, above, is the
leader in thisshe will have found sick inspiration in the Troubles. We don't
need to think far back to remember the indiscriminate nature of the IRA.

She can't help but have brought those to mind as she planned misery and pain.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 26, 2013 Thursday 10:11 PM GMT

Kenya attack: Pupils left traumatised after seeing their parents shot down;
At the elite Premier Academy in Nairobi's largely Asian Parklands suburb,
children caught up in the terrorist attack on the Westgate Mall have been
re-enacting the atrocity using guns made from cardboard and masking tape.

BYLINE: By Aislinn Laing Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 465 words


Some of the private school's pupils were attending a cookery competition on the
roof of the mall, and two of their mothers were killed in front of them when
al-Shabaab gunmen launched their attack.

In the reception area, where the confiscated home-made guns now sit on a
secretary's desk, a little boy sat waiting for his mother to speak to the school
counsellor, but burst into tears when a passing caretaker dropped a bucket with
a clatter.

Justo Tieno, 32, a music teacher, spent more than four hours hiding in the
ceiling of a bathroom before creeping out of the mall with his hands raised to
the waiting police line. He is struggling to come to terms with seeing
terrorists wearing belts of grenades flush out people hiding in the cubicles
beneath him, and a terrified and sobbing child lying on the prone and bloodied
body of her mother.

"I had to make myself come into school yesterday to reassure the kids," he said.
"It's hard to know what to tell them when they ask what happened."

Across town in Nairobi's diplomatic quarter, the flags of the 54 nationalities
of children who attend Rosslyn Academy are now flying at half mast. Dr Phil Dow,
the school's head teacher, said up to 40 of their students and families were
caught up in the attack. "Some had gone to a year eight birthday party, some
were with their parents and got trapped with them in different parts of the
mall, or were separated from them," he said.

He said one pupil, Juanita Ortiz-Iruri, 13, was being driven to the mall with
her father Juan, a health consultant who was about to take up a post at
Liverpool's School of Tropical Medicine, when gunmen opened fire on their car,
killing him instantly. "She was injured but too frightened to get out of the car
for hours and had to remain with his body," he said.

Juanita is being flown back to the US, her mother's home country, where doctors
would seek to save her left hand which was shattered by a bullet.

Her schoolfriend Thomas Zhou, 13, a Chinese national whose father worked in
Kenya's construction industry, remained in a serious condition in hospital in
Nairobi, Mr Dow said, suffering from several shrapnel wounds and third degree
burns. He was hit by a thermal grenade hurled by the terrorists and him and his
mother. "Thomas still hasn't been told that his mother has died," Dr Dow said.
"He keeps asking his aunt where she is."

One Kenyan school close to the mall site lost three children - one, a teenage
boy who ran back to help his injured grandmother and two others, a 15-year-old
girl and nine-year-old boy, whose mothers were shot and smashed in the face with
rifle butts by the terrorists as they tried to help them. "There's nothing we
can say to our children, they'll find their own way of dealing with it," said
their head teacher Geetika Saxena.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 26, 2013 Thursday 8:20 PM GMT

Westgate Mall car park collapse;
Dramatic new pictures of the collapsed remains of the multi-storey car park in
the Westgate Shopping Mall complex in Nairobi were released by the Kenyan
authorities on Thursday. As overseas specialists flew in to help local experts
with analysis, funerals continued for the victims of the terrorist attack.

LENGTH: 51 words


Dramatic new pictures of the collapsed remains of the multi-storey car park in
the Westgate Shopping Mall complex in Nairobi were released by the Kenyan
authorities on Thursday. As overseas specialists flew in to help local experts
with analysis, funerals continued for the victims of the terrorist attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 26, 2013 Thursday 8:06 PM GMT

Westgate Mall car park collapse;
Dramatic new pictures of the collapsed remains of the multi-storey car park in
the Westgate Shopping Mall complex in Nairobi were released by the Kenyan
authorities on Thursday. As overseas specialists flew in to help local experts
with analysis, funerals continued for the victims of the terrorist attack,

LENGTH: 51 words


Dramatic new pictures of the collapsed remains of the multi-storey car park in
the Westgate Shopping Mall complex in Nairobi were released by the Kenyan
authorities on Thursday. As overseas specialists flew in to help local experts
with analysis, funerals continued for the victims of the terrorist attack,

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 26, 2013 Thursday 11:46 AM GMT

Travellers urged to stand by Kenya;
Holidaymakers have been urged not to be put off visiting Kenya, despite the
terrorist attack at a shopping centre in Nairobi that left dozens dead,
including several Britons.

BYLINE: By Oliver Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 782 words


The massacre at the Westgate mall is the latest in a series of setbacks for the
country's image abroad. Widespread violence following the disputed elections of
2007/08 led to a sharp fall in visitor numbers. Then several tourists were
abducted - and one murdered - on the Lamu archipelago in 2011.

However, David Scowsill, president and chief executive of the World Travel and
Tourism Council, speaking to Telegraph Travel from the Kenyan capital, called
for holidaymakers to show resilience, before stressing how important overseas
visitors are to the country's economy.

"Travel and tourism accounts for 12.5 per cent of Kenya's GDP, and 600,000 of
its citizens rely on it to earn a living," he said. "Governments must avoid
issuing unhelpful blanket warnings against travel to the country, and potential
visitors should realise that this is a one-off incident that is only affecting a
tiny part of one city."

He said he anticipated a short-term fall in visitor numbers, and called on those
who do travel to Kenya in the coming weeks to use social-media websites to
persuade others of the country's stability.

"Terrorism incidents usually lead to a fall in visitors, perhaps for three to
six months, but people now do their own research, and are prepared to be more
robust," added Mr Scowsill, who was in Nairobi to attend a pre-scheduled tourism
conference. "From the conversations I've had, there is no sense that people are
pulling back on investing in hotels and infrastructure, and therefore no reason
to think that the impact will be anything but brief."

The extent of that impact is difficult to assess at such an early stage. While
Skyscanner, the price-comparison website, said searches for flights to Kenya
were down just 11 per cent this week, compared with the same week last year, the
online travel agent Loveholidays.com said bookings for Kenya had "come to a
complete halt".

Tour operators reported limited concern among those who had already booked. A
spokesman for Kuoni - which had 116 holidaymakers in Kenya this week - said it
had received a few calls and emails from Britons due to travel, but said all
were going ahead with their trips. "Security measures have been upgraded at all
ports of entry into Kenya and increased at entry gates to all hotels, lodges,
camps, national parks and reserves, shopping malls and any places of interest,"
he added.

Hayes&Jarvis said it had seen interest in Kenya dip since last weekend, but it
described the country as an "extremely resilient destination", adding that "we
expect the long-term implications for holiday bookings to remain minimal".

Exodus said it had 75 customers in Kenya this week, none of whom had been
affected by the attack, and it reported no cancellations or fall in inquiries.
Virgin Holidays said it had "a handful" of clients in Nairobi, none of whom had
asked to change their travel plans.

Any holidaymakers due to visit the country who do want to cancel or rearrange
their trips will not be able to do so free of charge. All those tour operators
contacted by Telegraph Travel - except Abercrombie and Kent, which said it would
look at requests on a case-by-case basis - confirmed that "normal booking
conditions" would apply unless the Foreign Office chose to issue a complete
warning against travel to Kenya.

At present the Foreign Office suggests that Britons should "exercise a
heightened level of vigilance" in Nairobi, "limit movements around the city" and
"avoid... public or crowded places", but it does not advise against travel
there, except in "low-income areas, including townships and slums". A warning
against travel to areas within 60km (40 miles) of the Kenya-Somalia border has
been in force for some time.

Should holidaymakers be forced to travel?                      Comment by Nick
Trend

Tour operators should show more flexibility towards holidaymakers reluctant to
travel to Kenya at the moment. True, the Foreign Office is not suggesting the
country is unsafe, but I wonder if the bigger companies in particular are being
a little too bullish. They have businesses to run, but even if they feel
disinclined to offer refunds they have the flexibility to offer alternative
destinations, or allow customers to postpone their trips.

Traditional tour operators often stress the advantages of booking with them
rather than travelling independently. Your money is safe, and you will be well
looked after, they say. When the biggest operators force holidaymakers either to
cancel without a refund or travel somewhere they don't really want to go, they
do nothing to enhance their reputation for customer care.

Follow @TelegraphTravel

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    September 26, 2013 Thursday 3:37 PM GMT

Kenya terror attack chief in new threat

BYLINE: Jenny Booth

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 1201 words


The leader of the al-Shabaab terror group has warned of a war of attrition amid
fresh attacks on Kenyan territory, days after its devastating siege of a Nairobi
shopping centre.

Ahmed Abdi Godane, also known as Shaykh Mukhtar Abu Zubayr, the leader of the
Somali terror group, released a statement last night warning the Kenyan public
that there was no way they could withstand a prolonged campaign of terror inside
their own country.

"So make your choice today and withdraw all your forces from the Islamic
Wilaayaat [Somalia], otherwise be prepared for an abundance of blood that will
be spilt in your country, economic downfall and displacement," he threatened.

Al-Shabaab militants raided a Kenyan border post in the town of Mandera today,
killing two police officers, injuring a third and destroying vehicles.

Charlton Mureithi, the regional police chief, said that the injured man had been
flown to hospital for emergency treatment.

Hours earlier a militant threw a grenade into a market in the border town of
Wajir, killing one person and wounding four others. Such attacks happen
regularly but have taken on new significance since the devastating four-day
siege of the Westgate shopping centre, which began on Saturday.

In his statement, Godane said that the mall attack was directed not only at
Kenya, but that it was also "a retribution against the Western states that
supported the Kenyan invasion and are spilling the blood of innocent Muslims in
order to pave the way for their mineral companies".

Fingerprint, DNA and ballistics experts from the US, Britain and Germany were
today helping Kenyan police to analyse the crime scene at Westgate, a police
spokeswoman said.

No details have been released of what the experts have found in the
bullet-scarred and partially collapsed mall. Joseph Ole Lenku, the Interior
Minister, has warned that the police work is expected to take a week.

Authorities have said that at least five al-Shabaab attackers were killed and
that 11 suspects have been taken into custody.

In his statement, Godane said that only "some of the Mujahidin martyrdom seekers
have written with their blood", suggesting that others may have escaped.

Video of the interior of the collapsed mall has been released, showing a scene
of utter devastation, with wrecked cars flung about like toys The partial
collapse of the four-storey structure may have been caused by Kenyan soldiers
who fired rocket-propelled grenades inside, knocking out a support column, a
government official said.

The official, who declined to be identified, said that the soldiers fired to
distract a terrorist sniper so that hostages could be evacuated.

One third of the building fell in on Monday afternoon, soon after four large
explosions rang out, followed by billows of black smoke. Although a government
minister said that the terrorists had set mattresses on fire, causing the roof
to collapse, the video showed such massive destruction that the explanation
seemed unlikely to be the full story.

Wisps of grey smoke continued to rise from the building today, apparently from
where the back of the building had collapsed, with tonnes of concrete now
smothering the area where the insurgents are believed to have made their final
stand, alongside possibly multiple hostages.

Bomb squads were said to be only halfway through clearing the building of any
boobytraps, working their way down from roof level. The search for missing
people inside the building has still yet to begin while the security situation
is checked.

Police have repeatedly called for Kenyans to be patient but many are growing
frustrated. Some are taking to social media to demand swift answers to a series
of questions on what brought part of the building down, the fate of the missing
and the status of the investigation. The number of missing people has fallen by
10 in the past 24 hours, and that stands at 61.

The Kenyan Red Cross said today that its main concerns were increased public
anxiety on account of missing persons, the disruption caused by the continued
crisis and inadequate information flow.

"All rescue and recovery activities remained suspended the whole day. Military
anti-bomb teams continued with search for explosions to secure the building,"
Abdul Gullet, the head of the KRC, said in his report at lunchtime today.

Workers at the mall were seen wearing face masks and some soldiers covered their
mouths with scarves because of an overpowering stench inside the centre, which
had been the capital's most upmarket mall.

Morgue officials in Nairobi have been preparing for a large influx of bodies.
Some officials have said that the shopping centre could hold dozens more,
although Mr Lenku insisted that the number inside the building was
"insignificant" and that the bodies of a few terrorists were probably the only
ones left.

Meanwhile, funerals were taking place across Kenya as the country entered its
second day of national mourning. The front page of The Standard, a Kenyan daily
newspaper, simply showed a red rose and the headline: "In honour of our fallen
loved ones".

More than two thousand mourners turned out this morning to pay their final
respects to Ruhila Adatia-Sood, 31, a popular television and radio personality,
who was pregnant with her first child.

Shelina Manji, a friend of hers, said that the last time they saw each other
they had promised to talk later. "We never had that conversation," she told the
crowd, some of whom were in tears.

A fellow radio presenter, Kamal Kaur, who was with Adatia-Sood at a children's
cooking contest on the mall rooftop when the attackers struck, recounted the
horror as the insurgents raked the screaming crowds with bullets and hurled
grenades.

"I had around 30 to 35 kids with me ... and when the blast went off I tried to
protect them by ordering them to get down and lie on the floor ... After the
blast, and screaming from the kids, the shots started coming in," Ms Kaur told
The Standard.

Ms Kaur, who tried to stem the blood from the neck of a little boy, said she did
not see how Adatia-Sood died. But she recalled her final words.

"She was telling me how she had bought something for 'my little papa' [her
unborn baby], and I was telling her to stop buying too many things because we
will have nothing else to give as a gift when it finally comes," she said.

At least 18 foreigners were among the 72 dead, including citizens of France,
Canada, the Netherlands, Australia, Peru, India, Ghana, South Africa and China.

The Foreign Office revised the British death toll down from six to five, saying
in a statement that one individual who had been thought to be British had turned
out to be Kenyan.

The FCO also issued a statement on behalf of Niall Saville, a British consultant
injured in the attack, confirming that his Korean-born wife, Moon Hee Kang, had
been killed.

"The Saville and Kang families are devastated and heartbroken by the sudden loss
of Moon Hee," the statement read.

"She was very close to the Saville family and brought so much joy to all of
their lives. She and Niall had lived in numerous locations around the world
together, but they always had time for both families.

"Moon Hee was a bright, loving, kind and genuine person who will be greatly
missed."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                          September 26, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Week to carry out 'audit' of terror attack

BYLINE: GAVIN CORDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 485 words


The full "forensic audit" of the Nairobi shopping mall terror attack will take
at least seven days to complete, the country's interior minister has said.

International experts - including a team from Scotland Yard - are helping the
Kenyan authorities as they seek to establish the identities of the militants who
carried out the bloody, four-day assault.

Interior minister Joseph Ole Lenku said it was still not known whether there
were any Britons or Americans among the al-Qaeda-linked militants or whether any
one of them was a woman.

"In our previous briefings we indicated that there was no indication to suggest
that there is a woman terrorist but going forward we are all hearing
possibilities and information - including volunteers from the public," he told
reporters.

"We want to again request you to allow the forensic experts to determine whether
that is true."

The persistent suggestion that a woman was involved has led to speculation that
it could be the British terrorist suspect Samantha Lewthwaite - who was married
to the July 7 bomber Jermaine Lindsay.

Dubbed the "White Widow", Lewthwaite is known to be in East Africa and is wanted
by Kenyan police over alleged links to a terrorist cell that planned to bomb the
country's coastal resorts.

Mr Lenku said the forensic teams - including experts from the US, Israel,
Germany Canada and Interpol - were examining fingerprint, DNA and ballistics
evidence in the hunt for clues.

President Uhuru Kenyatta declared on Tuesday night that the Islamist militants
from the Somali-based al-Shabab group who carried out the attack had been
"defeated" as he announced three days of national mour ning.

The Kenyan authorities have said that 61 civilians - six of them British - and
six members of the Kenyan security forces were known to have died during the
stand-off. Five terrorists were also killed while ten suspects remain in custody
in relation to the incident.

Mr Lenku said that he did not expect the civilian death toll to rise
significantly, although there may be more terrorists buried in the rubble of the
Westgate Mall, after three floors collapsed during the final stages of the
siege.

As Kenyan troops combed through the wreckage, sporadic bursts of gunfire could
still be heard from the mall.

Government spokesman Manoah Esipisu said any shooting was from Kenyan troops,
who were acting protectively, and the terrorists' resistance was ended.

"During sanitisation, once you take control of the place, if you go to a room
where you haven't visited before you shoot first to make sure you aren't walking
into an ambush," he said. "But there hasn't been any gunfire from the terrorists
for more than 36 hours." Meanwhile, the Foreign Office said a British national
reportedly arrested at Jomo Kenyatta Airport on Monday as he tried to leave the
country was not being linked to the attack.

61 The number of civilians killed in the Nairobi shopping mall shooting

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2013 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Andover Advertiser

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

OAP describes terror of vandals' double attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 410 words


AN ELDERLY woman has spoken of her shock after her and her neighbour's
Ludgershall homes were vandalised in a terrifying attack in the dead of night
over the weekend.

At 3.45am on Sunday, 22 September extensive damage was caused to the front of
two properties in Berrysfield Court.

One house, occupied by a 29-year-old woman and her baby son, suffered a smashed
kitchen window anddamaged front door.

The adjoining property - home to a 92-year-old woman - had all four panes of a
double glazed sash window smashed in.

The great-grandmother, who did not want to be named, told the Advertiser: "This
has really shaken me."

The widow, who has slept downstairs in an armchair since a fall in March meant
that she can no longer get upstairs, was woken to the sound of banging and
shouting as the vandals smashed next door's window.

She said: "I will never forget seeing that. Can you imagine, I am lying here, I
hear shouting and then the next thing the blinds are going out and all these
shards come in.

I yelled something but I don't know what."

Shards of glass covered the terrified woman's blankets and carpeted the floor.
She was unable to move for a while as she was too confused to dial for help, but
eventually managed to dress and went outside when she heard her female
neighbours' voices.

She added: "Glass was everywhere. I keep seeing bits as I walked about. I didn't
go to sleep again until 4pm, I just couldn't."

The suspects, who are described as two men, one dressed in a light-coloured
hooded top, pulled up outside the houses in a dark vehicle with a diesel engine
- possibly a black Vauxhall Astra.

A witness believes the man in the hooded top was wielding a weapon, such as a
baseball bat, iron bar or golf club.

The younger victim was asleep and she was woken by the sound of smashing. When
she went to investigate, she ended up with shards of flying glass in her hair.

After the attack the men quickly returned to the vehicle and it made off towards
Butts Lane and then in the direction of Marlborough.

Investigating officer PC Graham Briant said: "Through no fault of their own two
members of Ludgershall's close-knit community have been left shaken and
financially punished.

"They have absolutely no idea why anybody would want to do this to their homes
in the middle of the night and their only comfort at the moment is the hope that
it was a case of mistaken identity."

One of the two men involved ran with a limp.

Anyone with any information should call 101.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

Kenya Anglicans condemn terror attack, laud security forces

LENGTH: 96 words


Text of report entitled "Anglicans condemn attack and lauds forces" by
privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 27 September

The Anglican Church has condemned the attack on Westgate shopping mall.
Archbishop Eliud Wabukala called on people of all faiths to unite and work
together during the trying period.

"We condemn these heinous and inhuman actions against Kenyans and foreign
residents," he said yesterday at All Saints Cathedral [Nairobi]. He at the same
time praised the security forces for their commitment to duty.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 27 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

Masterminds of Kenya's Westgate terror attack deserve death - Muslim cleric

LENGTH: 85 words


Text of report entitled "They deserve death says Muslim leader" published by
Kenyan newspaper Daily Nation on 27 September

Masterminds of the Westgate attack deserve nothing less than death, a Muslim
cleric said yesterday. Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya Lamu chairman
Sheikh Abubakar Shekue, said the perpetrators did not deserve mercy after
killing innocent people. In an interview with the Nation, he termed that act as
a merciless show of inhumanity.

Source: Daily Nation, Nairobi, in English 27 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

(Corr) Kenya Anglicans condemn terror attack, laud security forces

LENGTH: 107 words


Text of report entitled "Anglicans condemn attack and lauds forces" published by
Kenyan newspaper Daily Nation on 27 September

(Refiling with correct source name; a corrected version of item follows:)

The Anglican Church has condemned the attack on Westgate shopping mall.
Archbishop Eliud Wabukala called on people of all faiths to unite and work
together during the trying period.

"We condemn these heinous and inhuman actions against Kenyans and foreign
residents," he said yesterday at All Saints Cathedral [Nairobi]. He at the same
time praised the security forces for their commitment to duty.

Source: Daily Nation, Nairobi, in English 27 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

Over 60 people "unaccounted for" in wake of Kenya terror attack

LENGTH: 424 words


Text of report by Dave Opiyo entitled "61 are still missing after end of siege"
published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 27
September

Some 61 people said to have been among those at the Westgate shopping mall when
terrorists struck five days ago, are still unaccounted for.

According to the latest Kenya Red Cross data, six of those reported missing have
been found and re-united with their families.

Nine bodies have also been positively identified by relatives.

"The search for the missing people is still on... A number of people have come
forward to look for their kin," a Red Cross official who only identified himself
as Mr Anwar told the Nation Thursday [26 September].

Red Cross is carrying out the tracing services to locate and re-unite missing
persons with their families at Uhuru Park [Nairobi].

The humanitarian agency has set up an online platform for registering missing
persons, complementing the hotline number 0714820219. Its Twitter handle
@KenyaRedCross also started a #RedCrossTrace tag for information sharing.

According to the brief, the organisation says their main challenge is how to
tackle the increased public anxiety on account of missing persons that has been
brought about by inadequate information.

The terrorists descended on the shopping mall last Saturday, killing a total of
67 people and injuring at least 240 others drawn from various nationalities, by
the end of the four-day siege.

The mall was among the favourite outing joints for expatriates in the city.

Six security officers and five terrorists also died in the attack. Eleven people
suspected to have been involved with the well-planned and executed assault are
in custody.

The government has embarked on its next phase, which according to Interior
Cabinet Secretary Joseph ole Lenku, will involve forensic processes of
identifying the dead through their fingerprints and DNA.

Ballistics tests will also be undertaken to determine the nature of weapons and
ammunition used in the siege.

Mr Lenku on Wednesday said teams from the US, Israel, Britain, Germany, Canada
and Interpol had joined police for investigations.

According to the brief by the humanitarian agency, they on Wednesday, collected
1,972 units of blood in their countrywide donation campaign.

The areas covered were Garissa (40), Nakuru (201), Mombasa (440), Kakamega (99),
Kisii (117), Busia (42) and Nairobi(1033), bringing the cumulative number of
blood so far donated since the exercise commenced to 11,293.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 27 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

Kenyan paper urges state to "repair security breeches" in wake of terror attack

LENGTH: 619 words


Text of editorial entitled "Too many questions linger over terrorist attack on
Westgate" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard
website on 26 September

As the country continues to mourn its dead following the end of the four-day
siege by Al-Shabab terrorists on Nairobi's Westgate Mall, the hope is that the
top leadership will play its part by quickly setting in motion investigations
that will lead to a better public understanding of exactly how the tragedy was
allowed to play out and grip local and international attention.

Reports that the police force, particularly the National Intelligence Service
(NIS), received credible intelligence of impending terrorist attacks but failed
to act in time to prevent the Westgate Mall massacre of innocent lives is
particularly disturbing. The fact that the terror group struck one of the
targets mentioned by the local informants as well as the Israeli intelligence
authorities, among others, is a shocking commentary on the police ability to
detect and prevent crime that is inexcusable.

It is not good enough for the grieving country to be told that many similar
planned attacks have been detected and nipped in the bud. After all, that is
their job and it explains why the public hardly questions the billions of
shillings these Intelligence agencies spend every year.

Not too long ago, Kenya's entire police force including the once elite Criminal
Investigations Department, was ranked among the best in the world. Indeed, it
was not unusual for foreign countries to send their high-ranking officers to
train in Kenya in the same way they send their top military officers to train in
the local military colleges. But that was then.

Regrettably, those high standards were allowed to deteriorate over time. Since
the police are the gatekeepers for the rest of the public service and society,
standards for other government departments went into a free fall.

As the latest assault makes clear, the immigration department has a lot of
ground to cover in clearing its reputation. It has to explain, at the very
least, how more than a dozen foreign terrorists and their war materiel sneaked
into the country without their knowledge.

Obviously, the recent return of drug lords from West Africa after they were
deported undermines their credibility even further.

Worse, it underlines the level to which the department's integrity, and that of
the police, has been compromised by corruption.

That means the war against terrorism has to be fought in tandem with the one on
drug trafficking for, at various levels, they become one. The officers who turn
a blind eye to the one have no compunction about doing the same to the other. To
get a grip on who knew what, when and what was done with the information that
still allowed the terrorists to get into the country, it may be necessary to
bring in foreign investigators because it would be wishful thinking to expect
the police force to investigate itself without bias.

Some of the countries have already sent their experts to assist in gathering
forensic evidence at the Westgate Mall.

These countries may be only too willing to lend their best people to help in the
forensic probe of the local intelligence agencies and the training of the top
officers who will be culled from the existing members.

Given the fact that Kenya does not have any intention of succumbing to the
terrorists' blackmail and recall its troops from Somalia until their job is
done, the bottom-line is that the country must move quickly to repair the
security breeches that allowed the Westgate Mall massacre to happen.

That is the only assurance that it will not happen again.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 26 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

Kenya terror attack suspect "white widow" reportedly planned raid from SAfrica

LENGTH: 787 words


Text of report by South African newspaper Mail & Guardian on 27 September

[Report by Phillip De Wet and Niren Tolsi: "The 'White Widow' and the SA Link"]

Suspect had a 'legitimate' South African passport and was in Jo'burg
[Johannesburg] when allegedly planning attacks

Evidence that Samantha Lewthwaite -dubbed "the White Widow" by the British press
-led or was involved in the Kenya attacks remained thin this week.

But, at the same time, evidence mounted that Lewthwaite used Johannesburg as a
base in recent years during a time when, the Kenyan government believes, she was
involved in the planning of terror attacks.

Late on Thursday, Interpol issued a warrant for Lewthwaite's arrest. Her alleged
accomplice, Briton Jermaine Grant, appeared in a Kenyan court this week to face
charges that the two had planned to murder British tourists in terror attacks in
Kenya.

Authorities in that country believe the two were working with Somali terror
group al-Shabab, which claimed responsibility for the attack on Nairobi's
Westgate Mall.

Speculation that Lewthwaite was involved in the attack, in which at least 67
people were killed, hinges on reports of the involvement of a white "trigger
woman" and vague statements by Kenyan officials, later firmly denied.

But Lewthwaite held a legitimate South African passport, albeit one obtained
under false pretences, Home Affairs Minister Naledi Pandor confirmed on
September 26.

Lewthwaite had registered addresses in Johannesburg, as well as credit cards and
store accounts under her assumed name of Natalie Faye Webb. Pandor said the
passport had been issued in Durban but had been "cancelled" in February 2011
following an investigation. Lewthwaite had allegedly acquired the passport by
fraudulently using the South African Webb identity in a late birth-registration
process.

According to Pandor, the last reported use of the passport on the country's
movement control system was in February 2011, prior to its cancellation. She
said the passport had been flagged by Interpol and the country's monitoring
systems for the possibility of it being used by a potential terror suspect.

The minister added that home affairs still had to make "a clear connection" to
the passport, which was issued in Durban -how, and by whom -and that her
department "hasn't been able to source that detail" as yet. She also did not
rule out a more in-depth investigation to confirm or rule out the existence of a
real Natalie Faye Webb.

Pandor confirmed that Lewthwaite had first used the passport to enter South
Africa in July 2008, with additional visits to the country "on more than one
occasion".

The department has also put all other "related passports" -it is understood that
her children also hold South African travel documents -acquired under the
assumed identity of Webb "on a stop list".

With South Africa's government seemingly intent on distancing itself from the
bombings in Nairobi, Pandor said she "strenuously" denied any association
between the attack and South Africa "until I have seen further evidence".

Adding that there was no evidence before her to suggest the South African
passport had been used by Lewthwaite to gain entry to Kenya, Pandor also said
there had been "no formal request" made to South Africa's government by Kenyan
authorities "to give attention to this matter" of Lewthwaite's alleged use of
the passport.

Meanwhile the Hawks have confirmed that they are involved in a long-running
investigation into al-Shabab activities in South Africa, and intelligence
insiders said communications suspected of relating to al-Shabab was subject to
electronic interception.

Questions were raised this week about why adherents of al-Shabab would operate
from South Africa.

The Muslim Judicial Council said it wasn't because it would provide opportunity
for easy radicalization within the structures of Islam in South Africa.

"Radical groups wouldn't find an easy home in South Africa," said Nabeweya
Malick, spokesperson for the council.

"It's not as if there would be a group of people ready and waiting for them. To
everyone here it would be clear that these are the enemies of the People of the
Book."

The same, she said, would go for South Africa's large Somali Muslim community,
which would be more likely to blame al-Shabab for destabilizing the country of
their birth than to offer it succor.

The sentiment was widely echoed by Muslim leaders at a local level, who said
their institutions would treat the preaching of radical views or exhortation to
violence as a sin.

"They may say they are our fellows in faith, but we will not allow hate and hate
speech within these walls," said a Johannesburg imam, who asked not to be named.

Source: Mail & Guardian, Johannesburg, in English 27 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

EU says Al-Shabab could carry "Westgate-Style" terror attack in Mogadishu

LENGTH: 154 words


Text of report in English by Somali news website Raxanreeb on 27 September

Somalia's terrorist group Al-Shabab could carry terrorist attack similar to
[Nairobi's] Westgate attack in Mogadishu, European Union sources said.

The source said that Al-Shabab still had the power to attack important places in
Mogadishu after the deadly attack in Nairobi mall this week which killed more
than 70 people.

"Terrorists may plan another attack in Mogadishu similar to the Nairobi's
Westgate mall." the source said.

Al Shabab which is a terrorist cell linked to Al-Qa'idah network has claimed the
responsibility for the Westgate attack killing civilians and taking more people
as hostages.

On Thursday [26 September] Interpol has issued an arrest warrant for British
national Samantha Lewthwaite, also knows as the "White Widow." Kenya requested
the warrant, claiming she is a danger to the world.

Source: Raxanreeb website in English 27 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

SAfrica Somalis reportedly fear reprisals following Kenya mall terror attack

LENGTH: 720 words


Text of report by South African newspaper Mail & Guardian on 27 September

[Report by Kwanele Sosibo: "Somalians Fearful of Reprisal in SA"]

They fear that they will become the targets of a police crackdown in both Kenya
and South Africa

There was increased interest in the predominantly Somali section of
Johannesburg's Mayfair suburb known as "Little Mogadishu" this week when news
surfaced that Samantha Lewthwaite, who is suspected to have been involved in the
Nairobi mall attack, had kept a Mayfair address during her stay in South Africa.

Lewthwaite, dubbed the "White Widow" by the media, allegedly lived in South
Africa on a fake South African ID and has two residential addresses linked to
her between November 2009 and May 2012.

Lewthwaite was married to one of the London suicide bombers, Germaine Lindsay,
and lived with her children in South Africa. Lindsay, also known as Abdullah
Shaheed Jamal, was a Jamaican-born Londoner and one of four militants who
detonated bombs in the city on July 7 2005, killing 56 people and injuring over
700.

Little Mogadishu residents expressed fear of a backlash both in Kenya and South
Africa as a result of the siege, which left more than 70 people dead and still
counting. Others expressed disbelief that Lewthwaite could have lived a few
doors down from them.

But the address linked to her turned out to be a wheel and tyre fitment shop.

"As far as I know, that's a complete lie," said the middle-aged Sulega Dahir
Hussein, a Somali national who lives in the area. "That's another story I can't
even put in my mind because I could be targeted.

"They [the Islamist militants al-Shabab] are killing innocent people. What
happened in Kenya we are sorry about it a€¦ Even talking about them I'm scared
because I am a single mother of six children."

Hussein said Somalis in Kenya are already "being targeted by the police" and she
feared that the sentiment could spread to South Africa.

Noor Hirsi, a personable Somali businessperson and self-described ANC member who
has lived in South Africa for 12 years, said the Somali community in Mayfair is
against al-Shabab and dismissed the suggestion that it could have harboured the
movement's operatives.

"This is against African culture, so this is not something from the Somali
community. They say their movement is religious but they don't represent the
religion. This is not what Islam is or Somali culture is. To kill women,
children and civilians is not our culture.

"In Somalia, the war is about resources and clan-based problems, it is not about
religion. Somalis are Sufi people, who are tolerant to everyone."

Hirsi said there was talk of the "Islamicisation" of the community -a term he
used cautiously to mean radical proselytizing -but said this was mostly
accusations made by "Indian people and the police".

Hirsi later said he would refer the Mail & Guardian to a man who had been
questioned by police in 2011 about "terrorism". But after a lengthy discussion
between the two of them, the man refused to speak to us, saying it was not he
who had been questioned, but two others who had since fled to Port Elizabeth.

Hirsi also said Somalis are bracing themselves for a backlash in Kenya and South
Africa, countries that have sizeable Somali business communities. "Black South
Africans and Indian people are already saying: 'Why are you killing people? We
buy from you all the time'"

A youth leader, who preferred to remain anonymous, referred to a Somali proverb
to encapsulate the local community's overwhelming feelings about al-Shabab: "If
your hand is clean, you can clean the cloth; but if your hands are dirty, you
can't clean anything.

"Al-Shabab is killing Muslim people. Even as they were attacking the mall,
people were being killed in Somalia," he said, referring to a grenade explosion
in Mogadishu's Baraka market on Saturday that killed two people and injured
four.

Ahmed Abdi of the Al-Bayaan Islamic Council would not speak on the record but
provided a statement by Yusuf Patel of the United Alama Council of South Africa
that described the Kenya mall siege as "the barbaric slaughter of human lives
that can never be condoned under any kind of religious pretext" and the
"spurious religious validation of such murder" as the "work of grossly ignorant
zealots".

Source: Mail & Guardian, Johannesburg, in English 27 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

Uganda to profile mall owners following Kenya terror attack

LENGTH: 210 words


Text of report by Simon Masaba entitled "National Security Council to profile
all mall owners" published by leading privately-owned Ugandan newspaper The
Daily Monitor website on 26 September

The National Security Council (NCS) has resolved to update particulars of major
business shopping malls, including proprietors' profiles in a bid to fight armed
terrorism after Al-Shabab militants hit Kenya killing over 60 people.

The police boss, Gen Kale Kayihura, said the profiling will include collecting
data about entrepreneurs in various businesses such as markets, bus terminals
and schools.

The measure, Kayihura said, was initiated during a meeting that involved
President Yoweri Museveni and the security council.

Members of the council chaired by the President include: External Security
Organisation, Internal Security Organisation, the Police, Joint Anti-Terrorism
force, Chieftaincy of Military Intelligence and the UPDF [Uganda People's
Defence Forces].

Kayihura revealed the new fight against terrorism while opening a training
seminar of senior police officers and its managers at the Lugogo Conference Hall
in Nakawa, Kampala yesterday. All regional police commanders are attending the
seminar.

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 26 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

Kenyan paper calls for "professional" probe to examine Westgate terror attack

LENGTH: 354 words


Text of editorial entitled "Shun blame game and address security lapses"
published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 27
September

President [Uhuru] Kenyatta's briefing on Tuesday [24 September] emphatically
brought home the heroic acts of security forces, which worked round the clock to
capture the Westgate Mall from the lethal terrorists.

Everyone acknowledged that the police and the Kenya Defence Force did their best
in the circumstances to save lives and defeat the enemy.

Even so, concerns have been raised about how the security teams handled the
crisis.

Specifically, the spotlight has been turned on the National Intelligence
Service, with questions being asked whether or not they had prior knowledge of
the impending attack.

Planning and executing a terror attack of the magnitude we saw at the mall has
to be a massive, complicated affair. It cannot happen in a day. Not with the
ruthlessness displayed and the quantities of arms that sustained a vicious fight
for four days.

Thus, the question is: could the terrorists have planned and carried out their
diabolical act without the knowledge of the intelligence unit? What about the
other agencies like the police and immigration?

Whatever the case, it may not be useful to dwell on a blame game. Instead, we
need a well thought-out and professional investigation to examine what happened
and draw lessons for the future.

In fact, it is troubling when MPs take to the floor of the House to condemn
security officials unheard.

Moreover, it does not add value to summon security teams to appear before
parliamentary teams to be grilled over the mayhem. Too often, that amounts to
political posturing more than fixing the problem.

The point is there are serious lapses within the security system that allow
criminals to sneak into the country, live here for months, and wreak havoc
without the knowledge of the security organs.

Everything must be done to seal all the loopholes within the security system
that allows such things to happen so that peace and security for all can be
guaranteed.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 27 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

Ghanaian leader addresses UN General Assembly, regrets Kenya terror attack

LENGTH: 138 words


Text of report by Ghanaian Joy FM radio website owned by the Multimedia
Broadcasting Corporation on 26 September

[Unattributed report: "The World Cannot Succumb to Terrorists; Mahama Tells
World Leaders"]

President John Dramani Mahama is rallying fellow world leaders against
terrorism, because the world, he told the UN General Assembly Thursday, cannot
succumb to blackmail terrorists.

He said the cowardly attacks on Kenya's Westgate Shopping Mall which claimed 67
lives including Ghanaian poet and politician, Prof. Kofi Awoonor, should serve
as the basis for the world to stand united against persons whose desire it is to
take human lives and create chaos in the world.

President Mahama was addressing the 68th UN General Assembly meeting in New York
in the United States.

Source: Joy FM text website, Accra, in English  26 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

Kenya's Somalis fear violent backlash in the wake of Westgate terror attack:
Many in minority say their success in trade has made them obvious scapegoats

BYLINE: Afua Hirsch in Nairobi

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 701 words


At a barbershop in Eastleigh, a densely populated neighbourhood just east of
central Nairobi, a man with a neat goatee, fair skin and unblinking hazel eyes
leans his head back into a sink as brown dye is rinsed out of his hair.

Like most people in the area often known as Little Mogadishu, Abdul, 29, is
Somali-Kenyan. And like many locals, he has grown increasingly angry at the
events at the Westgate shopping centre, and the potential impact the four-day
siege will have on his community.

"What happened in Westgate is terrible. The community in Eastleigh want to help
- we have given food and supplies. But I think it is the police, not terrorists,
who killed people," says Abdul.

"Al-Shabaab exist, but they are in Somalia, not here. This is a cover-up
motivated by politics. I don't trust the authorities - I think they exploded
everything in Westgate to destroy the evidence."

From the other side of the salon, where he is shaving a client's head, Bashir
chimes in: "The worst al-Shabaab can do is a suicide bombing - not something
like this that goes on for days.

"Now they are blaming Somalis, when we are still not sure who these people are.
People are mixing up Muslims with terrorists. You have to differentiate."

There is widespread distrust of the authorities in Eastleigh. Locals say the
police have failed to investigate a string of bombings in the neighbourhood,
which have killed and injured dozens.

Many believe the bombings were carried out by Somali militants - but Eastleigh
residents have also suffered bloody reprisals from other Kenyans.

At a medical centre in the neighbourhood, the young receptionist dressed in a
black hijab becomes agitated as she describes seeing police round up Somalis.
She believes the arrests were linked to Westgate.

"When people saw the police coming, they were running away," says Naima. "How
can they be going around arresting Somalis when we are not even sure if it was
Somalis who attacked the place?"

Sitting next to her, Ilham, 25, who wears a green hijab, says she believes the
gunmen who stormed Westgate were not members of al-Shabaab, and that the
description of it as a terrorist attack is part of a state cover-up.

Despite its reputation as a slum, the tightly knit and entrepreneurial Somali
community has become a trade hub. Eastleigh's wide avenues are overcrowded and
dirty, with rubbish piled high at the roadside and filling puddles of stagnant
water. But the area is also dotted with new, high-rise buildings.

Ahmed Mohamed returned to Kenya after obtaining a degree in London, and now runs
a security firm and an association representing 2,000 Somali-Kenyan business
owners.

"People are coming from Rwanda, Burundi, Sudan to do business here," he says.
"Somalis are natural entrepreneurs. It's in our DNA."

Many feel that resentment at Somali-Kenyans' success in business has led
outsiders to scapegoat the community for Islamist violence.

Somali-Kenyans say they are routinely victimised by the Christian majority.
Naima says that when she travelled to Kenya's Rift Valley she was subject to
harassment and called names.

"When I went to Rongai wearing (a hijab) they were pointing at me and calling me
'al-Shabaab'. When I go to a bus station, they will check me two or three times,
but a Christian won't be checked at all. I am a Kenyan."

Eastleigh has been the focus of repeated attacks. Last year, six people were
killed in a grenade attack on a minibus, which was followed by violence and
looting. Somali-Kenyans were blamed for the blast, even though it happened
within their own community.

Local MP Yusuf Hassan, who was confined to a wheelchair after a bomb attack
during general elections in March, says not enough has been done to strengthen
relations with the Somali community.

"We have been assured by the leadership that ethnic profiling and collective
punishment of Somalis is no longer acceptable," he says. "The majority of
Kenyans do not subscribe to that kind of mentality. But for a minority, whenever
terrorists are mentioned, the word 'Somali', the word 'Muslim', appears."

Captions:

Business is booming in Eastleigh, an area of Nairobi known as Little Mogadishu
for its thriving Somali-Kenyan community Photograph: Simon Maina/AFP/Getty

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 27, 2013
                                 First Edition

Poetry-loving terrorist accused of attack;
THE 'MASTERMIND'

BYLINE: Sudarsan Raghavan IN NAIROBI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 178 words


The alleged Somali mastermind of the Nairobi shopping mall attack is a man of
contradictions.

Mukhtar Abu Zubeyr, known as Godane, is bookish, eloquent in both Arabic and
Somali, recites poetry and is known to quote from obscure academic journals,
analysts say. Yet he trained and fought in Afghanistan for the jihadist cause
and has ruthlessly killed most of his rivals to seize control of al-Shabaab, a
Somali militia linked to al-Qa'ida that has claimed responsibility for the mall
attack.

Al-Shabaab said the attack was revenge for Kenya sending troops into Somalia.
But the carnage had as much to do with Godane's desire to make al-Shabaab - and
himself - stronger. In an online audio post, Godane warned Kenyans of more
attacks if the government refuses to withdraw its forces.

"There is no way that you, the Kenyan public, could possibly endure a prolonged
war in Somalia and you cannot also withstand a war of attrition inside your own
country," he said. "So withdraw all your forces... [or] be prepared for an
abundance of blood that will be spilt in your country."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                               September 27, 2013
                                   Edition 6;
                                National Edition

Sussex charity's worker witnesses church terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 190 words


A CROWBOROUGH charity was left reeling after one of its representatives was
caught up in a terror attack in Pakistan.

Zia Pervez Mirza was leading a ceremony at the Anglican All Saints Church in
Peshawar, north western Pakistan, when two bomb blasts rocked the church on
Sunday.

Mr Mirza works for Mill Crescent-based charity World in Need as its
representative in the region and helped the Christian group with its efforts in
Pakistan and Afghanistan to give children in poor communities education and give
aid to those most in need.

Some 80 people were killed in what is believed to be the deadliest attack yet on
Pakistan''s Christian population.

He has been in contact with international director for the charity David
Shamiri, telling him: "When I went outside [there were] dead bodies.

"Everywhere, bodies, body parts. Children. Women's. Blood.

"Half my congregation, gone.

Some whole families, gone."

Mr Mirza added that the service, packed with around 400 worshippers, had just
finished when he went into a room at the back to change his clothes.

He last visited Crowborough in May 2010 and is due to attend a World in Need
conference next year.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR : Zia Pervez Mirza saw the aftermath of the attack which killed
about 80 people

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KSC


                     Copyright 2013 Kent and Sussex Courier
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                           September 27, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Minister's family killed in terror attack

BYLINE: Rod Mills

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 247 words


A CHURCH of Scotland minister who lost several family members in Sunday's bomb
attack on a church in Peshawar has taken part in a memorial service in Pakistan.

The Reverend Aftab Gohar, of Abbot's Grange Parish Church in Grangemouth, lost
his mother, 11-year-old nephew, nine-year-old niece and two cousins.

The death toll in the double suicide bombing was more than 80, and many of the
Pakistan-born minister's other relatives were injured. Mr Gohar, 45, who has
worked in Grangemouth since 2008, was preparing to lead his own congregation
when the attack occurred in the church in Peshawar.

He took Sunday's service while news of the bombing was filtering through, but
only knew his mother had been injured. The tragic news of her death and those of
his niece and nephew came moments after he finished the service.

The minister, who travelled to Pakistan on Sunday night, said he had also lost
uncles, cousins and friends in the attack.

He recited a prayer for the dead during the memorial service in Peshawar's
cathedral. He added: "My parents were baptised in that church, we were baptised
in the church. We loved that church and that's why I went there and participated
in a memorial service, arranged by the diocese.

"It's a very big tragedy because my younger brother lost both his children. One
was 11 years old and the other nine years old. It is very shocking for us."

Two Islamist militant groups with Taliban links have said they ordered the
attack to hit back at US drone strikes.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Reverend Aftab Gohar sc*

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 27, 2013 Friday 7:12 PM GMT

Briton killed in Kenya Westgate attack trying to save children;
A British sales executive was shot dead in last week's terrorist attack on a
Nairobi shopping centre as he offered himself as a hostage to save children at a
cookery contest, it emerged on Friday.

BYLINE: By Ben Farmer and Mike Pflanz in Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 677 words


Mitul Shah died trying to negotiate with al-Shabaab attackers who stormed the
Westgate shopping centre, his employers said, in an attack that killed at least
67 civilians and members of the security forces.

Pressure was last night mounting on Kenya's security services, as it was
revealed officials were warned a year ago that terrorists were planning a
suicide attack on the shopping centre.

Mr Shah, a sales team leader with Bidco Oil, was killed in the attack's first
wave while helping host the children's contest sponsored by his company on the
rooftop car park. His funeral was held in Nairobi on Thursday.

Dipak Shah, director of the cooking oil firm, said: "He was trying to negotiate
the freedom of the children in order for him to be taken as a hostage.

"Some had managed to save their lives but unfortunately he, and others, did not.

"It was a heroic and brave act a true reflection of his soul. He was a wonderful
person who always went out of his way, beyond the call of duty, to help others,"
he told The Evening Standard.

Mr Shah, 38, who held dual British and Kenyan nationality, leaves a wife, Rupal
Shah and two-year-old daughter Sarai.

Born in London, he went to school in Kenya and then studied for a management
degree from the University of Kent, before joining Bidco as a management
trainee, the firm said.

Mitul Shah

A Manchester United fan, he was chariman of Bidco's football team.

"He lived life to the fullest. He was a very positive person, full of joy, full
of laughter," Mr Shah said. "It is a great loss for us."

The Kenyan interior ministry said they had released three out of 11 people in
connection with the attack by Islamist militants. Five militants out of an
estimated 15 who stormed the building died, according to the Kenyan authorities.
So far, no one has been charged.

"Police are holding eight suspects as they seek to unmask the face behind the
terror attack. Three others were interrogated and released," Joseph Ole Lenku,
the interior ministry, told a news briefing.

He said the suspects were being held under anti-terrorism laws meaning they
could be held "for longer periods before being arraigned in court," although he
did not give details.

Al Shabaab, a Somalian Islamist group affiliated to al-Qaeda, said it launched
the operation to demand Kenya withdraw its troops from Somalia, where Kenyan
forces were sent in 2011.

Mr Ole Lenku repeated Kenya's determination not to withdraw from Somalia, citing
a mission of "national security."

A senior military officer admitted to the Associated Press that Kenya's military
caused the massive collapse of three floors of the mall.

The official also confirmed that Kenyan troops fired rocket-propelled grenades
inside the mall, but would not say what was used to cause the collapse.

Local reports in Kenya said that once the attack was underway, efforts to free
hostages were delayed by chaotic rivalry between police and army rescuers which
allowed terrorists to regroup and kill captives, according to reports.

An elite paramilitary police unit managed to secure much of the shopping centre
soon after the attack and pin down the dozen or so al-Shabaab attackers in one
end of the building.

Efforts then descended into confusion when army units arrived and a police
commander was shot dead in a friendly fire clash.

As the police pulled back and officers bickered over the chain of command, the
terrorists re-took much of the mall allowing them to find and execute trapped
shoppers, the Daily Nation reported.

Uhuru Kenyatta, Kenya's president had to intervene personally to clarify who was
in charge, the newspaper reported. The Kenyan interior ministry denied there had
been command clashes during the rescue operation.

Other reports said that al-Shabaab militants made their final stand in a store
room in the mall's supermarket, which was demolished by two anti-tank shells
fired by Kenyan soldiers.

"In the end we had to use full force, we had to finish with these guys," said
one soldier, who added that during the bitter fighting he saw the insurgents
only once.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 27, 2013 Friday 7:03 PM GMT

Hero Abdul Haji speaks of Kenyan mall attack horror;
Abdul Haji grabbed his gun and entered the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi to
help get people out after the terrorists attacked.

LENGTH: 108 words


Abdul Haji, the son of a former security minister in the Kenyan government,
rushed to the mall after getting a text message from his brother who was trapped
inside.

"We saw a lot of dead people. Very young people, children, old ladies, you
cannot imagine," Mr Haji told the Kenyan television station NTV.

"From what they were doing, you could tell that these were not normal people."

He used his skills to provide fire cover for the Kenyan Red Cross workers and,
over a period of three hours, help to evacuate some of the 1,000 people who
escaped the mall in the initial stages of a siege that would last three days and
leave at least 72 people dead.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 27, 2013 Friday 5:50 PM GMT

Hero speaks about horror of Kenyan mall attack;
Abdulkadir Haji grabbed his gun and entered the Westgate shopping mall in
Nairobi to help get people out after the terrorists attacked.

LENGTH: 130 words


Abdul Haji, the son of a former security minister in the Kenyan government,
rushed to the mall after getting a text message from his brother who was trapped
inside.

"We saw a lot of dead people. Very young people, children, old ladies, you
cannot imagine," Mr Haji told the Kenyan television station NTV.

"From what they were doing, you could tell that these were not normal people.
The fact that he was making a joke out of this whole thing made me much more
angry and determined to engage them, and to shame them."

He used his skills to provide fire cover for the Kenyan Red Cross workers and,
over a period of three hours, help to evacuate some of the 1,000 people who
escaped the mall in the initial stages of a siege that would last three days and
leave at least 72 people dead.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 27, 2013 Friday 9:13 AM GMT

Storymoja Hay Festival 2013 day three overshadowed by Nairobi shopping mall
attack;
When suspected terrorists opened fire in a shopping centre in Nairobi's upmarket
Westlands district, Alice Vincent was sitting two miles away listening to Mukesh
Kapila, the former Head of the UN for Sudan, talk about why humans have such
potential for cruelty.

BYLINE: By Alice Vincent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 650 words


Here, in the city where Kapila decided to blow the whistle on the Darfur
genocide a decade ago, and end his career in the process, bloodshed had arrived
on the Hay Festival's doorstep.

I first heard the news when an audience member stood up and said that there had
been an armed robbery at the nearby Westgate Mall and told us to avoid the area.
Nigerian author Teju Cole was due to speak at the festival next (his fans were
jostling by the doors), and a little later, as Cole was answering a question
about "the precariousness of being African", I was told to text my loved ones
saying I was safe; people had been shot.

Cole was in conversation with Kenyan writer and actor John Sibi-Okuma. It was
one of those events that show Hay at its best; intelligent, accessible and funny
conversation, fine readings, insightful audience questions. So, until I realised
the scale of the attack, I was confused by the fact that so many people were
answering their phones and rushing in and out of the lecture while Sibi-Okuma's
sonorous voice left Cole moved by the recitation of his own words. "You know how
people wonder if Barry White gets turned on by the sound of his own music?" Cole
joked, "That's how I feel now."

Although the Festival, its authors, organisers and attendees were putting on a
brave face, the situation had taken a turn for the worse. Ghanaian poet Kofi
Awoonor, due to perform at an event on Saturday, was uncontactable. His son had
been shot in the shoulder in Westlands and had been taken to, and later
discharged from, hospital. James Murua, a reporter for new Nairobi newspaper The
Star, told me that his colleague, a showbiz correspondent, had been killed in
the shooting, with another two at the Mall. Speculated statistics came in
occasionally: 12 killed, 15 gunmen, 100 trapped in a basement. We later learned
that Awoonor had died in the attack.

Helicopters circled above the bunting and brightly-coloured Kangas that
decorated the gardens of the National Museum of Kenya, the festival's host site,
and drummers and acrobats bounded into the courtyard at lunchtime.

But by late afternoon, organisers Muthoni Garland, Lyndy Cooke and Jo
Rodell-Jones had reached the tough decision to end the festival early, "in
sympathy with those who have lost their lives or were injured" and for the
safety of attendees. Their statement continued, "It would be insensitive for us
to continue as the siege is still continuing, roads are closed and there is a
lot of uncertainty and fear." As the founder of an "unadulterated, unapologetic
celebration of writing", however, Garland was insistent that the Westlands
tragedy was not met with silence. If Storymoja Hay Festival has taught me
anything, it is that the voices and stories of Kenya's people and troubles are
yet to be heard. "We urge everyone to give blood, offer prayers and write, blog,
tweet their shock and grief about the tragedy", her statement added.

Many continued with their scheduled talks until the end. Peter Godwin was one of
them. The Zimbabwe-born author has written "an accidental trilogy" about life
and elections in Zimbabwe, and is therefore no stranger to dramatic events. Nii
Parkes, a Ghanian poet who was speaking at the Festival through an initiative
with the British Council, stubbornly told the British High Commission in Kenya
that no, he would not leave before performing. It was, after all, what he was in
Nairobi to do: participate in a showcase of award-winning poetry from both sides
of the African continent.

As darkness fell and the final festival attendees left the site for safety, a
jumble of authors, poets, storytellers, organisers and one journalist huddled
into The Pink Tent, the small but comfortable retreat in the middle of the site
for those there most. We were waiting to be driven to Garland's welcoming home,
still unaware - as we remain - of the full circumstances of the day's events.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 28, 2013 Saturday

Somalis in USA denounce Nairobi terror attack

LENGTH: 209 words


Text of report by Somali news website Raxanreeb on 28 September

Thousands of Somali community in Minnesota have gathered on Friday [27
September] to denounce the Westgate mall attack which killed nearly 100 people
after militants from Al-Shabab stormed the upscale mall in Nairobi, RBC Radio
reports.

Demonstrators from the different places in Minnesota have gathered after the
Friday prayer as they strongly mentioned that Islam is against any and against
innocent people.

The demonstrators who were among them elders, women, young men, Muslim scholars
and well known professors came together to denounce the killing of civilians in
Westgate as they also condemned against the terrorist group of Al-Shabab which
claimed the mall siege on Saturday.

Demonstrators said that Al-Shabab's acts could not be interpreted as Islamic
Shari'a and that even Muslim Somalis were among those who were killed in the
recent attacks carried by the group.

Prof Husayn Igal of the Somali diaspora in Minnesota said that despite the
terrible and horror attack in Nairobi, it was good to address the roots of the
Al-Shabab.

He said Kenya should withdraw its troops from Somalia and follow the orders from
the federal government of Somalia.

Source: Raxanreeb website in Somali 28 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 28, 2013 Saturday

Kenyan ministers reportedly warned of impending terror attack

LENGTH: 960 words


Text of report by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 28
September

Four Cabinet Secretaries and the Kenya Defence Force boss were warned that
Al-Shabab terrorists were planning a Mumbai-style attack in Nairobi, where they
would storm a building and hold hostages.

The warnings started in January and increased early this month when the cabinet
secretaries, who are members of the National Security Council, were told of
plans to cause mayhem in Nairobi and Mombasa on September 13 and 20.

According to counter-terrorism reports seen by the Saturday Nation, Cabinet
Secretaries Julius Rotich (Treasury), Joseph ole Lenku (Interior), Amina
Mohammed (Foreign Affairs), Raychelle Omamo (Defence) and KDF boss Gen Julius
Karangi were alerted on the impending attacks. The report said terrorists
planned to storm a building with guns and grenades and "probably hold hostages".

"Briefs were made to them informing them of increasing threat of terrorism and
of plans to launch simultaneous attacks in Nairobi and Mombasa around September
13 and 20, 2013," the report says.

The briefs were also escalated to the National Security Advisory Committee in
mid-September, when intelligence reports showed that the Al-Shabab had
intensified activities in Kenya and were planning an attack.

The committee is the top security organ in Kenya. The council comprises the
President, Deputy President, Cabinet Secretaries for Defence, Foreign Affairs,
Interior, Attorney-General, Chief of Kenya Defence Forces, Director of National
Intelligence Service and the Inspector-General of Police. It was not immediately
clear whether the president received the brief.

Last week's Westgate attack that killed at least 67 and injured 175 people
happened on September 21, a day after the projected date.

The attack on Westgate, which is owned by an Israeli, followed similar warnings
from Israel to the Kenya government.

The Israelis said terrorists were planning to attack premises owned by its
citizens during the Jewish holidays between September 4 and 28. "The Israeli
Embassy in Nairobi has raised concern with the Foreign Affairs Ministry that
Iran and Hezbollah from Lebanon have been collecting 'operational intelligence
and open interests in Israeli and Jewish targets around the world including
Kenya,'" warns the report filed on September 13, 2013.

Also targeted were US and British installations and an unspecified UN office.
The report identified Ahmed Imam Ali as the man who would carry out the attack
on the installations.

The cabinet secretaries named in the report could not be reached for comment
yesterday. Short text messages sent to their phones did not elicit response.

According to the intelligence situation report, Westgate and Holy Family
Basilica in Nairobi had been flagged for attack early this year. The report
names Sheikh Abdiwelli Mohammed and Sheikh Hussein Hassan as the masterminds.

"They are believed to... have already surveyed the two targets," says the
report.

It says the Westgate raid was ordered by Al-Shabab leader Abdi Godane and that
some of the attackers involved were operating in Somali'as Bullo Marer area near
Barawa. Godane is the new Al-Shabab emir after he assassinated Omar Shafik
Hammami and chased away Sheikh Aweys, who later handed himself to the Somali
government.

President Kenyatta has promised to punish the terrorists who attacked the mall
and vowed that the military will not retreat from pacifying Kenya's borders.
However, Al-Shabab spokesman Hamza Mohammed dismissed President Kenyatta in an
interview on Al-Jazeera television, saying Kenya "had no capacity" to bring
justice to Al-Shabab.

The report also warns of an influx of religious extremists to North Eastern and
Coast regions of the country.

"In Lamu, an unknown number of Al-Shabab operatives are hiding close to a
herder's camp between Katsakakairu and Nyangoro near Witu," it says.

Apart from attacking churches in northern Kenya, the militants are said to be
targeting Times Tower and popular entertainment spots on Koinange and Kimathi
streets in Nairobi.

"Other than the clubs, they also surveyed Times Tower and Nyayo House. During
this mission, they identified peak hours, security checks, CCTV cameras and
ideal points from where to carry out car bomb attacks. They further observed
that the buildings could easily be accessed using fake identification documents
obtained from River Road, Nairobi," says the report.

The Times Towers raid was to be carried out by Musharaf Abdulla, a member of the
Al-Shabab cell that was planning to attack parliament buildings in September
last year.

The report says many Muslim youths in Nairobi and Mombasa were being
radicalized, adding: "Some Islamic scholars with extremist tendencies have been
conducting programmes in schools (names withheld) within Nairobi."

According to the report, the problem of fighting terrorism in Kenya is the
constant innovation by the terrorists and lack of awareness by the public.

The report says that identifying Al-Shabab returnees was a major challenge.

"Some of them are only identifiable through Christian names and aliases, while
others have no form of identification at all," says the report.

The report also says that they have adopted" a strict operational security
measures".

"This includes reducing use of mobile phones, communicating through encrypted
messages, using e-mail draft boxes such as dead letter boxes and adopting use of
such applications as WhatsApp. They have also minimised interactions with
non-members, thus reducing opportunities for recruitment against them," the
report says.

The report singles out levels of corruption in government as a key problem that
allows foreigners and terrorists to enter Kenya.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 28 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 28, 2013 Saturday

Kenyan religious leaders condemn terror attack, call for forgiveness

LENGTH: 235 words


Text of report by Marion Kanari entitled "Religious leaders: Embrace forgiveness
as part of healing process" published by state-owned Kenya Broadcasting
Corporation (KBC) website on 28 September

Interdenominational leaders in different parts of the country are calling for
forgiveness as part of the healing process for the victims of the Westgate
terrorist attack.

The religious leaders who are engaging in national prayers have strongly
condemned the terrorist attack and lauded the efforts of the multi agency
security organs involved in the rescue operation during the siege.

The prayers are coming ahead of the national prayers day at the KICC [Kenyatta
International Conference Centre] on Tuesday for the Westgate terrorist attack
that claimed the lives of over 60 people and injured hundreds.

Religious leaders from various faiths gathered in Kisii [western Kenya] urged
Christians to volunteer information on suspicious people to the authorities for
prompt action, further calling on Kenyans to maintain peace.

A similar prayer meeting was held in Makueni [eastern Kenya] where Roman
Catholic leaders led faithful in conveying messages of condolence to the victims
of the attack.

The leaders called for vigilance and urged immigration officials to carry out
thorough scrutiny when issuing national identity cards to bar foreigners from
acquiring it.

Source: KBC Online text website, Nairobi, in English 28 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    September 28, 2013 Saturday 5:43 AM GMT

Al Shabaab Nairobi attackers are terrorists

BYLINE: Jennifer Selway

LENGTH: 32 words


THE BBC insist on calling the Al Shabaab terrorists in Nairobi "alleged Islamist
militants".

Only John Humphrys on the Today programme made a point of referring gruffly to
terrorists. Good for him.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    September 28, 2013 Saturday 12:05 AM GMT

Hero British businessman died saving children in Kenya mall terror attack

BYLINE: John Chapman

LENGTH: 203 words


A BRITISH businessman killed in the Kenyan mall atrocity was hailed a hero last
night.

Marketing executive Mitul Shah, 38, offered himself as a hostage to save a group
of 33 terrified children.

This gave some of them vital seconds to flee. But the father of one was shot
dead together with the rest of the youngsters.

Mr Shah, who was born in London, had tried to hammer out a deal with the
ruthless Al Shabaab group in the early minutes of the terror attack on Nairobi's
Westgate centre.

But his bid to save the children taking part in a TV cooking competition
sponsored by his company, Bidco Oil, ended in a volley of gunshots.

Interpol are now on the hunt for Samantha Lewthwaite in connection with the
attacks [EPA]

Mr Shah, a graduate from the University of Kent, joined the cooking oil firm as
a trainee 16 years ago. Company director Dipak Shah said everyone felt a
"profound sense of loss" and offered sympathies to Mr Shah's wife Rupal and
two-year-old daughter Sarai.

He added: "He was trying to negotiate the freedom of the children. It was a
heroic act."

The news came as Interpol hunted for British "White Widow" Samantha Lewthwaite,
29. Mall survivors have described seeing a fair-skinned woman among the
attackers.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          September 28, 2013 Saturday

Saturday: The new war zone: As the terror attack in a Nairobi mall brutally
illustrates, urban areas have become 21st-century battlegrounds. Guerrilla
warfare expert David Kilcullen explains

BYLINE: David Kilcullen

SECTION: GUARDIAN SATURDAY COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1680 words


Things aren't where we left them when we headed off into the mountains after
9/11. When the hangover clears, and the generation that fought in Afghanistan
and Iraq comes home from these wars, we'll find that much of what we thought we
understood has changed. The future (crowded, coastal, urban, connected) will be
so different from Afghanistan (remote, landlocked, rural) that we'll have to
reconsider much of what we think we know about 21st-century conflict.

Attacks like this week's siege in Nairobi reinforce what we've already seen in
places like Mumbai and Karachi: that urban environments, including complex
pieces of urban terrain like shopping centres, hotels and industrial facilities,
are the battlegrounds of the future. And the urban siege, with its
commando-style tactics and guerrilla infiltration of a big city's ebb and flow,
is increasingly the tactic of choice.

Western countries will almost certainly still do counterinsurgency operations in
the future. But these will happen in a different environment: wars in remote,
mountainous, landlocked places such as Afghanistan are getting rarer by
comparison to urban littoral conflicts, simply because wars happen where people
live, and in the future people will be overwhelmingly concentrated in coastal
cities.

To understand this, we need to treat cities (not nation states) as the primary
unit of analysis. We need to bring that analysis down to the city and sub-city
level, understanding communities and cities as systems in their own right. We
need to understand how a city's subsystems and subdistricts fit together, as
well as how that city nests within regional and transnational flows. Taking the
time to observe a city for long enough to see the rhythms of its metabolism
turns out to be critical in understanding it. In Kenya, it seems al-Shabaab
conducted meticulous, intensive surveillance on the Westgate Mall while planning
their attack. Similarly, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) spent more than a year scoping
Mumbai before the 2008 attacks, studying the city and its flow.

As the smoke cleared after 60 hours of violence in Mumbai, it emerged that 172
people had been killed and 304 injured. The vast majority of these were
civilians randomly caught up in the attacks, especially in the railway terminus,
where the greatest carnage took place among commuters trapped in a tight space,
unable to escape. Property damage from the raid was estimated at over $18m
(£11m) - not counting the broader cost to the Indian economy.

The raiders consciously exploited the urbanised, connected, coastal environment
of Mumbai and Karachi, from which they sailed. Mumbai, a megacity of just over
20 million, is India's second-largest city, and is one of the most densely
populated urban centres on the planet, with almost 33,000 people per square
kilometre. The attackers skillfully exploited the complexity of this urban
environment, landing from the sea in coastal slums only a few hundred yards from
the high-rise luxury hotels and office blocks that were their targets.

Once ashore, the raiders exploited the connected, networked nature of the urban
environment. They used Skype, cellphones, and satellite phones to connect with
their handlers in Pakistan, who in turn monitored Twitter, news blogs,
international and local satellite news and cable television in real time, which
allowed them to control the attacks and react as the Indian response developed.
The Mumbai attack was thus, in effect, directed by remote control.

As in Nairobi, the attack team's focus on foreigners seems to have been
calculated to maximise international attention, creating an extremely high level
of news coverage - and resulting in an unusually large number of foreigners
(including citizens of 22 countries) being killed. The attacks didn't involve
weapons of mass destruction or hi-tech equipment. The raiders used small arms
(rifles and pistols), improvised explosive devices, and grenades; they didn't
even use rocket-propelled grenades. Small arms, however - because they involve
intimate contact between attackers and victims, because their use implies the
presence of an enemy on the spot, and because gun battles last longer than
bombings - can have a greater terror effect than a bombing or hostage situation,
something we have just witnessed in Nairobi. Like the Nairobi attackers, the
Mumbai raiders used no unusually sophisticated or specialised communications
devices: they employed commercially available phones and off-the-shelf GPS
devices, and pulled much of their reconnaissance data from open-source, online
tools such as Google Earth.

What does all this say about the future environment? Mumbai and Nairobi
represent only one kind of threat that will exist in the urban, networked
littoral of the future. Crime researchers John P Sullivan and Adam Elkus
describe this as an evolved 21st-century form of "urban siege".

"There are several methods that terrorists and criminal insurgents use to
besiege cities from within - pure terror and systems disruption, although the
two are often combined together. Both methods are sustained means of besieging a
city with a campaign of protracted urban violence. Pure terror is a form of
social systems disruption. It is a spasm of violence intended to demonstrate to
the public that the authorities cannot help them, and that they are helpless
against the power of the gun.

"While the success of the Mumbai terrorists came in large part from the tactical
and operational inadequacy of Indian law enforcement response, it is easy to
imagine a small group of terrorists creating multiple centres of disorder at the
same time within a major American city in same manner. An equally terrifying
scenario is a Beslan-type siege in school centres with multiple active shooters.
Paramilitary terrorists of this kind would aim for maximum violence, target
hardening, and area denial - capabilities that many SWAT units would be
hard-pressed to counter."

To my mind, Mumbai represents the current state-of-the-art in urban littoral
terrorism, while Nairobi (which lies inland) represents the application of urban
siege tactics beyond coastlines. The Mumbai attack showed that a non-state armed
group can carry out an appallingly effective seaborne raid on a major coastal
city, over a three-day period, in several dispersed locations - the type of
operation traditionally associated with high-tier special operations forces such
as the US Navy SEALs or the Royal Marines' Special Boat Service. Indeed, Mumbai
was a further demonstration of a long-standing trend, sometimes called the
democratisation of technology, in which non-state armed groups are fielding
highly lethal capabilities that were once the preserve of nation-states.

Understanding the new, highly connected nature of urban environments like Mumbai
or Nairobi is an important first step in preparing to deal with this problem.
Big data can sometimes help. Analysts can now track millions upon millions of
data points (traffic patterns, say, or cellphone usage, or pedestrian movement,
or prices in markets, or internet hits, or bank transactions, or types of cars
in parking lots) to understand, through remote observation, how a city works.
But how do we do that in enormous megaslums that are constantly growing and
morphing and which don't have the street names and building addresses that allow
geo-data to mean something?

Many of today's coastal cities, especially those in the developing world, are
growing at breakneck speed. In a conflict, people's uncertainty arises from
armed groups targeting the population; in a city that's growing exponentially -
constantly outgrowing itself - the same terrifying lack of predictability can
arise simply from the pace of change. Thus a megacity under stress can offer
opportunities for conflict entrepreneurs (gang leaders, crime bosses or militant
extremists) to control populations, provided they create a predictable rule set
that makes people feel safe in the face of instability. This occurs because of
the predictability inherent in the rules, whether people like the group or not,
and regardless of the content of those rules. Eventually, provided the group
builds consistency and order, through a spectrum of persuasive, administrative
and coercive measures, it may gain the loyalty and support of the local
population.

This is exactly what has happened in large parts of Nairobi, where gangs like
Mungiki have come to dominate the city's informal settlements - slums that
account for more than 60% of Nairobi's population, crowded into only 6% of its
land area. Kenya's national crime research centre recently identified 46 gangs
operating across the country, many at least as violent as al-Shabaab.

Groups like al-Shabaab and al-Qaida will be with us for the foreseeable future,
and attacks like Nairobi and Mumbai will remain part of the picture. But what
the bigger pattern of global change - three billion new urban-dwellers in the
developing world's coastal cities by mid-century - shows is that the challenge
of urban overstretch may dwarf the threat of terrorism as we've known it since
9/11. As we dust ourselves off after a decade of war, community resilience,
public safety and economic opportunity in crowded urban areas may turn out to
matter more than counterterrorism or counterinsurgency. Designers and urbanists
speak of participative development and human-centred design as key elements of a
new approach to city development. Figuring how to co-design solutions in
partnership with a local community, when the community is under threat and
someone is shooting at you, may be the hardest challenge of all.

This is an edited extract from David Kilcullen's book Out of the Mountains: The
Coming Age of the Urban Guerrilla, publiushed by Hurst and available from the
Guardian bookshop for £20. Call 0330 333 6846 or visit guardianbookshop.co.uk

Captions:

Urban fright

Shoppers put their hands up as police search the Westgate Mall in Nairobi after
the shooting there this week, main photo, and below, the Taj Mahal hotel in
Mumbai, during its attack by terrorists in 2008.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                    September 28, 2013 Saturday 06:36 AM GMT

Kenya Attack: Shoppers Seen Fleeing Terror

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 430 words



HIGHLIGHT: New footage from the Kenyan Red Cross shows the organisation's staff
helping shoppers as they emerged from Nairobi's Westgate Mall during last week's
terror attack.


  The video was filmed on September 21 - the first day of the siege and just
hours after gunmen attacked the mall with assault rifles and grenades.

The organisation's secretary general, Abbas Gullet, is a prominent figure in the
footage, not just overseeing the medical care of the injured, but also providing
direct medical assistance himself at times.

Mr Gullet's team of medics regularly risked their own lives to bring people out
of the shopping centre.

One man can be seen with is hand on a body covered with a red blanket weeping,
while medical teams look on.

Stretchers were repeatedly run in and out of the mall despite the ongoing attack
by gunmen.

The Red Cross also helped to transport those who lost their lives in the deadly
assault.

The video follows extraordinary footage obtained by Sky News showing shoppers
being rescued by Kenyan forces in the aftermath of attack.

Filmed by civilian security guards, it shows how some staff in the Nakumatt
supermarket climbed into the meat fridge in the butcher section and hid inside
for hours to evade the shooting.

Seven days after the attack which left at least 67 people dead, there is still
no clear word on the fate of dozens who have been reported missing and no
details on the gunmen who carried it out.

Al Shabaab said it carried out the massacre to punish Kenya for sending its
troops into Somalia to fight the al Qaeda-linked militant group that had seized
large parts of that country for years before being dislodged from the capital,
Mogadishu.

The Kenyan Red Cross has said 59 people are unaccounted for, raising fears of
bodies in the debris.

Meanwhile, a British man has been hailed a hero after he was killed in the
Kenyan shopping mall massacre while trying to save children taking part in a TV
cooking competition.

Mitul Shah, 38, offered himself as a hostage to help 33 youngsters escape from
the rooftop of the Westgate Shopping Centre in Nairobi, where the programme was
being filmed.

His bravery is thought to have given the young victims precious seconds to flee
and hide, although he was unable to convince the gunmen to agree to his offer
and he and a number of children were shot dead.

     ·       Related Stories
     ·       Kenya Mall Massacre: New Footage Of Survivors
     ·       Kenya Attack: Briton Died Trying To Save Kids
     ·       Kenya Attack: 'Car Used By Terrorists Found'
     ·       Kenya: Samantha Lewthwaite Hunted By Interpol


PHOTO:

Link to Image

VIDEO:

Shoppers Seen Fleeing Kenya Attack

New video from the Kenyan Red Cross shows shoppers escaping Nairobi's Westgate
Mall during the terror attack.

Link to Video

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2013 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 28, 2013 Saturday 10:00 PM GMT

Kenya terror attack: the infighting and chaos that allowed deadly siege to drag
on;
The Westgate mall terrorists were cornered within hours but a lack of army
leadership led to more bloodshed. By Mike Pflanz, Zoe Flood and Ben Farmer in
Nairobi.

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz Zoe Flood and Ben Farmer in Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1890 words


As a group of al-Shabaab gunmen prepared to attack Nairobi's Westgate mall last
weekend, Esther Nyauncho was in its supermarket with her boyfriend, Ravi
Ramrattan. Walking through the aisles, they did what every modern couple do to
save time. "I went to the dairy section, and he went to the meat counter," she
said.

It was a random decision that was to spare her life - and cost him his.

When gunfire and grenade blasts tore through the building shortly after 12.30pm
on Saturday, Miss Nyauncho, a 25-year-old financial analyst, fled with others to
a storeroom, where two hours later she emerged unharmed.

In the meantime, the last sign of Mr Ramrattan, a 30-year-old Oxford-educated
economist from Trinidad, was a text at 1.19pm saying he was still in the meat
section, and that it was "not safe".

A Sunday Telegraph reporter came across Ms Nyauncho alone outside the shopping
centre last Saturday afternoon, desperately searching for information about her
boyfriend. On Saturday, exactly a week later, she was attending his memorial
service - one of scores of farewells now going on across Nairobi, Kenya and the
wider world as it reels from the impact of one of the worst terror attacks in
modern times.

Set in an upmarket district of the Kenyan capital popular with expatriates,
Westgate was a likely terrorism target. It symbolises everything that
fundamentalist Islam sees as a challenge: fashion, fun and the spread of Western
modernity into places that once knew only poverty.

It was where teenage Kenyan hipsters in low-slung jeans and oversize sunglasses
went to sip milkshakes, and where expat families would meet for a latte and cake
or a glass of wine. Inside were also a casino, a Japanese cocktail bar and a
cinema.

Now, Westgate is a place half-destroyed. Bomb-squad soldiers on Saturday
continued to inch along, shop by ruined shop, searching for booby-trapped
explosives, while at the back, where the building collapsed, an unknown number
of mangled bodies still lay entombed in rubble.

The full horror of the 80-hour siege of Nairobi's premier shopping centre, and
its chaotic climax, can now be detailed for the first time, amid fresh
revelations of the heroism and havoc of the past eight days.

It has emerged that:

- Armed private security agents and elite Kenyan police cornered the terrorists
early on, but were forced to pull out in the confusion of a separate army
assault

- Spies warned of a specific attack on the mall a year ago

- The attackers may have tried to flee via a services tunnel leading to a
culvert in a nearby river.

What would become one of international terrorism's signature attacks is now
thought to have begun as long ago as last September, in the ungoverned wastes of
Somalia's hinterland, according to tips passed to the security services by
informants.

There, al-Shabaab, a Somali group linked to al-Qaeda, assembled a squad of
international volunteers and provided them with detailed plans of the Westgate
mall, possibly from blueprints acquired by colluders in Kenya. The team staged
rehearsals and sourced weapons, while radical imams gave blessings for the
attack.

According to Kenyan security sources, the terrorists rented a nondescript
apartment opposite Westgate and began a surveillance operation.

It was obvious that the time to strike would be a weekend, probably a lunchtime,
when the cafes and restaurants would be filling up, and shops at their busiest.

Last Saturday, across all floors of the mall, ordinary people were enjoying what
should have an ordinary day off. Among them were Britons and East African
Asians, two communities with a long history in Kenya.

Zahira Bawa and her daughter, Jennah, 8, from Leamington Spa, were in the
Nakumatt supermarket, the one where Miss Nyauncho had also been browsing.

Mitul Shah, 38, a British businessman, was on the top floor preparing to judge a
children's cookery competition.

Ross Langdon, 32, a British-Australian architect, and his pregnant Dutch
girlfriend, Elif Yavuz, 33, had just finished a pre-natal class and were
grabbing a burger before shopping for baby clothes. Within hours, they were dead
in each other's arms, among a civilian death toll now put at 61.

The attackers - between 10 and 15 of them - came in three waves. The first leapt
from a silver saloon car and began spraying bullets along the front of the mall,
where there is a smart outdoor café. The second group headed on foot for the
basement car park. A third party drove a vehicle up the ramp at the side of the
building, onto the rooftop car park, and right into the Junior Super Chef
competition.

There, they began firing indiscriminately. Mr Shah, whose firm Bidco was
sponsoring the event, died trying to shield children, as all around people fell
where they stood. The floor was awash with blood.

The idea that this was simply a very violent robbery - not impossible in Kenya -
faded quickly as the gunmen on the roof and their accomplices downstairs lined
up survivors and demanded that Muslims come forward. If they proved their faith,
they were released, although many Muslims ended up dead, too.

Survivors said the terrorists were heavily armed and unnervingly composed as
they went about their slaughter. They spoke English and Swahili poorly, wore
black keffiyehs, combat trousers and toolbelts strung with grenades. Several had
ammunition bandoliers across their chests.

As shoppers realised they were being targeted, those unable to flee stayed quiet
to avoid attracting attention. The mall's atrium, usually bustling with life,
fell eerily silent, the low-volume piped music punctuated only by occasional
gunfire. Much of it was thought to involve single-bullet execution shots,
delivered at point-blank range.

Stories of extraordinary survival emerged. One French mother, who has
subsequently asked not be named, escaped after her four-year-old son confronted
one jihadist and told him: "You're a bad man." Apparently chastened, the gunman
gave him and ­sister a Mars bar each and let them leave with their mother, who
had been shot in the thigh. As the boy went, the gunman said: "Please forgive me
- we are not monsters."

On a balcony outside the supermarket, Katherine Walton, 38, an American IT
specialist, lay beneath a stand selling Taiwanese laptops, cradling her three
daughters, aged four, two and 13 months.

During a brief lull, Abdul Haji, a Kenyan businessman who had rushed to Westgate
to try to rescue his brother, signalled to four-year-old Portia to make a run
for it. She did, the photograph of their escape appearing on front pages of
newspapers around the world last week.

Outside, the injured who escaped were bundled into cars, onto pick-up trucks and
into ambulances. Hundreds of others who managed to flee stumbled away, clearly
in shock, some collapsing into rescuers' arms, sobbing.

Back inside, what was to become an 80-hour siege had begun. On Saturday night,
security sources, diplomats with knowledge of the operation and witnesses told
The Sunday Telegraph that it need not have lasted that long.

The first rescuers to respond were a small team of Kenyan-Indians from a local
plain-clothes unit that acts as a kind of armed neighbourhood watch for the
large local Asian community.

With a handful of armed Kenyan police, they helped hundreds of people escape
before pushing the terrorists into a corner on the ground floor, near the
supermarket.

"They were returning fire, heavily, but they weren't moving out from where they
were," said one person involved. "We had them contained. Done properly, we could
have ended that thing on Saturday."

Instead, Kenya's army, which had taken four hours to group and prepare their
assault, crashed in through both the ground and top-floor entrances, without
understanding that some men wearing holsters and body armour were not attackers.

No radio contacts were set up between the units. No overall command had been
appointed, and different commanders squabbled. A senior policeman was shot dead
in a friendly-fire incident. Chaotic gunfire streaked across the mall's open
spaces.

Within 30 minutes, late in the afternoon, both the initial responders and the
army had pulled out, leaving the mall to the terrorists and hostages.

Using staff staircases and hidden corridors, and strolling from shop to shop,
the attackers then hunted down anyone else still alive. Gunshots outside late on
Saturday and overnight are feared to have been further executions.

As dawn broke on Sunday and helicopters buzzed overhead, the security perimeter
widened around the mall. Outside, the nearby Indian community centre became a
focal point for volunteers, with locals bringing in food and bottled water.
Relatives of the missing gathered, running their fingers down lists of names of
people admitted to Nairobi hospitals.

Others scanned photos taken by doctors who had risked forays into the building
to rescue the injured, taking shots of those lying nearby that they could not
reach.

That was how Louis Bawa, the Leamington Spa businessman whose daughter Jennah
and wife Zahira were missing, discovered that they were dead. Looking through
those photographs, he said, was "something I would never want anyone to have to
do".

Details of what happened on Monday and Tuesday are sketchy. The Kenyan army,
including elite units, repeatedly attempted to gain access to the building. A
terrorist sniper on a balcony forced them back. Advisers from international
special forces units who suggested different tactics were ignored. At one point,
a local commander apparently protested angrily that he did want "wazungu" -
whites - interfering.

With al-Shabaab gloating that there would be no negotiation, it was becoming
clear that what was calculated to be a hostage-rescue operation would end an
all-out assault.

"By Monday evening, a decision was taken that there were probably no hostages
remaining alive inside, although we will never know," said one Western diplomat.

Soon after, a series of large explosions echoed from the bowels of the building,
sending smoke billowing into the sky. What was thought to be ordnance from the
terrorists is now believed to have been rocket-propelled grenades fired by
Kenyan forces into the rear of the mall, where the attackers had regrouped.

A fire took hold, and the three floors of the car park had collapsed, pancaking
to the ground, killing anyone left alive inside. Sporadic gunfire and the
occasional explosion continued to erupt.

At 8pm on Tuesday, Uhuru Kenyatta, Kenya's president, broadcast live to the
world that "it is over". Five attackers were dead, he said, along with six
soldiers and 61 civilians. The total number of British dead went up on Saturday
from five to six, although no further names have been disclosed.

Privately, diplomats and security sources say the full death toll may never be
known, nor the total number of attackers.

In Britain, questions also remain about the rumoured role of the so-called
"White Widow", Samantha Lewth-waite, the former wife of one of the July 7
suicide bombers, who is wanted by Interpol.

There, are however, no further doubts for Ms Nyauncho, who spent many hours
after the attack at the Kenyan Red Cross centre, looking for her partner Ravi.
For one hopeful moment, she learned that there was a "Ravi" on the handwritten
list of people who had come out. It turned out to be a different man.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 28, 2013 Saturday 10:08 AM GMT

Kenya terror attack: new footage shows shoppers fleeing mall;
New footage has been released by the Kenyan Red Cross, showing shoppers fleeing
from Nairobi's Westgate Mall during the violent terrorist attack on 21
September.

LENGTH: 162 words


In the video filmed in the first few hours of the terror attack on September 21,
Red Cross personnel can be seen shepherding and encouraging people as they walk
from the shopping mall into the daylight.

The organisation's Secretary General, Abbas Gullet is a prominent figure in the
footage, not just overseeing the medical care of the injured, but also providing
direct medical assistance himself at times.

Stretchers were repeatedly run in and out of the mall despite the ongoing attack
by gunmen.

The Red Cross also helped to transport those who lost their lives in the deadly
assault.

Seven days after at least 67 people were killed in the attack on the upscale
shopping centre, there is still no clear word on the fate of dozens who have
been reported missing and no details on the gunmen who carried it out.

The Kenyan Red Cross has said 59 people are still unaccounted for, raising fears
of bodies in the debris.

Source: APTN

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 28, 2013 Saturday 7:00 AM GMT

Nairobi terror attack: the unanswered questions;
It has been almost a week since terrorists attacked the Westgate shopping mall
in Nairobi but still key questions remain unanswered.

BYLINE: By Lucy Kinder

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1126 words


British hero died trying to save children
Revealed: American family rescued by hero of Muslim attack

What is the death toll?

As of yet here is still no official death toll. The government says at least 67
people were killed including 61 civilians and six members of the security
forces.

The Kenyan Red Cross says that 61 people remain missing. The government has said
that it may take the best part of another week to uncover the remaining bodies.

What was the fate of the hostages?

On Monday Kenyan defence officials said that most of the hostages had been
rescued but no figures were ever given to how many died, or indeed, were saved.

There were said to be 30 hostages initially but the number was never confirmed

Reports today have indicated that many hostages were tortured by the terrorists
before being killed which appears to contradict the government's account of the
rescue mission.

So far no surviving hostages have come forward.

Could more people have been saved?

Reports have said that efforts to free hostages were delayed by rivalry between
the police and army rescuers who were both stationed at the mall.

There are fears that some of the dead were killed in friendly fire, including a
Kenyan police commander.

The Kenyan government has denied that this was an issue. British and American
security forces were reportedly also on hand to help secure the rescue effort
but there has been no confirmation of this.

When were the terrorists defeated?

The Kenyan government insisted they were in "full control" of the situation at
Westgate mall on Monday. Yet it wasn't until a full 24 hours later, on Tuesday
evening, that Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta announced his forces had defeated
the terrorists.

The day after President Kenyatta's announcement there were reports that gunfire
was still continuing at Westgate muddying the waters even more.

A vehicle thought to have been used by the terrorists has been recovered by
investigators outside the shopping mall but no information has been given about
it.

What happened to the terrorists?

The government initially said that five terrorists were killed and 11 suspects
were taken into custody but there has been no word on whether anyone was able to
escape.

Today they said that eight people were still being held in connection with the
attack while the remaining three had been released after questioning.

Reports suggest that between 12 to 15 al-Shabab militants were involved in the
assault.

On Tuesday Kenya Foreign Minister Amina Mohamed told the US PBS network that two
or three Americans and one British born woman were among the attackers. It was
not clear whether or not they were in custody.

The Kenyan government may have been misled by a fake Twitter account for Al
Shabab which tweeted out the supposed names of three Americans involved and two
Britons.

However the US has said that so far there is no clear evidence that Americans
were involved in the attack.

Was Samantha Lewthwaite involved?

A number of survivors recalled seeing a white woman among the attackers and
Kenyan officials indicated the same. Kenya's Foreign Minister said that the
British born woman involved in the attack had done "this many times before".

Interpol has issued an international arrest warrant for Samantha Lewthwaite, the
British woman dubbed the "white widow".

Intelligence sources indicated that Lewthwaite was among those killed by
security forces but the arrest warrant quashes that theory.

Despite intense speculation linking Lewthwaite with the Nairobi attacks, the
warrant does not relate to Westgate but to suspected terrorist offences in 2011.

Did the terrorists have a plan?

Somalia's Al-Shabaab is linked with al-Qaeda and imposes a strict version of
Sharia law. The Westgate militants spared some Muslims- if they could prove
their faith- but indiscriminately fired at others.

Some reports said that they said just they wanted to kill Americans and Kenyans,
but Al Shabab said that all foreigners were a "legitimate target".

The group tweeted that they had " no desire" to kill women and children but many
of the Westgate victims were women and children.

The most bizarre story is that one militant told a British boy "we are not
monitors" before bribing him and his sister with Mars Bars.

Why did the roof collapse?

Part of the Westgate mall roof collapsed during the rescue mission but no
information has been released publicly about how this happened.

One official indicated that it had been caused by terrorists setting fire to
mattresses but the extent of the damage indicates that explosives were likely to
be responsible.

An anonymous official said today that Kenya's military caused the collapse of
the three floors, and that they fired rocket-propelled grenades into the mall
but he would not say what caused the collapse.

There are fears that hostages may have been killed when the roof collapsed.

Could the attack have been prevented?

There are concerns that warnings about the attack may have been missed by the
Kenyan government.

One Kenyan politician said he reported information about suspected terrorists
planning an attack to Kenya's National Intelligence Service but alleges they
failed to act.

A file of alerts seen by The Daily Telegraph details 29 separate intelligence
warnings linked to al-Shabaab activity in Kenya in the last 12 months.

One published exactly a year ago, names three Islamist agents who were in
Nairobi and planned to mount suicide attacks on an "undisclosed date, targeting
Westgate Mall."

Four months latet there were warnings that al-Qaeda and al-Shabaab operatives
were plotting attacks in Nairobi and Mombasa.

"The envisaged modus operandi include, but is not exclusive to, Mumbai-attack
style, where the operatives storm into a building with guns and grenades and
probably hold hostages," said the documents.

Meanwhile a pregnant policewoman allegedly avoided Westgate after her brother,
who works for Kenyan intelligence, warned her of a terror attack.

The government is also under pressure to explain how the terrorists were able to
move heavy weapons and ammunition into the shopping centre undetected.

It is suspected that they rented a shop in the mall to store their arsenal prior
to the attack. It is feared a mall employee may have colluded with them.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                    September 28, 2013 Saturday 4:45 AM  EST

FOREIGN OFFICE UPDATE ON BRITISH NATIONALS KILLED IN NAIROBI TERROR ATTACKS

LENGTH: 142 words


LONDON, Sept. 28 -- The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills issued
the following press release:

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office confirms on present information that six
British nationals have been killed in Nairobi.

An FCO spokesperson said:

FCO can confirm a sixth British national has been identified amongst those
killed in the tragedy in Nairobi. We are providing consular assistance.

Our thoughts are with the family at this difficult time.

We have no information at this time that any further British nationals have been
killed although we cannot rule out the potential for further British casualties
and we continue to stay in close contact with the Kenyan authorities as their
investigations continue." For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday

Somali troops said foil terror attacks in Mogadishu

LENGTH: 136 words


The security forces of the Federal Government of Somalia "have foiled terrorist
attacks planned to be carried out in Mogadishu's Waaberi District",
privately-owned Radio Gaalkacyo reported on 29 September.

Somalia's Intelligence Department "received secret information that Al-Shabab
was planning to carry out attacks in the district, and embarked on an intensive
operation".

A government official has said that the government troops "raided a premises in
Mogadishu's Waaberi District and arrested eight people including women who were
planning the attacks", adds the source.

Meanwhile, government troops today arrested several Al-Shabab suspects in
Mogadishu's Hawlwadaag District. The suspects are being interrogated by the
government security department.

Source: Radio Gaalkacyo, Gaalkacyo, in Somali 1015 gmt 29 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 29, 2013 Sunday 3:45 PM GMT

Kenya Westgate siege: Government knew attack was possible before Nairobi
massacre, say reports;
Ministers were reportedly briefed on 'increasing threat of terrorism and of
plans to launch simultaneous attacks'

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 403 words


The Kenyan government received warnings of a Westgate-style attack before last
week's deadly siege, the country's media outlets have revealed.

Government figures reportedly knew that an attack was possible before militant
group al-Shabaab's siege on the Westgate shopping centre, on 21 September. At
least 67 people were killed, and the Kenyan Red Cross says 61 people are still
missing. A sixth British citizen is now known to have died, the Foreign Office
has confirmed.

As well as ammunition, the gunmen armed themselves with religious trivia
questions to identify Muslims and help them to decide who to kill. A Jewish man
scrawled Koranic verses on his hand after becoming aware that the attackers were
asking their captives to recite specific sections of scripture. Survivors said
the killers shot those who gave wrong answers.

Kenya's Daily Nation newspaper reported that ministers were shown leaked
intelligence documents earlier this year "informing them of [the] increasing
threat of terrorism and of plans to launch simultaneous attacks". They were
warned first in January, then in early September, that al-Shabaab was planning
to single out Westgate and the Holy Family Basilica, a Roman Catholic cathedral,
for attack "around September13 and 20, 2013".

An 8,000-page dossier from the National Intelligence Service also suggested that
Israel warned that buildings owned by its citizens, including the mall, could be
attacked between 4 and 28 September, according to Kenya's Standard newspaper.

Cabinet ministers that received briefings reportedly included treasury minister
Julius Rotich, interior minister Joseph Ole Lenku and defence forces chief
Julius Karangi.

The head of the National Intelligence Service, Michael Gichangi, will be
questioned by Kenyan MPs on Monday.

A senior intelligence official told the AFP news agency that the government had
been casual in its approach to the briefings.

The official said: "There is no way one can say there was no intelligence on
this attack because those reports started trickling in from late last year. And
they were specific with targets including Westgate."

The head of the parliamentary defence committee, Ndung'u Gethenji, told the BBC
that "people need to know the exact lapses in the security system that possibly
allowed this event to take place".

As the official three days of mourning have ended, funerals of the victims who
died in the four-day siege continue.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 29, 2013 Sunday 12:55 PM GMT

Pakistan bomb blast: Attack on Peshawar's oldest market kills 37;
More than 75 injured in third terrorist attack in a week on same city, as total
death toll since last Sunday climbs to 130

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 417 words


The Pakistani city of Peshawar was bleeding again after a powerful car bomb
exploded on a busy street and killed at least 37 people. It was the third such
attack within the space a week.

Reports said the 220kg bomb left in a vehicle in the historic Qissa Khawani
market was detonated by remote control. At least 75 other people were injured
and were taken to the city Lady Reading Hospital where they were being treated.

The Associated Press said that shops and a nearby mosque were also damaged by
the force of the blast. Several vehicles caught on fire as result of the
explosion. Women and children were said to be among both the dead and the
injured.

A book shop owner, Nazar Ali, said he had just opened his shop when the blast
happened. "It was a huge blast that was followed by fire in vehicles. Thick
black smoke covered the air and splinters spread all over," he said. "I saw
people lying dead and bleeding all over."

Sunday's blast was the third such attack within eight days and brought to 130
the number of people who have lost their lives. A week ago, around 85 people
were killed and scores more wounded when two suicide bombers attacked members of
a Christian congregation at a church in the city.

Meanwhile, on Friday around 19 people were killed when a bomb was exploded on a
bus on the outskirts of Peshawar, provincial capital of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
province, which was carrying government employees home for the weekend.   

Many of the old buildings in Qissa Khawani or the "storytellers' market"  where
today's blast happened, were made from wood and these were quick to catch fire,
said police. The market was the site of a massacre by British troops in 1930
when they fired on demonstrators.

 Reports said that 13 members of a single family were among the dead. Mohammad
Alam said that they had come to Peshawar from a nearby village to invite him to
their son's marriage. He said they were in a van near the station when the bomb
exploded.

  There was no immediate claim of responsibility. A faction of the Pakistan
Taliban, the Jundullah group, claimed responsibility for the church attack,
saying it had targeted Christians to avenge the deaths of Muslims killed by US
drone strikes.   

The recently-elected government of Nawaz Sharif has said it would like to
negotiate with Pakistan's largest militant group to end the bloodshed. Critics
have said his stance, and that of Imran Khan, the cricketer turned politician
who also favours talking with the Taliban, has encouraged such attacks.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 29, 2013 Sunday 11:33 AM GMT

Pakistan bomb blast: Attack on Peshawar's oldest market kills 33;
More than seventy injured in third terrorist attack in a week on same city, as
total death toll since last Sunday climbs to 130

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 458 words


A bomb blast has torn through the oldest bazaar in the north-western Pakistani
city of Peshawar, killing at least 33 people and injuring more than 70.

It is the latest of three terrorist attacks to have hit the city in just the
past week, with the total death toll standing at 130 lives lost.

Today's blast appeared to have come from a remotely-detonated bomb in a parked
car, police officials said, going off on a busy morning in the heart of
Peshawar's historic Qissa Khawani market near a mosque and a police station.

A spokesman for the Lady Reading Hospital, where the wounded were taken for
treatment, confirmed the number who had died in the blast.

The explosion damaged nearby buildings - including the mosque - according to
police officers. A number of nearby vehicle were also set alight, and the
spreading fire wreaked havoc among the mainly wooden market structures.

A book shop owner, Nazar Ali, had just opened up for the day when the bomb went
off.

"It was a huge blast that was followed by fire in vehicles," he said. "Thick
black smoke covered the air and splinters spread all over. I saw people lying
dead and bleeding all over."

Another man was shopping for breakfast when the bomb exploded. Speaking from
hospital, Adnan Hussain said: "Suddenly there was a huge bang and I fell on the
ground. My cousin Rizwan is dead and the other is critical."

No groups claimed responsilibilty in the immediate aftermath of the attack, but
the blame is most likely to fall on the Pakistani Taliban, which has been waging
a war with the country's military in a bid to overthrow the government and
establish Islamic rule across south Asia.

Peshawar, the capital of the north-western Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, has
suffered a string of bombings recently despite attempts to get both sides to
attend peace talks.

The explosion today went off just a few hundred metres from the All Saints
Church, where a suicide attack a week ago killed 85 people.

On Friday 19 people died when a bus carrying government employees home for the
weekend was blown up in the outskirts of the city.

The new government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has said it wants to negotiate
with the militants to end the bloodshed, but those efforts have led to little
progress and the Taliban said they will not stop attacking even while their
leaders attend talks.

On Saturday, a spokesman for the militants criticised Mr Sharif, who had said
attacks must stop as a precondition to peace talks.

"By telling us that we will have to lay down arms and respect the constitution,
the Prime Minister, Nawaz Sharif, showed that he is following the policy of
America and its allies," the spokesman said. "We will hold talks with (the
government) only when it gets the real power to take decisions."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Kofi Awoonor;
OBITUARY ; Ghanaian poet, novelist and diplomat killed in the Nairobi terrorist
attack

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 369 words


The poet and novelist Kofi Awoonor died aged 78 in the terrorist attack at the
Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi. Awoonor was the most eminent African author
due to take part in the Storymoja Hay festival of writing and storytelling in
the Kenyan capital. His work was rooted in the traditions of the Ewe people of
Ghana. He was also a diplomat and political activist who spent time in prison
when the party he supported was in opposition. Born in Wheta, southeast Ghana,
his first collection, Rediscovery and Other Poems, was published in 1964 while
he was a student at the University of Ghana. It drew on the Ewe oral traditions
he had known as a youth and included the first of his Songs of Sorrow, featuring
the lines: My people, I have been somewhere If I turn here, the rain beats me If
I turn there, the sun burns me The firewood of this world Is for only those who
can take heart That is why not all can gather it.

Next, Awoonor worked for the Ghana Film Corporation, where he became director.
In the 1960s he edited Okyeame, a literary magazine, and was an associate editor
of the pan-African journal Transition. He then studied for an MA in literature
at the University of London and wrote radio plays for the BBC, before studying
at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.

In America, Awoonor published a second volume of poetry and a novel, This Earth,
My Brother ... The novel intersperses intensely lyrical passages with a realist
narrative contrasting the corruption and disillusion of contemporary Ghana with
the idealism that characterised the early years of independence.

While head of the English department at the University of Cape Coast, he was
arrested on a charge of aiding someone accused of involvement in an attempt to
overthrow the military government. Incarcerated without trial for nearly a year,
Awoonor produced a volume of prison poems, entitled The House by the Sea (1978).

For the next decade he focused on politics, serving as ambassador to Cuba, then
Brazil, and becoming Ghana's ambassador to the UN. During this period he
published two more volumes of poetry.

The eminent African literature critic Robert Fraser commented on Awoonor's
"superbly flexible muse".

- The Guardian

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kofi Awoonor wrote BBC plays

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 29, 2013 Sunday 10:44 PM GMT

Kenya terror attack: 'no hostages' left in mall, as dozens remain missing;
No hostages were left in the devastated Nairobi shopping centre where terrorists
killed 67 people, the Kenyan government said, despite a Red Cross estimate that
dozens remain missing after the attack.

BYLINE: By Ben Farmer Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 308 words


Kenya's interior minister said nine suspects were now in custody following last
week's attack by Al-Shabaab militants.

Joseph Ole Lenku also criticised an American decision to upgrade its travel
warning for citizens heading to the east African country, saying it was
"unnecessary" and "unfriendly".

Kenyan security forces believe between 10 and 15 terrorists attacked the
Westgate centre on September 21, throwing grenades and opening fire
indiscriminately.

Five were killed in the attack, but Mr Ole Lenku would not say if the remainder
were suspected of having been gunmen or part of the wider plot.

A British man arrested at Nairobi airport in the aftermath of the attack
remained in custody, but Mr Ole Lenku declined to comment on reports that Sharif
Ahmed Abdirazak had been carrying plans of the shopping centre on his laptop
when he was seized.

The British High Commission has previously said his arrest was not considered
central to the investigation into the attack.

Five days after the siege at the centre ended, the Red Cross's latest figures
show 59 people are still registered as missing in the attack.

Three floors of the mall collapsed in the later stages of the fighting and
rescuers have said they fear bodies are still trapped under the rubble.

However Mr Ole Lenku said the death toll still stood at 67 and there were no
hostages left in the building after the attack, "unless forensic evidence shows
otherwise".

He also asked America to lift a travel advisory urging US citizens to "evaluate
their personal security situation in light of continuing and recently heightened
threats from terrorism" in the east African country.

"We believe issuing the travel advisory is counter-productive in the fight
against global terrorism," Mr Ole Lenku said.

"We request the United States, as a friend of Kenya, to lift the travel
advisory," he added.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wales on Sunday

                               September 29, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'WE JUST WANT TO GET OUT OF HERE';
WELSH MUM CAUGHT IN NAIROBI MALL TERROR ATTACK TELLS ; HOW SHE IS DESPERATE TO
GET FAMILY HOME ; EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: LIZ DAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 587 words


A WELSH mum shot at by militants in the devastating shopping mall massacre in
Nairobi has spoken of her desperation to come home.

Lynsey Khatau, 23, who divides her time between Pontllanfraith near Caerphilly
and the Kenyan capital said her family was still traumatised after the terrorist
assault that killed at least 67 civilians and soldiers.

She said: "The attacks are still happening and we are afraid there will be more
to come. We want to get out of the country before that happens."

The crisis began last Saturday when 10 to 15 al-Shabaab extremists linked to
al-Qaeda stormed the mall, throwing grenades and firing on terrified shoppers.

Three floors of the mall collapsed following a series of blasts and a huge
blaze, which ended a four-day siege by soldiers and police, Lynsey described how
her son was "traumatised" and said the family, who live less than a mile from
the mall, have been unable to sleep since the incident, as they can still hear
helicopters and explosives.

Mother-of-one Lynsey was shopping at Westgate Mall with husband Max and
four-year-old son Caiz, before the attack.

Speaking from Nairobi, she said: "I came out with some minor bleeding on my
arms, but my son is still suffering from trauma and shock. He is not eating or
sleeping. He needs counselling, but not here, because I am scared to take him
out of the house."

Lynsey took her son to hospital on Friday and the doctor advised her to return
to the UK. She said: "We want to recover in a place of safety. I just want to be
with my family in South Wales, they are so worried about us. I want to come home
as soon as possible, but bring my husband and son with me."

The pair, who met on the internet in January 2006, married in Kenya in August
2008 and Lynsey discovered she was pregnant two months after the ceremony.

Max came to Britain on a study visa, but was forced to leave when it ran out in
2009.

Home Office officials refused to grant him another visa and he was left stranded
in Nairobi while his 18-year-old wife was pregnant with their first child.

Speaking to Wales on Sunday at the time, the young mum-to-be said: "He's
devastated, it's terrible he's missing out. He wants to come over here to work
and support me and our baby."

The pair now hope Max will be granted a visa, so the family can return to South
Wales.

Lynsey said: "I am not sure how quickly that might happen. The faster we can get
the documents, the faster we can get out. My husband has a job here and I have
friends, so it will be difficult to leave our life in Kenya, but for now, I just
want to be with my family."

Recalling the attack, Lynsey explained she began to think something was wrong
when the lights in the mall went off, but did not come back on as they usually
do during regular power cuts.

She said: "The first thing that happened was that a grenade went off under a car
or something outside - that was the first thing we heard. Then there was
shooting, maybe 20 rounds, in less than a minute."

"We came out - I just ran, we just ran out. When we came out of the supermarket
they were already inside the mall and we just ran. They were already shooting
inside."

She added: "We were going to die - that was the only thing I was thinking, we're
going to die. There were people falling everywhere.

It was really horrific."

Lynsey's mother Sue Mathias, who lives in Pontllanfraith, said: "I just want my
daughter to come home. They are still traumatised by everything. They haven't
slept, they haven't wept. I just need them home so I know I can look after
them."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Smoke rises from the Westgate Mall in Nairobi after large blasts on the
third day of the siege. Right, Lynsey and Mohsin Khatau

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WOS


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 30, 2013 Monday

Egyptian TV reports death of two policemen in "terrorist" attack in North Sinai

LENGTH: 65 words


At 0710 gmt on 30 September, Egyptian state-owned Nile News TV carried an urgent
screen caption reading: "Two policemen martyred in a terrorist attack near
Al-Arish three [police] station."

Since President Morsi's ouster on 3 July and North Sinai has been witnessing a
surge in attacks on police and military locations in the governorate.

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 0707gmt 30 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 30, 2013 Monday

Kenya-based Somali cleric condemns Nairobi mall terror attack

LENGTH: 129 words


Shaykh Muhammad Abdi Umal, a prominent Somali religious scholars has denounced
the terror attack as an un-Islamic act in his sermon at Al Hidaya mosque in
Nairobi, private Radio Mustaqbal reported on 28 September.

The shaykh is quoted as saying, "the attack had nothing to do with Islam and it
cannot be said that Muslim people launched this attack in which innocent
civilians including traders were massacred"

Two other scholars from Somalia and Somaliland have expressed a contrary view
and oppose Shaykh Umal's stand. Al-Shabab oppose the ideology of this
influential cleric whose sermons are constantly dissected and criticized by
Al-Shabab sympathisers on online media outlets that sympathize with the group.

Source: Radio Mustaqbal, Mogadishu, in Somali 1130 gmt 28 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 30, 2013 Monday

Yemeni army handling situation in army base attacked by terrorist group

LENGTH: 141 words


Text of report by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

SANA'A, Sep. 30 (Saba) -The terrorist group attacked the headquarters of the
Second Military Region in Mukalla city is being sieged by army troops now, an
official at the Defence Ministry said Monday [30 September].

The official said that the troops sent to area are blockading the headquarters
from all directions and handling the situation now after evacuating the
personnel from the building.

A number of the terrorists were killed and wounded in the ongoing operation, he
added, accentuating that the situation will be settled very soon and arrest the
terrorists dead or alive.

The terrorists rammed the Second Military Region's entrance by a car bomb and
entered the military base by another car, the official said.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in Arabic 1735 gmt 30 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 30, 2013 Monday

South Africa ruling party calls for tighter security after Kenya terror attacks

LENGTH: 878 words


Text of report by South African privately-owned, established daily newspaper The
Star on 30 September

[Report by Piet Rampedi: "'Sort Out ID Book Law'"]

ANC NEC tells govt to act to close down terror loopholes

THE ANC has ordered the government's security cluster to review and strengthen
the country's security in the wake of the Kenyan terror attack that killed at
least 67 people.

It has also instructed President Jacob Zuma's administration to review the
security features of South Africa's identity documents, after reports that
Samantha Lewthwaite, 29, the British woman who allegedly took part in the mall
siege, travelled to Kenya as Natalie Faye Webb on a legitimate South African
passport, granted on the basis of a forged ID document.

Speaking at a post-national executive committee (NEC) meeting briefing at
Luthuli House yesterday, ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe condemned the
"dastardly and terrorist act" of targeting innocent civilians at the Westgate
shopping centre.

"In this regard, our own security cluster was directed by the NEC to analyse the
attack and work on our security in liaison with relevant institutions in the
continent and the world.

"This attack has highlighted the need for tighter immigration laws and
processes, strengthening of the security features of the South African identity
documents, and the monitoring of the movement of people in general and
suspicious movements in particular," said Mantashe.

He said the ANC was in solidarity with Kenyans in the aftermath of the tragedy.

He made it clear that the party supported the Kenyan government's decision not
to accede to Somalia's al-Qaeda-linked rebel group al-Shabaab's demand that it
pull its troops out of Somalia.

"The NEC further supported the work that seeks to ensure stability and peace in
the horn of Africa in general and Somalia in particular."

In a move that might further pressure the International Criminal Court (ICC),
Mantashe said the ANC had mandated Zuma "not to break ranks" with the continent
when the AU debates Kenya's request for countries to review their membership of
the ICC.

"There is clear evidence that the ICC is used more to effect regime change in
the majority of cases. The sovereignty of many African countries is undermined,
as is the case in Kenyaa€¦ which in effect amounts to a judicial coup," Mantashe
added.

Britain's Mail on Sunday reported yesterday that Lewthwaite is secretly married
to a former officer in the Kenyan navy, a confidential Scotland Yard file on her
revealed.

Lewthwaite, widow of 7/7 suicide bomber Jermaine Lindsay, left Britain for
Africa with her children in 2009 and has been on the run for 20 months.

But a Mail on Sunday investigation revealed that her current husband -a man
named Abdi Wahid, who in his forties -has been free to travel as he wishes and
is currently in continental Europe.

Wahid was arrested in 2011 when police discovered that his house in the coastal
city of Mombasa had been turned into a potential bomb factory by Lewthwaite
-know as the White Widow -and her associates. He was never charged with any
offence. Detectives now believe he could hold the key to unlocking her network
of terror.

It is not known exactly when their marriage took place, but Lewthwaite had
evidently left her old life in Britain behind by then and was deeply involved
with al-Shabaab.

Wahid's relationship with Lewthwaite has baffled detectives, given his military
background and because he once worked as a private security officer in
Afghanistan, guarding Westerners against attack from the Taleban.

He was previously described as Lewthwaite's "landlord" at one of two houses
where she stayed in Mombasa, until she came to police attention in January last
year.

The police file, codenamed Operation Unigof, includes an "association chart". At
its centre are Lewthwaite and British terror suspect Jermaine Grant, 30, from
Newham in London.

Grant is a Muslim convert who knew Lewthwaite's husband Lindsay and is on trial
in Mombasa on explosives charges.

There are extensive details of all the cellphone numbers linked with Lewthwaite,
along with calls she has made to a woman, described in a police file as her
"aunt"', at an address in Birmingham.

The police document suggests that Lewthwaite may have called the aunt from Kenya
as many as 42 times -the last four in November 2011 and January last year,
shortly before she went on the run. All the calls went to voicemail.

The Scotland Yard file was compiled in the days following Lewthwaite's narrow
escape from police in 2011, a story that can now be revealed fully for the first
time.

When officers raided the house where she was living, Lewthwaite convinced them
that she was a South African named Natalie Faye Webb. She had a bogus passport,
obtained by using another woman's birth certificate.

A bag of money with thousands of pounds worth of assorted foreign currencies was
also found at the house, but even that wasn't suspicious enough to persuade the
police to bring her in.

Instead, they took a copy of the passport and left. When they updated Scotland
Yard, one of the London detectives realized that the woman posing as Natalie
Webb was Lewthwaite.

The Kenyans returned to the house the next day, but she had gone.

Source: The Star, Johannesburg, in English 30 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 30, 2013 Monday

Kenyan opposition party leader Odinga questions state over terrorist attack

LENGTH: 519 words


Text of report by Baraka Karama, Eric Juma and Kinyuru Munuhe entitled "Raila
faults NIS over Westgate attack" by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The
People on 30 September

[Opposition] Coalition for Reform and Democracy (Cord) leader Raila Odinga now
wants the government to explain how suspected terrorists who stormed Westgate
Mall in Nairobi last week got into the country. Raila said the government should
come out clean over the issue to avoid speculations even as investigations
continued into the one week old attack.

" We need to know how they had access into the country, who issued them with the
permits and how it was done," he said.

The calls came even as normal operations resumed at Nakumatt Ukay, a
neighbouring business premise to the Westgate mall.

The former premier blamed the Jubilee government for laxity on security matters
within the country.

Raila took issue with the National Intelligence Service for sleeping on the job
at the expense of the lives of innocent Kenyans. "Somebody somewhere must be
held responsible for this and take the blame because we should be living in a
country that protects its citizens," he said.

He said Cord will table a special motion on the floor of the House to demand
answers on the terror attack.

"Even though we were united during the time of grief, as a coalition we will
demand to know how it happened," Raila said.

At Nakumatt Ukay motorists who had parked vehicles at the compound have since
been allowed to take them upon submission of the relevant ownership documents
including a logbook and individual's identity card or passport.

Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph ole Lenku also announced normal resumption of
business in adjacent installations and reopening of Peponi Road.

However, he announced the Westgate Mall remains a scene of crime and access is
limited only to the relevant authorities and a probe team carrying out forensic
analysis. "Motorists can collect their vehicles from the Westgate and Ukay
centre sites but they must come with personal identification as well as vehicle
ownership documents. Westgate Mall remains a scene of crime and access to it
remains limited. We ask people to keep off the area," said Lenku.

However, probe teams comprised of local and foreign investigators continue with
the forensic analysis to profile identities' and nationalities of the five
killed terrorists and nature of arms used.

Fears of possible human remains still trapped in the rubble remains a critical
question amid government's insistence that no bodies have been found yet.

Siaya County Senator James Orengo blamed the government for barring the media
from filming the scene of the terror attack. "If there is nothing they are
hiding, then why not allow the media to take pictures at the scene?" he posed.

Raila made the remarks while addressing a gathering in Kisumu after paying a
courtesy call to former Jaramogi [Oginga Odinga, his father] aide Odungi Randa,
in his jua kali [small business] office on his way to Siaya to drum up support
for ODM's candidate for Siaya gubernatorial seat.

Source: The People, Nairobi, in English 30 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 30, 2013 Monday

Kenya security chiefs hold crisis meeting over mall terror attack

LENGTH: 959 words


Text of report by Geoffrey Mosoku and Cyrus Ombati entitled "Kenya security
bosses hold crisis meeting amid laxity claims" published by Kenyan
privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 30 September,
subheadings as published

Nairobi; Kenya: Top security chiefs yesterday [29 September] held crisis
meetings over the Westgate Mall terror attack that left over 60 people dead, as
questions lingered about the country's counter-terrorism and intelligence
strategy.

The day-long meeting at Harambee House [president's office] came against the
backdrop of reports authorities had prior warning of a possible terror attack
that was not acted on and which has triggered a blame-game.

However, when Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph ole Lenku addressed the media at
5 p.m. [1400 gmt] yesterday, he declined to discuss purported leaked
intelligence briefings suggesting security organs slept on the job, saying
intelligence matters were confidential. Lenku said that nine suspects were in
custody, held under counter-terrorism laws, but their identities or
nationalities would not be revealed.

"It's premature to release details now as that might prejudice ongoing
investigations," he told the press conference outside Harambee House. He
declined to shed more light on media reports that among those held is Briton
Sharif Ahmed Abdirizak, 35, who was arrested at Jomo Kenyatta International
Airport. The reports said the suspect was attempting to leave the country after
the attack, and was allegedly carrying maps of the Westgate Shopping Mall on his
laptop.

Lenku said one of the cars used by the terrorists had been identified. He said
forensic experts recovered crucial items inside the car, including an assortment
of weapons used in the terror attack.

Lenku said police had so far taken witness statements from 56 people.

Terrorist stormed

He dismissed reports that some of the attackers may have escaped using an
underground tunnel saying security forces had secured the area and sealed off
all possible escape routes.

He reiterated that the attackers were estimated to have been between 10 and 15,
and that five of them had been killed by security forces.

Earlier, the security chiefs went into a crisis meeting at 9 a.m., and continued
until evening.

Defence Cabinet Secretary Rachael Omamo, Chief of Defence Forces Gen Julius
Karangi, police boss David Kimaiyo, his deputies, National Intelligence Director
General Michael Gichangi, CID [Criminal Investigation Department] Director
Francis Muhoro and Interior Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo were among those
present at the meeting.

At noon some members of the team hurriedly left with reports indicating that
President Uhuru Kenyatta had summoned them to State House, Nairobi. They later
returned to Harambee House to continue with the meeting. After the 5 p.m. press
briefing, the officials went back into Harambee House but it was unclear if the
meeting progressed into the night.

The officials twice postponed the planned press briefing over circumstances that
were not immediately clear. Initially the briefing was scheduled for 12.30 p.m.
but it was pushed to 3 p.m. then to 4.30 p.m. and finally to 5 p.m.

Investigations are ongoing into the four-day siege at the Westgate Mall, which
began last Saturday morning when heavily armed terrorists stormed the crowded
shopping complex, killing at least 61 people and injuring over 200.

Officials said more than 1,000 people were rescued. However, the mystery of some
71 people reported by the Kenya Red Cross as missing, and feared to have
perished inside the mall, was still unresolved yesterday.

Lenku's position yesterday over the missing people perplexed journalists who
wanted to know the fate of the 71. He asked those whose relatives were missing
to report to the police and humanitarian agencies with the information to also
share it with the police.

Surprisingly, Lenku insisted that the attackers had taken no hostages at the
time Special Forces moved in.

Spy chief

The mystery deepened further after Kenya Red Cross officials said the government
had taken over the list with the names of those missing.

President Kenyatta had said bodies, including those of terrorists, were buried
under the rubble after three floors of the building collapsed.

Officials said investigators would take at least seven days to sift through the
rubble in search of evidence and bodies and to conduct forensic tests.

Today, MPs conducting a parliamentary probe into the handling of the crisis will
visit the scene of the terror attack.

Parliament's administration and national security and the defence and foreign
relations committees are undertaking the joint probe.

The team has put off a scheduled grilling of spy chief Gichangi so as to prepare
comprehensive summons targeting top security chiefs. "We are meeting on Tuesday
to draw a timetable on when they are supposed to appear to explain the issue
after which we will communicate to them and to the public," said Ndungu
Githinji, the chairman of the defence and foreign relations committee.

Leaked National Intelligence Service situational reports claimed the National
Security Council was briefed of possible terror attacks in Nairobi and Mombasa.
Among those briefed on the terror threats were the army chief and cabinet
secretaries of national treasury, interior, and foreign affairs.

Foreign agents, including the FBI from the US, investigators from Britain,
Canada, Israel and Germany, are helping Kenyan authorities with investigations.

The teams have taken samples from five bodies thought to be of terrorists for
forensic analysis in order to profile them.

The bodies are being kept at one of the mortuaries in Nairobi and none has been
claimed so far.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 30 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                           September 30, 2013 Monday

Vigil held for victims of Kenya massacre and Pakistan terror attack - including
18 members of Bolton vicar's family

BYLINE: Jeremy Culley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 350 words


FAITH communities joined together to pay a moving tribute to those killed in
recent atrocities in Peshawar and Nairobi, including 18 family members of a
Bolton vicar.

About 60 people attended a vigil at St Paul with Emmanuel Church in Deane
tonight, where representatives from Bolton's Christian, Hindu and Muslim faith
groups paid their respects to those affected.

A "deeply distressed" Reverend Fayaz Adman flew back to Peshawar last week after
a targeted extremist attack against Christians killed 85 people, of which 18
were members of his family.

Mr Adman was the vicar of St Paul, and Canon Matthew Thompson said he was
grateful for the support of Bolton's faith groups in allowing them to hold the
vigil in the most appropriate location.

Father Michael Cooke, from Bolton Interfaith Council read a statement from
Bishop Chris Edmondson, in which he offered his profound condolences to Mr
Adman, having visited members of his family in the aftermath of the incident.

The 6pm vigil also made reference to the massacre at the Westgate mall in
Nairobi, which killed at least 67 people, with six Britons among the dead.

A large solitary candle was lit to start the vigil, while a representative from
five different faith groups lit a separate candle before closing prayers.

A heavy tension hung in the air as the congregation observed a minute's silence
in respect of Mr Adman.

Mr Thompson said: "It is great to see so many people from different faith groups
across Bolton attending tonight to pray together for what is good, right and
true.

"We were very keen to show solidarity with Mr Adman and his family, the people
in Peshawar and the people in Nairobi at this unimaginably difficult time."

Two Islamist groups with Taliban links say they organised the attack - thought
to be the most deadly ever against Pakistan's Christians - in response to US
drone strikes.

Mr Adman was baptised, confirmed and ordained at the now-destroyed All Saints
Church in his native Peshawar.

The married father-of-two, aged 50, has lived in the UK for about 10 years and
flew out to Pakistan to comfort his family on September 23.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     September 30, 2013 Monday 6:20 PM GMT

Kenya Mall Massacre: First pictures emerge from inside shopping mall since
terror attack

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 181 words


<em class="bold">THE first pictures of the devastated Westgate Mall - the scene
of a brutal Islamist terror attack - have been released, revealing the
devastation caused by the mass shooting.</em>

A series of photographs obtained by the Associated Press show restaurants and
shops covered with debris and shattered glass at the upmarket Nairobi shopping
centre.

One picture shows a child's toy, handbags and unfinished drinks left behind in a
coffee shop.

The images have been released as Kenyan security officials prepare to face
questions from the country's parliament.

There have been allegations of critical intelligence lapses in the weeks and
months leading up to the attack where 67 people were killed, including six
Britons.

Ndung'u Gethenji

It has been alleged that Kenya's NIS intelligence agency issued warnings a year
ago that terrorists were planning to attack the complex.

Committee head Ndung'u Gethenji told the BBC last week "people need to know the
exact lapses in the security system that possibly allowed this event to take
place".

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     September 30, 2013 Monday 5:57 PM GMT

Kenya terror attack: First pictures show scenes of devastation inside Westgate
mall

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 490 words


SHOCKING pictures have shown for the first time the devastation left in the
aftermath of a four-day terrorist attack on a shopping mall in Nairobi.

Westgate shopping centre in Kenya was the target of an attack from masked gunmen
which left at least 67 people dead and more than 170 injured.

The pictures taken after the siege, which began on Saturday September 21, show
cafes and restaurants left heavily damaged after the attack from terror group
al-Shabaab.

The images of the destruction show trolleys abandoned, windows of shops
shattered and the floor of the mall's car park collapsed after explosives were
set off.

The Red Cross have claimed 39 people are still missing from the terror attack
but the Kenyan government claims there are no remaining missing people.

At least six Britons died in the attack, while Interpol have issued an
international arrest warrant for British terror suspect Samantha Lewthwaite.

The shocking pictures show the aftermath of the four-day seige in Nairobi [EPA]

At least 67 people died in the terror attack in Kenya [EPA]

President Uhuru Kenyatta said that five of the terrorists involved in the attack
had been killed by security forces' gunfire.

However, his office said one or more might be trapped under the building's
rubble.

Interior Minister Joseph Ole Lenku said bodies of all five Islamic extremists
involved in the attack were thought to be underneath the rubble.

The pictures come on the same day that a Briton was arrested in Nairobi in
connection with the attack on the Westgate shopping centre.

The 35-year-old man, who is believed to be of Somali origin, was detained at
Jomo Kenyatta Airport last week as he tried to leave the country.

Terror group al-Shabaab have claimed responsibility for the atrocity [EPA]

However, police released the Briton without charge today.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We can confirm that a British national has
been released from custody in Nairobi."

Mr Lenku added that another person had been arrested in connection with the
attack but refused to give further details.

So far Kenyan officials have arrested 12 people in connection with the attack
but three have been released.

The pictures come as a Briton was arrested and in connection with the attack
[AP]

Kenyan officials later released the Briton believed to be of Somali origin [EPA]

British businessman Mitul Shah, 38, died in the attack after volunteering
himself as a hostage to save a group of 33 terrified children.

Ross Langdon, a British-Australian architect, was killed in the attack along
with his pregnant partner Elif Yavuz who was a Dutch citizen.

Lemington Spa's Louis Bawa and his Kenyan-born wife Zahira died in the Nairobi
attack along with their eight-year-old daughter Jennah.

While British citizen and Cambridge graduate Niall Saville was wounded in the
attack but his South Korean wife Kang-Moon her was killed.

Kenyan officials say all five gunmen involved in the attack are under the rubble
[EPA]

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           September 30, 2013 Monday

Islamists murder 50 students in Nigeria: Victims 'shot as they slept' in
agricultural college: Thousands fleeing Boko Haram terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Adamu Adamu in Potiskum and Michelle Faul in Abuja

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 469 words


Suspected Islamic extremists shot dead about 50 students as they slept in
dormitories during a night-time attack on an agricultural college in north-east
Nigeria.

Dozens of students are said to have been killed in the assault that began at
about 1am local time on Sunday, said Molima Idi Mato, provost of the Yobe state
college of agriculture in rural Gujba.

"They attacked our students while they were sleeping, they opened fire at them,"
he said, but could not give an exact death toll as security forces still were
recovering bodies from the college.

The Nigerian military had collected 42 bodies and transported 18 injured
students to Damaturu specialist hospital, according to a military intelligence
official.

The school's other 1,000 students fled the college, about 25 miles north of
Damaturu town, where there have been similar attacks on schools as part of a
continuing Islamist uprising, said Mato.

He said there were no security forces stationed at the college despite
government assurances that they would be deployed. The state education chief,
Mohammed Lamin, urged all schools to reopen two weeks ago and promised
protection from soldiers and police.

Most schools in the area closed after militants on 6 July killed 29 pupils and a
teacher, burning some alive in their hostels, at Mamudo, outside Damaturu.

North-east Nigeria is under a military state of emergency to battle the Islamist
uprising by Boko Haram militants, who have killed more than 1,700 people since
2010 in their quest for an Islamic state. Boko Haram means "western education is
forbidden" in the local Hausa language.

Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau published a video last week to prove he was
alive and was not killed during the crackdown by the military.

The Islamic extremists have killed at least 30 other civilians in the past week.
Twenty-seven people died in attacks on Wednesday and Thursday night in two
villages of Borno state near the border with Cameroon, according to the local
council chairman, Modu-Gana Bukar Sheriiff.

A military spokesman did not respond to requests for information but a security
official confirmed the death toll.

A local government official said there had been a series of attacks in recent
weeks and threats of more. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because he feared for his life, said Gwoza town was deserted when he visited it
briefly under heavy security escort on Thursday.

He said militants had chased medical officers from the town's hospital, which
had been treating some victims of attacks. He added that militants had burned
down three schools in the area.

More than 30,000 people have fled from the terrorist attacks to neighbouring
Cameroon and Chad and the uprising combined with the military emergency has
forced farmers from their fields and vendors from their markets.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                           September 30, 2013 Monday

Syrian deputy PM blames 'western-backed terrorist groups' for sarin attack

BYLINE: Ed Pilkingtontheguardian.com

LENGTH: 436 words

ABSTRACT

Walid al-Moualem delivers defiant speech at UN pointing finger at US and other
western powers for chemical weapons attack

FULL TEXT

The Syrian government has accused the Obama administration and other unspecified
western countries of supporting terrorist groups inside Syria and of supplying
chemical agents for use in poison gas attacks launched by al-Qaida and its
affiliates.

In a defiant speech to the general assembly of the United Nations, Syria's
deputy prime minister, Walid al-Moualem, accepted no blame for the recent sarin
nerve gas attack on suburban Damascus that killed hundreds of civilians.
Instead, he pointed the finger for the outrages at what he described as
western-backed terrorist groups.

Referring to the 9/11 attacks on New York, he asked: "How can some countries,
hit by the same terrorism we are suffering now in Syria, claim to fight
terrorism in all parts of the world while supporting it in my country?"

In colourful language, he went on to claim that terrorist insurgents were
engaging in cannibalism inside Syria. "The scenes of murder, manslaughter and
eating human hearts were shown on TV screens, but did not touch blind
consciences.

"In my country, there are innocent civilians whose heads are put on the grill
just because they violate the extremist ideology and deviant views of al-Qaida.
There are murderers who dismember human bodies into pieces while still alive and
send their limbs to their families, just because those citizens are defending a
unified and secular Syria."

Al-Moualem's breathless rhetoric came as an international team of chemical
weapons experts set out from The Hague bound for Syria under the mandate of last
week's UN security council resolution calling for the dismantling of Syria's
large arsenal. Twenty inspectors will arrive in Damascus on Tuesday.

Al-Moualem told the UN that his government had accepted the Russian initiative
to disarm Syria of its chemical weapons and had acceded to the Convention on the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. But his resounding criticism of US backing for
opposition groups in Syria's ongoing civil war underlines how delicate the task
facking the UN inspectors will be.

"I assure you of Syria's commitment to the full implementation of the provisions
of the convention," the deputy prime minister said. But he then added: "There
remains the challenge whether those who are supplying terrorists with these
types of weapon will abide by their legal commitments, since terrorists, who
used poisoned gases in my country, have received chemical agents from regional
and Western countries that are well known to all of us."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           September 30, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

50 students die in attack Bomb terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 34 words


PAKISTAN: A man carries an injured child away from the site of a car bomb attack
in Peshawar. The bomb exploded on a crowded street - and was the third blast to
hit the troubled city of Peshawar in a week.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           September 30, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

50 students die in attack Bomb terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 34 words


PAKISTAN: A man carries an injured child away from the site of a car bomb attack
in Peshawar. The bomb exploded on a crowded street - and was the third blast to
hit the troubled city of Peshawar in a week.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 30, 2013 Monday 6:53 PM GMT

Wave of car bombs across Baghdad kills at least 51;
Day of terror in Iraqi capital as attacks on Shi'ite Muslim areas continue to
escalate

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 267 words


A wave of car bombs exploded across Baghdad this morning, killing at least 51
people and wounding more than 100, officials said.

The attacks were all on busy areas, markets and car parks, and predominantly in
Shi'ite neighbourhoods.

The deadliest single blast took place in Sadr City, an eastern suburb of the
city, where a car blew up at a small vegetable market. Exploding next to a group
of workers, it killed at least seven people, including two soldiers, and injured
around 16, a police officer said.

That was followed by another four parked car bombs, which went off in quick
sequence in the districts of New Baghdad, Habibiya, Sabaa al-Bour and Kazimiyah.

While it was not immediately clear who carried out the attacks, given their
victims it is likely to have involved hard-line Sunni militants.

They often target crowded places such as markets, cafes and mosques, seeking to
inflict huge numbers of casualties, and have recently stepped up their
insurgency in strikes on Shi'ites, who they regard as non-believers.

The impact of the ongoing civil war in neighbouring Syria has been felt over the
border in Iraq, bringing renewed focus and aggression to the deep-rooted
sectarian divisions straining the fragile coalition of Shi'ite, Kurdish and
Sunni factions.

On Sunday, a suicide bomber killed at least 40 people when he blew himself up
inside a mosque where a Shi'ite funeral was being held, in the town of Mussayab,
40 miles south of Baghdad.

The UN mission in Iraq said about 800 Iraqis were killed in acts of violence in
August, while more than 4,500 people have reportedly been killed since April.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 30, 2013 Monday 12:10 PM GMT

Briton arrested at the airport over Nairobi terror attack released after police
decide not to charge him

BYLINE: HUGO GYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 443 words



     ·    Sharif Ahmed Abdirizak, 35, was arrested last week at Nairobi airport
     ·    Questioned by anti-terror police but was today released without charge
     ·    Abdirizak was born in Somalia but now lives in Manchester


A British man arrested at a Nairobi airport in the wake of the terror attack on
the Westgate Mall has been released without charge.

Sharif Ahmed Abdirizak, who is of Somali origin, was stopped at Jomo Kenyatta
Airport last week as he tried to fly from Kenya to the UK.

The 35-year-old was held by police under local anti-terrorism laws, amidst
reports he had downloaded maps of the mall to his laptop.

However, officials announced to today that he would face no further action, and
he is now free to return home to Manchester.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: 'We can confirm that a British national has
been released from custody in Nairobi.'

Meanwhile, the Kenyan authorities said another person had been arrested in
connection with the atrocity, which left 67 people dead.

Interior Minister Joseph Ole Lenku said the arrest was made yesterday, but
refused to give any further details.

Kenyan officials have arrested 12 people in connection with the attack, but
three have since been freed.

A spokesman for Kenya's Red Cross said today that authorities were making
'progress' in tracking down the 59 people who are still recorded as missing in
the aftermath of the massacre.

Abdirazak's arrest last Monday was said to have come when he was passing through
the airport wearing dark glasses with bruises to his face.

Intelligence officers took away his computer for examination, and apparently
found maps of Westgate Mall on it.

His family insisted all along that he was not connected to the terror attack,
and said he was in Nairobi visiting his dying mother.

Abdirazak was arrested on suspicion of 'engaging in an organised criminal
activity', but he told officers the bruises on his face were the result of an
'allergic reaction'.

Friends in Manchester's Somali community said it was 'inconceivably' that he was
involved in extremism, with one saying: 'He is an ordinary guy. He likes
watching football, Manchester United, and is settled in England. There is
nothing extremist about him.'

Abdirazak was born in Somalia but fled to Kenya as a child after his father and
two brothers were killed in the country's civil war.

He flew to England in 2003, claiming asylum on the basis of his family history,
and was given a British passport two years ago.

After arriving in Britain he studied English and enrolled on a one-year computer
skills course at a Manchester college.

He has not worked or studied since 2007, and told police he lives off benefits
and gifts from 'well-wishers'.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 30, 2013 Monday 12:31 AM GMT

Intelligence warning on terror incursions 'ignored' ahead of Samba attack

BYLINE: MAIL TODAY REPORTER

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 196 words


Specific intelligence input about terrorists from Pakistan entering through the
international border adjoining Jammu instead of the preferred route - through
the LoC - was generated last month.

But clearly the alert was ignored, as armed terrorists managed to enter India to
attack a police station and an army camp on September 26, killing nine people.

The input was generated last month by intelligence agencies and security forces
after an attack in Poonch district of the state near the LoC, where five Army
personnel were killed.

Sources said a report based on ground intelligence was prepared after the attack
last month, and warned that terrorists backed by the Pakistan Army are likely to
use the international border for infiltration and attacking the security forces.

After the Poonch attack it was suspected that infiltration bids could shift from
the LoC, which is under strict vigil, to other areas along the border.

Samba and Kathua were among the vulnerable areas in Jammu.

Sources said the threat wasn't restricted to Jammu. In Rajasthan the Sri
Ganganagar district is a sensitive area, and Hindumalkot, Oorki and Madera areas
have been identified as trouble spots.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 30, 2013 Monday 8:59 PM GMT

First images emerge from inside Nairobi's Westgate mall;
The first pictures have emerged from inside the Westgate shopping mall since the
terrorist attack, with shopkeepers complaining Kenyan troops looted their
stores. Ben Farmer reports.

BYLINE: By Ben Farmer Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 650 words


Picked clean and smashed up, the FoneXpress mobile phone shop in Nairobi's
Westgate mall is one of dozens of stores which traders have returned to find
ransacked - but businessmen say the terrorists are not to blame.

As the first pictures emerged from inside the devastated shopping centre where
terrorists killed at least 67, shopkeepers complained that looting Kenyan troops
had added to the destruction by ransacking their stores.

Shopkeepers have been allowed to return to the Westgate centre only to find that
if their shops escaped destruction in 80-hours of the fighting, they were later
apparently stripped bare.

Allegations of mass looting by the security forces were adding to growing
concerns about how the Kenyan authorities handled the worst terror attack on the
country in 15 years.

Large sections of what was once one of the country's most opulent shopping
centres have been gutted by fire, swamped by water and shattered by heavy
gunfire, traders told The Daily Telegraph.

Pictures taken inside show sections of escalator buckled and twisted by fire and
several shops reduced to blackened shells. Three floors of the building also
collapsed on top of each other at one end of the centre as the battle against up
to 15 Al-Shabaab militants reached its climax.

Sections of the mall which had apparently escaped the fighting had also been
ransacked, businesspeople said as they returned to check their stock.

Joseph Ole Lenku, the Kenyan interior minister, confirmed he was investigating
instances of looting and promised the culprits would be punished, but insisted
most shops were intact.

Olga Levari Ercolano, who owns a cart selling African handicrafts on the first
floor and was able to inspect her stock on Sunday, said the shopping centre
resembled a war zone.

"There was water everywhere, all the windows have been smashed, all the
jewellery shops have been smashed and all the banks have been ransacked," she
said. "There were shells and bullet casings all over the floor.

"The looting is unbelievable. Shops with valuable goods have found they have all
gone. Computers, mobile phones, jewellery, everything.

"Even the drinks in the cafés have been drunk and the empty bottles lined up."

In the terror of the initial attack, traders fled without their money, returning
to find it all missing.

"All this has happened after the fighting," she said. "I can't imagine the
terrorists sitting there and drinking beer, or filling their pockets." David
Nderitu, 27, who worked at Ashley's salon, said he had returned to find a strong
room broken into and cash boxes forced open.

"They searched every bag and wallet that had been left behind and they stole
everything. There were more than 50 shops looted and they stole everything," he
said. "Everyone has been complaining that they lost their shops and the soldiers
stole everything."

On Monday, Kenyan parliamentarians investigating alleged security failings
leading up to the assault and a botched security response, inspected the charred
wreckage.

They also said they would "relook and rethink" Kenya's hosting of some half a
million Somali refugees, accusing the camps - such as the word's biggest such
site, Dadaab, which hosts more than 400,000 people - as being a "training
ground" for Somali extremists.

The Red Cross said the number of people still unaccounted after the September 21
attack stood at 39. The government has said it believes no hostages were left in
the building when the siege ended.

Al Shabaab continued to taunt the Kenyan government saying it had "failed to
uncover the facts and details of the Westgate Operation." The Somali Islamist
extremists also dismissed speculation that Samantha Lewthwaite, the British
woman known as the White Widow, took part in the massacre.

"The Kenyan govt (government) is still chasing its tail by holding on to the
hopeless notion that a woman led the attack," the group said.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 30, 2013 Monday 7:16 AM GMT

Kenya terror attack hero reunited with American family he saved;
An American mother and her three young daughters, survivors of last weekend's
bloody Westgate attack, met their rescuer yesterday for the first time since
their escape from the besieged Kenyan shopping mall.

BYLINE: Filmed by Zoe Flood in Nairobi

LENGTH: 258 words


Read the full story

The Daily Telegraph witnessed an emotional reunion between Katherine Walton, 38,
and Abdul Haji, a Kenyan businessman and one of the armed civilians who spent
hours pulling people out of Westgate in the hours after the attack.

Meeting at a private home in the Nairobi suburbs, Mr Haji was also introduced to
four-year-old Portia, whom he was pictured with in a dramatic image seen
worldwide.

The young girl was captured running towards Mr Haji from a hiding place on the
ground floor, where she and six others, including her mother and two younger
sisters, had spent more than three hours as gun battles blazed around them.

"I thought she was very, very brave," Mr Haji told The Daily Telegraph in a
sun-dappled garden far away from the horrors of the mall.

"I think most of us who were there, we thought the same, and this just gave us
more motivation to go on and do what we were doing."

Mrs Walton described the hope she felt when she first saw Mr Haji from her
hiding place under a promotional table outside the Nakumatt supermarket.

"It was such a relief to know that someone was going to get us out and it was
going to be over for us," she said.

Mr Haji, a Muslim of ethnic Somali origin who went to the mall to find his
brother but who stayed and helped to shepherd many terrified people to safety,
has been widely celebrated as a hero.

He initially avoided the spotlight but went public to counter the attackers'
militant version of Islam.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     September 30, 2013 Monday 2:48 PM GMT

Briton arrested over Kenya terror attack is released

BYLINE: Jerome Starkey, Nairobi

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 180 words


A British man arrested in connection with last week's terrorist attack in
Nairobi was released today without charge.

Police said the man, who has not been named, was detained at Nairobi's
international airport after missing a flight to Istanbul.

He was one of 12 people seized in connection with the siege on the Westgate
shopping mall, which left at least 67 people dead, as well as five of the
attackers.

Police said he was detained because he had bruising to his face and was acting
suspiciously. Kenyan and American officials are investigating claims that some
of the attackers who stormed the shopping centre on 21 September may have
escaped with their victims in the chaos that ensued.

The British High Commissioner, Christian Turner, had earlier said the man was
not of "central interest" to the Kenyan investigation.

Three other people have also been released, leaving eight suspects still in
custody.

Kenya's Interior Minister Joseph Ole Lenku reacted angrily on Sunday to
suggestions that his government had ignored intelligence reports which warned
them an attack was imminent.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 1, 2013 Tuesday

Iraqi Kurdistan Region government to probe Arbil "terrorist" attacks - official

LENGTH: 219 words


Text of report by Arbil Governorate-funded, free-of-charge Hawler newspaper on
30 September

[Unattributed Report: "KRG Spokesperson: We Will Soon Reveal Who Staged the
Attacks"]

The spokesperson of the Kurdistan Region Government [KRG] commented on
yesterday's explosions in Arbil. He stated that the Asayish (internal security)
will continue its work and will closely investigate the attacks.

During an interview with the TV channel, Rudaw, KRG spokesperson Safin Dizayee
said: "We consider the explosions that took place in Arbil to be terrorist
attacks, and the KRG condemns them."

Safin Dizayee indicated that the KRG will seriously investigate the attacks and
said: "We will reveal who these terrorists are very quickly."

The KRG spokesperson also said the Asayish forces will strengthen their efforts
and added: "The Asayish forces were able to control the situation very quickly
and take the wounded to the hospitals for treatment."

Safin Dizayee also extended his condolences to the families of the victims and
wished the wounded a quick recovery.

The KRG spokesperson gave these statements when he visited the wounded in the
hospital in Arbil.

Yesterday, a number of explosions shook Arbil, the capital of the Kurdistan
Region, killing six people and wounding 62 others.

Source: Hawler, Arbil, in Kurdish 30 Sep 13 p 5

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 1, 2013 Tuesday

SAfrican report profiles British terror suspect linked to Kenyan mall attack

LENGTH: 1853 words


Text of report by South African newspaper The Sunday Independent on 29 September

[Article by Mehul Srivastava and Franz Wild from the 'Dispatches' section: "The
Elusive Samantha Lewthwaite"]

Terror suspect linked to Kenyan mall attack knows how to give intelligence
services the slip, hence Interpol issuing a Red Notice for her capture, write
Mehul Srivastava and Franz Wild

Kenyan investigators knew two years ago that they wanted to question Samantha
Lewthwaite, the widow of one of the suicide bombers who struck the London
transit system in 2005.

They ran into her for the first time that December while probing a foiled attack
on tourist sites in Mombasa, when she convinced them she was a tourist.

Within days, investigators realized their mistake, a prosecutor said.

Three raids on houses tied to al-Qaeda and Somalia's al-Shabaab militants turned
up bomb-making materials, cash from Somali pirates, AK-47s and Lewthwaite's
personal diary, according to court proceedings in the trial of a British citizen
in Kenya, Jermaine Grant, and Kenyan prosecutors.

Only on Thursday -a week after al-Shabaab militants attacked the upscale
Westgate Mall in Nairobi, killing at least 67 civilians and security personnel
-did Kenya request Interpol to issue a so-called Red Notice for Lewthwaite,
asking police around the world to search for and arrest her.

"The Interpol notice could have been issued over a year ago, and that might have
stopped her as she crossed through borders," said Valentina Soria, a
London-based analyst for IHS Jane's, who has tracked Lewthwaite as part of her
research into al-Shabaab.

"If she was supposed to be on a watch list after the Kenyan authorities
disrupted a terrorist plot, then this paints a very concerning and worrying
picture about intelligence sharing between authorities in Africa."

No government official has directly named Lewthwaite as being involved in the
Westgate attack. But the confusion over her whereabouts and the possibility of
her having travelled to and lived in South Africa show the challenges of
tracking a person wanted for questioning by authorities on two continents, and
suspected by analysts and the Kenyan government of being involved with
al-Shabaab.

Attempts to contact Lewthwaite on phone numbers listed under an alias, Natalie
Faye Webb, failed.

The years-long delay may have cost authorities a chance to capture Lewthwaite
-nicknamed the "White Widow" by the British press -who set up a base in Joburg
[Johannesburg].

As late as May last year she rented a house in the mainly Muslim area of Mayfair
under a stolen identity known both to Kenyan and South African authorities,
records from the deeds office show. This week neighbours in the street where she
lived struggled to remember the woman.

One neighbour, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he had seen Lewthwaite
on a few occasions.

"I only remembered her because she was a lot paler than the rest of us," said
the man, who has been living the area for close to a decade.

"She always wore a burka and had her head covered in a scarf. She was very
quiet. I never spoke to her but I saw her when I walked to the shop."

Lewthwaite's traceable activities to date show that she travelled in and out of
South Africa, Zimbabwe Kenya, Tanzania and probably Somalia, according to
interviews with South African, Kenyan and American investigators, and al-Shabaab
videos posted online.

A source within the intelligence community with knowledge of Lewthwaite's
activities said she came into South Africa via Zimbabwe and lived in the Redhill
area in Durban.

She was "extensively engaged" with Pakistani immigration practitioners and
applied for the passport documentation via the Umgeni Road Home Affairs office.

The source cannot be named as he is not authorized to speak to the media.

Interest in Lewthwaite increased after Kenyan Foreign Minister Amina Mohamed
told US broadcaster PBS that a British woman who had "done this many times
before" was involved in the mall attack.

There's been no official confirmation of her involvement.

Kenyan Interior Secretary Joseph Ole Lento declined on Friday to comment on any
link between the Interpol notice and the mall attack.

Lewthwaite, the daughter of a British soldier, was raised in Aylesbury near
London and in 2002 married Jamaica-born Germaine Lindsay, like her a Muslim
convert, and had two children with him, according to investigations by British
police into the London bombing. He was one of the four perpetrators of the July
7, 2005, attacks on London's underground rail network, exploding a device on the
Piccadilly Line between King's Cross and Russell Square, killing 26 people.

Lewthwaite, who converted to Islam as a teenager, was questioned but not
charged. She said then she was unaware of and horrified by the attacks.

She later travelled to Kenya and vanished in 2011. Since then, Kenyan
prosecutors have described her as a member of al-Shabaab.

The Interpol Red Notice doesn't allege that she was involved in the September 21
attack on the mall, and is limited to Kenyan charges of possession of explosives
and another felony dating to December 2011.

Lewthwaite, with her children, entered Kenya via Tanzania in February 2011, and
renewed her Kenyan visa in Nairobi in March that year, according to a time line
of her activities compiled by IHS Jane's.

Lewthwaite stole Webb's identity to obtain a South African passport in Durban by
means of a rule allowing foreigners who were born in the country or have a
parent from the country to gain citizenship, Home Affairs Minister Naledi Pandor
told reporters in Pretoria on Thursday.

Lewthwaite travelled in and out of South Africa between July 2008 and February
2011, when the passport was cancelled, Pandor said.

The matter had been "appropriately handled by South African government officials
at the time", said Pandor, adding that there was no impact on the validity of
South African passports.

"We collaborated fully with the Kenyan and the United Kingdom authorities at
that time and they were satisfied with the cooperation they received.

"Since that time, there has not been any formal request to South Africa to give
attention to this person or that particular passport."

The last known sighting of Lewthwaite was in August 2011 when she was
photographed at the Kenya-Tanzania border, IHS said.

In South Africa, in addition to the Mayfair property, Lewthwaite leased a house
in Bromhof in northern Joburg.

A man who lived nearby, who declined to have his name published over concern for
his security, identified her from publicly available photographs shown to him by
a Bloomberg reporter. He said he spoke to her only once and didn't know her by
name.

Three fixed-line phone numbers and three cellphone numbers were registered under
Webb's name between August 2009 and September 2011, according to public records.
While calls to four of the numbers didn't connect and the fifth was not
answered, one number was answered by a woman who said she hadn't heard of Webb.

Lewthwaite, using Webb's name, between February and August 2011 defaulted on
R62,238 that she owed South African banks and stores, according to publicly
available credit records.

Using the fraudulently obtained documents, she was able to open a Truworths and
Ackermans and RCS store card with more than R8,000 credit in each.

A source within the intelligence community with knowledge of terrorist modus
operandi said that Lewthwaite's method of applying for credit at banks and shops
was a means to test if the passport document could bypass the system.

The little else that is known about Lewthwaite's time in Joburg is that is was
allegedly employed by Crown Pies, believed to be owned by businesswoman Khayroon
Essay, in 2009 under Webb's name. Both Essay's landline and cellphone went
unanswered. And the business address under which Essay's former company, Piejoy,
was registered in Lenasia, was a home to which the owner said Essay had no
links.

At the Crown Pies factory in Jeppestown, a man, who did not reveal his name,
said Crown Pies had a new owner and no one knew of Lewthwaite's employment at
the company.

Eyewitness News, however, reported that Lewthwaite was employed in the company's
IT department.

But from South Africa, Lewthwaite may have begun working in East Africa, said
Soria, the IHS Jane's analyst.

"What we know is she moved to East Africa, probably to Somalia, where she was
reported to be connected to al-Shabaab," Soria said.

"She worked not exactly as a fund-raiser, but as a controller of the funding of
the group, and was in contact with other operatives and affiliated individuals
in the country."

Kenyan authorities first encountered Lewthwaite in December 2011, when, while
investigating the foiled Mombasa attacks, police arrested Grant, along with an
alleged recruiter for al-Shabaab named Fouad Abubakar Manswab, saying they
planned an attack.

During the investigation, they questioned Lewthwaite, and let her go, according
to Kenyan prosecutor Jacob Ondari.

"That was the last chance the government had to detain this lady," Ondari, lead
prosecutor in the case against Grant, said in a phone interview from Kenya.

The next day, Kenyan police raided a flat rented by Grant, finding bomb-making
chemicals, cash from ransoms paid to Somali pirates and documentation that led
them to believe that the house was a headquarters for al-Shabaab in Kenya.

Grant denies charges including passport and visa fraud, and planning attacks
around Mombasa, according to court proceedings.

In another raid at a nearby house, Kenyan investigators found what Ondari
described as Lewthwaite's personal effects.

Since then, the only sightings of Lewthwaite have been photographs of her on
websites affiliated to militant groups in east Africa, including al-Shabaab.

"Al-Shabaab has focused on recruiting Westerners, especially Western women,"
said Soria. "She was presented as a model of how to give up your life for the
cause of jihad, which was very popular for recruiters."

In May, State Security Minister Siyabonga Cwele said government intelligence had
picked up information linking some South Africans to extremist groups such as
al-Shabaab operating in Somalia.

Earlier this week, Hawks spokesman Paul Ramaloka confirmed that the top policing
unit had been tracking the movements of al-Shabaab for the past year.

He, however, referred all queries on the country's investigations regarding
Lewthwaite and the passport that she acquired fraudulently to state security
spokesman Brian Dube.

The Lewthwaite investigation was a complex matter, said Dube, adding that they
would await the outcome of the Department of Home Affairs' follow-up of the
fraudulently acquired document.

That did not mean that state security had been sitting with their arms folded
for the past two years, said Dube.

"From an intelligence perspective, we are not at liberty to go on record about
what our investigations entail, how long it has been going on and who is being
investigated, but we have been preoccupied with these matters because we
understand the threat it poses to national security," said Dube.

Source: The Sunday Independent, Johannesburg, in English 29 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 1, 2013 Tuesday

Syrians martyred, wounded in Damascus terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 294 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus Countryside - Three citizens were injured by mortar shells fired by
terrorists on the citizens' houses in Jaramana city in Damascus Countryside.

A source at the Police Command told SANA that two shells landed in Al-Tawator
street in Kashkol neighbourhood, causing the injury of 3 citizens and material
damage to a number of parked cars and one of the shops.

The source added that two shells fell on Al-Hassan street in al-Kabbas
neighbourhood, while other two shells fell on al-Dayer street, causing material
damage to the citizens' properties.

Material damage caused by mortar shells in Damascus.

Several mortar shells, fired by terrorists, were landed in Tishreen Park, inside
a garden near Tishreen Palace wall and near the Chinese embassy.

An official source told SANA that the terrorist attacks caused material damage
without casualties among citizens.

A terrorist suicide car bombing near Damascus

Earlier, Damascus countryside police command said on Monday that a terrorist
suicide car bombing exploded near roundabout of Jdaidet al-Shibani town,
Damascus countryside.

The explosion resulted in the martyrdom and injury of a number of citizens and
material damage.

Six citizens martyred by terrorists attacks in Damascus countryside

A mortar shell, launched by terrorists, fell on the western neighbourhood of
al-Naserieh town in Damascus countryside, causing the martyrdom of four citizens
and material damage.

In the same context, an official source told SANA reporter that terrorists
opened fire on a bus in al-Nabek town in Damascus countryside, causing the
martyrdom of a man and a child and injuring a passenger.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 30 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 1, 2013 Tuesday

Death toll rises to 65 in Nigerian terror attack against college students

LENGTH: 1182 words


Text of report by private Nigerian newspaper The Guardian website on 1 October

[Report by Saxone Akhaine, Anietie Akpan, Terhemba Daka, Anthony Chidubem
Nwachukwu and Njadvara Musa: "More Outrage as Yobe Death Toll Hits 65; Gunmen
Kill Police Officer, Eight Residents in Borno"]

Twenty one more bodies of the students who either fled the Boko Haram attack on
the College of Agriculture, Gujba, Yobe State, or were abducted by the
insurgents were recovered yesterday by policemen and soldiers, bringing the
death toll in Sunday's incident to 65.

Spokesman of Third Division Special Operation Battalion, Capt. Eli Lazarus, said
yesterday that the effort of the team, which combed the Gujba-Goniri forests, 45
kilometres south of the college premises, has yielded results, as the
insurgents' routes and hideouts were still being traced.

He disclosed that more bodies were also recovered in the "trailing and search"
for fleeing insurgents in the Gujba and Goniri forests. However, he could not
tell the exact number of deaths in the attack, as he explained that the combing
of the forests was ongoing.

Sunday's attack followed weekend's assault on Kirawa town in Borno State in
which nine persons, including a senior police officer in charge of three
Divisional Police Stations were killed.

According to a witness, Ibrahim Wisso, the gunmen, who used Improvised Explosive
Devices (IEDs) and petrol-bombs in the attack on Kirawa Market, shot some, tied
some to the attackers' vehicles and dragged them along the road, before setting
them ablaze.

Speaking yesterday on the attacks, the Borno State Police Commissioner, Lawal
Tanko, said that reports on the Kirawa border market reached the police
headquarters yesterday, adding that eight people died in the attacks at the
weekend, including a senior police officer heading the Damboa, Gwoza and Bama
council police divisions.

Also, Governor Ibrahim Gaidam, who was at the Sani Abacha Specialists Hospital,
Damaturu, to see the five students there, promised to foot their medical bills.
He said these attacks were not only devastating but also heinous and barbaric.

He called on the military and other law enforcement agencies in the state "to
intensify surveillance and patrols to deal more effectively with the prevailing
security challenges."

Meanwhile, the Speaker, House of Representatives, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, the
Canadian Embassy, the European Union (EU), the Institute of Security Nigeria
(ISN), University of Lagos, and 1 GAME Campaign have described the killing of
students in Gujba as ignoble, wicked and horrendous.

Tambuwal said the latest act, coming barely two months after a similar incidence
at the Government Secondary School, Mamudo, also in Yobe State, has gone beyond
the realm of humanity because no reason can justify such dreadful acts.

In a statement in Abuja by his Special Adviser on Media and Public Affairs,
Malam Imam Imam, Tambuwal tasked security agencies to change tactics, especially
now that those engaged in the killings have increased their attacks on softer
targets.

He said the only way to console the families of the victims and Nigerians is by
fishing out perpetrators of the dastardly act and bring them to justice. He
appealed to politicians to moderate their utterances and be mindful of their
responsibilities to the country

Similarly, in a statement by Canada's Foreign Affairs Minister, John Baird,
which was made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja yesterday,
he regretted that the perpetrators of the abhorrent act targeted innocent
students while they were sleeping.

He added: "On behalf of all Canadians, I extend my deepest sympathies to those
injured in the attack and to the families and friends of those who lost their
lives," while pledging the country's support to help Nigeria fight terrorism.

Also in a statement from her spokesperson, EU top diplomat, Catherine Ashton,
reiterated the body's firm rejection "of such unjustifiable violence,"
contending that those responsible should be brought to justice. The statement
also pledged EU's support for Nigeria in the fight against terrorism.

And in a statement by its Executive Secretary, Adebayo Akinade, the ISN said the
attack and killing of innocent students in their sleep was the most wicked of
human acts, stressing that those students were neither political opponents,
religious extremists nor racists to deserve such criminal assault.

The ISN expressed concern that such immoral killings were taking place at a time
nations were doing so much to provide good learning ambience for their youths in
other to promote intellectualism in every facet with a view to surmounting
difficult challenges of life.

It called on security agencies to constantly review their strategies with a view
to pre-empting attacks from the sects and enjoined all Nigerians to show
interest in issues of security by collaborating with security agencies in
information gathering.

However, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has urged Boko Haram to immediately
cease all attacks and embrace dialogue for national peace and security,
according to a statement in Warri yesterday by its Interim National Publicity
Secretary, Alhaji Lai Mohammed.

The party condemned the college attack on Sunday, describing it as dastardly,
senseless and indefensible. It called on traditional, religious, political and
opinion leaders in the affected areas to urgently intervene to end the cycle of
violence being perpetrated by the sect.

The APC noted: "It is clear that this Boko Haram menace cannot be resolved by
the government alone, hence all stakeholders must urgently intervene to
complement government's efforts to end the insurgency and get those behind it to
embrace dialogue.

"There can be no justification for Boko Haram to continue to kill and maim
innocent citizens, especially because the victims are not just fellow Nigerians
like them, but most of them are actually their kith and kin."

On its part, Cross River State-based 1 GAME Campaign while offering its
condolences to the people of Yobe State over the incidence condemned the act.

In a statement yesterday, its founder, Mr Philip Obaji, said the group condemns
in totality the despicable terrorist attack on innocent students at the College
of Agriculture in Gujba. He added that, "there can be no justification for the
deliberate targeting of students and those catering for them."

In another development, Governor Mukhtar Ramalan Yero has urged the entire
indigenes of Kaura local council of Kaduna State to remain calm following the
attack on some Zangang communities also at the weekend, in which 15 persons were
killed and several others wounded.

In a statement by his Director General, Media and Publicity, Mallam Ahmed
Maiyaki, Yero said security agents have also been directed to intensify
surveillance in the area to maintain law and order and foil any attempt by
miscreants to escalate the situation.

Yero urged the entire people of the state to continue to live peacefully, while
pledging government's assistance to those that sustained injuries.

Source: The Guardian website, Lagos, in English 1 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 1, 2013 Tuesday

Canada condemns terrorist attack on students in Nigeria's Yobe State

LENGTH: 455 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper Daily Trust website on 1 October

[Report by Turaki A. Hassan, Romoke W. Ahmad, Balarabe Alkassim and Ojoma Akor:
"Canada, Ekweremadu, Others Condemn Yobe Killings"]

Canadian minister of foreign affairs John Baird has condemned the attack in the
college of agriculture in Gujba, Yobe State.

In a statement he said "Canada strongly condemns yesterday's [Sunday] terrorist
attack on a college in northeastern Nigeria. The perpetrators of this abhorrent
act targeted innocent students while they were sleeping.

"On behalf of all Canadians, I extend my deepest sympathies to those injured in
the attack and to the families and friends of those who lost their lives. We
sincerely hope that the perpetrators of this despicable act will be brought to
justice," the minister said.

"Canadians stand united with the Nigerian people in deploring terrorism. We will
continue to assist the people and government of Nigeria as they strive to
improve security and uphold the rule of law," the statement read.

Also deputy Senate president Ike Ekweremadu has condemned in strong terms the
massacre of hapless students of College of Agriculture, Gujba, Yobe State
describing it as heartless and barbaric.

Senator Ekweremadu condemned the act in an Independence anniversary message to
Nigerians.

He said: "This calculated attempt to leave a sour taste in the mouths of
Nigerians at this independence anniversary is beastly and cowardly and I call on
the perpetrators of this and related dastardly attacks to repent and embrace all
channels of dialogue to avoid the wrath of God."

The minister of Interior, comrade Abba Moro also condemned in totality, the
gruesome murder of the students Yobe State.

This was contained in a statement made available by his Special Assistant on
media, Mr George Udoh in Abuja. The minister lamented the manner in which people
were being killed daily in the country, especially the Northeast for no just
cause.

Also, chairmen of the 419 Local Government Areas in the Northern part of the
country under the aegis of the Northern Local Government Chairmen's Forum
(NLGCF) have condemned the killings of about 50 students in Yobe State.

In a statement signed by the chairman of the forum, Mohammed Ali, said the
murder of the students is not only despicable but irrational as no reason
justifies making students and institutions of learning objects of attacks.

The statement said: "With this recent development, coupled with other similar
killings in some northern states, these acts are not only crimes against the
Nigerian people and institutions of governance, but an atrocious disregard to
the commandment and instructions of God."

Source: Daily Trust website, Abuja, in English 0400 gmt 1 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Hydrocarbon Processing

                                  October 2013

Statoil issues report on In Amenas terrorist attack

BYLINE: Thinnes, Billy

LENGTH: 460  words


Statoil's board has concluded an investigation into the terrorist attack at the
BP gas plant in In Amenas, Algeria. The investigation team visited the In Amenas
plant on April 16 and issued its final report in September. The January attack
on the facility killed 40 people and placed another 800 in serious danger.

"The terror attack against In Amenas was unprecedented," said investigation
leader Torgeir Hagen. "It clearly demonstrates that companies like Statoil today
face serious security threats." The attack

Outer and inner security measures failed to protect the people at the site from
the January 16 attack. The Algerian military was not able to detect or prevent
the terrorists from reaching the plant. Security measures at the site were not
constructed to withstand or delay an attack of this scale, and relied on
military protection working effectively. Neither Statoil nor the joint venture
could have prevented the attack, but there is reason to question the extent of
reliance on Algerian military protection. Statoil security

The company has established a security risk management system, but its overall
capabilities and culture must be strengthened to respond to the security risks
associated with operations in volatile and complex environments.

The report gives 19 recommendations within the areas of security at In Amenas
and other facilities in Algeria. Other key areas parsed: organization and
capabilities, security risk management systems, emergency preparedness and
response and cooperation with outside networks.

The company will now work to integrate the recommendations into a new security
improvement program. The program contains actions to ensure that Statoil adapts
to an ever-changing threat scenario: Strengthen management, skills and capacity
within risk analysis, security evaluation and security work Improve management
systems and work processes within safety and security Closer integration of work
related to physical, personnel and IT security More training and increased
standardization within emergency preparedness Strengthened cooperation with
public authorities (in Norway and abroad) and in the industry's own
intelligence, safety and security analysis networks and organizations.

The investigation team conducted 136 interviews and a series of meetings with
relevant external and internal players. It visited Algeria and met
representatives of government authorities in Algeria, Canada, Japan, Norway, the
UK and the US. The team also held regular meetings with Statoil employees
working in In Amenas.

Statoil has not had employees stationed at In Amenas since the attack. Possible
return of personnel to the plant will be subject to evaluation and further
implementation of a number of identified security measures. HP

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: HP


              Copyright 2013 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 1, 2013 Tuesday 6:38 PM GMT

Pakistan's Piccadilly is No 1 Taliban target: The regularity of terror attacks
in Peshawar's bazaar leads to citizens questioning their seemingly rudderless
leadership;
The once-great trading centre is now under siege - with 140 killed in bombings
in recent weeks

BYLINE: Omar Waraich

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1026 words


The Qissa Khawani bazaar in Peshawar's old city is known as the "marketplace of
storytellers". Local legend has it that invading armies, merchants passing
through and other visitors spilling through the Hindu Kush gathered here, in the
street between two rows of tightly packed, towering shops, to sip tea and trade
tales.

When Sir Herbert Thompson arrived in the city as a magistrate in the 1920s, he
was struck by the bustle. "From its waist the city swelled out into its second
half which was served by the main gate," he wrote, "the Kabul gate, at the end
of the great shopping centre, the Qissa Khawani bazaar with its rows of
matchbox-sized shops."

Around that time, some of the bazaar's most famous local residents left the city
in search of fame in Bombay. They were storytellers of a different kind. In the
Dahkki Nalbandi neighbourhood lived Prithviraj Kapoor, the famed Bollywood
actor, whose children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren are some of India's
biggest film stars. Shahrukh Khan's father lived nearby, as did the actor Dilip
Kumar.

Now, the bazaar that was once known as "the Piccadilly of Central Asia" lies
deserted. The shopkeepers, who eventually replaced the storytellers, colonial
officers and film stars, are left to survey the ruin. Outside a vast electronics
store, there is a crater four feet deep. It was created when a car exploded,
carrying nearly 250kg of explosives, phosphorus and artillery shells. The nearby
mosque is badly damaged, as is the post office across the street.

Naveed Qureshi was sitting in his shoe store across the street when it began to
shake fiercely. He went out on to the street to find roaring flames. "And there
were piles of bodies, and body parts, everywhere." At least a dozen shops were
destroyed. An entire family of 18 people, shopping for a looming family wedding,
was killed.

The deaths of over 43 people in Peshawar last Sunday came just days after two
other major bombings in this storied frontier city. Two days before, a bus
carrying government employees to the city was bombed, killing 17 people. And on
the previous Sunday, Pakistan's tiny and beleaguered Christian community
suffered its worst-ever attack, with over 80 people killed by two suicide
bombers.

Faced with this unrelenting assault, the citizens of Peshawar have begun asking
questions of their seemingly rudderless leadership. The government of Prime
Minister Nawaz Sharif, and the provincial government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
province (of which Peshawar is the capital), have insisted they want to
negotiate with the militants. But as local residents point out, the militants
don't seem interested in talking.

The bazaar is a mere stone's throw away from the 19th-century All Saints Church.
When the bomb went off, the parishioners solemnly sitting in their pews became
terrified once again. They thought it was a repeat attack, and let out screams
of panic until they realised this time it wasn't them.

Inside, the clock still says the time is 11:43. It stopped working when the
blast happened. In the church's courtyard, one bomber struck by the steps
leading out of the Sunday school, where young children were gathered. Another
struck the congregation coming out of the church.

The parishioners of this elegant, domed, Mughal-designed church fear the worst
isn't over. "We're very worried that there will be more attacks," says Jamil
Naz, a member of the local Christian community. "Imran Khan is talking about
letting the Taliban open an office for negotiations. That will be the worst
thing."

If the Taliban are allowed to open an office, adds Mr Naz, "they'll be given
more space to operate. Then there'll be more attacks." The city of Peshawar
voted overwhelmingly for Mr Khan in the May general elections. They said they
wanted change, and were war-weary. This is not the first time Peshawar has been
under siege, with militants menacing the city in 2008 and 2009.

But the mood has changed. The shopkeepers of the Qissa Khawani bazaar say that
the police came to warn them about an impending attack last Friday. "They said
that a car was wandering around," says Zafar Yab, the owner of a shoe store. The
police didn't offer any protection, Mr Yab recalls, incredulously. They wanted
the shopkeepers to protect themselves.

The bazaar has seen much violence before. In 1930, British troops opened fire on
a group of non-violent Pashtuns involved in the freedom struggle. The death toll
was as high as 400, according to some estimates. Later, the leader of the
movement, Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, would remark that an unarmed Pashtun was more
threatening to colonialists than an armed one.

In recent years, there have been at least four other bombs set off in Qissa
Khawani bazaar. And within the old city that surrounds it, there have been at
least a dozen. Sometimes the only mercy for the victims is that there is a
well-equipped hospital nearby, the Lady Reading Hospital, named for the
Marchioness of Reading in the 1920s.

When an explosion happens, ambulances roar through the narrow streets. But once
they reach the Lady Reading Hospital, an elegant compound with manicured lawns,
they aren't guaranteed emergency attention.

As Dr Shiraz Afridi, the director of emergencies, explains, there simply aren't
enough resources to cope with the increasingly frequent bombings.

The "walking wounded," he says, have to wait. "The people who are near death, or
will die soon, and won't survive, are also separated." The attention is given to
the broad chunk in between: the people who are too wounded to walk and still
have a chance at living. It's one of the busiest casualty wards in the world:
they see over 2,000 patients a day. And like the shopkeepers, they speak of
dealing with one crisis before bracing for the next.

For the residents of Peshawar, the country's politicians are failing to grasp
the gravity of the threat. "Nawaz Sharif says the Taliban haven't claimed
responsibility," says Sheikh Yusuf, another shopkeeper with a thick beard and
eyes that fitfully bulge with rage. "Fine. But someone else did. And let's say
you want to negotiate with one group, but another keeps bombing you. What do you
do then?"

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 1, 2013 Tuesday 7:26 AM GMT

Iraq: Wave of car bombs across Baghdad kills at least 51;
Day of terror in Iraqi capital as attacks on Shi'ite Muslim areas continue to
escalate

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 267 words


A wave of car bombs exploded across Baghdad this morning, killing at least 51
people and wounding more than 100, officials said.

The attacks were all on busy areas, markets and car parks, and predominantly in
Shi'ite neighbourhoods.

The deadliest single blast took place in Sadr City, an eastern suburb of the
city, where a car blew up at a small vegetable market. Exploding next to a group
of workers, it killed at least seven people, including two soldiers, and injured
around 16, a police officer said.

That was followed by another four parked car bombs, which went off in quick
sequence in the districts of New Baghdad, Habibiya, Sabaa al-Bour and Kazimiyah.

While it was not immediately clear who carried out the attacks, given their
victims it is likely to have involved hard-line Sunni militants.

They often target crowded places such as markets, cafes and mosques, seeking to
inflict huge numbers of casualties, and have recently stepped up their
insurgency in strikes on Shi'ites, who they regard as non-believers.

The impact of the ongoing civil war in neighbouring Syria has been felt over the
border in Iraq, bringing renewed focus and aggression to the deep-rooted
sectarian divisions straining the fragile coalition of Shi'ite, Kurdish and
Sunni factions.

On Sunday, a suicide bomber killed at least 40 people when he blew himself up
inside a mosque where a Shi'ite funeral was being held, in the town of Mussayab,
40 miles south of Baghdad.

The UN mission in Iraq said about 800 Iraqis were killed in acts of violence in
August, while more than 4,500 people have reportedly been killed since April.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            October 1, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;

Woman's dog attack terror

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 23 words


CHORLTON A woman was bitten on the nose by an out-ofcontrol bullmastiff as she
tried to protect her dog in an attack in the street.

Page 22

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 1, 2013 Tuesday 3:34 PM GMT

New footage shows extent of destruction inside Kenya's Westgate Mall;
A Chinese camera crew has filmed the devastation and destruction inside Kenya's
Westgate shopping mall following the recent terror attack.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 119 words


new footage has been released showing the damage inside Kenya's Westgate
shopping mall following the terror attack on September 21.

The centre, which contained more than 80 upscale shops across 33,000 square
metres, was regarded as the most luxurious in East Africa.

The video shows how the mall has now been almost totally destroyed with the
first floor waterlogged as well as walls blackened by smoke and riddled with
bullet holes.

Allegations of mass looting by the security forces were adding to growing
concerns about how the Kenyan authorities handled the worst terror attack on the
country in 15 years.

Terrorists killed at least 67 people in a seige that lasted four days and left
39 people unaccounted for.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 2, 2013 Wednesday

Yemeni court jails five for up to 10 years over terror attack

LENGTH: 218 words


Text of report by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sanaa, 2 October 2013: The Court of First Instance on Wednesday [2 October]
passed sentences to 2-10 years in jail to five Al-Qa'idah militants for plotting
a suicide bombing that killed 86 soldiers and wounded 171 others in Al-Sab'in
square last year.

Headed by Judge Hilal Mahfel, the court sentenced two defendants to 10 years in
prison, a third to seven years. Two more were imprisoned for three and two years
respectively. All the jail sentences begin from the date of arrest.

The judge also ordered the release of three other defendants based on the time
already served, and acquitted three more.

The 11 were accused of their alleged role in planning the suicide attack on a
rehearsal for a military parade on 21 May 2012.

The court proved the responsibility of the special forces and special security
troops for protecting the rehearsal's forces and their negligence that
facilitate the suicide attack.

Therefore, the judge also ordered to question Gen Abd-al-Malik al-Tayib,
Brig-Gen Yahya Muhammad Abdallah Salih and Col Abd-Rabbuh Meyad about the case,
accusing them of contributing to carry out the attack and neglecting to do the
duty of protecting the rehearsal's forces.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in Arabic 1735 gmt 2 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 2, 2013 Wednesday

Nigeria improves security around schools in wake of terror attack

LENGTH: 258 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper Vanguard website on 2 October

[Unattributed report: "Terrorists Attack: Govt Steps Up Security Around
Schools"]

After terrorists killed 40 students in a dormitory attack in Yobe Sate, Nigerian
authorities are taking measures to improve security around schools, including
stepping up patrols and putting armed soldiers outside them and guarding school
buses.

Government sources said, Monday, that the move aimed to restore confidence in
the Western style schools that have seen scenes of bloody massacres by Boko
Haram militants fighting for an Islamic state.

A presidency source said President Goodluck Jonathan met senior security aides,
Sunday, to discuss how to respond to the latest deadly shift in tactics by the
insurgents.

The source, who was present but who declined to be named, said: "At the meeting,
they decided to provide special security cover for schools in the North-East and
some other places prone to possible attacks.

"The president is not happy. He directed security chiefs to work out a new
strategy so this doesn't happen again."

Gunmen had stormed an agricultural college in Gujba area of the state, Sunday,
dragging students out of their beds and shooting them dead.

"For now, the state government has directed all round security surveillance on
all schools across the state," Mohammed Lamin, Yobe Commissioner for Lower
Education, said.

He added that "the security agencies need to step up their operations to protect
lives and property."

Source: Vanguard website, Lagos, in English 1139 gmt 2 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 2, 2013 Wednesday

Kenyan president orders inquiry into mall terror attack

LENGTH: 530 words


Text of report by Dave Opiyo entitled "President Kenyatta orders inquiry into
mall terror attack" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation
website on 2 October

President Kenyatta on Tuesday [1 October] ordered the establishment of a
commission of inquiry to investigate the Westgate Mall terror attack.

At the same time, eight body bags were delivered to the City Mortuary from the
ruined mall. The number of those missing has also been revised to 28, although
no official announcement has been made.

The commission, the president said, would seek to address the security lapses
that could have led to the terror attack even as he maintained that Kenya
Defence Forces [KDF] would not pull out of Somalia.

The president, who was speaking at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre
during an inter-religious council prayer service for the victims of the attack,
did not indicate when the commission would be set up and its membership.

It will likely seek to establish whether National Intelligence Service reports
had warned that Al-Qa'idah-linked Al-Shabab terror group planned to attack Kenya
and if adequate measures were put in place to prevent it.

Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph ole Lenku has declined to respond to the
allegations, saying intelligence matters could not be discussed in public.

Other claims include that elite squads of the GSU [General Service Unit] and the
military which responded to the attack did not have a common assault plan
resulting to fatalities from friendly fire.

The collapse of a section of the mall and reports of looting have also placed
the military on the spot.

A tough-talking President Kenyatta said terror attacks would not deter the
country's efforts to stabilize Somalia, adding that KDF was in the war-torn
country for the long haul.

Al-Shabab has demanded that Kenya withdraws its forces of face more terror
attacks. "I want to be categorically clear; we will stay there (in Somalia)
until they bring order to their nation. We will not be intimidated. We will not
be cowed. If their desire is for Kenya to pull out of Somalia, all they need to
do is what they should have done 20 years ago which is put their house in order
and we shall come back," said the president amidst applause.

As he spoke, forensic teams recovered more bodies. It is not clear whether the
eight bags taken to the mortuary contained different victims.

Earlier reports said three bodies were taken out of the rubble. One was thought
to be that of a KDF soldier because of the remains of his uniform and a G-3
rifle similar to those issued to soldiers deployed at the mall. It was taken
away at around 1 p.m. [1000 gmt] in a military ambulance.

Meanwhile, the UK high commission spokesman John Bradshaw on Tuesday discounted
reports that foreign experts had been barred from collecting crucial evidence.
"None of this is correct. The relationship between the UK Metropolitan Police
and the Kenyan CID [Criminal Investigation Department] is excellent," Mr
Bradshaw said.

An official at the American embassy also discounted claims that US experts had
been barred from accessing crucial information.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 2 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 2, 2013 Wednesday 7:04 PM GMT

Loughborough teenager 'planned repeat of Columbine massacre by carrying out
terror attack on his former school';
Boy was found to have petrol bombs, air rifles, pistols and armour at his home

BYLINE: Paul Peachey

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 272 words


A teenage neo-Nazi planned a gun and bomb massacre at his former school in a
copycat attack that he dubbed the "new Columbine," a court has heard.

The youth, who was 16 at the time,  had stockpiled petrol bombs, weapons and
armour at his home and allegedly planned to use them against staff and pupils at
his former school in the Leicestershire town of Loughborough, an Old Bailey jury
was told.

The boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons and denies terrorism offences,
kept a Che Guevara notebook, emblazoned with Nazi swastikas, with details of
other potential targets including a local mosque, a cinema, Loughborough
University and council offices, it was claimed. It included drawings showing how
he would arm himself and discussed tactics to carry out "the new Columbine," the
court was told.

Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold murdered 12 students and one teacher at Columbine
High School in Colorado in 1999 before both committing suicide in one of
America's worst mass shootings.

The boy, now 17, claimed to be a member of an EDL group and wrote in a letter
found at his home that there were "too many Muslims in the UK and Europe" who
wanted to "take over Europe and put Sharia law in place", said Max Hill QC, for
the prosecution.

Mr Hill said that the jury would have to decide if the teenager, who has
Asperger syndrome, was a misfit or whether he represented something more
serious. "Is it harmless? Or is it something more sinister?" he said.

He and two other 17-year-olds have already admitted possessing petrol and pipe
bombs. Mr Hill said the "sheer weight" of weapons the defendant is accused of
possessing set him apart.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 2, 2013 Wednesday 3:26 PM GMT

Loughborough teenager 'planned repeat of Columbine massacre by carrying out
terror attack on his former school';
Boy was found to have petrol bombs, air rifles, pistols and armour at his home

BYLINE: David Mercer

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 511 words


A teenager armed with guns and explosives planned a repeat of the Columbine
massacre by carrying out a terror attack on his former school, a court has
heard.

The boy, who was 16 at the time, was found to have petrol bombs, air rifles,
pistols and armour at his home which he planned to use against staff and pupils
at the school in Loughborough, Leicestershire, it is alleged.

The teenager, who has Asperger's syndrome, also named his college, a local
mosque, a cinema, Loughborough University and the town's council offices as
potential targets, the Old Bailey heard.

A Che Guevara notebook emblazoned with Nazi swastikas and English Defence League
(EDL) mottos was found when his home was searched by police in February, the
jury was told.

It included drawings showing how he would arm himself and discussed tactics to
carry out The New Columbine, the court heard.

Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold murdered 12 students and one teacher at Columbine
High School in Colorado in 1999 before both committing suicide in one of
America's worst mass shootings.

Mujahideen Poisons Handbook was also found in the defendant's home along with
video and dictaphone recordings in which he discussed an attack, the prosecution
claimed.

Prosecutor Max Hill QC said the jury must consider whether the boy was a
"misfit" or "something altogether more sinister and serious".

"Is that child's play? Is it harmless? Or is it something more sinister?" he
said.

Mr Hill said the boy, now 17, claimed to be a member of an EDL branch and had a
Nazi swastika on his bedroom wall along with a poster of the Joker from the
Batman film, the Dark Knight.

He wrote in a letter found at his home that there were "too many Muslims in the
UK and Europe" who wanted to "take over Europe and put Sharia law in place", the
prosecutor said.

The defendant, who can not be named for legal reasons, denies a charge of
possessing items for the purpose, preparation and instigation of an act of
terrorism.

They include nine partially assembled petrol bombs, a quantity of commercial
firework powder, a quantity of part-assembled pipe bombs, partially constructed
improvised explosive devices (IEDs), quantities of commercial pyrotechnic fuse
cords, a stab proof vest, a gas mask, three 0.22 air rifles, one Olympic 0.22
blank-firing pistol and a quantity of ammunition, one 0.22 air pistol, three BB
guns, a black military belt containing air gun pellets and a silver cartridge,
and one note book containing information about the planning and construction of
explosive devices, it is alleged.

The boy also denies one count of possessing a document or record containing
information likely to be useful for a person committing or preparing an act of
terrorism, and a further count of possessing explosives in the form of component
parts of IEDs.

The boy, dressed in a black t-shirt and wearing glasses, sat in the dock with an
intermediary court officer.

He and two other 17-year-old boys have already pleaded guilty to two charges of
possessing petrol bombs and component parts of pipe bombs for the use of
explosive devices.

PA

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           October 2, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

OSAMA CHIP 'N PIN LADEN;
Sun CITY Terrorists 'planning cyber-attacks on Brit banks'

BYLINE: SIMON ENGLISH

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 261 words


BRITAIN'S banks are at serious risk of attack by cyber-terrorists who have vowed
to cripple them.

The Bank of England fears the threat of cyber attacks has "many dimensions" and
is growing.

By causing bank computer crashes, terrorists could block cash machines, causing
panic and even looting, warn experts.

The UK's banking sector is particularly at risk due to old and complex systems,
as well as the way banks are interconnected.

That means a clever hacker who disabled the right bank could bring down the
entire system, potentially throwing the economy into chaos.

Experts have been warning for months that terror groups such as Osama bin
Laden's al-Qaeda are targeting Western economies with cyber attacks as well as
bombs. In July the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters warned that bank closures
were imminent.

The group has had success, particularly in the US, in the past.

The fears were raised at a meeting of the Bank's Financial Policy Committee, led
by governor Mark Carney.

The details come days after the Ministry of Defence launched a new Joint Cyber
Reserve Unit to help defend national security against hundreds of thousands of
attacks on Government websites each year.

KPMG says more than a billion bank accounts have been hacked in the past five
years.

Malcolm Marshall, KPMG's head of cyber security, said: "Hacking has become
automated on an industrial scale - often with state-sponsored agencies behind
it.

"Criminals are moving from the High Street to cyberspace because banks' physical
defences are improving and the chances of getting caught are high."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fears . . Mark Carney

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 3, 2013 Thursday

Ugandan minister condemns Kenya's Westgate terror attack

LENGTH: 361 words


Text of report by Tom Gwebayanga entitled "Terrorism is not Islamic, says
minister" published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New
Vision website on 3 October

Kamuli: The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Haji Asuman Kiyingi has distanced
Ugandan Muslims from the atrocities being committed by the Al-Shabab.

According to him, such acts are not Muslim-oriented and should not be labelled
as holy wars to promote Islam.

Kiyingi quoted the Koran saying when Prophet Muhammed executed his jihad (holy
wars), he never attacked innocent, unarmed people but was successful in
spreading Islam.

"I condemn the acts in Nairobi, where the Al-Shabab mercilessly massacred
unarmed, innocent citizens in the guise of promoting Islam," Kiyingi said on
Monday [30 September].

He was at Masjid Irka-Butabaala Mosque in Kitayunjwa sub-county in Kamuli
[eastern Uganda] where he commissioning the new mosque that was constructed by
the Kamuli Good Hope Education Foundation and Social Development, an Arab-funded
NGO.

"The "lumiramwoyos" (terrorists) are not God sent. You cannot claim lives and
say you're promoting Allah's mission and I call upon Imams to be keen with
strangers," Kiyingi, the MP for Bugabula South in Kamuli District said.

Kiyingi said the Koran terms such acts as "barbaric" and urged Muslims to use
peaceful approaches to lure converts adding: "Al-Shabab militants attacked
Westgate Mall in Nairobi and killed over 70 people but had earlier hired a room
in the mall before the attack so checking strangers is paramount."

Kamuli District Kadhi, Sheikh Ismail Musa Swabiri Kazibwe hailed Good Hope
Foundation for addressing the challenge of shelter at places of worship.

Last week, Al-Shabab militants attacked Westgate mall in Nairobi and killed over
70 people.

"Good Hope has built over 120 mosques in Kamuli, a tantamount peaceful approach
and I am really humbled," Kazibwe said.

Sheikh Hussein Mwase, the Director of Kamuli Good Hope, urged Muslims to exploit
the NGO's and government opportunities to cope with modernity in terms of
education to shrug off the hype that Muslims are the least educated.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 3 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 3, 2013 Thursday

Syrian minister says 720 businesses damaged in "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 154 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus, (SANA) - Minister of Industry Kamal al-din Tuma said that 720 private
sector establishments have been damaged due to terrorist attacks, including 331
in the textile sector, 83 in food industry, 158 in enginering industry, 140 in
chemical industry and 8 in medical industry.

During a People's Assembly session held on Thursday [3 October], the minister
put the overall value of losses at SYP 100 billion in the industrial public
sector and SYP 230 billion in the private sector.

Most of the industrial sector establishments in Aleppo have been damaged and are
now dysfunctional, the minister pointed out.

He added that the ministry has prepared plans to rehabilitate and repair a
number of public sector establishments as well as long-term strategies for the
post-crisis stage.

M. Ismael

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 3 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            October 3, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack;
National briefs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 59 words


A TEEN armed with guns and explosives planned a Columbine-style massacre on his
former school, a court has heard. The boy, who was 16 at the time, was found to
have petrol bombs, air rifles, pistols and armour at his home which he planned
to use against staff and pupils at the school in Loughborough, Leicestershire.
He denies plotting an act of terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            October 3, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack;
National briefs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 59 words


A TEEN armed with guns and explosives planned a Columbine-style massacre on his
former school, a court has heard. The boy, who was 16 at the time, was found to
have petrol bombs, air rifles, pistols and armour at his home which he planned
to use against staff and pupils at the school in Loughborough, Leicestershire.
He denies plotting an act of terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 4, 2013 Friday

Kenyan hoteliers slam US travel advisory following Westgate terror attack

LENGTH: 254 words


Text of report by Charles Mighenyi entitled "Hoteliers slam US advisory" by
privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 4 October

Tourism stakeholders in Coast [Province] have criticised the American government
over its travel advisory to its citizens following the Westgate mall attack.

The Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers and the Mombasa and Coast
Tourist Association executive officers Sam Ikwaye and Millicent Odhiambo said
the advisory is unwarranted.

Ikwaye said the US has fallen victim of terror attacks several times and issuing
such warnings will give the terrorists mileage in achieving their goals.

"They have simply blown the situation out of proportion while we know it was a
terrorism incident which might befall any country," he said.

Ikwaye said such advisories will negatively impact on the economy, which depends
largely on tourism.

He said the US is being unfair to Kenya by issuing warning statements to its
citizens.

"Countries like Egypt and Nigeria have experienced a lot of insecurity but
Western countries have not issued any advisories against them," Ikwaye said.

Odhiambo said the advisory will hurt the country's economy. She said Kenya's
tourism sector is still struggling to reclaim its lost glory and such warnings
will affect it.

She said the advisories will not affect visitors who had already booked
reservations to Kenya.

Tourism Cabinet Secretary Phyllis Kandie has urged Western nations to review
travel advisories against Kenya.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 4 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             October 4, 2013 Friday

Army Leader Warns Of Terror Attacks On Suez Canal

LENGTH: 90 words


News: Harb Ousama Askar, the leader of Egypt's Army Field III, has warned that
terror groups were planning to launch further attacks on the Suez Canal, reports
Gulf Ship News. However, Askar assured that the Suez Canal Authority, the armed
forces and the security of Ismailia and Suez have collaborated to secure the
area, particularly the canal's waterway. He added that the curfew in Suez has
been a success. Askar said that the army was working towards restoring stability
in Sinai in order to allow tourists to once again visit the area.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2013 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                             October 4, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack teen kept articles on Moat

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 155 words


A TEENAGER accused of planning a repeat of the Columbine shootings had a stash
of newspaper cuttings on Tyneside killer Raoul Moat in his bedroom, a court has
heard. The 17-year-old boy, who can not be named for legal reasons, is on trial
accused of planning a terror attack on his former school in Loughborough, east
Midlands.

He is also accused of naming a local mosque, cinema and council offices as other
potential targets.

Clippings on gunman Raoul Moat and Norwegian gunman Anders Behring Breivik as
well as weapons including a machete and petrol bombs were found by officers in
his room, the Old Bailey heard.

The teenager and two other 17-year-old boys have already pleaded guilty to two
charges of possessing petrol bombs and component parts of pipe bombs for the use
of explosive devices.

The defendant denies a charge of possessing items for the purpose, preparation
and instigation of an act of terrorism.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rothbury under seige in the hunt for Raoul Moat

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2013 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                             October 4, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PISTOL-WHIP RAID TERROR;
ROBBERY: SHOP MAN ATTACKED DESPITE OFFERINGNO RESISTANCE ; A shop assistant has
told how armed robbers pistol-whipped him before grabbing cash from his till.
Witness plea after ; attack on shop man

BYLINE: CIARAN FAGAN

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,3

LENGTH: 344 words


Prashant Patel was taken to hospital for stitches to wounds on his head after
his ordeal at the hands of the two robbers. The two men walked into the Patels'
fam -ily shop, Harrison News, in Aylestone.

The men closed the door behind them and ordered Mr Patel,whowasalone in the
Milligan Road shop, to open the till.

He said: "I co-operated with them. I did not put up any resistance, but they
still hit me over the head before they took money from the till and some packets
of cigarettes.

"I'm not sure why they did that to me.

"I have been treated in hospital and I am fine now."

Mr Patel's family has owned the shop - which was described by one customer as a
"hub of the community" - for 20 years. They said they had never been targeted
before. His father, Hitesh, 57, said: "My son was on his own when two men came
in because my wife and I were out. "They closed the door and told him to open
the till.

"They were carrying a gun - we don't know if it was real or not - and they used
it to hithim on the head. "The men ran away with some cash from the till and
some cigarettes. It's been very shocking but at least our son is going to be
okay." A customer said: "It's what the world is coming to. The people who run
that shop are there from 6am until late seven days a week to provide a service
to this community. "It's diabolical that someone could walk in there and do this
to people who run something which really is a hub of the community." A police
spokeswoman confirmed an investigation into the raid, at 4pm on Wednesday, was
under way and urged witnesses to come forward.

She said: "Two men entered the building and threatened the cashier withwhat has
been described as a handgun. "They made off towards Duncan Road with a quantity
of cash and cigarettes." One of the men is black, in his late teens or early
20s, of stocky build and about 5ft 6in. He had his face covered. The second man
is thought to be of mixed race and is a similar age to the first man. He is slim
and about 5ft 9in. Both wore dark clothing. ¦ Contact Detective Constable Conroy
Crowe on 101.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCK: Mr and Mrs Patel outside the shop where their son was attacked
PICTURE: CHRIS GORDON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2013 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       October 4, 2013 Friday 1:39 PM GMT

Skype ban plan prompts anger in Pakistan;
Freedom of speech campaigners have reacted furiously to plans to ban instant
messaging and internet telephone services in Pakistan's biggest city, as
officials say it is the only way to curb terrorist attacks.

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly Islamabad

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 336 words


The row provoked an extraordinary intervention from Benazir Bhutto's son, who
dismissed critics as "burgers" - using a derogatory expression for affluent
youngsters with little grasp of the hardships faced by ordinary Pakistanis.

The proposals would see users blocked from using Skype and Viber, and the
provincial government of Sindh, which includes Karachi and its 20m population,
says the move may be extended to WhatsApp and Tango.

Youtube has already been banned across the country for more than a year in
protest at blasphemous content. Cell phone services are frequently disabled
during religious festivals to prevent terrorists using mobile networks to
detonate bombs.

This week, the government of Sindh announced plans to block messaging services
for three months.

Sana Saleem, co-founder of Bolo Bhi, an internet campaign group, said the ban
was the wrong way to tackle terrorism.

"It doesn't work," she said. "The government is saying its intelligence agencies
are not working, we can't protect you, so we are going to block everything.

"It represents a collapse of government."

She added that such a move may not be technically possible and so far
Islamabad's Interior Ministry, which would have to give final approval, has
played down prospects of a ban.

Even so, many Pakistanis took to social media to vent their anger at proposals
they said would prevent them communicating with friends and relatives.

Their complaints brought a dismissive outburst from Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, the
son of Benazir Bhutto and whose party controls the Sindh provincial assembly.

He tweeted: "Dear Burgers, Sorry abt Skype/Viber/Whtsapp. Excuse us while we
catch some terrorists and save some lives. SMS for 3months. Sincerely BBZ."

He said the government lacked the technology to monitor Skype messages and a ban
was the only way to protect the population.

Even by its own standards of misery, Pakistan has been hit hard by a wave of
attacks this year. Karachi has been particularly badly hit, with sectarian and
political killings.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 5, 2013 Saturday

"Terrorist attack" on Egyptian army facility in North Sinai - state TV

LENGTH: 69 words


At 1616 gmt on 5 October, state-owned Nile News TV carried two "urgent" screen
captions, reading: "Nile News correspondent says: 'Terrorist attack on an army
rest house beside Al-Arish's second police station.'"

The other "urgent" caption read: "Nile News correspondent says: 'Three military
campaigns are launched to clamp down on terrorists in North Sinai.'"

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 1616gmt 05 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Clacton and Frinton Gazette

                            October 5, 2013 Saturday

Knife crime victim speaks of terror after attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 120 words


A VICTIM has spoken of his terror after being held up by thugs at knife point.

David Brooks, 40, was attacked outside the Salvation Army shop in Old Road,
Clacton, while out walking a month ago.

The gang approached him and demanded cash.

When Mr Brooks refused to hand any over, they pulled out a knife and scraped it
down the left side of his face.

He said: "I wouldn't give them any money so they gave me a smack in the mouth,
then one of them got the knife out.

"I was petrified, just scared out of my wits. I was thinking here we go again. I
really feared for my life.

"The fact that we are still getting attacks like this in Clacton is
unbelievable. Something has got to be done because it seems like it's getting
worse."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            October 5, 2013 Saturday

Kenya: Slaughter at the Westgate mall: Two weeks ago al-Shabaab militants
brought mayhem to an upmarket shopping centre in Nairobi, murdering unarmed men,
women and children as the victims tried to hide or flee. At least 67 people
died. Now, a detailed investigation by Daniel Howden based on interviews with
survivors, relatives and Kenyan security force members reveals how incompetence
and infighting among the authorities left the attackers free to go on spreading
terror

BYLINE: Daniel Howden in Nairobi

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1597 words


Saturday 21 September

At 12.30pm Frank Musungu, a sergeant major in the Kenyan navy, was sitting on
the balcony of the Artcaffe in Westgate mall, Nairobi. He was talking to a
friend in the diplomatic police when they were interrupted by rapid bursts of
automatic fire only a few metres away.

Musungu saw four men striding towards the nearby pedestrian entrance, firing at
the cars around them. Before he could stand up the first grenade detonated. At
the vehicle entrance a second group of attackers had driven through the
barriers, scattering security guards. They jumped out of the vehicle, firing and
throwing grenades at passersby.

As Musungu and the policeman took cover, a woman dressed in black jeans and a
T-shirt next to them was shot through the back. She was one of the first victims
of a co-ordinated slaughter that had been planned for months; a small band of
jihadi fighters killed at least 67 people in an 80-hour siege.

Based on detailed interviews with survivors, their relatives and members of the
security forces, it is now possible to build an account of what happened at
Westgate.

The picture that emerges is of a woefully disorganised response from
authorities, where infighting and a clash of egos left a handful of Kenyan
officers, an off-duty British soldier and an Israeli security agent, backed by a
neighbourhood watch, to fight heavily armed militants in a bid to rescue
hundreds of shoppers. A friendly-fire killing led to the withdrawal of security
services, allowing attackers to regroup, rearm from a weapons cache inside the
mall, and hunt down desperate shoppers.

12.35pm Five minutes after the assault began, radio DJ Sadia Ahmed was getting
ready to judge a children's cooking competition in the rooftop car park. She
heard three blasts and saw people running from the food court - straight into
the firing line of two militants entering the parking area. As Ahmed ran for
cover, fellow judge Ruhila Adatia-Sood was shot dead. She was six months
pregnant.

Karani Nyamu, who was shopping with his daughters, saw two men throwing grenades
"like maize to chickens" and shooting indiscriminately. After 20 minutes, there
were bodies everywhere.

12.50pm Joshua Hakim, an accounts clerk, had stopped to buy some beer from the
Nakumatt supermarket. He was on the first floor when he heard shots below. As he
took cover under a table, two armed men emerged. After firing several rounds
they called out in English: "Muslims, get out of here!"

Hakim showed one his voter card, holding a thumb over his first name, and was
told to leave. An older man approached and was asked to name the mother of the
prophet. When he hesitated, he was shot. Hakim dived to the floor again and lay
there watching a woman remove her niqab. She tore it in strips and, in one of
many small acts of bravery, handed it to other women to wear as headscarves.

1.10pm Officers from Nairobi police's flying squad arrived, but initially
refused to enter. Meanwhile, armed volunteers from a nearby neighbourhood watch
scheme came to see if they could help. Together with at least two uniformed
police officers, Musungu and his colleague, they numbered roughly 30. They split
into two groups. One took the ground floor, the other climbed up to the roof car
park. Other armed "samaritans" included Somali-Kenyan Abdul Hajji, whose brother
was trapped inside.

1.15pm The ground-floor team said they saw at least two gunmen who were "walking
not running", picking their targets. Terrified shoppers ran into the cavernous
supermarket, pursued by attackers who exchanged fire with Musungu's irregular
band. His policeman friend was shot in the thigh. Reuters photographer Goran
Tomasevic, who had entered the mall after the attacks began, assisted some of
the injured to safety.

In one case a gunman showed mercy to a family after the mother was shot, perhaps
shocked by the audacity of the wounded woman's son, four-year-old Briton Elliott
Prior, who called him "a very bad man". In other cases, such as at the Urban
Gourmet Burger restaurant, where Australian-Briton Ross Langdon and his Dutch
partner, Elif Yavuz, died, people were slaughtered en masse.

On the roof a British man with close-cropped hair and SAS background ushered
survivors to a fire escape that led outside. At the same time, a shaven-headed
man who two witnesses said was Israeli had reached Hakim. He asked if Hakim knew
how to use a weapon and offered him a handgun. "I'd never fired a gun, so I had
to say no," Hakim said.

2.30pm Witnesses in the car park saw at least two men, thought to have been
attackers, changing their clothes. Intelligence officials believe they were able
to escape in the confusion.

4pm Kenya's equivalent of a Swat team, the police "recce" reconnaissance unit,
arrived. Trained for hostage and siege situations, they were able to pin down
the attackers inside Nakumatt. The first army units also arrived.

Behind the scenes a power struggle was emerging between the police chief, David
Kimaiyo, and the army head, Julius Karangi, about whose forces would take the
lead. First to move in was the recce group, followed shortly afterwards by
Kenyan army soldiers.

5.30pm Despite having substantial numbers on site, the authorities had not yet
established a clear command and control structure. With no radio communications,
soldiers opened fire on what they thought were gunmen but were in fact members
of the recce group. A commander was killed and three police officers and a
soldier were hurt in the exchange. After this all units were pulled out and for
the next two hours the operation came to a standstill as heated arguments raged
all the way to the president, Uhuru Kenyatta.

"There was a lot of politics going on," said one soldier. As night fell and no
night-vision equipment was available, it was decided that the police chief,
Kimaiyo, would run the operation.

Sunday 22 September

7am A joint unit of police and army made a first attempt to take control of the
ground floor of Nakumatt. They came under fire and were forced to withdraw after
at least two men were shot, one fatally. "They have an arsenal in there," said a
soldier.

9am Regular bursts of gunfire punctuated the morning.

3pm Relatives of the missing gathered at a community hall nearby. Volunteers
brought food and medical supplies, and some camped overnight in the car park.

4.50pm "White" military men, in teams of three, entered Westgate carrying
specialist rifles. They were later identified as Israeli commandos. The Kenyan
recce group went back inside, some carrying rocket-propelled grenade launchers.
Over the next two hours two loud explosions were heard.

11.28pm The Kenyan military tweeted that the siege was nearly over.

Monday 23 September

6.45am The military's assurances were severely undermined by a huge blast that
shook the entire Westlands district, followed by bursts of gunfire. Overnight,
Kimaiyo had been forced to cede control of the operation to Karangi, who had
argued for a more aggressive approach. By now a command centre had been set up
in the Ukay shopping centre opposite Westgate. A British team was present,
including officers from the Met anti-terror unit, as were Israeli officials.

1.25pm Four more large blasts were heard inside Westgate and a column of black
smoke curled into the sky.

7.40pm Officials released a series of triumphalist messages on Twitter,
including one from Kimaiyo that read: "Taken control of all the floors. We're
not here to feed the attackers with pastries but to finish and punish them."

Tuesday 24 September

12.30pm The first shaky amateur footage of the car park emerged, showing a vast
crater where it had collapsed. Officials first said the militants had set off
explosives, then later claimed a wire-guided anti-tank shell, an RPG-7, had been
fired at one of the support pillars to distract a sniper. But a munitions expert
cast doubt on this, saying a weapon capable of dislodging the pillar would have
seriously injured anyone standing up to 20 metres behind it, as well as the
person discharging it.

8pm Explosions and gunfire continued all day, apparently from troops providing
cover while bomb-disposal teams removed booby traps. A soldier described the
operation inside. "Every panel of glass is broken, there is debris everywhere.
We found people alive and we found people dead. We don't know what's under the
debris. We don't know what's behind closed doors."

10pm Kenyatta declared "the operation is now over" in a televised address. "The
criminals found us unafraid, as we ever shall be," he said.

Wednesday 25 September

Shopkeepers returned to find their properties looted. A clothes shop owner said
even his mannequins had been stripped: "They've broken everything. All my money
is lost over there. Everything is shattered." A day later footage emerged of a
cafe-bar showing empty beer and spirit bottles in an area to which only Kenyan
security forces had access during the siege.

Despite the fact that 39 people are still missing, only three bodies have
officially been recovered. The government continues to insist five attackers
were killed by its security forces, but has been unable to identify their
bodies, and there are fears the militants escaped.

On 1 October, amid growing criticism, Kenyatta promised an official inquiry.

Captions:

Terrified shoppers flee from the Westgate shopping centre in Nairobi on the
first day of what turned into an 80-hour siege by a small group of jihadi
fighters Photograph Kabir Dhanji/EPA

A journalist carries an injured woman

Abdul Haji rescues an American girl

Hands raised, people leave the centre

A policeman inside the Westgate mall

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 5, 2013 Saturday 10:22 PM GMT

Kenya mall attack: Mother who negotiated with terrorist to spare children tells
of ordeal;
Exclusive: Amber Prior, a mother of two, tells for the first time how she
negotiated with an Al Qaeda-inspired terrorist for the release of her two
children and two others from the Kenyan shopping mall attack. Zoe Flood reports

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1582 words


It is one of the most dramatic moments of the dreadful assault on Kenya's
Westgate mall - the moment a four year old boy, whose mother had negotiated with
an al-Qaeda inspired terrorist for his and other children's release, told the
gunman he was a "bad man" and he should let people walk free.

Here Amber Prior, the mother of that young boy, tells of her family's terrifying
ordeal at the hands of the militant Islamist group Al Shabaab.

Mrs Prior, a French national who runs a production company with her British
husband Daniel, describes how she was seriously injured, witnessed the deaths of
many around her and how she successfully pleaded for the lives of her two
children and two others when she came face to face with the gunman.

It was a sunny Saturday morning when Amber Prior arrived at the Westgate
Shopping Mall with her six-year-old daughter and four-year-old son.

Having driven through Nairobi's tree-lined streets to the shopping centre she
found the basement car park was already filling up.

She parked and with children in tow passed the security guards waving
metal-detecting wands and poking into bags, and walked up into the central
atrium.

All around there was the bustle of people - some had come to meet friends for
brunch on the Artcaffe terrace, others to try on trainers at the adidas shop or
run an errand at Barclays.

Mrs Prior went into the vast two-storey Nakumatt supermarket, to do "a proper
big shop, the kind that you do every couple of weeks," she remembered.

"We were pretty much finished and I'd got the kids near the tills and then I
remembered I wanted to get a bottle of wine."

But as the 35-year-old popped back into the store and her children, who are
French nationals, waited by the checkout, an ordinary Saturday shop began to
spiral rapidly into a nightmare.

"Lots of screaming" followed by "gunshots outside the mall" were her first
memories of the attack. "I started running towards my kids, running against the
crowd. I found them hanging on to the trolley, with almost no one else around
them, everybody else had scattered," she said.

She quickly picked up her youngest child and together the family ran towards the
back of the store. She remembers people milling around, thinking it would "blow
over". She joined a group trying to leave via a back exit but people came
running back in, saying that there was shooting on that side as well.

"People were screaming 'You've got to hide, you've got to hide'," Mrs Prior
said.

Mrs Prior crouched down behind a deli-style counter in the meat section,
alongside several other families, customers and employees.

"The gunfire was going off constantly: every 15 seconds you would hear a shot,"
she said.

The cowering group still thought it was a robbery and that the gunmen would
leave after clearing out the tills. But as time went on - time which felt "like
eternity" - Mrs Prior realised that "it wasn't going to stop very quickly".

In order to hide better, she took her children further back into the meat
section and tried to "squeeze them under" the large fridges there, before lying
on top of them.

They were soon joined by several others - three women with children, a young
Kenyan girl who had been separated from her parents, and about five men.

"We kept hiding and time kept ticking on and then at some point we heard the
footsteps coming closer.

"The girl next to me said: 'I can see him, I can see him', she was shaking next
to me, this little Kenyan girl.

Mrs Prior didn't think the man would knowingly shoot women and children.

But for nearly 20 seconds, a gunman fired into the huddled people. She remembers
very deliberate shots, one after the other.

"And then I realised I'd been shot. I felt the physical force going into my
body. I was petrified and didn't move much, but I kept wriggling my toes and
thinking, if I can feel my toes I'm going to be OK."

"And then it stopped, the firing stopped. And he walked away. People around me
started screaming: people who had been shot. Others didn't make a noise. At that
point I put my head up. There was blood everywhere."

A mother and daughter next to Mrs Prior, Muslims of south Asian origin, had been
killed. The son was alive but had been shot and was in great distress.

"I said, 'You've got to be quiet or they'll come back'. I kept squeezing his
hand and said, 'Hold my hand, close your eyes and pretend to be dead'."

At 1.19pm, Mrs Prior's British husband Daniel who, since hearing that his family
was hiding in the supermarket, had been frantically trying to get armed rescuers
to them - received a text from his wife that read simply "I've been shot".

"My heart jumped out of my mouth. I didn't know how someone who had been shot
could text," he said. In the supermarket the attackers continued their rampage
and as "time went on", remembers Mrs Prior, her fear deepened.

"People who were dying died, or got so weak they weren't making noises. We were
just so scared - it felt like no one was coming to help, that it was never going
to end, that I was going to die like everybody else. I didn't want to die on top
of my kids."

The few survivors still alive behind the meat counter waited, listening as the
building's power came and went, the fridges turning on and off, the cheery store
music going quiet and then returning.

"At some point, the footsteps came back - we were all very scared. He said: 'If
there's any children alive here, we'll let them go, we won't hurt them'. But
nobody moved."

"And then, I don't know why, I don't know where it came from, even now I can't
imagine why on earth I decided ... I stood up."

"Probably I thought it was our last chance - I said my kids are here and alive,
please let them go. He said fine, but you'll have to stay. And then he started
talking to me."

Standing on the blood-soaked floor of the meat section, the man, whom Mrs Prior
described as looking Somali, dressed in black and carrying a large gun, told her
that they were "not monsters".

"We just want people to understand that they can't come to our homes and kill us
... we will do the same to them," he said, speaking in good English with a
slight accent. "I want you to forgive us."

He asked her where she was from - France, she replied - and he said they were
only interested in the Americans and Kenyans. Mrs Prior and her children began
to move to the exit when the man said that the boy whose mother and sister had
died could leave too.

As the boy hobbled towards Mrs Prior, the gunman said she should carry him.
Weakened by blood loss and struggling to breathe, she asked if she could put him
a trolley.

As Mrs Prior fetched a trolley for the boy, the attacker walked ahead a little
with her children. She remembered the Kenyan girl and asked the gunman if she
could come too. Pushing the injured boy and coaxing the terrified girl, Mrs
Prior joined her children near the checkout.

"When I got to them, it seemed like the terrorist was giving them Mars bars, but
my son also sounded like he was telling the terrorists off," said Mrs Prior.
According to Mr Prior, the children recall the boy telling the gunman he was a
"bad man" and that he "should let everyone go".

Still the gunman wanted to speak to her - "Wait, let me explain this to you", he
said - while also assuring her that they wouldn't be hurt as they tried to exit
the mall. He then noticed that she'd been shot and apologised to her. "I'm sorry
for what happened to you," he said.

The group of five - one adult, four children, two shot, all petrified - made
their way across the atrium, past a "blown out" car, a prize giveaway, past
several dead bodies lying on the floor.

Reaching the main stairs to the mall, where police and photographers were
gathered, Mrs Prior's daughter told her quietly: "I don't want to do any more
shopping today."

Two weeks after the attack, Mrs Prior is still recovering in hospital. She was
shot in the left thigh but the bullet passed through her body, exiting near her
right hip. The family estimates that an hour passed between the shooting and
reaching an ambulance outside.

"I'm very grateful - I don't know for what reason he decided to come and then
let us go. Why at that particular time, why me?" she said.

Mrs Prior is calm but at times, when the memory of the ordeal is too vivid,
becomes overwhelmed.

"Killing people, for what? That poor woman and her daughter [who died next to
Mrs Prior and whose son she saved], what did they do to anybody? It's just not
right, it's really not right," she said.

"That woman, because we were both mothers, we kept looking at each other - it's
going to be OK - giving encouraging looks as we hugged our kids.

"But she didn't make it."

The families of the two children that Mrs Prior saved, including the deceased
woman's husband, have visited her to express their gratitude for her bravery, a
bravery that she dismisses.

"I was scared and I think that's what made me do the things I did, my fear, not
my bravery. I think it was also the sheer determination to get my kids out."

And in her own family, significant efforts have been made to return the children
to some kind of normality and routine, even though Mrs Prior says that now "it's
very hard to feel safe."

"I just wish they didn't have to see any of this or go through any of this, but
I'm very thankful that they're alive.

She paused before adding quietly: "And so very sorry for the people who didn't
make it."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 5, 2013 Saturday 3:27 PM GMT

Nairobi terrorists named as police confirm 'White Widow' not among them;
A small band of up to six attackers carried out the Nairobi terrorist siege,
police have confirmed - contradicting their earlier claims that 15 attackers
were involved.

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 345 words


Kenyan police named four of the terrorists on Saturday. None of them were
Western, contrary to their initial reports, and they were all men.

Amid the confusion of the four-day siege, Amina Mohamed, Kenya 's foreign
minister, said that a British woman "who has done this many times before" was
among the attackers, as were "two or three" Americans.

But David Kimaiyo, the police chief, said that that information was false. He
also said that Samantha Lewthwaite, the widow of the London bomber who is dubbed
the "White Widow," and is wanted on terrorism charges, was not present during
the Kenya attack.

"On Samantha we have also established that she was not part of the attackers in
the building. There was no woman," he said.

Footage of the attack was broadcast in Kenya on Saturday morning, showing four
men walking calmly through the shopping centre carrying guns.

"From what we have now that is coming out of the investigation, the number of
attackers was between four to six," said Mr Kimaiyo.

"None of them managed to escape from the building after the attack," he said,
implying that they were killed in the confrontation.

The attackers were named as Abu Baara al-Sudani, Omar Nabhan, Khattab al-Kene
and Umayr.

Al Sudani, from Sudan, was the leader of the group inside the mall and had been
trained by al Qaeda.

"He is an experienced fighter and sharpshooter," said Major Emmanuel Chirchir,
spokesman for the Kenya Defence Forces.

Nabhan, a Kenyan of Arab origin, was born in Mombasa and travelled to Somalia
with his uncle at the age of 16.

Al Kene is said to be Somali from the capital Mogadishu, and is linked to al
Shabaab Islamist militants.

Umayr's other names, nationality and biography were "not yet identified", he
added.

Somali al Shabaab militants said on Saturday Western forces had raided a coastal
town under cover of darkness and killed one of their fighters. It was not clear
whether the assault was related to the attack on the Kenyan mall.

Major Chirchir said he was trying to get details of the attack at Barawe, 110
miles south of Mogadishu.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      October 5, 2013 Saturday 5:50 PM GMT

'Only 4-6' terrorists involved in Westgate attack, say Kenyan police

BYLINE: Sadie Gray

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 640 words


Kenyan police have concluded that the attack on a Nairobi shopping centre in
which at least 67 people died was carried out by a squad of between four and six
heavily-armed militants.

The Kenyan authorities had claimed that between 10 and 15 gunmen from the
Somalia-based jihadist group al-Shabaab had taken part in the four-day siege of
the Westgate mall, which began a fortnight ago.

Police today named four men who they said were al-Shabaab terrorists who had
died as Kenyan forces retook the shopping centre.

This morning in Somalia, foreign soldiers reportedly attacked a house thought to
be occupied by Islamist fighters in a pre-dawn raid on a coastal town where a
senior al-Qaeda operative was killed four years ago by US special forces. It is
unclear whether that strike was related to investigations into the Westgate
massacre.

David Kimaiyo, a Kenyan police chief, said: "From what we have now that is
coming out of the investigation, the number of attackers was between four to
six. None of them managed to escape from the building after the attack."

The four dead gunmen wre named by Major Emmanuel Chirchir, of the Kenya Defence
Forces.

They were Abu Baara al-Sudani, of Sudan, trained by al-Qaeda and the leader of
the Westgate attackers. "He is an experienced fighter and sharpshooter," said
Major Emmanuel Chirchir, of the Kenya Defence Forces.

Omar Nabhan, a Kenyan of Arab origin, was born in Mombasa and travelled to
Somalia with his uncle at the age of 16.

Khattab al-Kene was said to be from the Somali capital, Mogadishu. The fourth
man was named only as Umayr, and Major Chirchir said that his other names,
nationality and background were as yet unknown.

"I confirm these were the terrorists, they all died in the raid," said Major
Chirchir.

Matt Bryden, the former head of the United Nations Monitoring Group on Somalia
and Eritrea, said that al-Kene and Umayr were known members of al-Hijra, the
Kenyan arm of al-Shabaab.

He added that Nabhan may be a relative of Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan, one of
America's most-wanted al-Qaeda operatives who was killed by US Navy Seals in
their 2009 attack on Barawe, the Somali coastal town where the dawn raid took
place today.

Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan was alleged to have been among the plotters behind the
1998 bombing of the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, in which more than 250
people were killed.

Mr Kimaiyo also confirmed that Samantha Lewthwaite, the British convert
nicknamed the White Widow, was not involved in the attack.

In Somalia, residents of the coastal town of Barawe said they were woken before
dawn prayers by heavy gunfire as foreign soldiers battled their way into a
two-storey house close to the beach. Four nations including the UK have denied
having had anything to do with the attack, however.

The gunfight at the house prompted a counter-attack by al-Shabaab militants
intent upon capturing one of the raiders. They did not succeed, said Abu
Mohamed, a member of the terrorist group.

Islamist fighters locked down the town and made house-to-house searches for
"spies" who had supplied intelligence to foreign forces. Mohamed Bile, a
resident of Barawe, said: "We woke up to find al-Shabaab fighters had sealed off
the area and their hospital is also inaccessible. The town is in a tense mood."

A Western intelligence official told the Associated Press that US or French
forces were likely to be behind the attack. George Little, a Pentagon spokesman,
refused to comment, and the French denied involvement.

Al-Shabaab said this afternoon that British and Turkish special forces carried
out the raid, killing a rebel fighter, and that a British officer had been
killed and others wounded.

The Ministry of Defence said: "We are not aware of any British involvement in
this at all." A Turkish Foreign Ministry official said: "No such thing has taken
place."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      October 5, 2013 Saturday 7:45 AM GMT

Footage emerges of Westgate terror attack

BYLINE: Jerome Starkey and Tristan McConnell, Nairobi

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 684 words


Video footage has emerged showing several of the suspected gunmen inside the
Westgate mall during the terror attack which left at least 67 dead.

CCTV video shows four suspected terrorists brandishing guns as they apparently
search through rooms during the attack on the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi
which left at least 67 dead.

The small group appear relaxed as they walk through deserted shops and
backrooms. In one video clip, a member of the group is seen talking on his
mobile phone.

Kenyan TV channel NTV named three of the men shown in the footage. It said the
trio were all members of the al-Qaeda-linked terror group al-Shabaab, and all
had been killed in a shootout with Kenyan security forces.

The small number of gunmen seen in the footage has lent weight to claims that
only a handful of terrorists were behind the attack, instead of the 10-15
initially claimed by Kenyan security forces.

Other footage to emerge after the attack has shown scenes of devasatation caused
by looting in the mall, as blame for pillaging turned towards police officers
and soldiers.

At first the Kenyan security forces were hailed as heroes - but two weeks after
the attacks, a different story has emerged.

As relatives waited for news of the 39 people still missing, it emerged that
shops inside the mall were systematically looted by officers as the dead lay
trapped and charred inside the rubble.

Shopkeepers who had time to close their stores before they fled returned to find
the locks shot open and their cash, computers and merchandise gone.

At least some of the attackers, who government officials had claimed were killed
or contained, now appear to have escaped. Intelligence warnings, which the
Government claimed it had never had, now look as if they were ignored.

A jewellers, a watch shop, a mobile phone store, a camera shop and a Forex
currency exchange were all plundered. Survivors who fled the Nakumatt
supermarket said they heard one attacker help himself to a fizzy drink, but when
staff went back they found that flat-screen TVs had also disappeared. "I don't
think the terrorists had time to do it," said Akil Mughal, whose parents were
both wounded.

Footage, shot on mobile phones, showed the safes in the Millionaire's Casino
punctured by bulletholes. Even the pay-and-display parking machines had their
doors wrenched open.

A Kenyan newspaper said its reporters had seen CCTV footage of soldiers carrying
shopping bags full of cash just a few hours into the siege.

One of the most shocking clips came from the Artcaffe, the restaurant on the
ground floor of the mall.

"This is Artcaffe, post-siege," says a cameraman as he pans around the room and
settles on a table littered with drink bottles. The bodies and blood had been
cleared away, but shopkeepers said the mall still reeked of blood and gore.
"This is what our KDF soldiers were doing: drinking," he adds.

"More drinks, more drinks, more drinks. Look at the amount of drinking that has
taken place while the siege was happening."

Suspicion has fallen squarely on the security services, which a shopkeeper said
might also explain why the police and army fought each other for control of the
rescue operation.

It is not the first time the security services have faced blame for looting. In
August, robbery was reported at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi,
which had been partially destroyed by a huge fire.

Kenyans, who responded to the Westgate horrors with a spontaneous show of
solidarity, used the hashtag #WeAreOne on Twitter. Now it has been replaced with
#WeAreOndering.

Since then they have questioned the Interior Minister's claims that massive
blaze was a mattress fire, started by the attackers. Soldiers admitted that they
used an anti-tank shell, which helped to collapse the back of the building.

They have questioned President Kenyatta's suggestion that British and American
nationals were among the attackers, because none of the terrorists have been
named. And they questioned the claim that the attackers were contained, amid
reports of a tunnel under the mall, which leads to an underground river.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      October 5, 2013 Saturday 2:41 AM GMT

Footage of Westgate terror attack emerges

BYLINE: Michael Evans and David Brown

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 770 words


Video footage has emerged showing several of the suspected gunmen inside the
Westgate mall during the terror attack which left at least 67 dead.

CCTV video taken during the Kenyan shopping centre massacre shows four suspected
terrorists brandishing guns as they apparently search through rooms inside the
shopping centre.

The small group appear relaxed as they walk through deserted shops and
backrooms. In one video clip, a member of the group is seen talking on his
mobile phone.

Kenyan TV channel NTV named three of the men shown in the footage. It said the
trio were all members of the al-Qaeda-linked terror group al-Shabaab, and all
had been killed in a shootout with Kenyan security forces.

The small number of gunmen seen in the footage has lent weight to claims that
only a handful of terrorists were behind the attack, instead of the 10-15
initially claimed by Kenyan security forces.

Images of the attack comes amid the news that a British jihadist is suspected of
developing chemical weapons for al-Shabaab, raising fears that al-Qaeda will use
them on Western targets.

Madhi Hashi, 24, is accused of being a leading figure in the group, which is the
African affiliate of al-Qaeda. He was captured while preparing to fly to Yemen
to discuss the group's campaign.

Western intelligence services fear a terrorist organisation acquiring chemical
or biological weapons because of the potential for mass casualties. Al-Qaeda
tested mustard gas in Afghanistan. Yemen, now regarded as the most active
location for al-Qaeda's global ambitions, is seen as the most likely location
for further experiments.

Mr Hashi, a former community worker from Camden, North London, awaits trial in
New York for alleged terrorism offences connected to al-Shabaab between December
2008 and August 2012.

He is accused of being a member of "an elite al-Shabaab suicide bombing unit"
and of having "specific knowledge regarding significant al-Qaeda members
operating in East Africa who sought to carry out attacks against US and Western
interests".

Mr Hashi and two Swedish men are also said to have "substantial knowledge
regarding an al-Shabaab research and development department that was developing
chemical weapons". The men have not been charged in relation to chemical weapons
but the allegation of their knowledge of the covert programme will form part of
the case against them.

It will also aid the US Government's argument that al-Shabaab poses a real
threat to Western interests. US sources said the Nairobi attack last month was
an example of foreign militants, including several Americans and possibly a
Briton, launching an operation planned in Somalia that had farreaching
consequences.

US authorities said the men planned to offer their services to Al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula after becoming disillusioned with al-Shabaab, because they
wanted to spread the terror beyond the borders of Somalia.

The seriousness of the charges and the intelligence about their alleged
connection to the development of chemical weapons explained why three men
crossing East Africa had been arrested and taken to the US for trial, an
intelligence source said.

British authorities have known about Mr Hashi for some years. He was interviewed
by police at Heathrow in August 2006, having been deported from Cairo after
being arrested by national security police who accused him of having links to
al-Qaeda. In May 2008 he was interviewed again at Heathrow on his return from
Damascus, where he claimed to have been studying Arabic. He began working with
the Kentish Town Community Organisation and enrolled on an engineering course at
Haringey College.

He travelled to Somalia in April 2009, but was deported from Djibouti after
being identified as a terrorist risk.He claims that he was harassed in Britain
by MI5 and that the security service targeted Somalis in North London. He
returned to Somalia later in 2009.

Mr Hashi was born in Mogadishu and came to Britain in 1995, obtaining
citizenship in 2004. Last summer his family was told that Theresa May, the Home
Secretary, had revoked his citizenship because he was "involved in Islamist
extremism and presented a risk to national security".

Arnaud Mafille, of CagePrisoners, an organisation that has been supporting Mr
Hashi's family, said: "It is surprising that this has surfaced ten months after
Madhi's appearance in the US penal system. These allegations obscure the more
serious questions surrounding the stripping of Mr Hashi's British citizenship,
his kidnapping, torture, secret rendition, reappearance and continued detention
in inhumane conditions inside a US prison."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                            October 5, 2013 Saturday

Kenya mall attack terrorists are evil thugs, not animals

LENGTH: 548  words


From: Barrie Frost, Watson's Lane, Reighton, Filey.

THE behaviour of human beings is plummeting at an ever increasing speed into the
extreme depths of depravity.

In the last century, many wars saw countless millions of innocent people
annihilated in appalling circumstances, but terrorist attacks of more recent
times seem determined to make these conflicts seem almost reasonable as they
inflict unimaginable horrors on their fellow men.

In the latest terrorist abomination - the attack on the Westgate shopping mall
in Nairobi, Kenya - terrorists gunned down totally innocent men, women and
children and claimed they were sending some sort of religious message.

A British businessman, whose wife and daughter were amongst those murdered,
probably understandably, said: "The people who did this are animals."

No, they were not animals! Animals simply do not behave like this, this was the
sickening behaviour of depraved, evil thugs who call themselves human beings and
believe they are superior but who do not deserve to belong to any class of
living creature.

Animals do not attempt to destroy millions of others; they do not attempt to
impose their views on others; they do not torture or wilfully impart pain and
death to show their perceived superiority; they do not die in order to take many
lives of others with them and when they do kill to eat, even in this respect,
their behaviour is superior to that of humans.

Where we transport animals  for many miles to be killed, often in dreadful fear
as their superior senses have informed them of their fate; where animals are
killed accompanied with bizarre religious rituals; where animals are transported
hundreds of miles to meet their fate, this is not animal behaviour but the
dreadful behaviour of human beings, no such cruelty is shown by animals. The
prey of an animal is not subjected to hours of fear as he is totally unaware he
is being hunted until the final moments of his life when death is quick and
humane.

And what about the appalling butchery of such magnificent creatures as elephants
and rhinoceros? Is this the behaviour of animals? How do we excuse this?
Elephants are destroyed by poachers for their ivory tusks purely to satisfy the
greed of humans, and rhinoceros for their horns in the sickening belief that
their horns, made of keratin the same as our fingernails, have magical
properties. How can humans believe they are superior to other creatures when
they behave so disgracefully? If God made human beings in his image, we are not
living up to his wishes.

From: John Watson, Hutton Hill, Leyburn.

AS a lifelong Christian, though not a churchgoer, it really does test my faith
when the Archbishop of Canterbury says that not only must we pray for those who
lost their loved ones  who were slaughtered in Kenya for no apparent reason but
we must pray for those who carried out this atrocity.

Never in a million years would I do that, neither would I pray for those members
of the Taliban who murdered 80 Christians in Pakistan. When Justin Welby became
Archbishop of Canterbury, I thought that, at last, we have got a man as head of
the Anglican Church who approaches things in a more pragmatic way than what has
happened in the past.

No. We have to pray for every Tom, Dick  and Harry - whatever they have done.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 6, 2013 Sunday

Yemen facing "fierce terrorist attack" - President Hadi

LENGTH: 354 words


Text of report by AF published by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sanaa, 6 October - President Abd Rabbuh Mansaur Hadi chaired on Sunday [6
October] a meeting of the governors, executive and military leaders of the
provinces of Aden, Lahj, Abyan, Dalei, Ibb, Baydha, Taiz, Dhamar.

In the presence of minister defence and interior and heads of the political
security and national security services, the president talked about a number of
security, stability and development issues.

"We have to study the situation at various levels in these provinces and to
emphasize the need to raise readiness in order to reinforce security and
stability and counter terrorist threats strictly."

Hadi said that Yemen is facing a fierce terrorist attack at delicate time,
adding that those who run these criminal and terrorist gangs are still unknown.

Addressing the military and security leaders, the President said "You have to
protect the citizens' lives and properties people," underlining the importance
of improving performance to eliminate crimes before being happened via
stimulating intelligence and reconnaissance activities.

"We have to learn the lesson and not to repeat what happened in the 2nd Military
Region in Mukalla. We have to be prepared and remain vigilant at all times and
we will certainly defeat those terrorists."

Hadi stressed the need to adopt a clear strategy to deal decisively with
terrorists and draw a security plan in each province and create security areas
in order to determine the responsibilities of each official, saying "We have
sufficient power to protect the country from the evils of terrorism, which is
trying hard to affect the course of the national dialogue and its outcomes.

He said that there are comprehensive and satisfactory solutions to the southern
and Sa'ada issues, underscoring that no one is allowed to have a heavy or medium
or even light weapons, but under the law.

An intensive discussion was held during the meeting about security issues and
the latest developments in the 8 provinces at different levels.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in Arabic 1505 gmt 6 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 6, 2013 Sunday 12:00 AM GMT

Illegal ivory trade funds al-Shabaab's terrorist attacks;
A few tusks hacked from elephants shot by poachers can finance a raid like the
attack on Westgate mall

BYLINE: Catrina Stewart

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1271 words


Al-Shabaab, the Somali Islamist group that killed dozens of people last month in
a bloody four-day siege of the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi, is deriving
funds for its terror campaigns from elephant poaching in Kenya and elsewhere,
activists and conservationists claim.

The Elephant Action League (EAL), which has dubbed ivory the "white gold of
jihad", said that elephant poaching and the trafficking of ivory is fuelling
conflict in Africa by helping groups such as al-Shabaab to mount ever more
deadly attacks.

The illicit ivory trade funds "up to 40 per cent of the cost [of al-Shabaab's]
army of 5,000 people", according to Andrea Crosta, a director of EAL, and
co-author of a 2011 report into the links between poaching and terror groups.

The spotlight on al-Shabaab's funding is more intense than ever after the most
deadly terror attack on Kenyan soil since the 1998 US embassy bombings in
Nairobi which killed more than 200 people. The Westgate siege has propelled the
affiliate of al-Qa'ida to international attention. The group has warned that the
slaughter, in which at least 67 people died, is just "the premiere of Act One"
and continues to demand that Kenya pull its troops out of Somalia.

The poaching of elephants for their tusks has driven the animal in some
countries - such as Sierra Leone and Senegal - to the point of extinction. More
than 30,000 elephants were slaughtered in Africa last year alone, 382 of them in
Kenya.

Armed with AK-47 machine guns, and with bows and arrows that are sometimes
poisoned, poachers slip unnoticed past the few rangers who patrol the
conservancies and track the elephants. Often, they target the calves first in
the knowledge that the older elephants will bunch up to try to protect them.
Then they kill the others. It takes several bullets to bring down such sizeable
mammals, and the elephants usually die after immense suffering. The poachers
hack off most of the elephant's head to get at the tusks.

Not since the slaughter of the 1980s, which prompted the introduction of an
international ban on the commercial trade of ivory, has the situation been so
desperate, say conservationists. In less than 30 years, Kenya's elephant
population has plunged from 167,000 to only 35,000.

Armed gangs act with impunity, and officials are paid off all along the way.
When poachers are caught and brought to justice, they escape with trivial fines
or short custodial sentences. Rarely are the brains behind the organised crime
syndicates that drive the illicit trade brought to justice.

In relative terms, the rewards for everyone involved are huge. The poachers, who
run the biggest risks, earn $50-$100 per kilogram, and the price increases as
the ivory moves up the chain. By the time it reaches its final market, which in
most cases is China, it can fetch around $3,000 per kilo. Rhino horn is even
more lucrative - although the small rhino population is much better protected -
commanding up to $65,000 a kilo.

"Like any militias, they [al-Shabaab] are using whatever they can to get easy
money," said Paula Kahumbu, executive director at the WildlifeDirect advocacy
group. "The ivory trade is just the same as the previous [blood] diamond crisis
in West Africa."

Al-Shabaab is not the only terror group to have tapped into the lucrative trade.
The Janjaweed of Sudan and the Lord's Resistance Army, which has killed more
than 3,000 and displaced thousands more in Central Africa, are both heavily
involved in poaching.

Bringing a much-needed political focus to the issue of elephant poaching, the
former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton recently unveiled an $80m plan by
conservation groups and African governments to fight poaching, targeting the
measures all the way from the poachers to a reduction in demand for ivory.

Her efforts come amid a growing realisation that profits from poaching that go
to terror groups pose a direct threat to US interests. While not a new
phenomenon, the growing demand for ivory has made the poaching industry a much
more pivotal player in the financing of terror.

Conservationists claim it is difficult to assess just how much groups such as
al-Shabaab derive from the ivory trade, and many believe the figures are greatly
overstated. But in the case of the Somali group, it is one revenue stream among
many.

"Al-Shabaab would be incredibly naive to ignore the ivory trade," said Ian
Saunders, director of the Tsavo Trust. "In science, you have scientific
analysis. In security, you have situation analysis where you never have all the
pieces of the jigsaw. The evidence says they are involved, but it is an
untraceable form of revenue."

In testimony to US Congress last year, Mr Saunders reeled off compelling
figures, noting that the slaying of one elephant was enough to fund an attack on
the scale of the 1998 embassy bombings, estimated to have cost $50,000,
according to a 2010 report.

"Taking an average ivory tusk weight of 13.6kg (30lb), only 1.6 tusks would be
required to fund a spectacular double attack on two US embassies in East
Africa," he said. That calculation is based on last year's wholesale ivory
prices of $2,357 per kilo; they are even higher now.

Kenya's long and porous border with Somalia makes it relatively easy for
militants to hurry the ivory, poached in Kenya and elsewhere in Africa, across
the frontier into a largely lawless state that has fostered militants, pirates
and gunrunners. Kenya's offensive against al-Shabaab in 2011 pushed it away from
the border areas and out of Kismayo, a smuggling hub and al-Shabaab stronghold
in Somalia. But the group still controls two lesser ports, through which it
smuggles contraband in and out of the country.

Corruption has also played a major role in facilitating the trade of ivory to
countries such as Somalia, with officials willing to turn a blind eye for the
right price. Some of them are personally involved: one Kenyan army officer was
arrested recently for having ivory in his possession. Senior government
officials have also been implicated in the trade, among them a county governor
and a member of parliament. For reasons that are unclear, they have never been
publicly named.

The Kenyan port of Mombasa and Dar es Salaam in Tanzania still remain the two
largest exit points for illicit ivory. Experts say it is simple to smuggle out
tusks even when officials are present, simply because they lack the manpower to
search every container.

"At this moment, you can put ivory in your container, and the chances that
somebody will pick it up are not very good," said Gerhard von Rooyen of the
Nairobi branch of the UN Office on Drugs and Crime.

"Illicit trade has grown quite a lot in the past two or three years.... The only
reason for this is because [the organised crime syndicates] are getting away
with doing what they are doing."

He added that urgent measures were required, in particular the provision of the
manpower and intelligence-gathering capacity required to search containers at
the ports. There should be a shift away from targeting the poachers, who easily
outgun underpaid and poorly equipped wardens, towards targeting the people
involved at the top.

Ms Kahumbu warned that, as the illegal trade continues, the future for Kenya's
elephants is approaching a catastrophic level. Official figures for the elephant
population - including the number killed - were, she said, notoriously
unreliable.

"You can double or triple the actual mortality rate. If you're losing only 382
elephants, there is no crisis. But there clearly is a crisis," she said.

"Unless something really [significant] happens, we will lose most of our
elephants within 10 years."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       October 6, 2013 Sunday 7:36 PM GMT

SEAL Team Six in daring raid after mall massacre: Troops attack Somali terror
stronghold as Delta Force commandos simultaneously capture mastermind of 1998 US
Embassy bombing in Libya

BYLINE: RYAN GORMAN, MICHAEL ZENNIE and DAILY MAIL REPORTERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1177 words



     ·    Navy SEAL Team Six swam to shore in Somalia and attacked the compound
          of an al-Shabab leader
     ·    SEALs encountered heavy resistance and were turned back before the
          leader could be captured
     ·    Hours later, the Army's Delta Force team captured Abu Anas al-Libi,
          wanted for planning the 1998 U.S. Embassy bombing in Nairobi, Kenya
     ·    No U.S. troops were killed or wounded in either operation
     ·    U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry says raids prove terrorists 'can
          run but they can't hide'
     ·    Libyan Prime Minister says he wasn't informed of Delta Force raid and
          demands answers for 'kidnapping' of al-Libi


America's two most elite commando teams have carried a pair of dramatic raids
against terrorist targets in two African nations, killing members of the Somali
group al-Shabab and capturing a mastermind of the 1998 embassy bombing in
Nairobi, Kenya, who has avoided justice for 15 years.

Before dawn on Saturday, Navy SEAL Team Six - the same unit that killed Osama
bin Ladin - swam ashore outside the villa of an al-Shabab leader in Baraawe,
Somalia, a coastal stronghold for the al-Qaeda-backed terrorist group.

It is believed the raid was carried out in response to al-Shabab's Westgate mall
massacre in Nairobi, Kenya, which left more than 60 civilians dead two weeks
ago.

In shades of Black Hawk Down, a disastrous U.S. military operation in Somalia's
capital 20 years ago, the SEALs encountered significantly heavier resistance
than they anticipated and were driven back after a fierce 15 to 20-minute
firefight - before they could complete their objective. At least one al-Shabab
militant was killed.

Hours after the operation in Somalia, Delta Force - the Army's most elite
Special Forces unit - pulled al-Qaeda terrorist Abu Anas al-Libi off the streets
of Tripoli, Libya, as he was arriving for morning prayers.

Al-Libi had a $5million price on his head after he was indicted by federal
prosecutors in 2000. He is believed to have suggested bombing the Nairobi
embassy and performed surveillance in advance of the attack.

Scroll down for video

The twin bombings of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania,
killed 224 people, including 12 Americans, and injured more than 4,0000 in
August 1998. Al-Qaeda, under the leadership of Osama bin Laden, carried out the
attacks in response to the American peacekeeping mission in Mogadishu, Somalia.

No U.S. troops were inured in either raid.

American officials said they told the Libyan government about the raid in
Tripoli, but Prime Minister Ali Zeidan has said he was never informed about the
operation.

He called the capture of al-Libi a 'kidnapping' and said he should have been
tried in Libya.

The pair of daring operations in Africa, carried out by the best-equipped and
most heavily trained commandos in the United States, come a week and a half
after al-Shabab terrorists slaughtered 67 people during a massacre at the
upscale Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi.

They were also staged as President Barack Obama's credibility in the world has
taken a dramatic hit. A deadlock in Congress has shut down the federal
government. He was also forced to reverse course his position of launching
missile attacks on Syria after the British withdrew their support and Russia
proposed destroying the country's chemical weapons stockpiles.

Secretary of State John Kerry, attending a conference in Bali, Indonesia,
trumpeted the raids, saying 'members of al-Qaeda and other terrorist
organizations literally can run but they can't hide.'

He added: 'We hope that this makes clear that the United States of America will
never stop in it's effort to hold those accountable who conduct acts of terror.'

The town of Baraawe, about 110 miles south of Mogadishu, was the last known home
of Ahmed Abdi Godane. He is the leader of al-Shabaab, the terror group that
claimed responsibility for the attack on a mall in Nairobi that killed more than
60 civilians between September 21 and 24.

An unnamed Somali government official said a Chechen member of the terror group
was the target and he was injured and his guard killed in the attack.

According to The Guardian, a Somalian radio station named the rebel as Abu
Diyad, also known as Abu Ciyad.

Baraawe police have estimated the number of dead to be seven.

SEAL Team Six attacked a beachfront house, where high-level members of al
Shabaab were known to stay, exactly two weeks after the Westgate Mall Attack.
They approached before dawn, using silencers to drown out their weapons, but the
operation soon turned into an open firefight as the Somali combatants engaged
them, according to reports.

As many as 12 al-Shabaab fighters were staying there at the time of the assault
before heading to a mission abroad. The battle lasted no longer than 20 minutes,
according to a US official. There were no American casualties.

After the fight, an al-Shabaab spokesman said it was British and Turkish forces
who raided the home, but both countries quickly denied their involvement. US
officials have since confirmed Navy SEALS took part in the daring assault.

A spokesperson for the terrorist organization initially reported one member of
their group was killed

'Westerners in boats attacked our base at Baraawe beach and one was martyred
from our side," an al-Shabaab spokesman told Reuters.

'No planes or helicopters took part in the fight. The attackers left weapons,
medicine and stains of blood, we chased them.'

Al-Shabaab militants tightened their grip on the seaside town soon after the
Navy SEALs disappeared from their two-story compound, searching home to home for
evidence a spy turned evidence over to Americans, according to witnesses.

'We woke up to find al-Shabab fighters had sealed off the area and their
hospital is also inaccessible,' said one witness, adding that 'the town is in a
tense mood.'

'We were awoken by heavy gunfire last night, we thought an al Shabaab base at
the beach was captured,' another local Sumira Nur said, adding that she heard
shells but was not sure where they landed.

This was the first publicly-announced raid by U.S. special ops in Somalia since
the rescue of two charity workers from the country in January 2012, after they
had been kidnapped by Somali pirates and held hostage for three months.

Hours later the Tripoli raid was aimed at a specific Al-Qaeda target.

Nazih Abdul-Hamed al-Ruqai, known more commonly as Anas al-Libi, was taken from
his car by U.S. Army Delta Force commandos while parking after morning prayers,
the Pentagon has confirmed.

His sister-in-law described the attack as she saw it from her bedroom window.
Three cars closed in on him, foreign-looking commandos smashed the car's window
and took hold of his gun before racing away from the scene with the wanted man,
she said.

The terrorist 'is currently lawfully detained by the U.S. military in a secure
location outside of Libya,' a Pentagon official said.

Anas al-Libi is said by US officials to be a senior member of al-Qaeda. The
Federal Bureau of Investigation had a standing $5million bounty for information
leading to his capture.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       October 6, 2013 Sunday 5:31 PM GMT

Scotland 'more likely to suffer catastrophic terror attack if it achieves
independence'

BYLINE: MICHAEL BLACKLEY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1225 words



     ·    Independent Scotland would be more vulnerable to terrorist attacks, a
          new report will claim this week
     ·    Attacks could shut down water, gas and electricity supplies across
          country
     ·    Next year, four million Scots will vote in independence referendum
     ·    SNP's plans are a 'dagger poised at the heart of Scotland's industrial
          infrastructure', says Defence Secretary Philip Hammond


Scotland would be more vulnerable to a catastrophic terrorist attack if Alex
Salmond succeeds with his bid to break up Britain, a new report from the
Ministry of Defence will claim this week.

Britain's top defence officials have produced a damning 86-page assessment of
the impact that separation would have on Scotland's security, which warns of the
terrifying threat to the everyday lives of Scots.

The devastating dossier will show that the tiny defence budget proposed by the
SNP could heighten the risk of a terror attack which could close down the water,
gas or electricity supplies to every home and business in the country.

It is expected to say that a separate Scotland may also be unable to protect
itself from a 'cyber attack' which could see criminals or rogue states raid the
bank accounts of hard-working people across the country.

And it will also warn that the country would face a defence jobs Armageddon,
including the shutdown of Scotland's shipyards and the mass withdrawal of
private firms in the defence sector, leading to the loss of tens of thousands of
vital jobs.

The report will attempt to highlight the risks to a separate Scotland by showing
the huge efforts already carried out to protect Scotland as part of the UK,
including defence against the threat from foreign nations and terrorists and
from attacks on the country's everyday infrastructure, such as water and
electricity supplies and phone and computer connections.

Speaking exclusively to the Scottish Mail on Sunday ahead of publication of the
report on Tuesday, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond evoked the language of the
battlefield by claiming that the SNP's plans are a 'dagger poised at the heart
of Scotland's industrial infrastructure'.

He revealed that UK networks are under constant attack, with 400,000 attacks on
the government's internal systems in the last year alone.

He said: 'Everything that I've seen says to me that the Scottish Government
isn't really interested in defence. What it has said on defence looks like it
has been made up on the back of a fag packet.

'Those who are promoting the case for Scottish independence owe the Scottish
people a proper explanation of how they would be kept safe as they go about
their daily business, how their families would be kept safe and how their jobs
would be protected, because the defence industry is going to be decimated by
what the Scottish Government is proposing.

'The report will show the challenge of providing security for Scottish people;
security in the sense of defence but also about securing the everyday
infrastructure they use in their daily lives, making sure the water supply and
utilities are safe from attack, that computer networks used in the workplace are
not compromised and their details vulnerable.

'It is about the impact on Scottish industry and the Scottish industrial base
and the impact on jobs and employment- and the impact on prosperity and ordinary
domestic security for people across Scotland.'

The report will warn that 9000 direct jobs would be at risk at the Coulport and
Faslane naval bases by the end of the decade as a result of the SNP's intention
to remove Trident from Scotland if it secures a yes vote in next year's
referendum.

It will also suggest that Scotland's shipyards could lose all of their vital
orders from the MOD, because it does not hand contracts to foreign countries,
which could lead to the decimation of the vital shipbuilding industry.

And it will say that independence could result in the mass withdrawal of private
defence firms from Scotland, as they will not want to be at risk of losing MOD
work.

That could prove to be disastrous for the 16,000 defence jobs based in Scotland.



No major defence firms have publicly stated their concerns about separation, but
they have raised their concerns privately.

Mr Hammond said he has urged company bosses to speak up on the risks and expects
some to do so in the next year.

It is a real dagger poised at the heart of Scotland's industrial infrastructure

Philip Hammond

'We have been making the case to the defence industry that they need to speak
up,' he said.  'I hope that as we move through next year towards the referendum
they will at least be frank with their own workforces about these issues.

'It is thousands and thousands of jobs across Scotland at risk.  It is the
shipbuilding industry, it is the hi-tech industrial base - people like Selex -
it is the 9000 direct jobs in Coulport and Faslane by the end of the decade that
are at risk because of the Scottish Government's threat to Faslane.

'Then of course there are the thousands and thousands of jobs in the supply
chain.

'It is a real dagger poised at the heart of Scotland's industrial
infrastructure.'

Last week, the Mail on Sunday revealed that Mr Hammond is building a new
offensive 'cyber strike force' costing up to £500 million to stave off the
threat of attacks on Britain's systems.

The spending is in addition to hundreds of millions of pounds spent every year
on defensive systems.

Mr Hammond said building the whole cyber defensive system from scratch in an
independent Scotland would need 'huge fixed cost investment'.

He said: 'There are significant economies of scale and it is clear that the UK
is able to deliver a level of cyber protection for all the people of the United
Kingdom as they go about their business and daily lives in a way that an
independent Scotland would find very difficult to do, especially within the
budgets that have been set out already.

'We have to be able to defend that IT infrastructure against attacks, whether
from state actors, terrorists, criminal hackers, and that will become
increasingly important in the future.  The financial system is a regular target
of cyber attackers.'

The new MOD report will be the fifth in a series of 'Scotland Analysis' papers
produced by the UK Government to assess the implications of independence.

It is will cover all areas of defence in the UK and highlight the economic and
employment benefits of the industry to Scotland, as well as the damage that
independence could do.

It will also show how Scottish members of the armed forces can enjoy 'varied and
interesting' careers in one of the world's most highly-regarded forces - and
warn that they might not want to leave the UK's forces for a smaller standalone
Scottish Army.

Significantly, it will also highlight that existing units based in Scotland are
part of the UK Armed Forces - meaning a separate Scotland could not simply
'co-opt' them.

The report will say: 'Personnel might very well not wish to leave the UK Armed
Forces to join much smaller forces, not least because of strong bonds of
loyalty.

'From a defence perspective, the transition to independence would therefore be
extremely complex, raising serious questions over how an operational capability
for an independent Scottish state could be managed.'

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 6, 2013 Sunday 12:51 AM GMT

US Navy Seals 'kill terror boss' in night attack on Somali HQ of terror group
which killed 67 in Kenya mall massacre

BYLINE: MARK NICOL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 293 words



     ·    Residents in coastal town say they were woken by gunfire and shelling
     ·    US defence sources say helicopters called in for air support as battle
          raged
     ·    Americans forced to withdraw before they could confirm death of target


US Navy Seals are believed to have killed a senior member of the terrorist group
Al Shabaab in a pre-dawn raid on its headquarters in Somalia.

Residents in the coastal town of Barawe told news agencies they were woken by
heavy gunfire and shelling early yesterday morning as soldiers came ashore in
boats and launched an attack on a two-storey building.

US defence sources said helicopters were called in for air support as a battle
raged for an hour in the coastal town 150 miles south of the Somalia capital
Mogadishu.

But the Americans were forced to withdraw before they could confirm the death of
their terror target.

No details were revealed about fatalities or casualties among the Seals, but a
spokesman for Al Shabaab boasted that the raid had been repulsed.

British and Turkish defence officials denied that their troops had been
involved. Confirmation of the raid came as Kenyan police released the names of
four Al Shabaab fighters they believe were killed in the Westgate mall attack -
which left 67 people dead including six Britons.

Abu Baara al-Sudani, Omar Nabhan, Khattav al-Kene and Umayr are not  thought to
have escaped the shopping centre alive. The four - who were seen on CCTV
carrying rifles and patrolling storerooms inside the mall - supposedly died in a
shoot-out with police.

Abu Baara al-Sudani is believed to have been the ringleader. He was apparently
seen beckoning to the others. Omar Nabhan is thought to have been related to the
mastermind of the Al Qaeda attacks on the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in
1991.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             October 6, 2013 Sunday

MYSTERY AFTER  WHITE SOLDIERS  ATTACK SOMALI TERRORISTS  HQ

BYLINE: BY MARK NICOL

LENGTH: 240 words


THE Ministry of Defence last night vehemently denied claims by African terrorist
group Al Shabaab that British Special Forces personnel were involved in a
pre-dawn raid on its headquarters in Somalia and had suffered casualties.

The strike by unidentified - but allegedly Western - military forces took place
in the coastal town of Barawe, 150 miles south of the capital Mogadishu, early
yesterday morning.

Residents in Barawe told news agencies they were woken up by heavy gunfire and
shelling as military personnel described by Al Shabaab as  white soldiers  came
ashore in boats and launched an attack on a two- storey building nearby.

A spokesman for Al Shabaab, which claimed responsibility for the Westgate
shopping mall massacre in Nairobi last month, said British and Turkish special
forces were involved in the raid. He added that the commander of a British force
was killed and that four other soldiers had been critically wounded, along with
a Turkish soldier.

But these claims were strongly denied by the MoD, which said there was no
British involvement in the attack.

Last night, French and Turkish defence officials also denied any involvement by
their personnel. US officials did not comment.

The raid comes as Kenya s military named the terrorists implicated in the
Westgate massacre - in which at least 67 people died, including six Britons - as
Abu Baara al-Sudani, Omar Nabhan, Khattav al-Kene and Umayr, and said none had
escaped.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                                October 6, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FILM STAR FLEES ATHENS TERROR;
Actress witnesses brutal attacks by far-right supporters

BYLINE: JOSH LAYTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 687 words


A MIDLAND movie star is fleeing the violence triggered by the murder of a rapper
in Greece - after watching in terror as a gang of men attacked a helpless victim
with a broken bottle.

Actress Anne-Marie O'Sullivan, 32, from Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, moved to
Athens seven years ago to pursue her big screen career but is so sickened by the
violence that she is returning to the UK.

Last night she told the Sunday Mercury how she had witnessed a series of brutal
attacks carried out by supporters of Greece's far-right Gold Dawn party on the
streets of the Greek capital.

Violence broke out after the death of leftwing rapper Pavlos Fyssas, 34, who was
fatally stabbed on September 18. Known as Killah P, he had campaigned
ceaselessly against the return of fascism.

His alleged killer worked in the cafeteria of the offices of Golden Dawn, a
far-right party which uses neo-Nazi symbolism.

Anne-Marie said the party's followers had been carrying out assaults with
impunity near her home in the central Exarchia neighbourhood.

"I saw a gang of men who didn't have the Golden Dawn T-shirts at that point
battering this Albanian guy," said Anne-Marie. "I was in my house and I could
hear screams from outside, even with my music at full blast.

"I looked out from my balcony and they had kicked him down to the ground and one
of them slashed his chest open with a broken bottle.

There were five or six of them, kicking him and battering him with the Greek
flag.

"The screams were terrible because his girlfriend was watching. I think he was
Albanian because I could hear the language and the accent.

There are always police around the corner but they waited until he was in a pool
of blood."

The assaults continued as the party took root in some of the poorer
neighbourhoods.

"There was a guy on the floor in the square near where I live who had been badly
beaten up," said Anne-Marie. "He was shouting for help and another two guys
looked like they were going to pull out a blade and stab him.

"We shouted at them and I saw one of them put something back in a pouch he was
wearing.

A friend who is of Greek and Sudanese descent also got beaten up on his way home
- they battered his head with a piece of wood. But these attacks are just the
tip of the iceberg."

Golden Dawn's leader Nikolaos Michaloliakos has been charged with belonging to a
criminal organisation amid a police clampdown in the wake of the stabbing. A
wave of arrests has sparked warnings that the party will be driven underground.
Such was his popularity that the death of Fyssas has galvanised the Greek
government into action. However, the murders of two immigrants and attacks on
hundreds more have also been blamed on Golden Dawn.

Anne-Marie's account tallies with recent court testimony by Golden Dawn members
who described how 'assault militias' used makeshift weapons to hunt down
migrants in the streets.

"There was a big outcry after Fyssas was killed," said Anne-Marie. "But there
have also been countless attacks on migrants who might not even have legal
papers to show who they are. Many more cases go unreported.

Ban "The trouble is that even if you ban the Golden Dawn, they will just go
underground."

The party handed out food and moved on drug addicts from the streets of her
neighbourhood as it capitalised on a power vacuum. Propaganda videos on YouTube
show supporters at a rally holding burning torches and waving flags while
chanting political slogans. Anne-Marie added: "Europe has to take measures to
make sure this doesn't grow. What is happening is a violation of human rights.
It's become acceptable to parade a swastika-type logo openly in Athens. It's
against everything the European Union stands for."

Anne-Marie moved to Greece in 2006 and landed film roles in Greek-Cypriot drama
Fish and Chips and Anglo-Greek comedy The Guide. She also worked as a theatre
and drama teacher but her income was hit by the economic collapse.

Anne-Marie and her boyfriend now plan to return the UK once they have raised the
funds. "I'm a believer in the power of the arts to affect change but we feel
absolutely powerless," she said. "It's so traumatic to watch."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POWERLESS: Anne-Marie O'Sullivan, who is fleeing far-right violence in
Athens. Right, An elderly man stands in front of the site where Pavlos Fyssas,
centre, died.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMY


               Copyright 2013 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       October 6, 2013 Sunday 8:00 PM GMT

'Two al-Shabaab fighters killed' in US Somalia raid;
The US special forces unit that killed Osama Bin Laden failed during a predawn
mission in Somalia to capture what Washington called a "high value target"
suspected of links to Kenya's Westgate terror attack.

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz Mombasa

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 516 words


But two senior foreign fighters - a Swedish Somali and a Sudanese national -
were reportedly killed and a third man, also from Sudan, was injured, sources in
Somalia said.

It was unclear on Sunday whether one of the dead may have been the intended
target, as US officials said the team had been forced to withdraw before
confirming the militant's fate.

However the Sudanese man killed, named locally as Awab al-Uqba or Sheikh
Abdirahim, was said to be a trainer for al-Shabaab's intelligence arm, Amniyat,
which United Nations investigators call its "secret service" unit.

It is believed that Amniyat, which is increasingly directed by al-Shabaab's
founder, Ahmed Godane, would have been central to the planning of the assault on
the Kenyan mall.

Navy Seal Team Six commandos came ashore from speedboats in Baraawe, an
al-Shabaab stronghold south of Mogadishu, and immediately focused their assault
on a beachside villa known to harbour foreign jihadists.

The two foreign Islamists were killed during an intense 15-minute gunbattle but
the US forces retreated as the engagement escalated for fear of causing civilian
casualties. The Swedish-Somali was named by sources in the country as Abdi
Qadar.

To send soldiers rather than use drones indicated that the mission was to
capture rather than kill.

US sources told The New York Times that the mission was "prompted by Westgate",
suggesting that al-Uqba could have been the main target if he was involved in
training the team that took over the Westgate mall. But they declined to offer a
name.

The reports of the men's death and names could not immediately be verified. An
al-Shabaab source told The Telegraph that the men were known to be at the house
and had been for some months, though he could not confirm whether they had been
killed.

Al-Shabaab's military spokesman, Sheikh Abdiasis abu Musab, denied that any
significant Islamist commander was at the target location during Saturday
morning's raid.

"The US claim that a senior Al Shabaab official was in the house is false.

"No senior official was in the house," he told Reuters.

"Normal fighters lived in the house and they bravely counter-attacked and chased
the attackers. The apostate Somali government is nothing in Somalia, no one
asked them for permission to carry out the attack."

The raid took place close to where US special forces in 2009 killed a known
al-Qaeda operative in Somalia, Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan, a Kenyan.

It is believed one of the four named Westgate attackers, Omar Nabhan, was Saleh
Nabhan's nephew, and had been living with al-Shabaab in Somalia since leaving
the Kenyan city of Mombasa aged 16.

One regional intelligence analyst in Kenya said that the US raid and an apparent
assassination of a radical imam in Mombasa on Thursday were "knee-jerk
reactions" to the Westgate attack.

"If they had information about these guys, why did they not act before
Westgate?" the analyst said.

"Now what you have is something that looks like tit-for-tat, and that just makes
people [who might sympathise with al-Shabaab] even more angry. There are
cleverer ways to disembowel these people."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 7, 2013 Monday

Kenyan police release photos of Westgate mall terror attack suspects

LENGTH: 539 words


Text of report by Zadock Angira entitled "Police identify terror suspects"
published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 7 October

Police have released photographs of two men believed to have been involved in
the Westgate attack.

The two have been identified as Abdukadir Haret Muhamed alias Muhammed Hussein.
He is light skinned and about 5.8 feet tall. He speaks fluent Kiswahili and
Sheng [Swahili-based slang language spoken by predominantly the Kenyan urban
youth]. He is believed to be a Kenyan from Marehan clan in Mandera [northeastern
Kenya].

The other is identified as Adan Dheq, alias Hussein Abdi Ali, alias Abdulahi
Dugon Subow. He is of dark and wears spectacles. He also speaks broken
Kiswahili. Police Inspector General David Kimaiyo has offered a reward of
500,000 shillings [6,000 dollars] for the arrest of the two suspects.

The suspects bought the car that was used in transporting weapons to the
shopping mall, from a United Nations staff on 6 September, and [paid] 340,000
shillings for it. They took the seller to the Barclays Bank Queensway branch on
6 September at around 7.50 p.m. [local time].

The images were captured when the two had gone to pay for the car, a Mitsubishi
Lancer registration number KAS 575X, which is currently with the police.

On Sunday, police arrested Abdulkadir's former wife at a bus station in Nairobi
shortly after she parted with Abdulkadir. The woman, who was travelling to
Mombasa and whose name police did not release, was found with the photo of the
suspect.

Police have also arrested at least five suspects in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam,
who are being interrogated. In Mombasa, two suspects of Somali origin were
arrested and their vehicle detained. Coast anti-terror boss Elijah Rop said his
officers are holding the two men after were arrested by city council askaris in
two different incidents.

The vehicle was first seen blocking the exit of the Mombasa fire brigade at
around 8.30 a.m. A few minutes later, officers from Kongowea market arrested a
man who was using the exit to enter into the market.

His colleague presented himself to the city inspectorate, claiming that the
vehicle that had been towed belonged to him. They were interrogated and found
with several different documents. The first suspect had more than one license
police said.

Police suspect the blockage of the fire exit was to prevent any fire engine from
leaving in case the other one succeeded to bomb the market.

The two were both from Nairobi, and had booked at the same hotel in Mombasa. In
Tanzania, detectives are holding two suspects from Pakistan who had on Saturday
evening tried to force their way into a Kenya Airways flight.

Officers from the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit (ATPU) yesterday left for Tanzania
to interrogate the two suspected terrorist.

The two have been identified as Abutaha Hamza, holder of passport number
2995160, and Mohammed Alnems holder of passport number 3085812. The flight, KQ
487, was to leave Dar at 7.30 p.m. when the two forced their way in.

Assistant Commissioner of Police in charge of Tanzanian airports Sulemani Hamisi
on Sunday said the suspects were arrested at Julius Nyerere Airport.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 7 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 7, 2013 Monday

Egypt's premier condemns "terror attacks" in Sinai

LENGTH: 161 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 7 Oct: Prime Minister Hazim al-Biblawi condemned Monday [7 October] the
terrorist bombing in South Sinai and the deadly gun attack on Al-Salihiyah road.

A bomb-laden car went off earlier today close to South Sinai Security
Directorate building, leaving two policemen and a civilian killed and 48 others
injured, some critically.

The explosion inflicted huge damage to the building and destroyed some police
and private cars.

In another terrorist attack, three bearded men opened machine-gun fire at a
military vehicle, killing six servicemen.

The martyrs were on their way from Ismailia to their position in Al-Salihiyah
al-Qadimah when they were ambushed by the gunmen who fled the scene immediately
after the attack.

Al-Biblawi expressed his heart-felt condolences to the families of the victims,
asserting that the perpetrators will not escape justice.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1619gmt 07 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       October 7, 2013 Monday 6:23 PM GMT

Egypt hit by terror attacks in response to deadly shootings by security forces;

Terror attacks have been unleashed across Egypt on Monday following clashes on
Sunday that killed more than 50 protesters

BYLINE: By Louisa Loveluck Cairo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 582 words


Egypt                      was hit by a series of terrorist attacks on Monday in
apparent retaliation against the country's security forces for deadly clashes
the previous day which left at least 53 people dead.

In the Suez Canal city of Ismailia, six Egyptian soldiers were killed in a
drive-by shooting on their patrol . Shortly afterwards, a car bomb detonated
outside South Sinai's security directorate, killing four people and injuring 48.

Another attack, by rocket-propelled grenade, damaged a satellite dish, part of
the country's main television transmission system, in the upmarket Cairo suburb
of Maadi. Satellite television stations, some private, have played a major role
in drumming up support for the army's takeover of Egypt from the Muslim
Brotherhood's President Mohammed Morsi.

The attack on the capital was the most serious since last month's assassination
attempt against the country's interior minister in eastern Cairo.

Although there has been a pronounced rise in militant activity across the
country since Mr Morsi was deposed in the July 3 military takeover, attacks have
mostly concentrated on security installations in the restive North Sinai region.

The spread of violence to South Sinai, home to many popular tourist resorts, is
a worrying sign in a country which has long earned much of its revenue through
tourism.

Monday's attacks, all occurring within the space of a few hours, suggest a more
coordinated campaign to target state security installations than had previously
been apparent. They came the day after holiday celebrations commemorating the
anniversary of the 1973 Yom Kippur war ended in ugly clashes between police and
opponents of the military takeover. Fifty-three people, most if not all Morsi
supporters, were killed in one of Egypt's bloodiest days since the July coup.

The worst violence took place in the west Cairo neighbourhood of Dokki.
Black-clad riot police fired tear gas, rubber bullets and live ammunition into
the crowd. Video footage also showed injured protesters being beaten as they
were dragged away by police.

According to eyewitnesses, the violence began when police fired tear gas on the
vociferous march. "I didn't see any provocation from the protesters, the
atmosphere was good," said Mosa'ab Elshamy, a photographer on the scene.

By nightfall, 46 bodies had reached Cairo's morgues and the Dokki streets were
littered with broken glass. Most of the dead had suffered gunshot wounds to the
upper body. No security personnel were killed, though several witnesses seeing
some among the protesters carrying guns.

Families queued around the block of Cairo's central morgue on Monday. Many
expressed incomprehension at the previous day's events.

"My son should not be dead, he was only marching for what he believed in," said
Marwa el Abd, the mother of a 17-year-old boy, Ahmed, who she says was shot by
security forces. "His friends lost him when the police opened fire. When they
found his body, he'd been shot in the neck.

Egypt's military leader General Abdel-Fattah el Sisi responded to the violence
with a late night speech promising to fulfil "the people's mandate to confront
terrorism". He said: "We will protect Egypt and the Egyptians, this is a
promise."

Attempts to curb Egypt's rising militancy have largely taken the form of a
military operation in North Sinai, close to the Gaza Strip. Local residents
complain that hundreds of homes have hit as "collateral damage".

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 8, 2013 Tuesday 10:03 AM GMT

Target of the Navy SEALS weekend raid in Somalia revealed as it emerges the
'White Widow' helped plot Kenya terror attacks

BYLINE: RYAN GORMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 502 words



     ·    Navy SEAL Team Six was after senior al-Shabaab operative Abdulkadir
          Mohamed Abdulkadir
     ·    British-born terrorist Samantha Lewthwaite, known as the 'White
          Widow,' was a 'key actor' in a series of planned terror attacks


A Kenyan Intelligence report leaked yesterday revealed the target of this
weekend's CIA raid in Somalia - and confirmed that the British terrorist known
as the 'White Widow' helped to plot a series of planned attacks in the region.

Navy SEAL Team Six was seeking for Abdulkadir Mohamed Abdulkadir when it
targeted a beach home near Mogadishu, according to the report.

The attack was initially believed to have targeted  al-Shabaab strongman Ahmed
Abdi Godane or a Chechen terrorist known as Abu Ciyad.

Abdulkadir, a Kenyan militant who has planned multiple attacks against his home
country, somehow escaped the pre-dawn raid.

Known as Ikrima, he has been previously labelled as the lead planner of al-Qaeda
linked plots to bomb the Kenyan Parliament building and the United Nations
offices in the Kenyan capital Nairobi.

Al-Shabaab has bragged that it knew SEALS planned to storm the beach house,
which may have contributed to them being in a position to fight the elite
commandos off.

The intelligence report fails to directly link Abdulkadir to the Westgate Mall
attacks that saw over 60 people executed - but, in a note dated one year to the
day before the siege began, claims the extremist was planning an attack against
either the shopping center or Holy Family Basilica.

The Navy SEALs operation in Somalia underscores the threat posed by the
convergence of insurgent groups, particularly al-Shabab and the Yemen-based
al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, according to an intelligence analyst.

Ikrima is 'someone who is truly a go-between between al-Shabab, AQAP and
probably al-Qaeda central,' said Frank Cilluffo, director of George Washington
University's Homeland Security Policy Institute.

'What you're seeing is some of the pooling of these various entities and between
various organizations,' Mr Cilluffo continued. 'And you are starting to see
convergence of individual actors and of even planning and operations.'

The U.S. is going after top-level terrorists who are targeting foreign and
Western interests, rather than internal Somali targets, Mr Cillufo noted.

The report also shed more light on the terror links of Samantha Lewthwaite, who
was named as a 'key actor' in an planned attack on Kenya's parliament and UN
buildings.

The so-called 'White Widow' - the world's most wanted woman - is also said to
have been part of a terrorist cell targeting Kenyan Defence Force camps, Western
embassies and the assassination of the country's top politicians.

It is the first time the mother-of-four has been named in connection with the
plots which were foiled by the Kenyan authorities, underlining her importance to
Somali-based, Al Qaeda-inspired terror groups.

She gained her fearsome reputation after her husband, Germaine Lindsay, helped
bomb the London transport network in the 7/7 attacks of 2005.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 8, 2013 Tuesday 10:00 PM GMT

GCHQ leaks have 'gifted' terrorists ability to attack 'at will', warns spy
chief;
The leaks of thousands of GCHQ files by CIA spy Edward Snowden have caused
"enormous damage" and handed terrorists the "gift" to attack the UK "at will",
the new head of MI5 has warned.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 929 words


Andrew Parker, the director general of the Security Service, said the exposing
of intelligence techniques, by the Guardian newspaper, had given fanatics the
ability to evade the spy agencies.

It comes at a time when the UK is facing its gravest terror threat, including
from "several thousand" Islamist extremists who are living here and want to
attack the country, Mr Parker said.

He used his first public outing since taking over at MI5 to launch a scathing
attack on the Snowden leaks.

It is feared around Whitehall that the revelations have resulted in a "guidebook
for terrorists" while there is frustration that the American is being heralded
as some kind of heroic whistleblower.

Sources find it incomprehensible that exposing spy agency techniques for
tracking terrorists has been argued to be in the public interest.

Leaks from Snowden are known to contain at least 58,000 GCHQ files and it is
feared there could be many more.

It also unclear whether foreign states have had access to the documents and it
is understood the Guardian continued to expose the information despite pleas
from the Government not to reveal intelligence techniques.

It is believed to be the worst leak of British intelligence files and to have
caused the greatest damage.

In his first speech since becoming head of MI5 in April, Mr Parker did not
specifically name Snowden or the Guardian.

But he said: "It causes enormous damage to make public the reach and limits of
GCHQ techniques.

"Such information hands the advantage to the terrorists. It is the gift they
need to evade us and strike at will.

"Unfashionable as it might seem, that is why we must keep secrets secret, and
why not doing so causes such harm."

He said the details of what capabilities the spy agencies have is their "margin
of advantage" over the fanatics.

"That margin gives us the prospect of being able to detect their plots and stop
them. But that margin is under attack," he said.

He said reports from GCHQ were "vital to the safety of this country and its
citizens", adding: "We are facing an international threat and GCHQ provides many
of the intelligence leads upon which we rely."

Mr Parker said the UK is already facing its most complicated and unpredictable
terror threat and that it was "getting harder" for his agents to protect against
the diverse dangers.

With the spread of an al-Qaeda threat to more and more countries, the continue
danger of Irish terrorism, the emergence of the lone wolf fanatic and advances
in technology and cyber warfare, MI5 is now "tackling threats on more fronts
than ever before", he said.

In the speech to the Royal United Services Institute in London, Mr Parker said:
"Our task is getting harder. The threats are more diverse and diffuse.

"And we face increasing challenges caused by the speed of technological change."

And he warned: "It remains the case that there are several thousand Islamist
extremists here who see the British people as a legitimate target."

Among those are Britons, numbering in the low hundreds sources say, who have
travelled to Syria, which is now a hotbed of extremism and terror groups, and
since returned home.

The spy chief said: "For the future, there is good reason to be concerned about
Syria.

"A growing proportion of our casework now has some link to Syria, mostly
concerning individuals from the UK who have travelled to fight there or who
aspire to do so."

While the threat of a large scale terror outrage may have diminished it has not
been removed, he said, while there is a growing risk of smaller attacks or
individuals acting on their own.

Since 2011, a total of 330 people have been convicted of terrorism-related
offences in Britain.

There is also the threat to Britons around the world, such as the attack on the
In Amenas gas facility in Algeria and the recent Westgate shopping centre
outrage in Nairobi, Kenya.

"Overall, I do not believe the terrorist threat is worse now than before. But it
is

more diffuse. More complicated. More unpredictable," he said.

There have been one or two major terror plots in the UK every year since 2000
and that pattern is "unlikely to change".

And it was impossible to protect the public 100 per cent, he said, adding "life
is not the movies".

He said, because of its nature and terrible consequences, there was an
expectation that there should be "zero" attacks but no crime can have such a
target.

In a clear defence of any potential intelligence failings by MI5, Mr Parker also
stressed there was a difference between "knowing of someone and knowing
everything about them".

"The idea that we either can or would want to operate intensive scrutiny of

thousands is fanciful," he said,

"This is not East Germany, or North Korea. And thank goodness it's not."

He also made a defence for extended powers to monitor modern communications, the
subject of recent controversy, saying "we cannot work without tools".

He said the idea that the agencies would use such powers to monitor everyone's
private lives was "utter nonsense".

Explaining why he made a public speech, he said it was important for spies to
occasionally step out of the shadows to explain to the public the threats they
face.

Snowden, 30, was a CIA analyst based in the US National Security Agency, who
provoked one of the biggest intelligence leaks in American history.

He used his position to access and steal thousands of classified documents on US
and related British spy programmes.

The leaks were revealed in a series of articles in the Guardian newspaper in
June.

He fled the US and is currently being sheltered in Russia.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                      October 8, 2013 Tuesday 4:03 PM  EST

GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE FOLLOWING KENYA TERRORIST ATTACK

LENGTH: 547 words


LONDON, Oct. 8 -- The United Kingdom Foreign & Commonwealth Office issued the
following press release:

The Foreign Secretary William Hague has updated parliament on the government's
response following the terrorist attack in Nairobi.

The Foreign Secretary William Hague said:

I would like to inform the House about the Government's response following the
terrorist attack on the Westgate shopping centre in the Westlands area of
Nairobi between 21 and 24 September. In doing so, I wish to repeat our message
of profound sympathy to the Kenyan Government and the Kenyan people affected by
this incident. I also, once again, express our condolences to the families and
friends of the British citizens, and other nationals, killed in the attack. As
the Prime Minister said on 22 September this was "an absolutely sickening and
despicable attack of appalling brutality".

Within hours of the terrorist attack unfolding on Saturday 21 September, the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office activated its 24-hour Crisis Response Centre.
Travel Advice, including details of the FCO emergency helpline number, was
issued on 21 September advising UK nationals to avoid the area around the
Westgate shopping centre. Also on 21 September, the Prime Minister spoke to the
Kenyan government to express the condolences of the British people and to offer
any assistance we could provide.

6 British nationals were killed in the attack and 3 were injured and
hospitalised. We were in touch with the next of kin and provided consular
support and assistance to the families. A rapid deployment team was sent to
Nairobi on 21 September to support the work of our High Commission in providing
assistance to British nationals. Extra Assistance Measures, designed to provide
additional support and assistance to British nationals in crisis situations,
were activated. We have also been liaising closely with other governments with
affected citizens to share information on the situation and our response.

In response to a Kenyan request, the UK was able to provide assistance at the
scene in the identification of bodies and the collection of forensic evidence.
Other UK support has included the provision of rations and medical supplies to
the Aga Khan hospital where many of the wounded victims were taken. We have
continued to work closely with the Kenyan authorities and other international
experts in providing expert support for the Kenyan-led operations.

The UK-Kenya partnership is strong and wide. We work together on many shared
goals. The UK and Kenya have a mutual interest in tackling terrorist threats. In
line with the UK's overall approach to addressing terrorism overseas, we are
committed to helping Kenya strengthen its capacity to investigate, prosecute and
detain terrorists in line with international human rights obligations. Our
support also extends to helping Kenya strengthen its borders and counter
security threats that emanate from across its international borders. In recent
years, this has included capacity building, training and the provision of
specialised equipment. We will continue to discuss opportunities for
co-operation with the Kenyan government. For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 9, 2013 Wednesday

Burundi police raid two Muslim suburbs of capital in wake of Kenya terror attack

LENGTH: 303 words


Text of report by French state-funded public broadcaster Radio France
Internationale on 9 October

[Presenter] Security in Burundi has been reinforced following the [recent]
attack on the Westgate shopping centre in the Kenyan capital. Somali Islamist
Al-Shabab claimed responsibility for the attack in reaction, according to them,
to the deployment of [Kenyan] troops to Somalia. Burundi also has its troops in
Somalia as part of the Amisom [African Union Mission in Somalia].

Patrols by security agents have been reinforced [in Burundi]. Land and air
border checks have also been intensified and whole districts are being searched.
Two such searches were conducted on two districts in the capital Bujumbura in
the past few days. Our correspondent Esdras Ndikumana files the report:

[Ndikumana] The seizure was reportedly good in the neighbourhoods that were
targeted by the Burundi security agents, according to reliable sources in
Bujumbura. In the Asian District of the capital, the police and the army carried
out a wide net raid. According to the Burundi deputy police spokesperson, Lt
Pierre Nkurikiye, six suspects were placed under detention, adding that
investigations are ongoing to find out more about these people.

Another district that was targeted is Buyenzi, which is also in Bujumbura. It is
inhabited mainly by Muslims just as the Asian District. Over there, it was
rather a lightening raid operation aimed at a group of people.

Four Pakistanis and a Nigerian, who clandestinely entered Burundi on 23
September were nabbed, Nkurikiye said. They were picked up in a hotel within
this district. The police lieutenant was, however, reluctant to comment on
information that the six arrested persons were suspected of committing serious
crimes.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 0430 gmt 9 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           October 9, 2013 Wednesday

Xinjiang bid to curb terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Cui Jia

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 556 words


Fresh efforts to regulate the spread of religious extremism online

Public security forces in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region have stepped up
efforts to regulate the spread of religious extremism online in an effort to
curb terrorist attacks.

The Xinjiang Public Security Bureau has handled an increasing number of cases in
which individuals have posted or searched for religious extremist content on the
Internet during the past three years, an anonymous source at the bureau told
Xinjiang Daily.

Some even plot terrorist attacks online and later put their plans into action,
the source said, without giving the exact number.

The source also said that most of the people who spread religious extremism
online are unemployed and have a limited education no higher than junior high
school or even primary school.

From June 26 to Aug 31, 139 people across Xinjiang were arrested for spreading
religious extremism including jihad, or what extremist Muslims commonly call
"holy war", police said.

Ma Pinyan, a senior anti-terrorism researcher and deputy director of the ethnic
and religious study center at the Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences, said the
penetration of religious extremism in China has led to increased attacks in
Xinjiang, so the spread of such information must be curbed.

Xinjiang police said the leader of the gang that carried out an attack on June
26 in Lukqun, Turpan prefecture, which resulted in 35 deaths, arranged for
members to watch videos promoting religious extremism.

Police also found that members of a terrorist cell formed in September 2012 in
Selibuya, a township in Kashgar prefecture, regularly attended meetings where
they viewed and listened to materials relating to religious extremism and
terrorism.

They also underwent physical training and learned how to kill by watching videos
of terrorist attacks.

Police found knives, combat training materials, illegal religious extremist
pamphlets and three jihadist flags after the group killed 15 people in an attack
on April 23.

In another recent incident, Kashgar police noticed a large number of video and
audio files spreading religious extremism as well as instigating terrorist
activities had been uploaded onto the Internet since July 11.

The suspect turned out to be a 17-year-old high school senior from Jiashi
county.

The young offender told Xinjiang Daily that he wanted to increase awareness of
religion among his classmates.

The contents he posted have been viewed more than 5,100 times and downloaded
1,201 times, according to police, who said the student's understanding of
religion has been twisted by religious extremism and violent information.

The student was given 10 days' administrative detention, but as he is a minor
and a first-time offender, the punishment was not carried out.

"Young people are easily attracted to, and manipulated by, these websites that
contain religious extremist content because they are well produced and in the
Uygur language. In comparison, Uygur websites are outdated and can't meet
people's demands, especially those of young people," said Adiljon Abrat, a
professor at Xinjiang University's school of politics and public relations.

Uygur websites also don't educate people about the law, so many don't know that
spreading terror-related information online is illegal, Adiljon added.

cuijia@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     October 9, 2013 Wednesday 9:46 AM GMT

MI5 boss: UK faces major terror attack every year

BYLINE: Andy Wells

LENGTH: 239 words


<em class="bold">BRITAIN is facing years of attempted terror attacks, according
to the boss of MI5.</em>

Andrew Parker said that Britain has faced one or two major terrorist attempts
every year since 2000, and that is unlikely to change over the next few years.

He warned: "Since 2000, we have seen serious attempts at major acts of terrorism
in this country typically once or twice a year.

"That feels to me, for the moment, unlikely to change."

Mr Parker, who took over as head of the security service organisation in April,
added that the conflict in Syria played some part in the increased terror
threat.

He said: "A growing proportion of our casework now has some link to Syria,
mostly concerning individuals from the UK who have travelled to fight there or
who aspire to do so.

Andrew Parker

"Al Nusrah and other extremist Sunni groups there aligned with al Qaeda aspire
to attack Western countries...

"It remains the case that there are several thousand Islamist extremists here
who see the British people as a legitimate target."

A recent spate of incidents in Northern Ireland also caused concern to the MI5
chief.

He added: "Rejecting the political process in Northern Ireland, these ragged
remnants of a bygone age are in a cul-de-sac of pointless violence and crime
with little community support.

"We will continue to work with the police to put these thugs and killers in
front of the courts."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 9, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MI5: leaks a gift for terrorists to attack us at will;
Guardian release of GCHQ files criticised Thousands of Islamist fanatics in
Britain MI5 cannot protect you 100 per cent, chief warns

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1077 words


THE leaking of thousands of GCHQ files by the CIA spy Edward Snowden has caused
"enormous damage" and handed terrorists the "gift" of being able to attack
Britain "at will", the new head of MI5 warned last night.

Andrew Parker, the director general of the Security Service, said exposing
intelligence techniques had given fanatics the ability to evade the spy
agencies. The Snowden files were published earlier this year by the Guardian
newspaper.

Mr Parker used his first public speech since taking over at MI5 to issue a
scathing attack on the Snowden leaks.

He warned that the UK was facing its gravest terrorism threat, including from
"several thousand" Islamist extremists who are living here and want to attack
the country.

It is feared within Whitehall that the leaked material has resulted in a
"guidebook for terrorists" while there is frustration that Snowden has been
hailed as a heroic whistleblower in some circles. Sources have said they find it
incomprehensible that anyone could argue that exposing spy agency techniques for
tracking terrorists is in the public interest.

Leaks from Snowden are known to contain at least 58,000 GCHQ files and it is
feared there could be many more.

It is unclear which other countries have had access to the documents.

It is understood that the Guardian continued to expose the information despite
pleas from the Government not to disclose intelligence techniques. It is
believed to be the worst leak of British intelligence files and to have caused
the greatest damage.

Mr Parker last night did not specifi-cally name Snowden or the Guardian. But he
said: "It causes enormous damage to make public the reach and limits of GCHQ
techniques.

"Such information hands the advantage to the terrorists. It is the gift they
need to evade us and strike at will.

"Unfashionable as it might seem, that is why we must keep secrets secret, and
why not doing so causes such harm."

He said the details of the spy agencies' capabilities was their "margin of
advantage" over the fanatics.

"That margin gives us the prospect of being able to detect their plots and stop
them. But that margin is under attack," he said. He added that reports from GCHQ
were "vital to the safety of this country and its citizens".

"We are facing an international threat and GCHQ provides many of the
intelligence leads upon which we rely," he said.

Mr Parker said the country was already facing its most complicated and
unpredictable terrorism threat and that it was "getting harder" for his agents
to protect against the diverse dangers. With the spread of an al-Qaeda threat to
more and more countries, the continuing danger of Irish terrorism, the emergence
of the lonewolf fanatic and advances in technology and cyber warfare, MI5 was
now "tackling threats on more fronts than ever before", he said.

In the speech to the Royal United Services Institute in London, Mr Parker said:
"Our task is getting harder. The threats are more diverse and diffuse. And we
face increasing challenges caused by the speed of technological change."

He warned: "It remains the case that there are several thousand Islamist
extremists here who see the British people as a legitimate target."

Among those are Britons, numbering in the low hundreds, sources say, who have
travelled to Syria, which is now a hotbed of extremism, and since returned home.

He added: "For the future, there is good reason to be concerned about Syria. A
growing proportion of our casework now has some link to Syria, mostly concerning
individuals from the UK who have travelled to fight there or who aspire to do
so."

While the threat of a large scale terrorist outrage may have diminished it has
not been removed, he said, while there is a growing risk of smaller attacks or
individuals acting on their own. Since 2011, a total of 330 people have been
convicted of terrorism-related offences in Britain.

There is also the threat to Britons around the world, such as the attack on the
In Amenas gas facility in Algeria and the recent Westgate shopping centre
outrage in Nairobi, Kenya.

"Overall, I do not believe the terrorist threat is worse now than before, but it
is more diffuse. More complicated. More unpredictable," he said. There have been
one or two major terrorist plots in Britain every year since 2000 and that
pattern was "unlikely to change", he said.

And it was impossible to protect the public 100 per cent, he added, as "life is
not the movies".

Because of their nature and terrible consequences, there was an expectation that
there should be "zero" terrorist attacks, but this was unrealistic, he said. Mr
Parker also stressed there was a difference between "knowing of someone and
knowing everything about them".

"The idea that we either can or would want to operate intensive scrutiny of
thousands is fanciful," he said, "This is not East Germany, or North Korea. And
thank goodness it's not."

He also made a defence for extended powers to monitor modern communications, the
subject of recent controversy, saying "we cannot work without tools".

He said the idea that the agencies would use such powers to monitor everyone's
private lives was "utter nonsense". Explaining why he made a public speech, he
said it was important for spies to step out of the shadows occasionally to
explain to the public the threats they faced.

Snowden, 30, was a CIA analyst based in the US National Security Agency,
responsible for one of the biggest intelligence leaks in American history.

He used his position to access and steal thousands of classified documents on US
and related British spy programmes.

Snowden fled the US and is currently being sheltered in Russia.

Real IRA Terrorists 'are just ragged remnants'

The Real IRA and other terrorists in Northern Ireland are "ragged remnants of a
bygone age" who are "in a cul-de-sac of pointless violence", the spy chief
Andrew Parker has said. The new director general of MI5 last night said that
while some remained intent on murder in the region, they did not represent the
vast majority of people who had worked hard to establish peace.

In his first public speech since taking the job in April, Mr Parker said: "We
have obviously seen enormous progress in rebuilding normality in Northern
Ireland in the 15 years since the Good Friday Agreement. But we still have to
deal with continuing incidents of violence on both sides.

"We will continue to work with the police to put these thugs and killers in
front of the courts."

Tom Whitehead

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 9, 2013 Wednesday 5:35 PM GMT

Revealed: How elephants were also the victims of Kenya's shopping mall
massacre... because terror group funded attack by POACHING

BYLINE: AMANDA WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 725 words



     ·    Animal census is launched in Kenya and Tanzania at the Amboseli
          National Park in Kajiado County
     ·    Authorities are investigating claims Al Shabaab, linked with al-Qaeda,
          are behind poaching of rhinos and elephants
     ·    The rise in poaching is concerning authorities as the poachers
          targeted endangered species
     ·    Al-Shabab has said it carried out the attack on the Westgate shopping
          mall, in which at least 67 people were killed


Al-Shabaab - the extremist group behind the Kenyan mall massacre - is believed
to have funded its terrorist attack by poaching endangered species in the
country's national parks.

Authorities have confirmed a probe has been launched into claims that the group,
linked with al Qaeda, are behind the poaching of rhinos and elephants, as an
animal 'head count' is launched in Kenya and Tanzania at the Amboseli National
Park in Kajiado County.

Hillary Clinton recently unveiled an $80 million plan to tackle elephant
poaching in Africa.

She warned that money from the wildlife crime could be helping to fund terrorist
groups  - including the al-Shabaab group that launched the attack on the
Westgate shopping mall in Kenya last month, a theory which is backed by elephant
conservation groups.

The Elephant Action League (EAL),  launched a two year undercover investigation
of elephant poaching in Kenya in 2011.

Andrea Crosta, who lead the investigation, said many poachers he spoke to said
they were increasingly selling to al-Shabaab, the  New Scientist reports.

The ivory is then sold on to markets in Asia, at hugely inflated prices.

He said: 'Part of al-Shabaab's funding has been, and is still, from ivory.'

He added that according to sources in the militant group, 3 tonnes of ivory were
passing through Somalian ports each month.

It is believed this could be earning the group up to $600,000 (£375,000) a
month.

In the past month, armed poachers are said to have slaughtered five rhinos in
the Oserian sanctuary and escaped with the horns.

The rise in poaching is concerning authorities as the killers are targeting
endangered species.

William Kiprono, director of Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS), said it was now
investigating the claims, and warned local communities not to be 'used by
foreigners' for poaching.

Standard Digital News reports: 'The problem of poaching does not only involve
foreigners but is done in four stages - from local level, financiers, exporters
up to consumers - and our people are used to kill the wild animals.

'I urge them to stop this habit as it is primitive and aimed at destroying
nature, which cannot then be enjoyed by the next generation.'

It comes as an animal 'head count' is launched in Kenya and Tanzania at the
Amboseli National Park in Kajiado County.

The census will be carried out this week, and will cost 104,000 US dollars. It
is a collaboration between the two countries and the Kenya  Wildlife Service
(KWS), Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute (TAWIRI) and the African Wildlife
Foundation (AWF).

Kenyan and Tanzanian governments started on October 7 a joint aerial count of
elephants and other large mammals in the shared ecosystem of the Amboseli-West
Kilimanjaro and Natron- Magadi landscape.

Rhino horn is just one part of a trade worth an estimated 19 billion US dollars
(£12 billion), making it the fourth biggest global illegal trade after
narcotics, counterfeiting and human trafficking.

Among the reasons for the trade is demand for medicines, consumer goods and the
desire to possess exotic pets, hunting trophies and rare plants and animals.

Illegal wildlife trade thrives in places with widespread corruption, weak law
enforcement and where rangers, police officers and customs officials are not
sufficiently trained or resourced with new tools such as DNA tracing technology.

The Centre for Pastoralists Development (Cepad) said it was concerned over the
rise in poaching in ranches in the last few months.

Al-Shabab, which is part of al-Qaeda, has said it carried out the attack on the
Westgate shopping mall, in which at least 67 people were killed.

The count comes after a similar wet count done earlier in April this year. It is
the practice of Kenyan and Tanzania wildlife authorities to conduct both a wet
and a dry aerial census every three years in the Amboseli West Kilimanjaro and
Magadi Natron cross border landscape.

This collaboration started in 2010 and this census is the fourth.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 9, 2013 Wednesday 10:00 PM GMT

It will take another 9/11 for Britain to go to war abroad, says minister;
Britain is war-weary and only "extreme circumstances" like the September 11,
2001 terrorist attacks could persuade the public to support a major new foreign
deployment, Philip Hammond says

BYLINE: By James Kirkup Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 367 words


Costly campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan have put voters off foreign wars, with
the result that there will be no significant military operations "any time soon"
the Defence Secretary said.

Once Britain's mission in Afghanistan has drawn to a close next year, the Armed
Forces will not be involved in major foreign deployments for many years, the
minister told MPs.

"Public appetite for expeditionary warfare is pretty low, based on the
experience of 10 years in Iraq and Afghanistan," Mr Hammond said. "It would be
realistic of me to say that I would not expect, except in the most extreme
circumstances, a manifestation of great appetite for plunging into a prolonged
period of expeditionary warfare any time soon."

Mr Hammond compared Britain's attitude with that of the US public following the
Vietnam War, when America undertook a "clear disengagement" from international
affairs. In August the Commons voted against military involvement in Syria.

The Afghan operation, which began in 2001 and has cost 444 British lives, will
be wound up next year. Speaking to the Commons defence committee, Mr Hammond
said it would take several years before politicians and military leaders could
start to "rebuild" public support for military expeditions abroad.

However, he suggested that unexpected events could transform public opinion very
quickly.

"We saw with 9/11 what a single event can do to change the tone," he said.

The rise of powers such as China means that Britain's economic future depends on
a willingness to defend Western values of democracy and the rule of law, he
added. "We are a nation more dependent than any other on an open global trading
system. The survival of that system is not a given," he said.

Whitehall officials are starting to consider the next Strategic Defence and
Security Review in 2015, which will define Britain's military ambitions for the
rest of the decade. The Armed Forces have based their plans on the assumption
that the defence budget will be spared additional cuts after the 2015 election,
and more will be available for new equipment.

Mr Hammond said that if the next government failed to deliver that funding, the
Forces would have to abandon entire military capabilities.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 9, 2013 Wednesday 4:13 PM GMT

Terror suspect wins right to live in Britain after judges reject Theresa May's
appeal;
A suspected terrorist accused of planning attacks on British soldiers in Iraq
could return to the UK after the Home Secretary lost a legal challenge in the
Supreme Court.

BYLINE: By David Barrett Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 452 words


Hilal Al-Jedda, an Iraqi, was barred from Britain for good in 2007 when the
government revoked UK citizenship rights he had been awarded seven years
earlier.

But today the Supreme Court upheld an earlier ruling that the Home Office had
acted illegally beause the decision to strip Al-Jedda of his British nationality
made him "stateless".

The 56 year-old is understood to want to return to Britain - where he lived from
1992 to 2004 and Theresa May, the Home Secretary, may now have to approve a new
passport for the terror suspect.

The polygamous father-of-eight was detained without trial or access to the
courts for three years by British forces in Iraq on suspicion of smuggling
weapons and planning bomb attacks as part of a "terrorist group".

Lord Neuberger, the President of the Supreme Court, and a panel of four other
judges, said in a ruling that the Home Secretary's legal case had been based on
a "fallacy".

United Nations guidelines and the Home Office's own rules set out how officials
should decide whether revoking nationality would make a person legally
stateless, the judges said.

"The Secretary of State's own guidance eloquently exposes the fallacy behind her
own appeal," said the judges' ruling.

Al-Jedda came to Britain with his first wife in 1992 as an asylum seeker. They
were granted leave to remain here in 1998 and won citizenship two years later.

When Jacqui Smith, the former Labour home secretary, revoked his British
nationality in 2007 he was technically made stateless because he automatically
lost his Iraqi citizenship on taking a British passport.

He was divorced and then re-married, and took a second polygamous wife.

In September 2004 Al-Jedda travelled from Britain to Iraq and was arrested the
following month.

He was detained until February 2008 and on his release travelled to Turkey,
where he now lives.

Following a divorce from his second wife he has married a third time and lives
with all eight of his children.

However, the Home Office gave evidence to the Supreme Court that Al-Jedda is not
stateless because he has, in fact, held Iraqi nationality since 2008.

It submitted a photocopy of an Iraqi passport application form dated January
2008 and told judges the travel document was awarded a few days later.

It remains unclear whether this evidence will form the basis of further legal
challenges by the Home Office to avoid awarding Al-Jedda a British passport.

Al-Jedda has previously won a case at the European Court of Human Rights which
found his internment breached his right to liberty. Judges ordered the
Government to pay Al-Jedda damages of £22,400 and £35,700 in costs and expenses.

Another claim for damages in the British courts was rejected in 2010.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 9, 2013 Wednesday 12:48 PM GMT

It's time we stopped helping terrorists to attack us

BYLINE: By Con Coughlin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 328 words


I do hope the Guardianistas are feeling pleased with themselves today. Having
cheered Edward Snowden for making all kinds of lurid allegations about how our
intelligence agencies go about their business, they can now take comfort from
the knowledge that they are also giving a helping hand to Islamist terror groups
that want to blow up our shopping centres, airports and transportation services.

That is certainly the logical conclusion to be drawn from the stark warning
issued by Andrew Parker, the new head of MI5, who has publicly stated that the
exposing of intelligence techniques by the Guardian had given terror cells the
means to evade detection by the intelligence and security services.

At a time when Britain is under the constant threat of attack from the thousands
of Islamist extremists living in our midst, the last thing we should be doing is
giving them any advantage that will enable them to carry out their vile schemes.

But that is not how the Guardianistas see things. So obsessed are they with
their Big Brother conspiracy theories that they will take every opportunity to
expose the various tools used by Western intelligence agencies to track terror
suspects and prevent them from carrying out attacks against innocent civilians
as they go about their everyday business.

The Left in Britain has a long and undistinguished history of supporting the
wrong side, from the Fellow Travellers who sought to defend Stalin, to naive
journalists who allowed Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi to use their bank
accounts to bring libel actions against British newspapers.

Now they seem more interested in aiding and abetting al-Qaeda than making sure
the streets of Britain are kept safe from Islamist suicide bombers.

Read more by Con Coughlin on Telegraph Blogs
Follow Telegraph Blogs on Twitter

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 9, 2013 Wednesday 11:24 AM GMT

GCHQ leaks have 'gifted' terrorists ability to attack 'at will', warns spy
chief;
The leaks of thousands of GCHQ files by CIA spy Edward Snowden have caused
"enormous damage" and handed terrorists the "gift" to attack the UK "at will",
the new head of MI5 has warned.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1136 words


Andrew Parker, the director general of the Security Service, said the exposing
of intelligence techniques, by the Guardian newspaper, had given fanatics the
ability to evade the spy agencies.

It comes at a time when the UK is facing its gravest terror threat, including
from "several thousand" Islamist extremists who are living here and want to
attack the country, Mr Parker said.

He used his first public outing since taking over at MI5 to launch a scathing
attack on the Snowden leaks.

It is feared around Whitehall that the revelations have resulted in a "guidebook
for terrorists" while there is frustration that the American is being heralded
as some kind of heroic whistleblower.

Sources find it incomprehensible that exposing spy agency techniques for
tracking terrorists has been argued to be in the public interest.

Leaks from Snowden are known to contain at least 58,000 GCHQ files and it is
feared there could be many more.

It also unclear whether foreign states have had access to the documents and it
is understood the Guardian continued to expose the information despite pleas
from the Government not to reveal intelligence techniques.

It is believed to be the worst leak of British intelligence files and to have
caused the greatest damage.

In his first speech since becoming head of MI5 in April, Mr Parker did not
specifically name Snowden or the Guardian.

But he said: "It causes enormous damage to make public the reach and limits of
GCHQ techniques.

"Such information hands the advantage to the terrorists. It is the gift they
need to evade us and strike at will.

"Unfashionable as it might seem, that is why we must keep secrets secret, and
why not doing so causes such harm."

He said the details of what capabilities the spy agencies have is their "margin
of advantage" over the fanatics.

"That margin gives us the prospect of being able to detect their plots and stop
them. But that margin is under attack," he said.

He said reports from GCHQ were "vital to the safety of this country and its
citizens", adding: "We are facing an international threat and GCHQ provides many
of the intelligence leads upon which we rely."

Mr Parker said the UK is already facing its most complicated and unpredictable
terror threat and that it was "getting harder" for his agents to protect against
the diverse dangers.

With the spread of an al-Qaeda threat to more and more countries, the continue
danger of Irish terrorism, the emergence of the lone wolf fanatic and advances
in technology and cyber warfare, MI5 is now "tackling threats on more fronts
than ever before", he said.

In the speech to the Royal United Services Institute in London, Mr Parker said:
"Our task is getting harder. The threats are more diverse and diffuse.

"And we face increasing challenges caused by the speed of technological change."

And he warned: "It remains the case that there are several thousand Islamist
extremists here who see the British people as a legitimate target."

Among those are Britons, numbering in the low hundreds sources say, who have
travelled to Syria, which is now a hotbed of extremism and terror groups, and
since returned home.

The spy chief said: "For the future, there is good reason to be concerned about
Syria.

"A growing proportion of our casework now has some link to Syria, mostly
concerning individuals from the UK who have travelled to fight there or who
aspire to do so."

While the threat of a large scale terror outrage may have diminished it has not
been removed, he said, while there is a growing risk of smaller attacks or
individuals acting on their own.

Since 2011, a total of 330 people have been convicted of terrorism-related
offences in Britain.

There is also the threat to Britons around the world, such as the attack on the
In Amenas gas facility in Algeria and the recent Westgate shopping centre
outrage in Nairobi, Kenya.

"Overall, I do not believe the terrorist threat is worse now than before. But it
is

more diffuse. More complicated. More unpredictable," he said.

There have been one or two major terror plots in the UK every year since 2000
and that pattern is "unlikely to change".

And it was impossible to protect the public 100 per cent, he said, adding "life
is not the movies".

He said, because of its nature and terrible consequences, there was an
expectation that there should be "zero" attacks but no crime can have such a
target.

In a clear defence of any potential intelligence failings by MI5, Mr Parker also
stressed there was a difference between "knowing of someone and knowing
everything about them".

"The idea that we either can or would want to operate intensive scrutiny of

thousands is fanciful," he said,

"This is not East Germany, or North Korea. And thank goodness it's not."

He also made a defence for extended powers to monitor modern communications, the
subject of recent controversy, saying "we cannot work without tools".

He said the idea that the agencies would use such powers to monitor everyone's
private lives was "utter nonsense".

Explaining why he made a public speech, he said it was important for spies to
occasionally step out of the shadows to explain to the public the threats they
face.

A Guardian News and Media spokeswoman said: "A huge number of people - from
President Obama to the US director of national intelligence, James Clapper -
have now conceded that the Snowden revelations have prompted a debate which was
both necessary and overdue.

"The President has even set up a review panel and there have been vigorous
discussions in the US Congress and throughout Europe. Such a debate is only
worthwhile if it is informed. That is what journalism should do."

Henry Porter, a columnist at the Observer, the Guardian's sister newspaper, said
Sir Andrew was "wrong" to suggest leaks have put lives at risk.

He said that he has lost confidence in the Intelligence and Security Committee,
the body of MPs and peers which oversees the security services.

Mr Porter said: "He's wrong [to say The Guardian put security at risk]. The
people who released and let go of these documents were the NSA in America.
That's where these leaks took place.

"What we have done is shown how much surveillance we are under.We don't have
sufficient oversight. I don't have that confidence because of the behaviour of
the intelligence and security committee over the last few months, which has
steadily come out in favour of the intelligence services."

Snowden, 30, was a CIA analyst based in the US National Security Agency, who
provoked one of the biggest intelligence leaks in American history.

He used his position to access and steal thousands of classified documents on US
and related British spy programmes.

The leaks were revealed in a series of articles in the Guardian newspaper in
June.

He fled the US and is currently being sheltered in Russia.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 10, 2013 Thursday

Kenyan senator "grilled" over Westgate mall terror attack

LENGTH: 291 words


Text of report by Moses Njagih entitled "Sonko reveals what he knew about
terrorists" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard
website on 10 October

Kenya: The senate began its independent probe into the Westgate Shopping Mall
attack, grilling Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko over his claims that he gave
information of an impending terror attack to security agencies before the
terrorists struck Westgate.

The committee on defence and foreign relations kicked off its investigations,
parallel to another probe being undertaken by the National Assembly. The
committee is chaired by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji.

"Sonko gave us his information about what he knows and we are expecting other
top security chiefs to appear since we have sent summons to them," said Haji,
although he declined to divulge details of what the Nairobi Senator told the
committee.

The Director of NIS [National Intelligence Service] Michael Gichangi and the
Inspector-General of Police David Kimaiyo, who have been accused by parliament
are expected to appear before the committee Thursday [10 October].

Sonko told the committee that he notified security organs of an impending attack
on key areas in Nairobi, including the Westgate mall.

Sonko claimed that he helped two women of either Asian or Arabic origin to offer
information to police on Al-Shabab. He said the women approached him
three-months ago with information the terrorists, who rented houses in Parklands
and Westlands [Nairobi suburbs], were planning a major attack.

He claimed the two women were initially living with the gang in the rented
houses but had escaped after being shown the items that the suspects were
preparing for the attack.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 10 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 10, 2013 Thursday

Kenya announces plans to restore Westgate mall following terror attack

LENGTH: 252 words


Text of report entitled "Govt announces plan to restore Westgate mall" published
by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 10 October

The government has announced plans to restore Westgate mall and support traders
to re-establish their businesses.

East African Affairs, Commerce and Tourism Cabinet Secretary Ms Phyllis Kandie
said her ministry has started plans for rapid restoration of the mall following
the terrorist attack a fortnight ago.

She said her ministry would establish a team comprising Westgate mall
stakeholders to consider and advise on specific measures that government and
other parties would jointly take to restore the mall.

The proposed committee will also identify the immediate actions by the
government to safeguard on possible loss of more than 2000 direct jobs resulting
from the terrorism attack.

Ms Kandie was speaking at her office when she chaired an inter-ministries
consultative forum comprising Westgate tenants and related stakeholders.

The meeting sought to explore ways and means of mitigating economic losses
arising from the closure of the mall.

"Through this partnership, we shall be further seeking to ensure the overall
national economic resilience following the tragic events by reducing levels of
business collapse, investor apathy and job losses," Ms Kandie said.

Prior to the attack, the Westgate Mall was supporting an economic ecosystem,
valued at more than 100bn shillings [1.2bn dollars] annually.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 10 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 10, 2013 Thursday 7:52 PM GMT

Independent Scotland would be more at risk of terrorist attacks, says David
Cameron;
An independent Scotland would more at risk of a terrorist attacks, David Cameron
has warned.

BYLINE: By Christopher Hope Senior Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 329 words


The Prime Minister told a meeting of PM Direct at the Portakabin factory in York
that he was worried the lives of Scots could be put at risk by independence.

Scots vote next year on whether to remain part of the United Kingdom, or break
away as an independent country.

Mr Cameron referred to "the problems of terrorism" such as the attacks by
extremists on a Western-style shopping centre in Nairobi and the "apparent
abduction" of the Libyan Prime Minister earlier that day.

He continued: "When you think about how to keep us safe as a country is better
that we have police forces that work together, intelligence and security
services that cover the whole of our United Kingdom. So I hope we send a very
clear message to the Scots that we want you to stay."

Mr Cameron added: "The United Kingdom has been a success story. Together we are
stronger, we are more prosperous, we are more secure."

First Minister Alex Salmond responded angrily to the comments. His spokesman
said: "This is distasteful and absolutely disgraceful for the Prime Minister to
use an incident in which six Britons and 72 people died to campaign against
Scottish independence. This is a new low for Project Fear."

Mr Cameron added that "indications are good" at the moment that Scots will vote
to stay in UK when the referendum is held next year.

Mr Cameron said that he wanted more people to think on the impact for England if
Scotland were to leave the UK.

He said: "A lot of people are thinking what is the outcome for Scotland if
Scotland leaves the United Kingdom, but you asked what would be the outcome for
England.

"I think the outcome would be bad. We can all exist as separate independent
countries, Scotland could go it alone if she wanted to.

"But I think we are all better off together, and I think it is important that
we, the English send a message to the Scots, that 'we want you to say not just
because think that you would be better off but we think we would be better off
together'."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 10, 2013 Thursday 5:56 PM GMT

Independent Scotlland would be more at risk of terrorist attacks, says David
Cameron;
An independent Scotland would more at risk of a terrorist attacks, David Cameron
has warned.

BYLINE: By Christopher Hope Senior Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 277 words


The Prime Minister told a meeting of PM Direct at the Portakabin factory in York
that he was worried the lives of Scots could be put at risk by independence.

Scots vote next year on whether to remain part of the United Kingdom, or break
away as an independent country.

Mr Cameron referred to "the problems of terrorism" such as the attacks by
extremists on a Western-style shopping centre in Nairobi and the "apparent
abduction" of the Libyan Prime Minister earlier that day.

He continued: "When you think about how to keep us safe as a country is better
that we have police forces that work together, intelligence and security
services that cover the whole of our United Kingdom. So I hope we send a very
clear message to the Scots that we want you to stay."

Mr Cameron added: "The United Kingdom has been a success story. Together we are
stronger, we are more prosperous, we are more secure." He added that
"indications are good" at the moment that Scots will vote to stay in UK when the
referendum is held next year.

Mr Cameron said that he wanted more people to think on the impact for England if
Scotland were to leave the UK.

He said: "A lot of people are thinking what is the outcome for Scotland if
Scotland leaves the United Kingdom, but you asked what would be the outcome for
England.

"I think the outcome would be bad. We can all exist as separate independent
countries, Scotland could go it alone if she wanted to.

"But I think we are all better off together, and I think it is important that
we, the English send a message to the Scots, that 'we want you to say not just
because think that you would be better off but we think we would be better off
together'."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 10, 2013 Thursday 11:08 AM GMT

Clegg: Guardian Snowden leaks 'gifted' terrorists ability to attack;
The Guardian has published information from CIA whistleblower Edward Snowden
which is of "immense interest" to "people who want to do us harm", the Deputy
Prime Minister says

BYLINE: Steven Swinford and Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1069 words


Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader, said that the newspaper has published
"technical information" which may have "passed readers by" but could advantage
terrorists.

He made the comments after Andrew Parker, the new head of MI5, used his first
speech to launch a scathing attack on the leaks warning they had "gifted" the
terrorists the ability to attack "at will".

Mr Clegg said that while he accepted that there was a "legitimate debate to be
had" about the data gathering practices of the security services, The Guardian
had gone too far.

He told his Call Clegg phone in show on LBC Radio: "I've got no doubt that there
were some parts of what were published, which would have passed most Guardian
readers completely by because they were very technical, but would have been
immensely interesting for people who want to do us harm,"

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, said she agreed with Mr Parker that The
Guardian had damaged Britain's national security by publishing the information.

She told BBC News : "I agree with Andrew Parker, I think it is difficult when
you have revelations about how security operates, then that does cause a problem
- it can give some comfort to terrorists.

"And he was very clear about the statement that he made, and I think we need to
be very clear about the need to ensure that we have the security arrangements in
place that enable us to continue to protect the British public."

The Daily Telegraph disclosed today that Britain's deputy national security
advisor has warned that the mass GCHQ leaks have already caused "real damage" to
security.

Oliver Robbins said the Edward Snowden revelations, published by the Guardian
newspaper, could lead "directly to widespread loss of life" and "threaten the
internal stability of the UK".

A senior MP also accused the newspaper and Snowden of being "naïve" if they
thought they could identify what parts of the stolen files would damage national
security if publicised.

He said revealing intelligence techniques had given fanatics the advantage that
allowed them to evade detection.

David Cameron, the Prime Minister, backed the comments.

But despite the warnings, the editor of the Guardian, Alan Rusbridger, vowed to
continue publishing details from the Snowden files.

He dismissed the concerns of the spy agencies adding: "They will always say
that".

Mr Robbins, who is based in the Cabinet Office, detailed the Government's
concerns in a statement to the High Court as part of an ongoing legal battle
following the detention of David Miranda at Heathrow airport.

Mr Miranda is the boyfriend of Glenn Greenwald, the Guardian journalist who made
a series of disclosures based on information from Snowden, a former CIA analyst.

He was found with electronic devices containing up to 58,000 sensitive documents
which were seized by police. Mr Miranda was later allowed to continue his
journey to Brazil.

In his court statement, Mr Robbins said the material was classified as either
"secret" or "top secret".

He said: "The compromise of top secret information would be likely to have one
or more of the following consequences; to threaten the internal stability of the
UK or friendly countries, to lead directly to widespread loss of life.

"To cause exceptionally grave damage to the effectiveness or security of UK or
allied forces or to the continuing effectiveness of security or intelligence
operations.

"To cause exceptionally grave damage to relations with friendly governments and
to cause severe long-term damage to the UK economy."

Mr Robbins added: "It is worth reiterating the point that real damage has in
fact already been done to UK national security by the media revelations (both in
the UK and internationally)."

The Government adviser said the leaks had put the lives of UK intelligence
agents at risk and signalled some have already had to be moved.

He said it appeared a "complete set of the UK intelligence documents on one
particular network" had been taken by Snowden.

There are fears that foreign states, such as Russia or China, may have already
had access to the files after Snowden sheltered there.

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, chairman of the parliamentary body which oversees the spy
agencies, said leaks had been "damaging".

He said the intelligence agencies should be trusted to operate in secret because
they are not "political tools" of repression like security services in Russia
and China.

Sir Malcolm, chairman of the Intelligence and Security Committee, told The Daily
Telegraph: "When we know that Snowden has over 50,000 classified documents
relevant to UK interests the idea that he or others would be able identify which
are damaging to national security is naive.

"Even knowing the technology that is available to GCHQ or MI5 or MI6 is
valuable. Some of these terrorists are very, very smart. It's not like the old
days when communication could only be by letter or telephone call.

"Unless they [the security services] are at the cutting edge of modern
technology they will be behind the terrorists who are smart on encryption and
trying to conceal what they are doing."

Asked whether Mr Cameron agreed with Mr Parker that the leaks had been a gift to
potential terrorists, the No 10 spokesman said: "I would happily point you to
all parts of the director general's speech. It was an excellent speech."

However Mr Rusbridger defended his newspaper's role in publishing the sensitive
information, claiming it was stepping in where MPs had failed.

He told BBC Radio 4's World at One: "It's quite surprising to me that the number
of MPs in this country who have said anything at all in the last four months can
be counted on one hand - Malcolm Rifkind, Tom Watson, David Davis.

"So, if Parliament's not going to have this discussion and if the courts can
only do this in private then I think absolutely it falls to the press to
stimulate a discussion, which as I say through America, throughout Europe, is
one that the public is intensely interested in."

Challenged on Mr Parker's suggestions that publishing the information was
helping terrorists, he replied: "They will always say that. You read histories
of intelligence and you go back to the 1990s and the security people were saying
the same."

And he added: "We are working slowly and responsibly (through the files) but as
we discover further stories that we think merit the debate, the debate that
everyone says is necessary, then we will go on publishing."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                           October 10, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Woman's terror after dog attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 146 words


A woman who was attacked by a dog, being bitten through to the bone, says she
has been left terrified by the ordeal.

Claire Langlands, 30, spent four days in Yeovil District Hospital after the
attack by a male Akita near the town just after 7pm on October 3. She underwent
two operations to treat three puncture wounds on her right forearm, one of which
measured six centimetres, fracturing the bone and dislodging muscle.

She said: "The dog was on a lead as my husband, Martin, and I walked past. He
lunged at me, pulling the owner over.

"I thought he was going for my throat so put my arm out to protect myself. I
felt excruciating pain, like nothing I've ever felt before and I was screaming.
The dog's owners were unable to comment but others who know the animal have said
it was out of character for a "calm" and "sweet" dog. Police are making
enquiries and would not comment.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2013 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 11, 2013 Friday 11:41 AM GMT

Malala Yousafzai: Taliban threatens shops that sell teenage activist's book;
As the world waited to find out who would win this year's Nobel Peace Prize,
terrorists in Pakistan say they would attack bookshops stocking Malala
Yousafzai's new book

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly Islamabad, and agencies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 404 words


The Pakistan Taliban warned bookshops in Pakistan they would be attacked if they
stock Malala Yousafzai's memoir.

One year after the terrorist group's gunmen shot the 15-year-old activist in the
head, she was the front runner to win the Nobel Peace Prize, announced today.

In Pakistan, she arouses mixed feelings. Many accuse her of being an agent of
the West for her campaign to get more girls into school and some even believe
her life-threatening injuries were faked.

The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan has this week repeated its threat to kill the
young woman, now 16, and has told the Dawn newspaper that shops stocking I Am
Malala, which was published on Tuesday, would be targeted.

"Malala abandoned Islam for secularism for which she is being given awards,"
Shahidullah Shahid, a spokesman for the group, told the paper.

"The Taliban will not lose an opportunity to kill Malala Yousafzai and those who
were found selling her book will be targeted."

The book has been selling well in the capital Islamabad. One bookshop said it
had sold three-quarters of its initial order of 100 copies within two days of
publication - a reflection of the divide between an urban elite and more
conservative rural areas.

Meanwhile Malala was appearing in New York with CNN's Christiane Amanpour at a
sold-out public event.

With her head covered in a scarf and wearing high heels, she told an ecstatic
audience that she one day hoped to return to Pakistan to become prime minister.

"I think it's really good because through politics I can save my whole country,"
she said.

"I can spend much of the budget on education and I can also concentrate on
foreign affairs."

The schoolgirl was shot in the head by gunmen on October 9, 2012, for speaking
out against them, demanding that girls have the right to go to school.

She was flown to Britain for specialist care and made a remarkable recovery,
going on to become a global ambassador for children's rights.

At 16, the awarding committee of the Nobel Peace Prize may decide she is too
young to bear the pressures of such a prestigious award and she faces stiff
competition from Denis Mukwege, a Congolese doctor who specialises in the
treatment of women who have been gang raped.

On the eve of the announcement, Malala said he work would continue whatever
happened.

"If I got the Nobel Peace Prize I think it would be such a great honor and more
than I deserve," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                           October 12, 2013 Saturday

Malala tells president how 'drone attacks are fuelling terrorism'

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 262 words


US president Barack Obama has met the teenage advocate for girls' education and
the target of a Taliban assassination attempt who was the youngest nominee for
the Nobel Peace Prize.

Mr Obama met with 16-year-old Malala Yousafzai on Friday, the same day the Nobel
Peace Prize was awarded to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical
Weapons.

The Pakistani teenager was considered a front-runner for the prize, which Mr
Obama won in 2009. She was in Washington to speak at two events.

She said in a statement she was honoured to meet the president.

Malala was shot in the head in October 2012 while going home from school.

She was flown to a British hospital for treatment. Her memoir, I am Malala, was
published on Tuesday.

Malala said: "I thanked president Obama for the United States' work in
supporting education in Pakistan and Afghanistan and for Syrian refugees.

"I also expressed my concerns that drone attacks are fuelling terrorism.
Innocent victims are killed in these acts, and they lead to resentment among the
Pakistani people. If we refocus efforts on education it will make a big impact."

She called for greater co-operation between the governments of the United States
and Pakistan.

The White House said in a statement that Malala met with the president and first
lady in the Oval Office where the president signed a proclamation to mark Friday
as the International Day of the Girl.

The proclamation says in part that "on every continent, there are girls who will
go on to change the world in ways we can only imagine, if only we allow them the
freedom to dream".

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 12, 2013 Saturday

SAfrica lawmakers demand answers in wake of Kenya terror attack link

LENGTH: 184 words


Text of report by South African newspaper Beeld website on 11 October

[Report by Philda Essop: "MPs Want Answers on 'White Widow's' SA Passport"]

Cape Town: MPs yesterday demanded answers about the country's security and how
the "White Widow" got a South African passport.

The British citizen Samantha Lewthwaite, dubbed the White Widow, and about 15 of
her alleged helpers are on the wanted list of international intelligence
organizations after the mall massacre in Nairobi during which at least 67 people
died.

Lewthwaite earlier had a fake South African passport.

Members of the parliamentary portfolio committee asked home affairs director
general Mkuseli Apleni questions about Lewthwaite at a committee meeting
yesterday.

Apleni said the department planned to establish a border control agency that
would handle all aspects regarding border management. The national population
register would also be "cleaned" to ensure that it was safe.

He said the Lewthwaite issue was being investigated by the authorities and they
had nearly completed the task.

Source: Beeld website, Pretoria, in Afrikaans 11 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 12, 2013 Saturday

Kenyan man to sue state over "wrongful" confinement after mall terror attack

LENGTH: 329 words


Text of report by Wilfred Ayaga and Willis Oketch entitled "Man held over
Westlands terror attack to sue state" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily
newspaper The Standard website on 12 October

Nairobi, Kenya: A man who had been held in secret custody on suspicion that he
was one of the Westgate terrorists now says he will sue the state for wrongful
confinement.

Ali Kiai Gitonga was released on Thursday [10 October] evening, a few hours
after his family moved to court demanding that he be charged. The family had
expressed fears over his life, saying they had not spoken to him for two weeks.
They said they feared he could be executed by the police.

Mbugua Mureithi, the family's lawyer, told the court that he had received
confirmation from the police that Gitonga had been released without any charges
being preferred against him.

"Following this development, he is now interested in suing the state for what he
endured during the 14 days he was unlawfully held," the lawyer told the court.

Gitonga'a wife Khadija Mutuli Mohammed, who was in court, confirmed that her
husband had been released.

She said he was still recovering from gunshot wounds sustained during the
Westgate attack.

Khadija said her husband now walks with a limp following the incident.

The family had on Tuesday told the court that Gitonga was shot by police during
the rescue operation at Westgate, before being framed as one of the terrorists.

Meanwhile, a Mombasa court has ordered that a terror suspect who was found in
possession of explosives be remanded in police custody for four days.

Mombasa Senior Principal Magistrate Richard Odenyo ordered Swaleh Abdallah Said
to be remanded at Makupa Police Station to allow anti-terrorism police to
complete their investigations.

Abdallah, who was arrested at Likoni on Thursday at 7 a.m. [local time], has
denied that on 10 October at 7.40 a.m. in Likoni he was found in possession of
explosives.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 12 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           October 12, 2013 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Police 'foil' new terror attack plan

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 182 words


Kenya: A court has charged a man  suspected of links to last month's  attack on
a Nairobi shopping mall with plotting to commit terrorist acts in  the port city
of Mombasa.

Anti-terrorism police arrested Swaleh Abdallah Said on Thursday and he led them
to a house in Mombasa where they found explosives, a grenade, two mobile phones
and passports, prosecutors told the magistrate's court.

Prosecutor Simon Waithaka said: "We are requesting four days to conclude
investigations because we are linking the accused to the  recent acts of
terrorism at Westgate in Nairobi."

Said has denied all the charges.

Somali Islamic militant group al Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack
on the Westgate mall on  September 21, the worst attack in Kenya in 15 years, in
which at least 67 people died.

Authorities said last month they were holding eight people in connection with
the attack but no one has been charged.

Kenya has named four of the attackers, saying they also included a Kenyan Arab
and a Somali. Police also arrested 19-year-old Said Nassir Haddir, in
 connection with the Westgate attack.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: * 67 people died in Westgate Mall attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   York Press

                           October 12, 2013 Saturday

Children's terror at hammer attack on father

BYLINE: Megi Rychlikova

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 497 words


TWO armed burglars who burst into a house where two young children were sleeping
and attacked their father have been jailed.

Raymond Neil Harris, who was carrying a hammer, was jailed for 13 years. His
accomplice, Simon Timothy Kay, who was carrying a knife, was jailed for nine
years.

Harris had previously carried out a similar armed house raid and both men were
high on drugs and alcohol at the time, York Crown Court heard.

Harris hit the father with the hammer, the jury heard.

When the father, dressed only in boxer shorts, managed to grab the hammer from
Harris, Harris threatened him and Kay raised his knife.

Woken by the noise, the householder's two-year-old son had gone to see what was
happening. Kay then kicked the toddler's father.

The court heard that as the intruders stole the father's car and fled the home
in Clifton, the victim's six-year-old son, who had been sleeping in his dad's
bedroom, screamed so loudly he woke a neighbour.

One of the children is now so traumatised he is terrified whenever he sees a
"hoodie" in the street and gets nervous when he hears a noise at night.

Judge Stephen Ashurst, the Recorder of York, said: "People who make others fear
for their own safety in their own homes must receive appropriate punishment as a
very serious deterrent."

Harris, 30, of Fossway, and Kay, 22, of Tamworth Road, both in York, had denied
aggravated burglary, causing actual bodily harm to the father and aggravated car
snatching, but were convicted and sentenced at York Crown Court.

Harris, who drove the car away, was banned from driving for three years.

Kay was on a suspended prison sentence and a community order at the time of the
burglary. Harris had previously served a four-and-a-half year prison sentence
for aggravated burglary.

The judge said they had "gambled on trying to pull the wool over the eyes of the
jury" by running "extremely bogus defences" and said Harris was the "prime
mover" in the crimes.

Lawyers for both men said they had committed their latest crimes while addicted
to drugs and alcohol.

For Harris, Benjamin Myers said: "He is not an inherently violent offender". He
was a "nervous" man who had taken the hammer to the victim's house to support a
threat, rather than to inflict a serious injury.

Since being remanded in custody, he had sought to rehabilitate himself and to
train as a joiner. He was concerned about the effect a long sentence would have
on his relationship with his own children.

Judge Ashurst said if Harris's children had been the victim of a similar crime,
he would expect the courts to pass a heavy sentence.

For Kay, Nicholas Barker said he was a "damaged person himself" because of a
road crash that had killed his mother and two siblings and blighted his life.

He had not wanted to harm the child and had been concerned for the child's
safety. He had been a "follower" in the crimes.

Both men said they now regretted their crimes, but the judge said he was
sceptical of their regret because they had denied the charges.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 13, 2013 Sunday

Some injured in "terrorist" attack on soldiers' vehicles in Sinai - Egypt TV

LENGTH: 47 words


At 0840 gmt on 13 October, Egyptian state-run Nile News TV carried the following
"urgent" screen caption: "Nile News TV correspondent: Terrorist attack on
soldiers' vehicles in Al-Shaykh Zuwayid [in Sinai], leaves some injured."

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 0840gmt 13 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                October 13, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SF POLITICIAN IS BATTERED BY IRA HUSBAND;
WIFE'S TERROR XMAS DAY ATTACK Crazed ex-Provo assaulted wife, wrecked her home
and then tried to torch her car

BYLINE: Ciaran BARNES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 763 words


A SINN FEIN politician was beaten up by her estranged IRA gunman husband in a
brutal Christmas Day assault that finally ended their 30-year relationship.

Paul Norney - who served 20 years in an English jail for the attempted murder of
a policeman - also wrecked terrified Breige Brownlee's west Belfast home and
tried totorch her car.

The crazed 57-year-old will be sentenced on Thursday after pleading guilty to
assault, arson, criminal damage and threats to damage property.

He has been held on remand in Maghaberry Prison since the frightening festive
attack.

Like her husband Norney, ex-Sinn Fein councillor Breige, 54, is also a former
IRA prisoner.

The mother-of-three was jailed for eight years in 1977 for possession of
fire-bombs.

FIGHT

The paramilitary turned politician is still too upset to talk about her ordeal
at the hands of childhood sweetheart who she separated from some years ago.

Liaising on her behalf, a Sinn Fein spokesman said Breige did not wish to
comment on the case.

Norney showed up at Breige's home in the St James' area of west Belfast last
Christmas Day spoiling for a fight. She pleaded with him to leave but her cries
fell on deaf ears.

Norney grabbed his wife's mobile phone and tried to smash it fearing she was
calling the police.

He then repeatedly hit the front door of her house after she managed to force it
closed.

Three days later Norney, who has an Open University degree in social sciences,
repeated his campaign of harassment against Breige.

This time he set fire to her Hyundai Matrix car.

He also threatened to burn down the home of Bernadette Irwin, who is a friend of
the Sinn Fein member.

Norney was later arrested and charged with arson and assault.

He has spent the last 10 months on remand in Maghaberry Prison and is now
awaiting sentencing.

RIDICULOUS

During that time he wrote a ridiculous letter to Sunday Life moaning about how
an Ulster fry is not available on the jail dinner menu because it is not
considered healthy.

Breige Brownlee and Paul Norney's bitter fall-out shows how the most rock-solid
of republican relationships can fall apart.

The couple, who first met as teenagers in west Belfast, married in Parkhurst
Prison on the Isle of Wight in September 1987.

Norney was 12 years into a minimum 20 year sentence for the attempted murder of
a policeman in England.

Breige had been released from Armagh Women's Prison just three years earlier
after doing a seven year stretch for possession of an IRA firebomb.

Prison chiefs allowed just eight guests to attend their wedding ceremony at
which only two photographs were permitted.

Speaking about her love for Norney, Breige said at the time: "The first time I
saw him it was at my granny's house. He was 15.

"I looked at him and I just knew that was it. To tell you the truth it is hard
to put in words. Yes, he is attractive, tall with dark blue eyes.

"Over the years I went with others, one better looking, but there has never been
anyone else for me but Paul.

"There is something about him that is very strong, very genuine."

Norney - who was freed from jail in 1996 after serving 21 years behind bars -
joined the IRA in west Belfast as a teenager.

He went on the run aged 15 after an attack on a factory left three soldiers
dead.

The young Provo was eventually arrested, but later escaped from a juvenile
detention centre.

STRANGE

He made his way to England, where aged 17, he was involved in the attempted
murder of a policeman.

Norney was jailed for a minimum 20 years before his release in 1996.

After tying the knot with Breige in 1987 it was a further nine years before
their marriage was consummated.

She touched on this in a media interview in 1995, saying: "I know it seems
strange to other people to get married to someone in prison, to have a marriage
of nearly eight years that has never been consummated.

"But we have grown together rather than apart. He is my best friend. It doesn't
make us any less together, we're just on a different level."

Although the couple remained together for some time after Norney's release from
jail they have spent the last number of years apart.

In that time Breige Brownlee's political career in Sinn Fein took off and she
was co-opted onto Belfast City Council in 2009.

But she lost her seat in the Lower Falls in the 2011 elections to the SDLP.
Despite this she remains an active member of Sinn Fein in west Belfast.

Republican sources told Sunday Life she plans to stand for election to the
council in 2015.

'Over the years I went with others, but there has never been anyone else for me
but Paul ? BREIGE BROWNLEE

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUCCESSFUL POLITICAL CAREER: Breige Brownlee with SF chief Gerry Adams
BRUTALLY ASSAULTED IN HER OWN HOME: SF politician Breige Brownlee
MARRIED BEHIND BARS: Former IRA prisoners Breige Brownlee and Paul Norney

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2013 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 13, 2013 Sunday 11:32 PM GMT

Police foil planned terrorist attack on the UK after arresting four men in
London;
Police have foiled a planned terrorist attack on the UK after arresting four men
in London at gunpoint.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 255 words


Scotland Yard said the men were arrested under the Terrorism Act 2000 on
suspicion of the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism.

Armed officers were deployed in the pre-planned intelligence-led operation
because it was feared the men may have had access to weapons, the Daily
Telegraph understands.

The men had been under surveillance by police and MI5 for some time.

They have all been taken to a south London police station, while six addresses
across the capital are being searched, a force spokesman said.

Two men were arrested in Mansell Street, east London, one man was arrested at a
premises in Westbourne Grove, west London and the fourth man was arrested in
Peckham Street, south-east London.

The arrests took place at 7.10pm this evening, police said.

The deployment of armed officers raises the prospect that police were looking at
a possible plot to target public places with guns.

A man who witnessed the arrest on Westbourne Grove - a street lined with
restaurants and boutiques in Notting Hill - said what unfolded was "quite a
scene".

The man, who did not want to give his name, said: "Well, I walked by and it
seemed to be a couple of guys being arrested.

"There were three."

The man said the men "looked white" and were "up against the wall".

He added: "And there was quite a lot of police. There was quite a scene as I
approached."

He recalls seeing two police vans and a police car.

The area is now clear and there is no sign of an anti-terrorism operation having
taken place, the man said.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            October 14, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

ARMED COPS ARREST FOUR OVER 'TERROR ATTACK PLOT'

BYLINE: TOM PETTIFOR

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 209 words


FOUR men were arrested by armed police last night on suspicion of planning a
terrorist attack.

Two were held in dramatic swoop as they walked down a street close to Tower
Bridge in Central London.

Another man was arrested at gunpoint in Peckham, South East London, and a fourth
at an address in Westbourne Grove, West London.

It is understood all four were being monitored by security services when the
decision was made to arrest them. It is not known how they allegedly planned to
attack or if they had specific targets.

They were last night being quizzed at police station in South London. Police
would not reveal the ages or ethnicity of the men. It is not know if any further
arrests are planned. Six addresses were raided.

Roads were closed around the areas where the arrests were www.made.No shots were
fired during the oper-ations but a man who witnessed the arrest in Westbourne
Grove said what unfolded was "quite a scene".

A Met police spokesman confirmed the four were arrested by the Firearms Unit
under the Terrorism Act. He added: "Searches are being carried out at six
addresses in London. Public safety is our overriding concern."

MI5 director Andrew Parker warned last week thousands of extremists in the UK
view the public as a legitimate target.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: No shots were fired during the

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            October 14, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'TERROR PLOT' TO ATTACK LONDON SMASHED;
FOUR HELD IN RAIDS AFTER FEARS OF KENYA-STYLE MALL ATROCITY ; Police rammed
suspects' car and shot out tyres

BYLINE: Justin Davenport, John Dunne, Miranda Bryant ; Josh Pettitt

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 500 words


POLICE smashed a suspected plot to launch a major terror attack in London after
four men were held by heavily-armed officers.

The Met acted on intelligence that the men may have had access to firearms,
prompting fears of an attack similar to the Kenyan mall atrocity.

Two men aged 25 were arrested in a "hard stop" in Mansell Street near Tower
Bridge last night after officers blew out the tyres of their car with shotgun
rounds and rammed the vehicle. One man, aged 29, was held at his home in Peckham
after a stake-out by undercover officers.

Police also seized a 28-year-old man outside an Iranian restaurant in Westbourne
Grove. Around eight police cars surrounded the Alounak restaurant as the suspect
came out.

Toby Lewis, 26, a waiter at Nando's in Westbourne Grove, said: "One guy had been
pushed against the wall of Planet Organic and you just had cops all around him,
holding him there. They were shouting at www.him.No one in the restaurant was
allowed to come for about an hour while the police were there."

A waitress from Alounak, who asked not to be named, said: "A customer from our
restaurant was arrested. He had finished and was just waiting outside when the
police arrested him." Neighbours at the flat in Peckham Hill Street said
officers arrived at around 7pm. A neighbour said: "A young guy who looked Indian
was taken away. I have seen the people in the flat from time to time."

Another said: "We are very shocked by all this. There were undercover police
parked outside then a van came and they piled in. It is all quite scary."

Witnesses in a block of flats overlooking Mansell Street in Aldgate told how
police rammed a car before running out into the busy road to stop the suspects.

They said there were two to three police cars on the main road.

One resident said: "The fire brigade was here, then there were people running
out with torches. One of my neighbours said police rammed the car and then
jumped out."

The men are understood to have been under surveillance by police and MI5 for
some time. Senior officers ordered the simultaneous arrests in the interests of
public safety.

The suspects are understood to be different nationalities, though at least one
is British. The men were held in co-ordinated raids in what the Met described as
a "pre-planned, intelligence led operation." They were being questioned at a
south London police station today on suspicion of the commission, preparation or
instigation of acts of terrorism. Officers were searching six addresses across
London as well as two cars linked to the suspects. Police refused to say if they
have recovered any weapons in the searches. The threat of an attack in London by
several gunmen such as in Mumbai in 2008 or Nairobi last month is the biggest
fear of anti-terror chiefs.

Last week Andrew Parker, the director general of MI5, warned that thousands of
Islamist extremists in the UK see the British public as a legitimate target for
attacks. A Met spokeswoman said: "Public safety remains our overriding concern."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Arrests: one man was detained outside a restaurant in Westbourne Grove,
above. Police "rammed" a car in Mansell Street, left, near Tower Bridge
Raid: a police car today outside a block in Peckham where a suspect was held
Cross-London operation: four suspects are being questioned at a south London
police station after raids took place at these locations

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            October 14, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

'TERROR PLOT' TO ATTACK LONDON SMASHED;
FOUR ARRESTED IN ARMED RAIDS OVER FEARS OF KENYA-STYLE MALL ATROCITY ; Police
rammed suspects' car and shot out tyres

BYLINE: John Dunne; Miranda Bryant ; Josh Pettitt

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 515 words


POLICE smashed a suspected Islamist terror plot to attack London after four men
were held by heavily-armed officers.

The Met acted on intelligence that the men may have had access to firearms,
prompting fears of an attack similar to the Kenyan mall atrocity.

Two men aged 25 were arrested in a "hard stop" in Mansell Street near Tower
Bridge last night after officers blew out the tyres of their car with shotgun
rounds and rammed the vehicle. One man, aged 29, was held at his home in Peckham
after a stake-out by undercover officers.

Police also seized a 28-year-old man outside an Iranian restaurant in Westbourne
Grove. Around eight police cars surrounded the Alounak restaurant as the suspect
came out.

Toby Lewis, 26, a waiter at Nando's in Westbourne Grove, said: "One guy had been
pushed against the wall of Planet Organic and you just Continued on Page 5

Continued from Page 1 had cops all around him, holding him there. They were
shouting at www.him.No one in the restaurant was allowed to come for about an
hour."

George Paul, 30, lives opposite the scene of the Westbourne Grove arrest said:
"I saw three policemen holding down a man on the floor. They were struggling
with him for three or four minutes and I heard him shout, 'Please don't break my
arm'. " Ramin Massodi, 27, who was working in Alounak, said: "I saw three police
officers on top of a man. They had guns in their holsters."

Neighbours at the flat in Peckham Hill Street said officers arrived at around
7pm. A neighbour said: "A young guy who looked Indian was taken away."

Another said: "We are very shocked by all this. There were undercover police
parked outside then a van came and they piled in. It is all quite scary."

Witnesses in a block of flats overlooking Mansell Street in Aldgate told how
police rammed a car before running out into the busy road to stop the suspects.

They said there were two to three police cars on the main road.

One resident said: "The fire brigade was here, then there were people running
out with torches. One of my neighbours said police rammed the car and then
jumped out."

The men are understood to have been under surveillance by police and MI5 for
some time. Senior officers ordered the simultaneous arrests in the interests of
public safety.

The suspects are understood to be different nationalities, though at least one
is British. They were held in coordinated raids in what the Met described as a
"pre-planned, intelligence led operation." They were being questioned at a south
London police station today on suspicion of the commission, preparation or
instigation of acts of terrorism. Officers were searching six addresses across
London as well as two cars linked to the suspects.

The threat of an attack in London by several gunmen such as in Mumbai in 2008 or
Nairobi last month is the biggest fear of anti-terror chiefs.

Last week Andrew Parker, the director general of MI5, warned that Islamist
extremists in the UK see the British public as a legitimate target for attacks.
A Met spokeswoman said: "Public safety remains our overriding concern."

Continued from Page 1 had [...]

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Arrests: one man was detained outside a restaurant in Westbourne Grove,
above. Police "rammed" a car in Mansell Street, left, near Tower Bridge
Cross-London operation: four suspects are being questioned at a south London
police station after raids took place at these locations
Raid: a police car today outside a block in Peckham where a suspect was held

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 14, 2013 Monday 11:02 PM GMT

Boston marathon amputee reinvents her life six months after medical school
graduate lost her leg in the terrorist attack

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1823 words



     ·    Mery Danielis a 31-year-old medical school graduate and Haitian
          immigrant
     ·    Her left leg was amputated above her knee following the April 15
          attack


In late May, Mery Daniel went back to Boylston Street. Six weeks before, on
April 15, she had joined the throng of spectators at the Boston Marathon. She'd
treated herself to hot chocolate and a pancake at a cafe before heading alone to
the finish line to cheer runners at the end of America's most famous race.

'This is where I was,' she said, her wheelchair gliding to a stop outside the
Marathon Sports store.

It was on this spot that everything changed - where twin pressure cooker bombs
exploded, killing three people and injuring more than 260 others, including at
least 16 people who lost a limb or limbs.

It was on this spot where the world came to regard Daniel, a 31-year-old medical
school graduate and Haitian immigrant, as a victim.

'God bless you,' a young guitarist told Daniel outside Marathon Sports, before
quickly taking his song somewhere else on the street.

Before the bombing, she had loved to roam and explore Boston, the city where she
had become an American citizen five years earlier.

'Please save my legs,' she had begged the doctors before blacking out in the
operating room.

But they amputated her left leg above her knee before she woke up. It was the
price she paid for her life. Her heart had stopped twice after she lost
consciousness.

Daniel's wheelchair stood out when she returned to Boylston Street. Strangers
saw her on the street, and a question flickered in some of their eyes: Was she
one of the marathon bombing amputees?

She no longer could blend easily into a crowd, or go where she wanted when she
wanted. But Daniel was determined to go forward without fear, and to see herself
as a survivor, not a victim. To do that, she knew she would have to walk again.

Daniel heard the boom seconds after staking out a spot across from Boston Public
Library's central branch.

Suddenly, she was on the ground, her lower left leg dangling by skin, its bone
split open and arteries and nerves blown to bits.

A pancreatic laceration left Daniel bleeding on the inside. Projectiles ravaged
the rear of her right calf, and doctors had to cut away ruined muscles and
tendons and graft skin from elsewhere on her body to repair what they could.

Daniel did not cry when she awoke from surgery at Massachusetts General
Hospital. And she did not cry on all the days after, even when she went back to
Boylston Street.

The kind of determination she would show in the aftermath of the bombing was not
new. She had emigrated from Haiti just before turning 17, graduating from
Brockton High School before attending University of Massachusetts-Amherst.

She headed to Europe for medical school after college, doing some traveling when
she wasn't studying.

Before the marathon, the international medical graduate had been studying for
the last part of her medical boards so she could qualify to work as a doctor in
the United States. She'd been thinking about pursuing psychiatry as her
specialty.

But now, she turned all that energy to her recovery.

After leaving Massachusetts General, Daniel spent about three weeks at Spaulding
Rehabilitation Hospital, where she exercised for three hours a day.

But when the time came to leave, she couldn't go home. Before the marathon,
Daniel had lived in a second-story apartment with her husband, Richardson, their
5-year-old daughter, and her husband's parents in Boston's Mattapan section.

But the location wouldn't work with a wheelchair, forcing Daniel and her husband
to move to a hotel near Spaulding for a while.

Without a permanent home, Daniel worked to transition from using a wheelchair to
crutches, refusing to use a walker to smooth the way from one to the other.
Going down stairs was especially tricky.

Sometimes she forgot her leg was gone and tried to get up. She also suffered
constant phantom pains, sensations experts say start in the nervous system and
cause discomfort that feels like it's coming from a missing limb. Sometimes she
felt itchy on toes she didn't have anymore.

Daniel craved mobility and she wanted her family back together, and neither
could come soon enough.

In late May, prosthetists made a plaster mold of her left leg above where her
knee had been to help fashion her first artificial limb.

A team from United Prosthetics worked on the casting at Spaulding on a day when
some other marathon bombing amputees had the same procedure.

'I'm hoping you'll be back for prosthetic training in three to four weeks,' said
Spaulding physiatrist David Crandell, who'd treated 15 marathon amputees.

'Two to three weeks,' Daniel told the doctor.

She was in a hurry, but the changes she wanted would not come fast or easily.

'Talk to me and breathe. I need you to breathe, OK?'

'I'm breathing.'

'OK, good.'

Prosthetist Paul Martino was trying to keep Daniel comfortable. It was early
June and the time had come for her to stand on her own again.

Inside United Prosthetics in the city's Dorchester section, Martino helped her
slide into the kind of socket that would encase the top of her left leg and
connect to a replacement knee and foot to form her first artificial limb.

The fit was awkward at first and Daniel cringed with pain. She hadn't put any
weight on her injured limb until then.

'Could I walk funny? I feel funny,' she said.

Prosthetist Julianne Mason helped tweak the fit so Daniel could try some
practice steps in a narrow hallway with support bars on both walls. When Martino
closed a door, Daniel saw her new reflection in a mirror.

'That's you, standing up,' he said.

'Hmmm,' she said softly. 'The bionic woman.'

The prosthetists had her try two different knees, and Martino guided Daniel as
she learned to shift her weight back and forth and begin to walk.

'Oh, I took a tiny step,' Daniel said as she started down the hallway.

Still, even the most advanced technology was clumsy compared with the leg Daniel
lost.

'I had one that worked perfectly,' she'd told Martino.

'Yeah,' he said. 'You did.'

But Daniel was getting messages of support from near and far. She'd met war
veterans who'd had amputations and pro athletes who honored her before their
games. President Barack Obama had come to her bedside at Massachusetts General,
telling her not to lose hope.

The day after Daniel's first steps, children who rode the Weymouth school bus
her father drove took part in a walkathon on her behalf that raised $8,275.

Daniel's custom-made prosthetic leg wasn't ready yet and she hadn't brought her
crutches to the event. But she borrowed a pair and rose from her wheelchair that
morning to lead hundreds of students for the first quarter-mile of their walk.

'Mery strong!' they shouted, pumping their small fists in the air.

As summer started, Daniel moved into an apartment in the city's South End. The
first-floor unit was just steps from Cathedral of the Holy Cross, where the
president rallied Bostonians three days after the marathon bombings and spoke
about the recovery that survivors like Daniel would face.

'We will all be with you as you learn to stand, and walk, and yes, run
again...,' Obama had said. 'Your resolve is the greatest rebuke to whoever
committed this heinous act.'

As she exercised to build strength, Daniel tried to put distance between her
journey and any thoughts about the bombing suspects, immigrants like herself.
For her, the American way of life was about freedom.

The evil she'd seen on Boylston Street was nothing she could understand. She'd
leave it to the justice system to deal with innocence or guilt and to mete out
punishment.

Sometimes, when Daniel and her husband went out, strangers recognized her from
news reports and thanked her for serving as an inspiration. As she grew used to
the new shape of her body, Richardson saw another change, too.

'She's more humble and accepts life the way it is and tries to move on,' he
said. 'I like that.'

Richardson had worked as a dermatologist in Haiti, and had a job helping
autistic children in the Boston area. With his wife coping with physical
challenges, more household and parenting duties fell to him. She still couldn't
maneuver well enough to give their 5-year-old a bath, and Richardson's parents
pitched in to help raise their grandchild.

Daniel's focus was two-fold: growing comfortable with her new, custom-made
prosthetic and finding a job in the medical field that could help her land a
residency after she passed her medical boards.

She went to Spaulding for two weeks of inpatient training on the man-made limb.
It had a computerized knee, and Daniel's stride was robotic as she learned how
to rebalance her body. The bulk also added 10 pounds to her frame.

But the device was what prosthetist Paul Martino had called a starter model, and
Daniel tried to keep her expectations low. What mattered was she was walking
again.

By the time autumn arrived, Daniel was leaving her crutches behind when she left
her apartment.

She was venturing into Boston by herself in taxis and even considering riding
mass transit again as the six-month anniversary of the bombings grew near. She
also had participated in road races, riding a handcycle powered with her arms.

'A lot of the things that I used to do, I can no longer do them,' Daniel said.
'I don't say permanently, but for now. I'm still learning how to do little
things, step by step.'

Once in a while, she cracked open her books and did some studying for her
medical boards. She'd had a job interview at a city hospital, and was hunting
for a house for her family. Three siblings who also had lived in Haiti had come
to live with Daniel and her husband, including a 14-year-old sister she'd
enrolled in a Boston public high school.

The timing wasn't perfect, but Daniel took on the responsibility. They needed
her, she said.

Others had been there for Daniel. Some of that support came by way of donations
- including more than $1 million from The One Fund - to help her cope her
injuries.

Daniel still went to physical therapy at Spaulding, working out both alone and
with other marathon bombing amputees with whom she'd found fellowship and
friendship.

And she returned to United Prosthetics, determined to swap the bulky socket of
her prosthetic for a sleeker model that might let her wear skinny jeans again.

The prosthetists made another plaster cast of what remained of her left leg to
make a second custom socket. Then they adjusted the microprocessor in her
artificial knee to loosen her stride. Daniel even picked out a cosmetic cover
for the metallic parts of her prosthetic that was designed to match her
complexion.

'That's very important to me,' she said.

Later, Daniel decided to stop for something to eat before she headed home. Her
ride dropped her off near her apartment, and she walked a block to a South End
cafe she'd come to like.

Then Daniel snagged a table out on the sidewalk, where she dined by herself as
she took in the view, just another Bostonian enjoying a fine September
afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 14, 2013 Monday 12:43 PM GMT

Revealed: White Widow Samantha Lewthwaite surfed internet for make-up and 'how
to burn fat fast' as she 'masterminded Nairobi terror attack'

BYLINE: MATT BLAKE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 625 words



     ·    She searched books on 'how to burn fat fast' and visited fashion sites
     ·    Police say she may have been trying to alter appearance to stay on run
     ·    Laptop also reveals her passion for summer dresses and open-toe shoes
     ·    It comes as police say she may be planning more deadly attacks
     ·    Source also reveals she appears to be 'grooming her kids to become
          killers'


White Widow Samantha Lewthwaite surfed the internet for make-up and dieting tips
before unleashing last month's deadly attack on Nairobi's Westgate shopping
mall, according to files unearthed from her laptop.

The world's most wanted woman looked up books on 'how to burn fat fast' and
visited sites dedicated to western fashion, police hunting the terror suspect
said.

Agents say her browsing history suggests she may have been planning to
dramatically alter her appearance in a bid to continue her life on the run as
she continues to evade capture.

Searches of her laptop also revealed a penchant for summer dresses and open-toe
shoes, according to the  Daily Mirror.

A source told the paper: 'She has evaded capture for so long that it stands to
reason she is a woman who is capable of changing her appearance to remain on the
run.

'She is known to use many different identities and is adept at not arousing
suspicion, while blending into her surroundings with ease.'

It comes as police hunting for the wife of London suicide bomber Jermaine
Lindsay said she may be planning more deadly attacks after the Kenyan atrocity
that killed at least 67 people.

Documents uncovered on her personal computer reveal she not only has the
knowledge to commit mass slaughter, but also the funds, say police.

A source told The Mirror: 'The international security community is working round
the clock to identify her whereabouts and capture her without delay.

'The lives of hundreds, if not thousands, of innocent people are at risk if she
is able to launch an attack. She needs to be stopped in her tracks before it is
too late. She is a danger to the world.'

They seized her laptop in October 2011 along with her diary and now say
information gleaned from both suggest she may have been planning to attack a
shopping mall for up to two years.

Police also said it appeared she has been 'grooming her children to become
killers'.

A source added that she is believed to have been behind at least six terror
attacks.

A confidential Scotland Yard file on her revealed last month that she is
secretly married to a former officer in the Kenyan Navy.

The dossier throws new light on the shadowy world of the mother of four who
converted to Islam as a schoolgirl and is now the world's most wanted woman.

As well as being the suspected mastermind behind the Westgate mall attack, which
killed 67 people and left 71 missing and 200 injured, she is sought for earlier
plots in her role as a major player in Al Qaeda's Somali offshoot, Al Shabaab.

Muslim convert Lewthwaite, 29, widow of 7/7 suicide bomber Jermaine Lindsay,
left Britain for Africa with her children in 2009 and has been on the run for 20
months.

But a Mail On Sunday investigation revealed that her current husband - a man
named Abdi Wahid who in his 40s - has been free to travel as he wishes, and is
currently in continental Europe.

Wahid was arrested in 2011 when police discovered that his house in the coastal
city of Mombasa had been turned into a potential bomb factory by Lewthwaite and
her associates. He was never charged with any offence.

Exactly how much he knew of his wife's clandestine activities is not clear but
detectives now believe he could hold the key to unlocking her network of terror.



It is not known exactly when their marriage took place, but Lewthwaite had
evidently left her old life in  Britain behind by then and was deeply involved
with Al Shabaab.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                            October 14, 2013 Monday

Terror attack derails train at Cerrejón mine in Colombia

SECTION: NON-LIFE INSURANCE; Railway Technology

LENGTH: 288 words



HIGHLIGHT: Colombia mining company Cerrejón has said that its railroad was
blasted in a terror attack on 13 October at 3:53am local time, resulting in the
derailment of 43 cars of a coal-carrying train.


Colombia mining company Cerrejón has said that its railroad was blasted in a
terror attack on 13 October at 3:53am local time, resulting in the derailment of
43 cars of a coal-carrying train.

The company said that the explosion that took place near the kilometre 93 mark
damaged the railway line and also overturned the truck of Cerrejón's Protection
Division staff.

A train transporting coal from the mine to Puerto Bolívar was derailed; however,
no one was injured in the attack.

Damage to the track is being assessed and the company has deployed a team to
plan the recovery woks to restore railway operations.

Cerrejón is an integrated mining and transport complex in La Guajira, jointly
owned by the subsidiaries of BHP Billiton, Anglo American, and Glencore Xstrata.

The property includes 150km railroad, in addition to a thermal coal open-pit and
a maritime port, and claims to be the largest private exporter in Colombia.

The 150km track, which is the only wide-gauge railroad in Colombia, connects the
mine to Puerto Bolívar.

The company operates 562 cars with an individual capacity of 96t to 110t to
transport coal, as well as basic supplies such as diesel fuel, tyres, equipment
and spare parts.

Cerrejón, in a statement, said that it rejects such violent actions that
generate significant economic losses and environmental damage, with a high risk
of fatalities.

"Cerrejón will continue to work under the strictest respect for the law, and in
maintaining its effort to do responsible mining with workers, the environment
and communities neighbouring the operation," it said.

The blast area has been cordoned off by the National Army.

Image: The 150km railway line connects the mine to Puerto Bolívar. Photo:
courtesy of Cerrejón.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 14, 2013 Monday 4:49 PM GMT

Islamist terror plot to target UK foiled;
Police are questioning four suspected Islamist terrorists amid fears they
planned to attack public places in the UK armed with guns.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 487 words


Armed police arrested the men in three separate areas of London in dramatic
simultaneous raids last night.

The men are now being questioned on suspicion of the commission, preparation or
instigation of acts of terrorism.

The men had been monitored by counter-terrorism police and MI5 for some time and
the arrests were part of a pre-planned operation.

A large number of armed officers were deployed because it was feared the men may
have had access to weapons, the Daily Telegraph understands.

The men had been under surveillance by police and MI5 for some time.

They have all been taken to a south London police station, while six addresses
across the capital are being searched, a force spokesman said.

Two men, both aged 25, were arrested in Mansell Street, east London, a
28-year-old was arrested at a premises in Westbourne Grove, west London and the
fourth man, 29, was arrested in Peckham Street, south-east London.

The arrests took place at 7.10pm yesterday, Scotland Yard said.

The deployment of armed officers raises the prospect that police were looking at
a possible plot to target public places with guns.

A man who witnessed the arrest on Westbourne Grove - a street lined with
restaurants and boutiques in Notting Hill - said what unfolded was "quite a
scene".

The man, who did not want to give his name, said: "Well, I walked by and it
seemed to be a couple of guys being arrested.

"There were three."

The man said the men "looked white" and were "up against the wall".

He added: "And there was quite a lot of police. There was quite a scene as I
approached."

He recalls seeing two police vans and a police car.

The area is now clear and there is no sign of an anti-terrorism operation having
taken place, the man said.

Witnesses described the arrest of a man on Westbourne Grove on suspicion of
terrorist activities as "ultra quick and ultra professional".

Businessman George Paul, 30, who saw the arrest from his flat on the smart West
London street, said: "Two unmarked police cars had blocked off the road and
there were three officers were handling a man on the pavement.

"There was a lot of noise, the man was shouting, 'Don't break my arms' or
something like that.

"There were a few people gathered around watching who were told to move on.

"Then they must have bundled the man into a vehicle, although I didn't see that,
because it was all over in about ten minutes and they drove off.

"One of the vehicles was black with a blue siren and the other must have been an
undercover police car because it had no markings or anything.

"It was ultra quick and ultra professional."

Police swooped on the man in the street outside an Iranian restaurant at 7.10pm
on Sunday.

Another man who lived nearby said: "We heard loads of shouting and screaming
coming from the street.

"There were people shouting, 'Stay down' and things like that.

"We assumed it was just someone being drunk and disorderly or something."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 14, 2013 Monday 4:24 PM GMT

Terror raid: 'it was ultra quick and ultra professional', says eyewitness;
An eyewitness describes the seeing the arrest of one of four men suspected of
planning a terrorist attack on the UK.

LENGTH: 240 words


A group of four suspected Islamist terrorists are being quizzed by detectives
amid fears the men planned to launch an attack on British soil.

Armed police arrested four men in a series of dramatic MI5-assisted anti- terror
raids across London on Sunday night.

All the men have been arrested on the suspicion of the commission, preparation
or instigation of acts of terrorism, Scotland Yard said, and are being quizzed
at a south London police station.

One of the suspects was arrested at a restaurant in the upmarket Westbourne
Grove. Neighbour and businessman George Paul, who has lived in the area for 30
years said he had never seen anything like it before.

"It's a very safe area so this is a surprise, it's a shock basically."

"Two unmarked police cars had blocked off the road and there were three officers
were handling a man on the pavement.

"There was a lot of noise, the man was shouting, 'Don't break my arms' or
something like that.

"There were a few people gathered around watching who were told to move on.

"Then they must have bundled the man into a vehicle, although I didn't see that,
because it was all over in about ten minutes and they drove off.

"One of the vehicles was black with a blue siren and the other must have been an
undercover police car because it had no markings or anything.

"It was ultra quick and ultra professional."

Police swooped on the man in the street outside an Iranian restaurant at 7.10pm
on Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday

Divisions rock Kenyan House team probing Westgate terror attack - report

LENGTH: 447 words


Text of report by David Mwere entitled "Hitch grounds mall probe team" published
by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 14 October

The truth behind 21 September Westgate terror attack may be delayed as divisions
within the joint committee of the National Assembly probing the incident emerge
even before the committee starts calling its witness.

Members of the joint committee on Administration and National Security and
Defence and Foreign Relations are divided on whether to have the committee
sessions conducted in public or private.

A section of the members are also divided on whether the 58-member committee
commands the legal mandate and the expertise to conduct a watertight probe that
will not be the subject of court redress.

They instead want the probe conducted by a judicial commission of inquiry or the
membership scaled down.

The hitch has threatened the calling of witnesses even after the committee met
the whole of last week to finalize the process in the one month long probe.

A member who did not want identity revealed, said that joint committee chairman
Ndung'u Gethenji (Tetu) of the Defence and Foreign Relations is against plans by
his Administration and National Security counterpart Asman Kamama for an open
inquiry.

"We have not made any meaningful headway into the probe because the bloated
membership has made it extremely difficult for members to agree on the way
forward. There are those who want open sessions, others want closed ones," the
member said.

"Some of us who want the inquiry open to the public believe that there is
nothing to hide because the report will be made public within 30 days," he said.

The competing opinion has delayed this week's summoning of security chiefs over
the incident that left at least 60 people dead and more than 200 injured.

Interestingly, the committee does not appear in this week's House committees
sitting schedule.

The differences were first generated when Kamama said he will brief the media on
the deliberations held behind closed door, a move that did not go down well with
some members.

Sources inside the meeting indicated that he was told to disengage the media or
be reprimanded.

Ndung'u was however not available for comment because his phone did not go
through. Kamama also failed to answer his phone calls.

The National Intelligence Service, Police, Kenya Defence Force leadership and
security experts had been lined before the committee this week.

If the hitch persists, the member said House speaker Justin Muturi will be
notified of the joint committee's incapacity in the probe so that an ad hoc
committee can be established to take over the matter.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 14 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      October 15, 2013 Tuesday 5:40 AM GMT

Four men held as armed raid foils 'major UK terror attack'

BYLINE: Cyril Dixon

LENGTH: 294 words


FOUR men were being quizzed by Scotland Yard anti-terror detectives last night
after a series of dramatic swoops to foil a suspected Jihadi plot.

All four - British-born from overseas family backgrounds - were held amid fears
of a Kenyan mall-style attack in the United Kingdom.

They were arrested in three locations in London by armed officers from the
Yard's SO15 counter terrorism ­command, assisted by MI5.

The drama unfolded in Notting Hill, west London; Whitechapel, east ­London; and
Peckham, south London, on Sunday evening.

In Notting Hill, CCTV pictures ­captured the arrest of a 28-year-old man of
Azerbaijani origin.

He was wrestled to the ground as he left a ­Persian restaurant.

One of the restaurant's staff, Ramin Massodi, said police arrived in several
cars and pushed the suspect up against a glass window.

In Whitechapel police stopped two suspects' black Mercedes with heavy duty
Hatton rounds - ammunition used to pierce doors and burst tyres. Eye witness
Catherine Delgado, 43, saw "five or six" police cars hemming a ­Mercedes in and
heard two shots.

Shakir Gani, 17, who watched the arrest from the fourth-floor balcony of his
flat, said: "A man was dragged out of a black Mercedes car.

"The road was blocked off by a ­Jaguar - I think that was a CID car - and behind
the Merc was a black BMW which I also thought was CID."

Police held two 25-year-old men, one of them of Algerian origin and one of
Turkish descent.

In Peckham, they arrested a 29-year-old Briton of ­Pakistani origin.

Scotland Yard said the suspects were held on the suspicion of the commission,
preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism.

All four are being held for ­questioning at the same south London police
­station.

Six addresses and two vehicles were being searched last night.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Four men held as armed raid foils 'major UK terror attack'

BYLINE: Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 292 words


FOUR men were being quizzed by Scotland Yard anti-terror detectives last night
after a series of dramatic swoops to foil a suspected Jihadi plot.

All four - British-born from overseas family backgrounds - were held amid fears
of a Kenyan mall-style attack in the United Kingdom.

They were arrested in three locations in London by armed officers from the
Yard's SO15 counter terrorism command, assisted by MI5.

The drama unfolded in Notting Hill, west London; Whitechapel, east London; and
Peckham, south London, on Sunday evening.

In Notting Hill, CCTV pictures captured the arrest of a 28-year-old man of
Azerbaijani origin.

He was wrestled to the ground as he left a Persian restaurant.

One of the restaurant's staff, Ramin Massodi, said police arrived in several
cars and pushed the suspect up against a glass window.

In Whitechapel police stopped two suspects' black Mercedes with heavy duty
Hatton rounds - ammunition used to pierce doors and burst tyres. Eye witness
Catherine Delgado, 43, saw "five or six" police cars hemming a Mercedes in and
heard two shots.

Shakir Gani, 17, who watched the arrest from the fourth-floor balcony of his
flat, said: "A man was dragged out of a black Mercedes car.

"The road was blocked off by a Jaguar - I think that was a CID car - and behind
the Merc was a black BMW which I also thought was CID."

Police held two 25-year-old men, one of them of Algerian origin and one of
Turkish descent.

In Peckham, they arrested a 29-yearold Briton of Pakistani origin.

Scotland Yard said the suspects were held on the suspicion of the commission,
preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism.

All four are being held for questioning at the same south London police station.

Six addresses and two vehicles were being searched last night.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday

Four held over alleged Mumbai-style plot: Police foiled plan for terror attack
in UK, say sources: Rounds fired to stop car and drag out suspects

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 517 words


A suspected terrorist plot to launch a Mumbai-style attack in Britain has been
foiled after police swooped on four men, firing shots as they stopped a car in
central London.

The arrested men had been under MI5 surveillance for some time after
intelligence was received alleging that they were plotting attacks in Britain,
according to security sources.

The operation to stop the men in the street away from their homes was
pre-planned, partly because of concerns that they could have weapons.

They are said to have been seeking to get hold of weapons to launch attacks of
the kind that killed 164 people in 2008 in Mumbai and last month killed at least
67 people in the Westgate shopping centre in Nairobi.

The men were arrested on suspicion of committing, preparing or instigating acts
of terrorism and taken to the Metropolitan police high security custody suite in
south London. Last night police were still searching six properties and two
cars.

Two men were dragged from a car in Mansell Street, near Aldgate, east London,
after it was stopped on the main road by a number of unmarked cars. The two are
believed to be a 25-year-old British national of Turkish origin and a British
national of Algerian origin, also 25.

Police fired Hatton "breaching" rounds to get into the vehicle, in a move used
by special forces to get into buildings.

A British 28-year-old of Azerbaijani origin was arrested at Westbourne Grove,
west London, and another British national of Pakistani origin was arrested at a
block of flats in Peckham, south London.

The last man was named locally as Naveed Baluch. He is thought to be from
Karachi and to have attended secondary school in Walworth, south London.

A neighbour described seeing around 20 armed police raid the flat in Peckham and
emerge with the man in handcuffs.

The property is home to Rashida Baluch, 57, and her son Naveed, who is the
father of at least three young children, said to have recently joined him in the
UK from Pakistan. A neighbour said: "I have spoken to him before; he is a very
nice man. We just talked about work and stuff. I've never seen anything
suspicious."

The man was said to work at a nearby butcher's shop called Pak Butchers, where
staff said he had called in sick on Friday. They said they thought he was in
hospital.

In Aldgate, residents in a nearby block of council flats saw armed police in an
unmarked Jaguar and a black BMW ram a black Mercedes off the road in front of a
Sainsbury store.

Officers banged on the windows and yelled: "Get out of the car," according to
witnesses, then used two breaching rounds to get into the vehicle.

They dragged out a man wearing a woolly hat, who was later driven off in an
unmarked Ford Mondeo estate car.

The man arrested in west London was held outside an Iranian restaurant called
Alounak on Westbourne Grove.

George Paul, 30, who lives opposite said he saw three cars in the road, one of
which appeared to be a Ford Escort.

"I saw three policemen holding down a man on the floor," he said. "They were
struggling with him for three or four minutes and I heard him shout: 'Please
don't break my arm'."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;

Former hostage meets victims of Kenya terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 143 words


TERRY Waite returned to his roots to talk about his latest globe-trotting
exploits.

The former hostage was guest of honour at a special lunch in Wilmslow to mark
the 25th anniversary of the East Cheshire Hospice, of which he is a patron. Mr
Waite revealed he had just returned from Kenya where he met children and parents
caught up in the terror attack on the Westgate shopping mall in which 67 people
died.

The former Church of England envoy, who was born in Bollington, near
Macclesfield, told how he spoke to a nine-year-old boy who had a gun pointed at
his head. Mr Waite should have been at the official opening of the hospice in
1988 but was being held in captivity in Lebanon - where he had gone to get
hostages released.

He said: "The hospice does an incredible job and relies heavily on support. It
is such an important part of the fabric of the community."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday

Terrorist attack derails Cerrejón coal train in Colombia

SECTION: NON-LIFE INSURANCE; Europe

LENGTH: 215 words



HIGHLIGHT: Colombia mining firm Cerrejón said that its railroad was blasted in a
terror attack on 13 October 2013, resulting in the derailment of 43 cars of a
coal-carrying train.


Colombia mining firm Cerrejón said that its railroad was blasted in a terror
attack on 13 October 2013, resulting in the derailment of 43 cars of a
coal-carrying train.

The company noted that the explosion, which took place near the 93km mark,
damaged the railway line and also overturned the truck of its protection
division staff.

A train transporting coal from the mine to Puerto Bolívar was derailed and no
one was reported to have been injured in the attack.

Cerrejón is a mining and transport complex in La Guajira, jointly owned by the
subsidiaries of BHP Billiton, Anglo American, and Glencore Xstrata.

The property includes a 150km railroad in addition to its thermal coal open-pit
mine and maritime port, and claims to be the largest private exporter in
Colombia.

The track, which is claimed to be the only wide-gauge railroad in Colombia,
links the mine to Puerto Bolívar.

A military source told Reuters that the attack was carried out by the country's
main rebel group, the FARC.

"Cerrejón will continue to work under the strictest respect for the law, and in
maintaining its effort to do responsible mining with workers, the environment
and communities neighbouring the operation," the company said.

Image: The coal reaches the port by railroad from the mine. Photo: Courtesy of
Cerrejón.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday

Cerrejón coal train derails in terrorist attack in Colombia

SECTION: NON-LIFE INSURANCE; Coal

LENGTH: 160 words



HIGHLIGHT: Cerrejón's railroad in Colombia has been blasted in a terror attack
on 13 October 2013, near the kilometre 93 mark, resulting in the derailment of
43 cars of a coal-carrying train.


The company said that the explosion damaged the railway line and also overturned
the truck of Cerrejón's Protection Division staff.



A train transporting coal from the mine to Puerto Bolívar was derailed and no
one was reported to have been injured in the attack.

Cerrejón, which is jointly owned by the subsidiaries of BHP Billiton, Anglo
American, and Glencore Xstrata, is an integrated mining and transport complex in
La Guajira.

The property includes 150km railroad, in addition to a thermal coal open-pit and
a maritime port, and claims to be the largest private exporter in Colombia.

Cerrejón said that it will not accept any violent actions that generate
significant economic losses and environmental damage, with a high risk of
fatalities.

"Cerrejón will continue to work under the strictest respect for the law, and in
maintaining its effort to do responsible mining with workers, the environment
and communities neighbouring the operation," the company said.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Amanda Holden: My sex attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5 words


Secret ordeal revealed: Page 9

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

4 Brits 'in terror plot to attack London'

BYLINE: SIMON HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 126 words


FOUR Brits were last night being quizzed on an alleged al-Qaeda terror plot in
London. They were seized in swoops across the capital the evening before.

A neighbour named one as Naveed Baluch - a butcher and Chelsea fan of Pakistani
origin.

Anti-terror cops and MI5 spooks had feared suspects were making moves to arm
themselves for a bloodbath.

Baluch, 29, was nicked at his mum's flat in Peckham, South London, the neighbour
said. He added: "Around 20 police with automatic weapons stormed the house."

Two 25-year-olds of Turkish and Algerian origin were also held after armed cops
rammed a car and shot the tyres at Aldgate, Central London.

The fourth suspect, a 28-year-old of Azerbaijani origin, was arrested near a
restaurant in Notting Hill, West London.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Swoop . . London raid

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday

Islamist terror suspects planned attack in UK'

LENGTH: 286  words


Detectives are questioning a group of suspected Islamist terrorists amid fears
the men were plotting to launch an attack in Britain.

Dramatic CCTV footage has emerged of one of a series of arrests across London,
in which counter-terror police are seen tackling a suspect in upmarket
Westbourne Grove in west London.

The footage, obtained by ITV News, shows officers wrestling to the ground the
28-year-old man, of Azerbaijani origin, around 7pm on Sunday before four cars
swoop in.

At the same time, armed police fired special ammunition - designed to breach
doors or burst tyres - to stop a car in Mansell Street, near the Tower of
London, and arrested two men, both aged 25.

One is a of Turkish origin, while the other is of Algerian origin.

A 29-year-old, of Pakistani origin, was also held in Peckham Street, south-east
London, during the MI5-assisted operation.

The men, who are all British nationals, have been detained on suspicion of the
commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism, Scotland Yard said,
and were being quizzed at a south London police station.

Six addresses across the capital and the two vehicles were being examined by the
Metropolitan Police yesterday.

The questioning came as  security Minister James Brokenshire said in a speech he
backed Mi5 chief Andrew Parker's criticism of exposing the work of GCHQ.

In an apparent reference to recent disclosures by US whistleblower Edward
Snowden, Mr Parker, who led Mi5's response to the July 7 bombings, warned last
week that exposing the "reach and limits" of listening post GCHQ is a "gift" to
terrorists.

Last week, it emerged Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg is seeking a rethink of
the way politicians oversee the security agencies.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 17, 2013 Thursday

USA warns Uganda of likelihood of "terrorist attack" in capital "anytime"

LENGTH: 628 words


Text of report by Tabu Butagira entitled "US warns of "Westgate- style" attack
in Kampala" by leading privately-owned Ugandan newspaper The Daily Monitor
website on 17 October

Kampala - The United States Mission in Uganda is warning of the possibility of a
"Westgate-style" terrorist attack in Kampala anytime.

In a security alert issued on Tuesday, 15 October the embassy says it "continues
to assess reports that a Westgate-style attack may soon occur in Kampala."

Embassy officials are sharing all information with the Ugandan authorities,
according to the alert, and "at this time, there is no further information on
timing, and or, location of this attack."

On 21 September masked armed men during a daring midday raid burst into the
showpiece Westgate mall in Nairobi, Kenya, shooting weekend shoppers
indiscriminately as they rummaged through the shopping centre's four floors.

The dramatic hostage-taking - now a subject of inquiries by the Kenyan
government after reports emerged about a number of alleged security flaws prior,
during and after the siege - was testing for Kenyan security forces as the
gunmen held fort for four days and allegedly slipped away undetected after
killing more than 60 people and injuring hundreds.

Uganda Police on Wednesday, 16 October confirmed receiving the US embassy alert
which has since triggered a deluge of emergency security measures.

According to spokesperson of the force, Ms Judith Nabakooba, Inspector General
of Police Kale Kayihura constituted a multi-agency ad hoc committee, comprising
private security organizations, to review operational security procedures at all
public places.

New guidelines

Screening of shoppers and guests at major malls and hotels had been heightened
in the immediate wake of the Nairobi attack, but relaxed soon after.

On Wednesday night, Ms Nabakooba said they issued new guidelines for more
thorough search of individuals and motorists, including physical frisking and
sifting through baggage.

Members of the Al-Shabab, taking advantage of lax screening, in 2010 killed more
than 80 people when they exploded two bombs in Kampala ostensibly to avenge
Uganda's military operations against them in Somalia since March 2007. The
militants gave similar reason for striking on Westgate.

Under the new security guidelines Uganda police issued, private guards have been
directed to provide at the gate safe firearm storage facilities and issue owners
a reclaim slip so that no one accesses a crowded place with weapons.

Ms Nabakooba said they met with owners of private security organizations again
on Monday to hammer out other operation procedures in emergency situations,
including deploying an armed rapid reaction force outside public facilities.

The guards, the police spokesperson said, were instructed to begin using sniffer
dogs to probe suspect luggage, install walk-through metal detectors and
properly-functioning hand-held equipment as well as under-car mirrors to detect
explosives.

In its Tuesday alert primarily for US citizens, the embassy said it is
monitoring the evolving situation and will promptly alert on "any credible,
specific information about this and any other potential threats".

"We again take this opportunity to remind the (US) community to exercise
vigilance and to avoid public venues that attract large crowds," the statement
said.

The US warning follows one Mr Kayihura issued early this month about the
re-entry into the country of suspected terrorist, Ahmed Khaled, alias Mueller.

The police, however, came on the spot over probable recycled information after
this newspaper's detected an unexplained word-for-word repetition in the Force's
account on Mueller both its January 2012 and 3 October 2013 alerts.

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 17 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     October 17, 2013 Thursday 7:50 PM GMT

VIDEO: New horror footage from Kenya terror attack shows gunmen callously
shooting victims

BYLINE: Greg Heffer

LENGTH: 239 words


<em class="bold">NEW horror footage from the Kenya terror attack has revealed
gunmen callously shooting victims.</em>

Islamist extremists killed at least 67 people, including six Brits, in the
Nairobi shopping centre raid on September 21.

Somalia's al-Shabab group - militants linked to al-Qaeda - claim to have carried
out the atrocity.

The latest CCTV footage to emerge from the Westgate Mall reveals merciless
terrorists shooting victims on the ground.

Panicked shoppers are shown frantically trying to find safety, as they flee from
gunmen firing bullets.

Another clip shows a mother and her two kids pushing an injured child in a
shopping trolley, with an armed militant pointing the way to a bloodied teen
behind them.

US news channel CNN, who obtained the surveillance video, say much of the
footage is too horrific to show.

It only reveals scenes from the first day of the four-day siege.

The attackers are shown speaking on the phone, seemingly receiving instructions
from outside the shopping centre.

They are also revealed to have taken turns to pray, as they conducted the
attack.

Kenyan authorities closely watched security cameras as the siege took place.

The country's military recently identified four of the militants involved.

Abu Baara al-Sudani, Omar Nabhan, Khattab al-Kene and Umayr were killed during
the stand-off with Kenyan security forces.

Al-Sudani is said to have led the group.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 17, 2013 Thursday 1:47 PM GMT

Executed with a single shot as he cowered on the floor: Chilling CCTV footage
reveals for the first time horror inside Kenyan mall as Islamic terrorists
attacked

BYLINE: JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 546 words



     ·    CCTV footage shows the terrifying last moments of victims in Kenya
          mall
     ·    One man is shot and then shot again as he tries to escape to safety
     ·    Video also shows British boy who told terrorist 'you are a very bad
          man'
     ·    Terrorists prayed and chatted between their murderous shooting spree
     ·    At least 67 people were killed in the siege which started on September
          21


Chilling footage has emerged of the moment a terrorist mercilessly gunned down a
shopper in last month's bloody attack at a Kenyan shopping mall.

Surveillance video obtained exclusively by  CNN from a supermarket in the
Westgate shopping centre shows the moment terrified men, women and children ran
for their lives from the attackers.

One man cowers in front of a cashier desk, but he is immediately spotted by one
of the terrorists who shoots him at close-range and walks away.

Scroll down for video

Sprawled out in a pool of blood on the shop floor, the man desperately tries to
gather the strength to crawl away to safety.

He drags himself up to a sitting position, but falls back on to the tiled
flooring.

The gunman soon returns and shows the terrified man, no mercy, shooting him
again.

In total at least 67 people died in the September siege - the chilling video
clips obtained by the news outlet show just the first day of the bloody
massacre.

In another surveillance video the British four-year-old who famously told one of
the terrorists that he was a 'very bad man' can be seen with his mother and
six-year-old sister.

His mother, a film producer, had been queuing to buy milk when the militants
struck.

She hid under a cold meat counter in the Nakumatt supermarket for an
hour-and-a-half with her children beneath her before terrorists finally found
them and shot her in the thigh.

The trio are shown walking through through the supermarket - the mother is
pushing an injured child in a trolley.

They are followed by a terrified teenage girl wearing a white top stained with
blood who is walking along with her hands up in the air.

Behind them a gunman, brandishing an assault rifle, gestures the way.

Bizarrely, the terrorists handed the children Mars bars before they fled. The
woman, the children and girl were all eventually released.

Another clip shows the terrorists scouting out a supermarket while chatting on
their mobile phones.

Al-Shabaab said it remained in contact with the attackers as they battled Kenyan
forces during the hostage crisis.

At one point it looks as though one of the terrorists is looking for
surveillance cameras.

CNN reports that the attackers appear relaxed in several clips - in one quiet
period they are even seen taking turns for prayer time.

The brazen attack by Islamic militants has underscored Kenya's value to the West
in the war against terror.

The Somali Islamic group al-Shabab claimed responsibility for the assault and
said it was in retaliation for Kenya sending troops into neighboring Somalia.

The killers, who were dressed in Western clothes, ordered all Muslims to leave,
before carrying out rudimentary tests to see if hostages could recite the Koran
and name the mother of the Prophet Mohammed.

Witnesses told how terrorists with faces hidden by Islamic scarves stormed the
building, tossing grenades and spraying shoppers with AK-47s.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 17, 2013 Thursday 11:38 PM GMT

Kenya mall attacks: new video may show Norwegian suspect;
New footage is believed to show a 23-year-old Somali Norwegian suspected of
involvement in last month's terror attack on Kenya's Westgate shopping centre.

LENGTH: 113 words


Source: CNN

New video footage of the Nairobi shopping mall massacre may show, Hassan Abdi
Dhuhulow, a man Norwegian police suspect helped to plan and carry out the attack
on Kenya's Westgate shopping centre, according to BBC Newsnight.

The video, collated from a variety of CCTV cameras in the four-storey Westgate
mall in the Kenyan capital and obtained by CNN, gave the most complete visual
account so far of last month's massacre, which resulted in the deaths of 67
people.

Watch CNN's new CCTV footage from the Nairobi's Westgate Shopping Centre attack

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 18, 2013 Friday

Yemeni security repulse "terrorists" who attacked checkpoints in Bayda

LENGTH: 153 words


Text of report by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

A military official source at the Seventh Military Region has stated that
terrorist groups of the terrorist Al-Qa'idah group has tried to raid some
military and police checkpoints around the Bayda city, the capital of Al-Bayda
province.

The source told Saba that the army an police troops positioned at those
checkpoints repelled those terrorist elements and inflicted big loses on them
and foiled their criminal plans.

A police trooper martyred in the clashes and two others were injured. The
terrorists ran off.

The sources insisted that the heroes of the armed forces and police along with
all the honourable people in Al-Bayda province will confront the evil and
terrorism elements who would not succeed in facing the armed forces and police
backed by the masses of the Yemeni people.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in Arabic 0420 gmt 18 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 18, 2013 Friday

UN says Al-Shabab likely to carry out terror attacks in Somali capital

LENGTH: 183 words


Text of report by privately-owned Somali Shabeelle Media Network website on 18
October

Al-Shabab is likely to carry out attacks against UN headquarters in the Somali
capital, Mogadishu, a UN report says.

A joint security analysis by the UN and the African Union [AU] said a terror
attack is likely to happen in Mogadishu.

UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon called for additional thousands of troops to be
deployed to Somalia to fight Al-Shabab and protect UN centres in the capital.

Ban asked the UN Security Council and the international community to work
towards improving security in the country.

He stressed the need to deploy additional troops to UN headquarters in Mogadishu
along the main road leading to the city's airport.

He further said 150 special police officers should also be deployed there to
protect UN staff, requesting the Somali government to act on his request.

Al-Shabab militants attacked UN headquarters in Mogadishu on 19 June this year
killing 15 people including four foreigners, three South Africans and a Kenyan.

Source: Shabeelle Media Network website, Mogadishu, in Somali 18 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 18, 2013 Friday

Kenyans deserve answers regarding Westgate terror attack - paper

LENGTH: 318 words


Text of editorial entitled "Westgate probe: We want answers urgently" published
by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 18 October

The government is soon supposed to hand over the Westgate Shopping Mall to its
owners, signalling a conclusion of on-scene investigations into the dastardly
terrorist attack that killed some 70 people and brought down part of the
up-market business, social and leisure facility.

The handover signals that forensic investigators who have been combing the
building for clues into those behind the attack and identifying bodies that may
have been buried in the rubble have completed their work.

However, there are still questions crying out for answers since the bloody siege
when a small bunch of terrorists from the Somali-based Al-Shabab network shot
their way into the crowded mall four weeks ago and held out for four days before
security forces finally took control.

When President Uhuru Kenyatta addressed the nation to declare victory in the
battle for Westgate, he promised to appoint a commission of inquiry into the
many issues that arose.

Since then, however, State House has been silent on the appointment of such a
commission. There has been no word on when it will be established, its scope and
terms of reference, timetable and composition.

The silence has led to justifiable speculation that there has been a re-think
because the government may be wary about hearings that may expose to the public
major shortcomings in the security establishment, infighting within the
services, as well as critical failures in the rescue operation that worked to
the advantage of the terrorists and led to more deaths.

These issues will be not be solved by being swept under the carpet. Kenyans
deserve answers in an inquiry that will reveal just what went wrong so that
urgent corrective measures can be taken.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 18 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            October 18, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Met probes film attack on UK Muslims opposing terrorism

BYLINE: Joseph Watts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 279 words


POLICE today confirmed they are "looking into" a video made by al-Shabaab
terrorists which attacks British Muslims who have spoken out against extremism.

Among those targeted in the video is British documentary film-maker and
journalist Mohammed Ansar.

Scotland Yard would not comment on operations today but officers are understood
to have offered Mr Ansar and others named in the video security advice and
support.

The film is named Woolwich Attack: It's an Eye for An Eye and starts by praising
the killing of Drummer Lee Rigby. It singles out Mr Ansar as one of those who
"distanced themselves" from those who carried out the attacks and as having
"mutilated the teachings of Islam".

Mr Ansar gained prominence after condemning the killing of Drummer Rigby soon
after it happened in May.

On his blog he has described it as "sickening and heinous". He also made a BBC
film about ex-English Defence League leader Tommy Robinson, to be aired this
month.

Al-Shabab, which claimed responsibility for the Westgate mall massacre in
Nairobi, calls on others to carry out similar atrocities in the UK and US.

The narrator of the film, wearing a black mask and holding an automatic weapon,
tells viewers in a British accent: "Do not waste your time trying to re-invent
the wheel.

"If you can't afford to get hold of [a gun] then certainly a simple knife from
your local B&Q will do the job."

The man goes on to say that attacks by Muslims in Western countries are the
direct result of "the invasion of Muslim lands, and the slaughter of hundreds of
innocent Muslims by the Western crusaders".

Scotland Yard said: "We are aware of the video and are assessing its contents
and looking into it."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            October 18, 2013 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Warning on Mali terror attacks

BYLINE: new york

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 164 words


RECENT terror attacks are an important "wake-up call" highlighting the challenge
of restoring security to Mali, the senior UN envoy to the country said.

Albert Koenders told the UN Security Council that the successful presidential
election which will be held this summer and progress in recent months have
opened up new prospects for Mali's recovery.

But the recent attacks demonstrate the need to address the root causes of the
country's near-collapse last year along with its serious humanitarian needs and
shocking malnutrition levels, he warned.

He pointed to a suicide attack by extremist elements in Timbuktu on September
28, and the shelling of Gao on October 7 by other extremists.

Mr Koenders noted the tense situation in the northern city of Kidal, where
volleys of gunfire erupted in late September, and tensions within Mali's armed
forces.

France's UN Ambassador Gerard Araud called Mali's turnaround "a remarkable
success story" and said recent attacks were "quite amateurish".

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Kent Messenger

                                October 18, 2013

Student tells of masked attack terror

LENGTH: 225  words


by Alex Claridge

aclaridge@thekmgroup.co.uk

@KM_newsroom

A masked prowler has been spotted stalking female students and even grabbed a
teenager on her way home.

Two people are being questioned by police after reports of a man wearing a
sinister mask, apparently inspired by the film V for Vendetta, flooded in.

And police have now stepped up patrols in Canterbury.

Stephanie Shepherd, 19, was on her way home from a night out when she was
attacked.

The law student noticed someone following her on her way home, so rang a friend
to give her an excuse to turn round and head the other way.

She said: "I turned around and then as I did, he put me in a headlock and said
'You're coming with me tonight'.

"I said 'No' and punched him in his manhood so hard he fell over, taking me with
him.

"When he got up he sort of kicked me off and ran away, leaving me shaking with
fear. It was the scariest experience of my life."

Officers have spoken to two people in connection with the sightings.

A 15-year-old boy came forward voluntarily with his father and has been helping
police with their inquiries.

And a 22-year-old man was arrested on Monday night and has been interviewed and
bailed while officers make further inquiries.

Police released CCTV images of a man in the centre of Canterbury and said the
force was working closely with universities to issue safety advice.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Loughborough Echo

                                October 18, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terrorism charges teen 'thought of mosque attack';
OLD BAILEY: Jury being read extracts of more than 11,000 chat logs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 589 words


A TEENAGE neo-Nazi from Loughborough accused of planning a 'new Columbine'
massacre thought about attacking a mosque when he was teased about being gay, a
court heard.

The 17-year-old EDL member told a friend he had walked down to the local mosque
in Loughborough, after a bust-up with his brother, but 'didn't do anything'.

He confessed during Facebook chats to being consumed with 'rage, hate, sadness
and depression', and got irate when taunted about not having a girlfriend, the
Old Bailey heard.

The teen, who cannot be named because of his age, is accused of stockpiling
knives, explosives, petrol and pipe bombs, and air guns in his bedroom while
plotting a terrorist attack.

He allegedly wanted to carry out a Columbine High School-style massacre at his
former school, and also planned to target Loughborough University, The Reel
cinema, and council of?ces.

The teenager, who hung a Nazi Swastika on his bedroom wall, was allegedly a
white power fanatic who hated Muslims, the court has heard.

In Facebook chat logs shown to jurors, the boy told a pal about the bust up with
his brother in January this year.

'Got tempted to go to the mosque', he said. 'Had an argument with my brother, so
I walked down there but didn't do anything.

'I was tempted though.

'He really upset me, he said stuff he shouldn't have.

'He thought I was gay because apparently I'm not normal. Every guy my age has
got a girlfriend.' The jury is being read extracts from more than 11,000 chat
logs between the teenage defendant and his two pals, also 17, as they discussed
plans to make homemade bombs and buy new weapons.

In one, he jokes about blowing up Poundland, writing: 'Imagine attacking
Poundland - this is because of your over-in?ated prices - bang.' The soccer fan
discusses the football scores among alleged terrorist plans and bragged of
buying a new machete and black trench coat.

In one chat, he tells his friend: 'Just been reading Mein Kampf.

'He tried to become a painter but that went wrong.

'It's actually good once you are passed the intro.' Another log is ?lled with a
hate-?lled rant against immigration, the court heard.

'Hear the results from the census a week ago?', he wrote.

'Leicester, London and another local city maybe Derby, white people are now a
minority.

'It's a disgrace, even in our own capital, we are now a minority.

'We need someone to do anything about it.' He carries on by calling for the
English Defence League and the British National Party to be in power, adding:
'We need a revolution.

'This country needs to wake up before it's too late.

'As soon as someone speaks out, it is suppressed or portrayed as criminal and
racist. 'Terrorists and paedos can walk the streets but someone standing up for
this country can't.

'How and when the revolution happens, I hope I live to see it.' But in a more
mellow moment, the teenager opens up to his friend about his heartache over
girls.

'I ?nd it hard to interact, especially with girls', he wrote.

'Even if I do stand a chance, a girl would never ask me and I would never ?nd
the courage to ask a girl.

'Behind the rage, hate, sadness, and depression, I just want to be happy.' The
teenager, who was arrested in February this year at his home in Loughborough,
suffers from Asperger's Syndrome.

He denies possessing an article for a purpose connected with terrorism,
possessing a document likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an
act of terrorism, and possessing parts for an improvised explosive He has
pleaded guilty to possessing an offensive weapon.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LBE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      October 18, 2013 Friday 2:50 PM GMT

Met probes video attack on UK Muslims opposing terrorism

BYLINE: Joseph Watts

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 279 words


Police today confirmed they are "looking into" a video made by al-Shabaab
terrorists which attacks British Muslims who have spoken out against extremism.

Among those targeted in the video is British documentary film-maker and
journalist Mohammed Ansar.

Scotland Yard would not comment on operations today but officers are understood
to have offered Mr Ansar and others named in the video security advice and
support.

The film is named Woolwich Attack: It's an Eye for An Eye and starts by praising
the killing of Drummer Lee Rigby. It singles out Mr Ansar as one of those who
"distanced themselves" from those who carried out the attacks and as having
"mutilated the teachings of Islam".

Mr Ansar gained prominence after condemning the killing of Drummer Rigby soon
after it happened in May. On his blog he has described it as "sickening and
heinous". He also made a BBC film about ex-English Defence League leader Tommy
Robinson, to be aired this month.

Al-Shabab, which claimed responsibility for the Westgate mall massacre in
Nairobi, calls on others to carry out similar atrocities in the UK and US.

The narrator of the film, wearing a black mask and holding an automatic weapon,
tells viewers in a British accent: "Do not waste your time trying to re-invent
the wheel.

"If you can't afford to get hold of [a gun] then certainly a simple knife from
your local B&Q will do the job."

The man goes on to say that attacks by Muslims in Western countries are the
direct result of "the invasion of Muslim lands, and the slaughter of hundreds of
innocent Muslims by the Western crusaders".

Scotland Yard said: "We are aware of the video and are assessing its contents
and looking into it."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      October 18, 2013 Friday 7:51 PM GMT

Skull of Kenya attacker found as Uganda on terror alert

BYLINE: Jerome Starkey, Africa Correspondent

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 611 words


A skull unearthed from the rubble of the Westgate shopping mall where terrorists
killed at least 67 people in Nairobi last month is "almost certainly" that of an
attacker, a Kenyan investigator said today.

The grisly discovery came as Ugandan security forces were put on high alert amid
warnings of a similar attack in Kampala.

Ugandan police cancelled all leave today and thousands of extra officers were
deployed across the capital, following a message from the US Embassy there that
a "Westgate-style attack may soon occur in Kampala".

The skull was discovered alongside three badly burned bodies, which will undergo
DNA tests, police said.

One of the attackers has been identified as Hassan Abdi Dhuhulow, a Norwegian
man of Somali origin who left Europe in 2009. Norway has sent a team of
intelligence officials to help Kenyan investigators, who have made painstakingly
slow progress in the wake of the deadliest terrorist attack in their country for
a generation.

Experts from Britain, Israel and the FBI have also been flown in to assist with
the investigation.

A spokesman for the Norwegian intelligence service, the PST, said investigators
had yet to confirm if Dhuhulow was involved. The spokesman said that based on
what they had discovered so far, however, "the suspicion of his involvement has
been strengthened".

The Somali-based militant group al-Shabaab has claimed responsibility for the
siege in Nairobi, which lasted for four days until Kenyan security forces
collapsed part of the building in a desperate bid to bring the battle to an end.
Twenty-three people are still listed as missing after the attack, according to
the Kenya Red Cross.

Police are investigating claims that rival units sent to retake the mall shot
each other in a deadly tit-for-tat. When shopkeepers were eventually allowed
back in, they claimed that the armed forces had systematically looted their
stores.

Asman Kamama, the MP in charge of Kenya's National Security Committee,
exonerated the armed forces yesterday and said that four banks and a casino
inside the mall had all had missing funds worth £1.5 million returned.

The army claimed that soldiers had taken the money for safekeeping.

Mwalimu Mati, from the campaign group Mars, said: "It can't be explained away
that easily. It wasn't just money. The shopkeepers found stuff had gone
missing."

Video shot after the operation was over showed restaurant tables covered in beer
bottles and parking meters wrenched open.

US officials said the Westgate attack was planned inside Somalia, and Navy Seals
from the same unit that killed Osama bin Laden launched an unsuccessful raid
against a suspected terrorist planner known as Ikrima in the Somali town of
Barawe earlier this month.

However, Mr Kamama claimed that "a number of crooks planned the terror attack
from a refugee camp in Northern Kenya," and suggested relocating the camp to
Zambia.

The Dadaab refugee camp, which holds 405,000 people, equivalent to Kenya's third
largest city, is the largest refugee camp in the world.

"Refugees cannot be held responsible for the actions of a few individuals
responsible for the Westgate attack," said Fatoumata Lejeune-Kaba, a spokeswoman
for the United Nations Refugee Agency.

She said that the UN was looking for longer-term solutions with the Kenyan
government, which could include voluntary repatriations for Somali refugees to
parts of the country that were deemed safe.

The Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta has claimed that five terrorists were killed
during the course of the attack and said that eleven suspects were in custody,
although CCTV footage from inside the building so far released has shown only
four gunmen.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     October 19, 2013 Saturday 1:58 AM GMT

Terrorism unit probes laser attacks

LENGTH: 137 words


The FBI has assigned its Joint Terrorism Task Force to lead its probe of laser
attacks on the cockpits of two planes approaching a New York City airport this
week.

It will i nvite help from the public as well spearhead the fight against a
growing threat.

The FBI said yesterday a reward is available for anyone providing information
leading to arrests in the attacks at LaGuardia Airport on Tuesday.

The FBI said the first attack occurred when a Shuttle America cockpit was
illuminated by a green laser on its final approach to LaGuardia at 7.35pm local
time on Tuesday.

It said the crew reported that the laser originated about a half mile west of
the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx.

The second incident occurred three hours later when a private aircraft reported
a green laser two miles south-west of LaGuardia.

AP

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 19, 2013 Saturday 4:26 PM GMT

Dick Cheney altered heart defibrillator over terrorist attack fears;
Former US vice president had the wireless function his defibrillator disabled

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 316 words


Former US vice president Dick Cheney has described disabling the wireless
function of his heart defibrillator over fears terrorists would hack into it to
cause a heart attack.

Mr Cheney, who served as vice president from 2001 to 2009, had the defibrillator
fitted after suffering from long term cardiovascular disease and surviving five
heart attacks.

Mr Cheney underwent a heart transplant two years ago, aged 70.

In 2007, while he was serving as vice president under George Bush, the device
was disabled by his cardiologist Jonathan Reiner to prevent terrorists from
giving his heart a potentially fatal shock.

Mr Cheney was working with Mr Bush on his response to the 9/11 terrorist attacks
and helping to coordinate the War on Terror.

Popular Showtime series Homeland features a plot in which a soldier helps to
hack a device fitted to the fictional US vice president to administer a deadly
shock, a plot that Mr Cheney said he found credible.

"I was aware of the danger that existed... I found it credible. I know from the
experience we had, and the necessity for adjusting my own device, that it was an
accurate portrayal of what was possible,'' he explained.

Implanted defibrillators work by detecting cardiac arrhythmia and correcting it
by delivering a jolt of electricity.

He spoke during an interview with CBS News programme 60 Minutes to promote the
book he has co-authored with Reiner entitled Heart:An American Medical Odyssey.

Speaking during the 60 Minutes interview, Mr Reiner said after watching
television coverage of 9/11, he feared Mr Cheney's heart would not be able to
cope with the pressure of the attack.

Blood tests taken that morning showed he had elevated levels of potassium in his
blood, a condition called hyperkalemia, which could lead to abnormal heart
rhythms and cardiac arrest.

He recalled thinking: "Oh, great, the vice president is going to die tonight
from hyperkalemia."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday

Kenyan detectives continue probe into Westgate terror attack

LENGTH: 783 words


Text of report by Kipchumba Some and Cyrus Ombati entitled "Westgate attackers
chopper is owned by a former politician, pilot questioned and released"
published by Kenyan newspaper Sunday Standard on 20 October; subheadings as
published

Nairobi, Kenya: Detectives probing last month's attack at Westgate Mall now
believe six of the attackers hired a private chopper from Dadaab refugee camp to
Nairobi.

The investigators said the six terrorists chose to use a helicopter in early
September fearing that they might be easily identified should they travel by
road.

The detectives believe the attackers were carrying weapons used in the attack.
The chopper is owned by a former politician and the pilot was questioned and
released.

The attackers are believed to have crossed over from Somalia six months ago into
Dadaab, where they posed as refugees as they planned the September 21 attack
that claimed more than 70 lives.

Investigators are also pursuing a Turkish national believed to have rented a
shop at the first floor of the Westgate Mall a year ago, where the attackers
stocked weapons they used in the attack.

Investigators say the Turkish national, whose name they declined to release,
rented the shop but did not use it until six months ago when he started selling
phones.

However, it is believed that the business was a cover and the shop a strategic
location for the attackers who went ahead and fitted a bullet-proof glass under
the guise of doing renovations.

The Turkish national flew out of the country on Friday 20, September, a day
before the attack, with a man of Indian descent whom they believe rented an
apartment near Westgate for the terrorists.

Detectives are also looking for a white BMW car owned by the Turkish national
and which they believe was used to ferry the attackers around town.

It has also emerged that a woman known as Wanjiru from Kangari village in Nyeri
County was one of the attackers and the detectives are now seeking to know
whether or not she was killed during the attack.

Bullet-proof glass

Wanjiru's phone number was among the several ones that the four attackers,
captured by CCTV cameras inside Westgate, called.

Detectives say Wanjiru was a key member of the Kenyan cell that provided
logistical support for the six fighters who arrived in a helicopter from Dadaab.

She is believed to have been part of the larger group that stormed the mall
before melting into the crowd.

The investigators believe that a great deal of planning took place at a mosque
in Nairobi's Majengo.

"They probably arrived there in time to ensure everything was in order before
they left as the terrorists struck," said a senior official involved in the
probe.

The investigators have also arrested an official of Kenya Revenue Authority who
is said to have assisted the terrorists to illegally clear some cargo, including
a bullet-proof glass that the Turkish national fitted in his shop at Westgate.

Four of the attackers captured in CCTV cameras have since been named as Abu
Baara al-Sudani, Omar Nabhan, Khattab al-Kene and Umayr . Although the Kenya
Defence Forces said the four were killed in the attack, their bodies have not
been shown publicly.

Meanwhile, the police say they will bring to court next week three prime
suspects connected directly and indirectly with the attack.

"We are holding three prime suspects over this attack even as we look for more.
They are prime and efforts to process them for arraignment are on-going," said
Nairobi head of CID Nicholas Kamwende who is among the team of detectives
investigating the attack.

Other officials said the arrest had foiled another similar planned attack on a
popular social spot in the city. "They planned to attack people using grenades
and guns but we have thwarted the plans," said the officer who asked not to be
named.

This follows the seizure of more than 20 grenades from a house in Majengo slums
in the city a week after the Westgate attack.

It is not clear how many people were arrested from the house where the
explosives were seized but informed officials said the recovery was a step
forward in the war on terrorism.

FBI agents

So far, more than 60 suspects have been arrested, grilled and released after
providing crucial information. Among those arrested are officials at the Dadaab
Refugee Camp where some of the terrorists are said to have been before making
their way to Nairobi.

FBI agents along with investigators from Britain, Canada, Israel and Germany
were dispatched to investigate the crime scene.

There have been no details on what the international team has found so far in
the bullet-scarred mall but they are expected to independently submit their
reports.

Source: Sunday Standard, Nairobi, in English 20 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday

Iran Guards Corps foils 11 terrorist attacks in six months - commander

LENGTH: 185 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Mashhad, 20 October: The Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) has
successfully foiled 11 cases of terrorist attacks in south-eastern Iran in the
first half of the Iranian calendar year (21 March  22 September), it was
reported here Sunday [20 October].

Speaking in a local gathering in this eastern provincial capital city, the IRGC
Commander Major General Mohammad Ali Ja'fari said agents of Iran's enemies and
counter-revolutionary groups were supposed to launch fatal terrorist and suicide
attacks in south-east country in order to create insecurity.

"The US-led global arrogant powers would never stop hostility against Iran and
are bent on inflicting damage on the country through various plots," said the
commander.

"Enemies thought they could attack Iran after striking Iraq and Afghanistan but
they have failed to fulfil their hostile objectives."

"Iran is one of the safest countries in region and in the world," said the major
general.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1105 gmt 20 Oct
13

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 20, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cheney feared heart implant terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 100 words


DICK CHENEY, the former US vice-president, has disclosed that he once feared
that terrorists would use an electrical device implanted near his heart to kill
him.

In an interview to be broadcast today, Mr Cheney, who has a history of heart
trouble, said he asked doctors to turn off the wireless function of the
implanted defibrillator that can detect irregular heartbeats and control them
with electrical jolts. He feared a terrorist would access the device to give his
heart a fatal shock. Years later, he watched an episode of the television series
Homeland in which such a scenario was part of the plot.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 21, 2013 Monday

Egypt's grand imam decries "terrorist" attack on Giza church

LENGTH: 106 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 21 October: Egypt's Grand Imam Dr Ahmad al-Tayyib condemned the terrorist
attack on wedding guests outside a Coptic Church in Giza's suburb of Al-Warraq.

In a statement on Monday [21 October], Al-Tayyib conveyed his heartfelt
condolences to the families of the victims, describing the attack as "criminal
and contrary to religion and ethics".

Gunmen on motorcycles randomly opened fire at Christian wedding-goers while
leaving a church in Al-Warraq neighbourhood.

Three people were killed and 18 injured in the assault.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0839gmt 21 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 21, 2013 Monday

Somali premier condemns terrorist attack in Beledweyn Town

LENGTH: 264 words


Text of report in English by Somali news website Mareeg on 19 October

[Unattributed report: "Terrorists Are Only Defeating Themselves in Somalia, Says
Prime Minister"]

Somalia Prime Minister His Excellency Abdi Farah Shirdon today condemned a
terrorist attack against a restaurant in Beledweyn town, in the Hiiraan region
of Somalia that has killed a number of Somalis and left many others wounded. "I
am deeply saddened by the death of innocent people in Beledweyn after terrorists
attacked a restaurant in Beledweyn. I would like also to extend my sincere
condolences to the families and friends of those killed by the terrorists," said
the prime minister. "Terrorists in Somalia only defeat themselves when they
commit these atrocities. They have long ago lost all popular support as Somalis
have discovered for themselves how poisonous is the ideology of extremism. The
aim of this attack was to instil fear in the people of Hiiraan, but Somalis are
much more resilient than that and as a nation we refuse to submit to any attempt
to bully us. This is why the country is progressing so strongly, with Somalis
returning from all over the world to help rebuild the country. Somalis in
Hiraan, like those nationwide, are committed to help their country lift itself
out of poverty. Together we will work as hard as possible to bring lasting peace
to Somalia. My message to the brainwashed young men who launch these attacks is,
think again. Allah will judge you one day for shedding innocent blood and you
will be punished accordingly."

Source: Mareeg website in English 0000 gmt 19 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 21, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Twister 'terror attack'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 65 words


¦ A TWISTER tore though a seaside town yesterday, uprooting telegraph poles and
tearing tiles off roofs as gusts reached 50mph.

Petrified locals in Hayling Island, Hants, thought it was a terror attack as the
mini tornado hit.

¦ Annette Blake, 56, said: "I heard this roar and it was so terrifying. I was in
sheer blind panic."

Tony Sevis, pictured, had a tree in his garden ripped from the ground.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pictures: MIKE WALKER / SOLENT NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 22, 2013 Tuesday

Terrorist attack foiled in Russia's Dagestan

LENGTH: 213 words


A terrorist attack has been thwarted in the southern Russian region of Dagestan,
the state-run news agency RIA Dagestan reported on 22 October.

"Local residents in Khasavyurt found a suspicious object in the form of a
12-litre bucket some 300 metres away from the Road Patrol Service entry
checkpoint on the Makhachkala highway (near the Kirgu trade centre) at about
0800 [0400 gmt] today, on 22 October," the operational headquarters of the
National Anti-Terrorism Committee in Dagestan was quoted as saying.

"Bomb disposal experts of the Russian FSB [Federal Security Service], who
arrived at the scene, identified the object as an improvised explosive device.
The device was a container filled with ammonium nitrate and aluminium powder,
without destructive agents. It was equipped with a detonating fuse and was ready
to be used. The capacity of the explosive device was 12km of TNT," the National
Anti-Terrorism Commission said.

By 1030 hours [0630 gmt], the bomb disposal experts of the Russian FSB
directorate for Dagestan rendered the explosive device harmless through the help
of a hydrodynamic destroyer. The threat of a terrorist act against residents of
Dagestan has been eliminated, the news agency said.

Source: RIA Dagestan, Makhachkala, in Russian 1041 gmt 22 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 22, 2013 Tuesday

Muslim clergy also often victims of terrorist attacks - Putin

LENGTH: 155 words


Text of report by Russian official state television channel Rossiya 1 on 22
October

[Presenter] We have just received footage from Ufa: [President] Vladimir Putin
is attending events to mark the 225th anniversary of the foundation of the
Central Spiritual Directorate of Muslims of Russia. One of the meetings started
with a minute's silence in memory of those killed in the terrorist attack in
Volgograd.

[Putin, addressing a meeting in a large hall] A crime was committed in Volgograd
yesterday. We know well the hallmarks of people of this kind, these criminals
and terrorists at whose hands many people have already been killed in our
country - including representatives of the Muslim clergy.

This time, the crime also had its victims. I ask you to honour their memory with
a minute's silence. [Video showed the audience, many in Islamic clerical dress,
rising to the feet]

Source: Rossiya 1 TV, Moscow, in Russian 1300 gmt 22 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 22, 2013 Tuesday

Iraqi official warns Al-Qa'idah aims to take over region through terror attacks

LENGTH: 613 words


Text of report by London-based newspaper Al-Hayat website on 22 October

[Unattributed report from Baghdad: "Al-Qa'idah threatens to storm Al-Anbar and
open the Iraqi-Syrian borders"]

Al-Qa'idah Organization is continuing its security tests in Iraq. In parallel
with scores of attacks using booby-trapped cars every day, it seeks to carry out
major operations in preparation for the occupation of whole cities on the two
sides of Iraqi-Syrian borders.

The Iraqi security forces yesterday announced the abortion of an attack by
Al-Qa'idah whose aim was to control a government complex in Al-Fallujah, east of
Al-Anbar, after dozens of armed men managed to control the buildings for hours.
The security authorities in Al-Anbar confirmed "the purging of the surroundings
of the Electricity Directorate and the Police Directorate in Al-Fallujah of the
terrorist elements and the killing of seven people, including three suicide
bombers, and stressed that the situation is stable in the city."

However, the nature of the attack which has come after a bloody night that left
dozens of killed and wounded in a series of suicide bombings, most prominent of
which was in the neighbourhood of Al-Amil, southwest of the capital, indicates
the intention of the organization to carry out major operations in preparation
for its return to the cities.

The attack in Al-Fallujah has come weeks after the success of dozens of armed
men in storming the security positions in the villages of Rawah and Anah, in
Al-Anbar Governorate. Salih al-Isawi, deputy head of governorate council,
admitted in a telephone call with Al-Hayat that the situation is serious and
said that "the local police, which were guarding the government complex in
Al-Fallujah, were not able to stop the attack which was carried out by two
suicide bombers." He added: "One hour after the incident, the Rapid Deployment
Forces arrived to the complex and expelled the armed men, controlled the
situation, and clamped a full curfew on the city until further notice."

Al-Qa'idah Organization has broadcast a video recording a few days ago showing a
recent storming attempt in which dozens of armed men affiliated with the
organization were seen moving in cars carrying the banners of the Special Forces
and wearing military uniforms, which enabled them to cross the checkpoints and
reach the city centre.

Al-Isawi also said that "Al-Anbar is witnessing a tragic security situation due
to the mounting activity of Al-Qa'idah, which is now having the initiative," and
warned that "the security network is threatened of collapse due to the growing
armed organizations and the inability of the security forces, which are
deploying thousands of soldiers, to control the situation." He pointed out "the
presence of a terrorist scheme to control Al-Anbar Governorate which starts with
qualitative operations to seize the government and services establishments and
the police stations. It has begun with the storming of the villages of Anah and
Rawah in the middle of last month."

The capabilities of Al-Qa'idah, which is operating in Iraq and Syria under the
name of the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, are considered by Al-Anbar's
official as "enormous," and this is also confirmed by clerics and tribal
chieftains in the governorate, which is considered a main strategic objective
for the organization, not only on the level of restoring its prestige which had
been undermined by the tribes (the Awakening movement) after 2008, but also in
term of the great objective it seeks to achieve through controlling the cities
and towns on the two sides of the border between the two countries.

Source: Al-Hayat website, London, in Arabic 22 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 22, 2013 Tuesday

Israeli defence minister says no third intifada despite West Bank terror attacks

LENGTH: 303 words


Excerpt from report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem
Post website on 22 October

[Unattributed report: "Ya'alon: West Bank seeing 'infectious wave of terror
attacks,' but no signs of intifada"]

Defence minister says wave of 6 terror attacks over past month are all separate
instances with no organizational backing; claims PNA [Palestinian National
Authority] incitement contributes to attacks; says terror unlikely to stop
prisoner release.

Defence Minister Moshe Ya'alon on Tuesday warned that an "infectious wave of
terror attacks" was being seen in the West Bank over the past month, but said he
did not see signs of a third intifada.

Speaking during a tour of Hebron, Ya'alon said that six terror attacks had taken
place in the West Bank over the past month, but added that they were carried out
by individuals and did not have an organization such as Fatah or Hamas behind
them.

Ya'alon blamed continued incitement by the Palestinian Authority for the
attacks. He said, however, that the defence establishment does not see signs of
a popular uprising. "We don't see the motivation for this or preparations for
this and we are doing everything in our power to prevent it."

Ya'alon said that "popular terror attacks" such as rock throwing and Molotov
cocktail throwing were actually down in recent months as compared to April of
this year.

The defence minister said that the current wave of terror was not likely to lead
to a delay or cancellation of the release of Palestinian security prisoners as
part of ongoing peace talks with the Palestinians.

"As long as the process is ongoing we are obligated to free the pre-Oslo
prisoners. I expect that we will go forward with the next prisoner release,"
Ya'alon stated. [Passage omitted]

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 22 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 22, 2013 Tuesday 3:35 PM GMT

Doting mother... and the world's most wanted woman: Pictures reveal double life
of the White Widow British Muslim convert who is linked to terror attacks around
the globe

BYLINE: PETER SIMPSON and ANNA EDWARDS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1110 words



     ·    Pictures paint candid portrait of Samantha Lethwaite as a normal
          mother
     ·    Files found on 'White Widow's' laptop include a 34-line 'Ode To Osama'
          poem
     ·    Penned poem to Osama bin Laden shortly after he was killed by US
          forces


Files found on the 'White Widow's laptop have given an insight into the double
life led by the world's most wanted woman.

In candid black and white portraits, taken by Samantha Lethwaite herself, she
poses with her children while wearing lip gloss and make-up.

Also found on the drive were pictures of the suspected terrorist shortly after
she gave birth to her youngest daughter Surajah.

In those pictures, Lethwaite cradles her daughter lovingly while her children
and second partner Habib Ghani stand around in a South African hospital ward
where the British Muslim has just given birth.

The normal family photographs were saved alongside other material suggestive of
her alleged involvement with muslim extremism

One of the files was a 34-line 'Ode To Osama' in which she tells of her love for
Osama bin Laden and describes him as 'my father, my brother'.

The photos and poem were among 2,000 files recovered from a computer and flash
drive Samantha Lewthwaite tried to destroy before she [#xfb02]ed police who were
hunting her in Kenya's coastal city of Mombasa in December 2011.

She has been named as the al-Shabaab extremist who plotted the Kenyan mall
attack, which killed more than 70 innocent civilians.

Lewthwaite, who was married to the July 7 bomber Germaine Lindsay, is in hiding
after Interpol issued a 'red notice' alert for her capture shortly after the
Westgate shopping mall massacre in Nairobi, Kenya, last month.

It is thought that the 29-year-old soldier's daughter from Aylesbury is being
harboured by al-Shabaab, the Somali terrorists who carried out the slaughter
which killed dozens of innocent civilians.

Among them are photos which show her with her four children and internet
searches for fitness programmes.

ODE TO OSAMA: WHITE WIDOW'S POEM PRAISING 9/11 KILLER

'Oh sheik Osama my father, my brother, my love for you is like no other.

'Oh Sheik Osama now that you are gone, the Muslims must wake up they must be
strong.

'Us we are left to continue what you  started. To seek the victory until we are
martyred.

'To instill [sic] terror into kuffar [non-Muslims]. Your life an example of how
we should be

'Oh Muslims listen to our beloved sheik's words, let not his struggle and
efforts go unheard.

'Revive what he started and strive to success, and maybe we can be raised with
the best.

The poem ends with a warning to US President Barack Obama and the West that the
jihad will continue despite the demise of the al-Qaeda leader.

'As  for our enemies our words will be less. You picked the wrong army to
contest.

'Al-Qaeda are stronger and fiercer than ever. Their [sic] was not victory for
you Mr Obama.

'The honour is his on martyred Osama!!!!!!!!!!!!!!'

According to the [#xfb01]les, Lewthwaite used the alias Natalie Faye Webb, a
name on a fake South African passport, to rent an apartment near The Junction
mall in Nairobi, a shopping centre similar to Westgate and popular with expats
and middle class Kenyans.

It  may have been another potential terror target, British and Kenyan
intelligence believe.

She penned the poem to Osama bin Laden shortly after he was killed by US special
forces during a daring raid at his Pakistan safe house in May 2011.

'Oh sheik Osama my father, my brother, my love for you is like no other,' reads
the ode.

Part of it continues: 'Oh Sheik Osama now that you are gone, the Muslims must
wake up they must be strong.

'Us we are left to continue what you  started. To seek the victory until we are
martyred.'

A chilling diary penned by the fanatic shows how she attempted to groom her
innocent children into becoming 'Islamic holy warriors'.

The world's most wanted woman wrote about how she was proud that her children
wanted to be mujahids - those who declare jihad against 'unbelievers' - after
she and her late husband would talk to the children about holy wars.

Over nine scrawled pages she writes out her plot to murder disbelievers and
incite others - including her four children - to do the same.

The crumpled A4 manuscript was found in a Kenyan safe house in which she and
fellow Islamic extremists were planning an attack on two hotels and a shopping
centre.

The diary shows she is grooming them to follow in the footsteps of their father,
7/7 bomber Germaine Lindsay.

After Lindsay killed 26 people in London, his young, seemingly shy and pregnant
wife described his crimes as 'abhorrent'.

Lewthwaite, who was forced to go into hiding, said initially: 'I totally condemn
and am horrified by the atrocities.

'I never predicted or imagined that he was involved in such horrific activities.
He was a loving husband and father.'

But secretly writing in her notebook, the fugitive tells of her love for the man
who 'gave his all to Allah' and how 'blessed' she is to have been the wife of a
terrorist.

In one passage she fondly writes about how her children had taken lessons from
their father about what ambitions they had.

She wrote: 'Recently my beloved husband (Lindsay) gave a talk to my
eight-year-old son and five-year-old daughter.

'He asked them what do you want to be when you are older? Both had many answers
but both agreed to one of wanting to be a mujahid. He asked them how did they
plan to achieve such a goal, and what really is a mujahid?'

Her children by Lindsay, nine-year-old Abdullah and Ruqayyah, eight, have the
middle names Shaheed and Shahidah, male and female forms of the word martyr.
Lewthwaite was pregnant with Ruqayyah when Lindsay blew himself up.

Lewthwaite planned to write as many as six chapters about Jihad, each containing
her answers to questions.

Two examples she included were: 'Explain in detail what it means to be a
stranger amongst your own family, friends' and 'How is the reality of leaving
your mothers, wives and children behind?'

Her two younger children, five-year-old Abdur-Rahman and Surajah, three, are
thought to be the product of a relationship with London-born terrorist Habib
Saleh Ghani.

A member of Al Shabaab - a Somali offshoot of Al Qaeda, the 28-year-old is
thought to have been killed earlier this month in a gunfight with a rival group.

Lewthwaite's accomplice in Mombasa is alleged to have been Jermaine Grant, 29,
from Newham, east London, who is standing trial in the port accused of planning
to cause the loss of life and possessing bomb-making materials.

She is thought to be in hiding in Tanzania or Somalia and an Al Shabaab
spokesman says she was involved in the Nairobi atrocity.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday

Ten killed in "terrorist" attacks in Syria's Damascus, Aleppo - SANA website

LENGTH: 277 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus, (SANA) - Four citizens were martyred, among them women, while many
others were injured Wednesday [23 October] of a terrorist attack with mortar
shells on Al-Abasiyyin region in Damascus.

A source at the police command in Damascus told SANA that two mortar shells,
fired by terrorists, fell on the citizens' houses in the surrounding of
Al-Abasiyyin square, claiming the lives of 4 citizens and injuring 18 others who
were immediately admitted to hospitals to receive treatment.

Meanwhile, 6 citizens were martyred and others injured by shells fired by
terrorists on Saadallah al-Jabiri Square in Aleppo.

A source at the Police Command told SANA that 3 shells fired by terrorists fell
on Saadallah al-Jabiri Square, causing the martyrdom of 6 citizens and the
injury of 30 others, including women and children.

The source added that the terrorist attack caused material damage to a number of
parked and passing cars in the site.

Earlier, Two citizens were injured on Wednesday by a mortar shell fired by
terrorists at the area around Sheraton Hotel in Damascus, causing material
damage to the area.

Two more mortar shells fired by terrorists fell in the Science Faculty at
Damascus University and the old Fairgrounds, causing no injuries.

In the town of Jaramana in Damascus countryside, five citizens were injured when
terrorist fired five mortar shells at Al-Rawda neighbourhood, causing material
damage to private properties.

Another mortar shell fell on a house near the main square in Jarmana, causing
only material damage.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 23 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

City on terror attack alert

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By REBECCA GRAY

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 407 words


A project developed to protect some of the world's biggest cities from a
terrorist attack will begin in Glasgow next week.

The initiative - dubbed Project Griffin - is designed to give workers the
expertise to spot possible terror threats.

Staff from city centre stores, bars and clubs,  hotels, the finance sector,
universities and offices can take part in the counter-terrorism awareness
training next Tuesday.

The primary mission is to deter, detect and counter terrorist activity and
crime.

Previous terror attacks on congested areas include the Glasgow Airport attack in
2007, the 2005 bombings in London, the Boston  Marathon bombing and the  recent
Kenya mall attacks.

However, senior officers stress there is no specific threat to Glasgow.

Specialist officers will train staff, including security guards, to deal with a
host of different emergencies, including an "active shooter" and bomb alert.
Workers will receive training on  procedures to deal with  possible bombs and
how to spot suspicious behaviour, and how to treat suspicious packages.

Chief Inspector Alan Porte, area commander  for the city centre, said: "Project
Griffin is aimed at city centre businesses and venues.

"It will provide them with an awareness of the terrorist threat and to help them
help us keep people safe."

Those behind the project claim the training will help police fight any threat by
"engaging, encouraging and enabling members of the community" to work with
officers.

Chief Inspector Porte added: "This exercise is part of a long-term education
programme to reduce vulner­ability and heighten public safety."

Firearms officers, detectives and specialist security advisers will take part in
the training session, which is part of an continuing initiative,

Police in London introduced the system in 2004, following the 2001 terror
 attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York.

Since then, Project Griffin has been extended across the UK and countries such
as America, Canada and Australia.

Glasgow City Council  officials have backed  the counter-terrorism initiative.

A spokesman said:  "Project Griffin will play  an important role in  keeping the
people and  businesses of Glasgow  informed on counter-terrorism and crime
prevention issues.

"Any initiative that helps to protect our communities from terrorism,
extrem- ism and crime is to be welcomed."

rebecca.gray@ ;eveningtimes.co.uk

Any initiative that helps to protect our communities is  to be welcomed

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Newham Recorder

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday

Tower Hamlets man calls for terrorist attacks from beyond the grave

BYLINE: PR Script Managers

SECTION: ROF

LENGTH: 324 words


A Tower Hamlets-born terrorist "martyr" has been shown inciting Muslims in the
borough to "cut the necks of disbelievers" and join a "jihad" (holy war) in
Somalia in a video message from beyond the grave.



The man, known only as Talha, appears in a new video released by Somali terror
group al-Shabab .

The al-Qaeda-linked group describes him as a "martyr" who died fighting for its
cause.

Police have also contacted several well-known British Muslims who are threatened
in the video for speaking out against the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby in
Woolwich earlier this year.

The British-sounding narrator of the film claims Talha was killed in a raid by
British and American forces in November 2012.

The government declined to comment on the claim.

In the video, Talha says: "I call upon you today all the Muslim men in Britain,
especially the people of Tower Hamlets, in the city I was born in  I call upon
you to come to jihad, and raise the banner, humiliate the disbelievers, cut the
necks of the disbelievers, and establish the dar-al-Islam (house of Islam)."

One of the people threatened in the video is Ajmal Masroor, a former Lib Dem
candidate for Bethnal Green and Bow in 2010.

The release of the video comes after al-Shabab claimed responsibility for the
attack on Westgate shopping centre in Kenya last month, which saw 67 people
killed, including four Britons.

Dr Usama Hasan, another of the Muslims threatened in the video, said: "Al-Shabab
are trying to recruit based on grievances and victimhood, and Muslims in London
need to not give in to that."

Dr Hasan works with the group Quilliam, which recently persuaded the leader of
the English Defence League to step down.

He said: "That video uses fascist language to refer to all non-believers and
Muslims who disagree with them.

"I refuse to be intimidated by these people. We will continue to engage with
their arguments until they are quashed."

â-  Muslim patrol enforcer admits assaults - p10

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NRC


                      Copyright 2013 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Spider bite turned me into an alien;
MUM'S FALSE WIDOW ATTACK TERROR EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: ROSS KANIUK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 385 words


A YOUNG mum was left "looking like an alien" by a false widow bite.

Jade Sissens suffered a horrific reaction to the creature's venom after it
attacked her in bed.

Her face became so swollen that three-year-old son Alfie was scared when he saw
her.

She said: "My lips swelled up as if I'd had Botox and my eyelid puffed up and
closed. I looked like an alien, or someone who'd been hit by a bus. The pain was
excruciating."

Terrified of another bite, she now sleeps without pillow cases or a duvet cover
and has emptied Alfie's room except for his bed.

Jade, 29, was on the phone to a pal when she felt a bite to her ankle at her
home in Hertford Heath, Herts. As she lifted the sheets, she spotted the dreaded
spider.

She said: "My friend was telling me to calm down. I was shaking and screaming
but when I saw the spider it didn't run away.

"I was trembling in terror. Eventually I did manage to get a box to hit and kill
it, but the reactions to the bite got worse and worse.

"It began when my ankle puffed up and started throbbing. By the morning it had
gone to my legs, face, hands and neck, which were itching and covered in big red
throbbing blotches.

Hurt

"My son was frightened of me, and when my neighbours saw me they just gasped:
'Oh my God!'

"I had to go to the doctor, the pain was so bad, and he gave me a whole cocktail
of drugs. Ten days later I'm still on painkillers, steroids, antiinflammatories
and antibiotics.

She added: "I'm still not back to normal. My ankle and one side of my face still
hurt and there's scabs on my ankle.

"I'm worried that it might leave permanent marks on me and that will stop me
going back to working as a model and pole-dancer."

Like many, Jade has seen a surge in the number of false widows around her home
this year.

She said: "Now I always go to bed wearing two T-shirts, leggings and socks. And
I am sleeping on a bare mattress with no more sheets on it.

"I just cover myself with a quilt, but I don't use a cover on it or on my
pillows because I don't want anything a spider can get into.

"Everything is white now, the mattress, quilt and pillows, so I could spot a
spider. I shake everything out. I also constantly shake out Alfie's bedding and
I've emptied his room of everything, including his teddies, so the spiders don't
have any places to hide."

ross.kaniuk@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARRED: Jade, above, shows the ankle bite that left her with severe
facial swelling, right
Pictures: HUMPHREY NEMAR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 24, 2013 Thursday

Death toll from "terrorist attacks" in Syria's Aleppo, Damascus rises to 14

LENGTH: 376 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus - Eleven citizens have been martyred and some 61 others injured by
terrorist attacks on Wednesday [23 October] in Damascus and Aleppo, also causing
material damage.

Four citizens were martyred, among them a woman, while many others were injured
of a terrorist attack with mortar shells on Al-Abassiyeen region in Damascus.

A source at the police command in Damascus told SANA that two mortar shells,
fired by terrorists, fell on the citizens' houses in the surrounding of
Al-Abassiyeen square, claiming the lives of 4 citizens and injuring 18 others
who were immediately admitted to hospitals to receive treatment.

Meanwhile, six citizens were martyred and others injured by shells fired by
terrorists on Saadallah Al-Jabiri Square in Aleppo.

A source at the Police Command told SANA that three shells fired by terrorists
fell on Saadallah Al-Jabiri Square, causing the martyrdom of six citizens and
the injury of 30 others, including women and children.

The source added that the terrorist attack caused material damage to a number of
parked and passing cars in the site.

Earlier, two citizens were injured on Wednesday by a mortar shell fired by
terrorists at the area around Sheraton Hotel in Damascus, causing material
damage to the area.

Two more mortar shells fired by terrorists fell in the Science Faculty at
Damascus University and the old Fairgrounds, causing no injuries.

In the town of Jaramana in Damascus countryside, five citizens were injured when
terrorist fired five mortar shells at Al-Rawda neighbourhood, causing material
damage to private properties.

Another mortar shell fell on a house near the main square in Jarmana, causing
only material damage.

Citizen martyred, six citizens injured by car bomb in Dummar, Damascus

Terrorists detonated a car bomb in Al-Kanisa Roundabout in Dummar al-Mashru area
on Wednesday, causing the martyrdom of a citizen and the injury of six others.

A source at the police command told SANA that the vehicle was parked and
remotely detonated, adding that that the wounded citizens were admitted to
hospital, saying that the attack also caused material damage to the area.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 24 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 24, 2013 Thursday 7:05 AM GMT

'You let them die': Hillary Clinton heckled over Benghazi terrorist attack
during speech to university students

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO and DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 485 words



     ·    During a speech at the University of Buffalo, a man started yelling
          'Benghazi, Benghazi - you let them die' at Clinton
     ·    The former secretary of state responded by saying 'We have to be
          willing to come together...which doesn't include yelling'


Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was relentlessly heckled over the
Benghazi terrorist attack as she tried to deliver a speech at a New York
university on Wednesday night.

Clinton was speaking at the University of Buffalo as part of the university's
'Distinguished Speakers Series' when a man in the crowd began screaming about
the attack that left three people dead, including Libyan Ambassador Chris
Stevens.

'Benghazi, Benghazi - you let them die,' the man screamed as Clinton continued
to give her speech.

After about 40 seconds of yelling Clinton appeared to acknowledge the screaming
man.

'We have to be willing to come together as citizens to focus on the kind of
future we want, which doesn't include yelling. It includes sitting down and
talking to one another,' she said sternly.

The crowd then erupted with applause.

The heckler isn't the only person who blames Clinton for the attack - the mother
of one of the four Americans killed in the attack on the U.S. Consulate in
Benghazi, Libya told CNN's Jake Tapper earlier this year that she also blames
Clinton for her son's death.

Pat Smith's son, State Department Information Officer Sean Smith, was one of the
four Americans who perished when Islamic terrorists destroyed the consulate
compound on the eleventh anniversary of the 9/11 attacks in New York City and
Northern Virginia.

'You blame Secretary of State Clinton?' Tapper asked Smith? 'Yes,' she replied.

'Why did it happen? And she is in charge. Why couldn't she do something about
it? I blame her.'

'That's her department,' she explained. 'She is supposed to be on top of it. Yet
she claims she knows nothing. "It wasn't told to her." Well, who is running the
place?'

Smith said the U.S. State Department has refused to give her details about how
her son died, even insisting that she's not entitled to information because
she's 'not part of the immediate family.'

'I still remember the labor pains,' she said.

'I got one telephone call from a clerk that was a couple days after it happened.
He was reading to me from the time line, which I already had. And that was it.'

Three whistle-blowers testified in a House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee hearing about what they saw and heard before, during and after the
terror attack that killed Smith's son.

Smith alleged that the Obama administration has been engaged in a dishonest
cover-up since the attack killed her son and three other Americans, including
the ambassador to Libya, Chris Stevens.

'Why was there no security for him?' she asked. 'When they were supposed to have
security and the security that they did have was called back. It just - things
do not add up and I'm just told lies.'

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 24, 2013 Thursday 11:26 PM GMT

Court artist got my nose wrong, says man who masterminded 9/11 terror attacks;
Court sketch artist describes 'awkward moment' when alleged al-Qaeda leader
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed censored picture of him because he didn't like the way
his nose had been drawn

BYLINE: By Philip Sherwell

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 300 words


Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is on trial for his life for masterminding the September
11 terrorist attacks, but a courtroom artist has now recounted the day that he
was more concerned by his vanity than legal proceedings.

In what Janet Hamlin described as an "awkward moment in my courtroom drawing
career", the alleged al-Qaeda leader censored her first sketch of him because he
did not like the way she had drawn his nose.

He even demanded that she capture his likeness by referring to a photograph
issued by the FBI when he was one of the world's most wanted men.

Mohammed, who has consistently complained about his clothes and treatment during
the trial, was given the right of veto by officials before the drawing was
released.

Ms Hamlin acknowledged that she struggled to capture him correctly when the
first hearing at the Guantánamo Bay detention centre began, as his appearance
had changed so much since his capture.

"Everybody was quite surprised the first time we saw him, because his beard had
gone very grey, it was very Merlinesque," she told National Public Radio as she
publicised Sketching Guantánamo, a collection of her images from the camp.

"I had to make a point of getting his likeness right away. From a distance that
was a bit difficult, and that led to a sort of awkward moment in my courtroom
drawing career, because Khalid Sheikh Mohammed actually did not want it to go
out, saying that the nose was all wrong." Ms Hamlin has chronicled the changing
colour of Mohammed's beard as he has dyed it over the years.

"The first time we saw him with the red beard, it was rusty brown," she
recalled.

"And then it started getting more garish, and more like a Hawaiian Punch tone.
Finally the fruit juice and berries or something was the explanation for that
kind of vivid colour he was getting."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 25, 2013 Friday

Kenyan immigration officers sacked over Westgate terror attack

LENGTH: 184 words


Text of report entitled "15 top immigration officers fired in Westgate probe"
published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 25 October

Fifteen senior immigration officers have been sent home over illegal issuance of
identity cards to foreigners as investigations into Westgate attack proceed.

The fifteen are senior and mid-level immigration officers who endangered
national security with the issuance of the illegal ID cards, according to
Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Ole Lenku. He said the officers would appear
in court to face the law.

Mr Lenku said the government would carry out a thorough audit of identity cards
and passports issued in the country in the last two years.

"This exercise will enable us flush out all those who have been issued with
illegal passports and other identification documents," he said.

Mr Lenku said the purge that had started Friday [25 October] would extend to
other government departments, and warned those who may have been "part of the
network facilitating IDs to illegal immigrants."

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 25 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                           October 26, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Early 80s dominated by 'war and terror attacks';
80 s REWIND ; Mary-ann Astle takes a look through the big news events of the
1980s. Here she examines 1982 and 1983...

BYLINE: Mary-ann Astle

SECTION: THE WAY WE WERE;FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 746 words


'A HIGH-PROFILE disappearance, a Royal celebration and a Papal visit were among
the landmark events of 1982.

The year began strangely when Mark Thatcher, the son of Prime Minister Margaret
Thatcher, disappeared in the Sahara during a Paris-Dakar rally.

Maggie's son broke down with two team-mates, and they were found after six days
by the Algerian military following a search involving four countries, planes and
helicopters.

In March 1982, the birth of twins in Cambridge made headline news.

The parents were 31-year-old Jo Smith and her husband Stewart - their newborns
were Britain's first test tube twins.

The following month, the news was dominated by the beginning of the Falklands
War as, on April 2, Argentina invaded the Falkland Islands.

A garrison of Royal Marines was outnumbered and outgunned, and after some brief
skirmishes, Governor Sir Rex Hunt ordered them to lay down their arms.

The conflict lasted 74 days and in June of 1982, UK Defence Minister Peter
Blaker announced that the official count of British war dead was 255, with
approximately 300 wounded.

In May, Pope John Paul II paid a visit to Canterbury, the first time a pontiff
had visited Britain.

The narrow streets of the ancient city were lined with up to 25,000 people.

In July there was sombre news. The Provisional IRA detonated two bombs in
central London, killing eight soldiers and wounding 47 people. The terror attack
also led to the deaths of seven horses.

Reacting to the bombing of Hyde Park and Regents Park, the Prime Minister said:
"These callous and cowardly crimes have been committed by evil, brutal men who
know nothing of democracy.

"We shall not rest until they are brought to justice."

In happier news, August saw the christening of Prince William.

Prince William Arthur Philip Louis was christened in the Music Room at
Buckingham Palace on August 4. In October, the astonishing story of The Mary
Rose, flagship of Henry VIII of England that sank in 1545, came to a conclusion.

The ship, which sank while leading an attack on a French invasion fleet, was
raised from the Solent.

December brought 30,000 women descending on Greenham Common Women's Peace Camp -
established to protest at nuclear weapons being sited at RAF Greenham Common in
Berkshire.

The women held hands and formed a human chain around the 14.5 km perimeter
fence.

The beginning of 1983 saw 'red rain' falling in the UK. The phenomena was caused
by sand from the Sahara Desert in the droplets.

The headline story the following month was the discovery of the dismembered
remains of 15 young men at a house in Muswell Hill, North London.

The men were victims of Dennis Nilsen, who disposed of the bodies by burning
them or flushing the remains down a toilet. Nilsen was brought to trial later
that year and sentenced to life imprisonment.

April of 1983 saw gunmen escape with £7 million from a Security Express van in
London - the biggest cash haul in British history.

In politics, the following month, Margaret Thatcher called a General Election
for June 9. Opinion polls at the time showed her on course for victory.

Indeed, Mrs Thatcher won by a landslide - with a majority of 144 seats (though
just 42 per cent of the popular vote) over Michael Foot, who led the Labour
Party, which earned only 28 per cent of the vote. Among the new members of
Parliament were two Labour MPs, Tony Blair for Sedgefield, and Gordon Brown for
Dunfermline.

On June 12, Michael Foot resigned as leader of the Labour Party, and in October,
Neil Kinnock took over the role.

The end of 1983 was, to some extent, dominated by terrorism.

On August 5, Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) members received sentences
totalling more than 4,000 years from a Belfast Court.

The following month, on September 25, there was an escape from Maze Prison.
Thirty-eight IRA prisoners armed with six guns hijacked a lorry and escaped.
During the breakout, one guard died of a heart attack and 20 others were
injured.

The incident was the largest prison escape since the Second World War in British
history. Nineteen escapees were later apprehended.

On December 17, an IRA car bomb killed six people - three police and three
members of the public - and injured 90 outside Harrods in London.

IRA members had sent a warning 37 minutes before the explosion, but the area was
not evacuated.

On Christmas Day, a second bomb exploded in Oxford Street, but this time nobody
was injured.

¦ Tell us your memories of big news events from 1982 and 1983. Email
waywewere@thesentinel.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HMS Antelope exploding after a bomb from an Argentinian air attack
detonated while bomb disposal experts tried to diffuse it, in San Carlos Water,
the Falkland Islands.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2013 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 27, 2013 Sunday

Iran vows to take action against "terrorists" in southeastern attack

LENGTH: 392 words


Excerpt from report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars
News Agency website

Tehran, 27 October: The Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) in a statement on
Sunday [27 October] vowed to take action against terrorists after a group of
outlaws killed 14 Iranian border guards in a cross-border attack in Southeastern
Iran early Saturday morning [26 October].

Fourteen Iranian border guards were killed and six more were injured during the
terrorist attack in Saravan border region in Southeastern Iran in the early
hours of Saturday morning. "Under the present crucial juncture that the Islamic
establishment is going through a sensitive historical juncture and is trying to
gain a major achievement in area of nuclear talks strategic achievement,
terrorist actions under the command and support of the spy agencies of the
arrogant and colonial powers will not be able to harm the sincere and determined
will of the Iranian nation," parts of the IRGC statement read.

"The Sirkan (in Saravan of Sistan and Baluchestan) crime should remind the
alleged advocates of global terrorism and those interested in establishing ties
with the Islamic Republic that the Iranian nation has never been unaware of the
masterminds of plots who direct terrorist acts by the counterrevolutionary
forces against it and it will consider it in its strategic calculations through
monitoring and realistic analysis," the statement added.

The statement further reminded the positive security measures taken by the IRGC
in the last several years in Sistan-Baluchestan, which could improve the
security conditions in the area, and said: "Foes and enemies of the Islamic
Revolution should rest assured that such attacks can never harm the unity and
solidarity of the ruling system and the people in Southeastern Iran, and would
rather strengthen their unity." "Defenders of the Islamic Revolution and borders
of the country will continue combating the anti-revolutionaries, outlaws and
aggressive terrorists decisively and powerfully in future," the IRGC underlined
in its statement.

The terrorists who have reportedly been members of the outlawed Jeysh Al-Adl
radical Sunni Wahhabi movement fled into Pakistan after the operation in Iran's
Southeastern Sistan-Baluchestan province.

[Passage omitted]

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1250 gmt 27 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 27, 2013 Sunday

Iran security committee to probe terror attack on border guards

LENGTH: 229 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 27 October: Deputy Interior Minister for Security Affairs Ali Abdollahi
said Sunday [27 October] that the Supreme National Security Council has set up a
special committee to investigate the terror attack on Iranian border guards
along Pakistani border in Saravan.

Following an executive order by President Rouhani to the ministries of the
interior and foreign affairs, respective officials are closely examining the
case, Abdollahi said.

Abdollahi, who was speaking to IRNA in an exclusive interview, when asked about
the precautionary measures to prevent such a tragedy to happen again, said, "We
will have practical plans in this regard."

Abdollahi told IRNA on Saturday that the SNSC was to hold a meeting to discuss
the matter.

Terrorists coming from Pakistan killed 14 border guards and wounded six others
in an attack on Friday night in border area of Saravan, the southeastern
province of Sistan-Baluchestan and escaped to Pakistan afterwards.

The deputy interior minister reiterated that no group has officially claimed
responsibility.

Iran protested to Pakistani government over negligence about cross border
movement of the terrorists, and demanded Islamabad to arrest and punish the
terrorists.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1410 gmt 27 Oct
13

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 28, 2013 Monday

Iran urges Pakistan to find, hand over suspects of "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 87 words


In a meeting with Pakistani deputy foreign minister, Iranian Envoy to Pakistan
Alireza Haqiqan has requested that those involved in the recent terrorist attack
on Iranian forces in Saravan, Sistan-Baluchestan Province, to be identified and
handed over to Iran, Mehr News Agency reported on 28 October.

"Relevant Pakistani bodies will make all efforts and cooperate fully regarding
this terrorist attack," Mehr quoted the Pakistani official as responding to
Haqiqan.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 1050 gmt 28 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            October 28, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Hallowe'en party bride rape terror;
FANCY DRESS SEX ATTACK

BYLINE: ANNABELLE LOVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 144 words


A TERRIFIED Hallowe'en reveller dressed as a bride was raped yesterday as she
walked home from a party.

The 35-year-old woman - wearing a white wedding dress and veil - was pounced on
and dragged into bushes while crossing a carpark at 2.30am.

After her attacker fled the scene in Glasgow's Gorbals, the battered victim was
able to flag down a taxi just as a passing couple came to her aid.

Last night Detective Inspector Liz McLean appealed for information on the
horrific assault.

She said: "The lady was left extremely distressed and very upset by the ordeal."
The officer added: "She was wearing a full white wedding dress. It is very
possible that someone saw her."

Police said they were keen to speak to a second couple, in fancy dress, who were
spotted nearby on CCTV.

It came as patrols were stepped up in a bid to reassure the public.

annabelle.love@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Terror ... Gorbals car park

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 29, 2013 Tuesday 6:16 PM GMT

Scotland would be more at risk from terror attacks if it breaks away from the
rest of the UK, Theresa May warns

BYLINE: ALAN RODEN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1005 words



     ·    Home Secretary says Soctland would face greater threats from criminals
     ·    Independence report from Westminster warns of 'diminished security'
     ·    Yes campaign accuses Mrs May of 'talking Scotland down'


An independent Scotland would face greater threats from criminal masterminds,
international terrorists and online hackers, Home Secretary Theresa May has
warned.

A hard-hitting new report from the UK Government has raised the risk of
'diminished security' if Scots vote for separation in next year's referendum.

Mrs May said the network of agencies that protect British citizens - including
MI5, MI6, GCHQ and the National Crime Agency - would remain with the rest of the
UK, and Scotland would be frozen out.

That would force Scottish ministers to start from scratch, but the SNP's top-end
projection of a £2.5billion budget for defence and security is less than the sum
spent by Denmark and Norway on defence alone - and compares to £35billion spent
every year across the UK.

The Westminster report, the seventh in a series of 13 documents on the impact of
a Yes vote, also warns that a separate Scotland would have no 'automatic right
to entry' to key bodies such as the 'Five Eyes' intelligence-sharing partnership
between the UK, US, Australia, Canada and New Zealand.

The paper warns that organised crime groups do not recognise borders, and law
enforcement bodies currently work across the UK to tackle drug peddling and
other illegal activities.

Areas of expertise, such as the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau, would not be
available to an independent Scotland and a separate air passenger security
regime would have to be set up.

Scotland would also be more vulnerable to cyber-attacks unless it invests
significant resources, which poses a huge risk for businesses.

The report states: 'The creation of an independent Scottish state will, without
proper planning and investment, lead to a reduction in the capability of its
government to protect Scottish interests, infrastructure and people from these
threats.

'A reduced capability to tackle a persistent threat would result in an increased
risk to the Scottish people.'

The findings were backed by former Labour Home Secretary Lord John Reid, but SNP
MSP Christine Grahame said the UK Government's decision to 'politicise issues of
security and anti-terrorism' was 'the height of irresponsibility'.

Blair Jenkins, leader of the Yes Scotland campaign, complained that Mrs May was
'talking Scotland down'.

INDEPENDENT SCOTLAND WOULD NEED ITS OWN CRIME AGENCIES

A separate Scotland would be forced to establish a network of specialist bodies
that are currently part of the UK's new National Crime Agency.

The Westminster government has produced a list of 15 'capabilities' that an
independent Scottish Government would 'have to consider whether to invest or
retain or replicate'.

The list includes the Missing Persons Bureau, which is the UK's national point
of contact for all missing people and unidentified body cases.

An independent Scotland would also lose access to the Financial Intelligence
Unit that identifies suspicious activity related to money laundering and
terrorist financing.

The Child Exploitation and Online Protection Command organisation is another
example, with the body sharing 157 intelligence records with Scottish police
chiefs in 2012.

Other bodies on the list are the UK National Central Office for Counterfeit
Currency, the Human Trafficking Centre, the Anti-Kidnap and Extortion Centre and
the Illicit Laboratory Team.

But the Home Secretary said: 'The national security risks the UK faces are
complex and changing. Terrorists and organised criminals will seek new ways to
exploit any weakness in our justice and policing capabilities, and the scale of
emerging threats, such as cyber crime, demands a comprehensively resourced
response.'

Mrs May rejected nationalist arguments that Scotland may face a diminished
threat from terrorism by rejecting nuclear weapons and shunning 'illegal wars'
such as the Iraq conflict.

'There are those for whom it is not just country-specific because of foreign
policy, or actions that have taken place, but there is an issue about the West
and the way of life in the West,' she said.

'But what would change would be the scale of capability that Scotland would have
access to.'

The UK's current intelligence and security network could not be easily divided
and resources such as the £860million UK cyber security programme 'would not be
available to Scotland', she said.

Mrs May added: 'Separate bits could not be hived off. This is one of the
challenges, one of the hard issues that the SNP need to address.'

Former Home secretary Lord Reid said: 'A separate Scotland would need to
massively reduce security spending and operations from that of the UK, but the
threat would not be commensurately reduced.

'We would therefore be left with the same level of threat but with a
much-reduced capacity to respond.'

But Scottish Justice Secretary Kenny MacAskill said: 'These claims are wrong -
not least because Scotland is already an independent jurisdiction when it comes
to policing and justice issues, and current cross-border cooperation shows how
well that can work to combat terrorism and other threats.

'An independent Scotland will have first rate security arrangements to counter
any threats we may face. And we will continue to work in very close
collaboration with the rest of the UK and international partners on security and
intelligence matters, which is in everyone's interests.'

Nationalist MSP Christine Grahame, who chairs Holyrood's justice committee,
said: 'The SNP has a record of delivering when it comes to policing and security
and we will take no lessons from someone who has done so much to undermine this
vital area south of the border.'

Blair Jenkins, chief executive of Yes Scotland, added: 'As our nearest
neighbours, we can expect a particularly close working relationship with the
security services of the UK, to our mutual best interests.'

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 29, 2013 Tuesday 6:12 PM GMT

Scotland would be more at risk from terror attacks if it breaks away from the
rest of the UK, Theresa May warns

BYLINE: ALAN RODEN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 901 words


An independent Scotland would face greater threats from terrorists than if it
remains in the UK, it was claimed today.

Home Secretary Theresa May warned that the UK's current intelligence and
security network would be difficult to replicate in an independent Scotland.

She rejected nationalist arguments that Scotland may face a diminished threat
from terrorism by rejecting nuclear weapons and shunning 'illegal wars' such as
the Iraq conflict.

Ms May said some terrorists have 'an issue with the way of life in the west'
rather than any specific grievances about foreign policy.

'I don't think it is possible to guarantee that the threat would diminish with a
separate Scotland,' she said.

'There are a number of issues that give rise to the threat that is currently
facing the UK.

'There are those for whom it is not just country-specific because of foreign
policy, or actions that have taken place, but there is an issue about the West
and the way of life in the West.

'But what would change would be the scale of capability that Scotland would have
access to.

The warning came in the latest Westminster government report on the dangers of
independence.

The Home Office study also found that cross-border policing would be mired in
red tape and the fight against serious crime would be 'undermined' by Scottish
independence.

UK Government ministers fear it would be easier for some of the country's worst
criminals to evade justice.

English officers sent to support their Scottish colleagues during emergencies
such as a terrorist attack or major sporting events would no longer have the
power of arrest.

The same would apply for Scottish officers sent south of the Border, with recent
examples including the 2011 riots in English cities and the 2012 London
Olympics.

Rules that allow police to execute arrest warrants without judicial intervention
in any part of the UK would also be torn up.

That would force the authorities to use European Arrest Warrants, but it takes
an average of three months to extradite someone from the UK if they do not
consent to the surrender.

"The creation of an independent Scottish state would mean replacing fast and
efficient justice and policing arrangements with new processes that are more
bureaucratic and take considerably longer to deliver justice than existing
UK-wide arrangements," the Westminster paper warns.

INDEPENDENT SCOTLAND WOULD NEED ITS OWN CRIME AGENCIES

A separate Scotland would be forced to establish a network of specialist bodies
that are currently part of the UK's new National Crime Agency.

The Westminster government has produced a list of 15 'capabilities' that an
independent Scottish Government would 'have to consider whether to invest or
retain or replicate'.

The list includes the Missing Persons Bureau, which is the UK's national point
of contact for all missing people and unidentified body cases.

An independent Scotland would also lose access to the Financial Intelligence
Unit that identifies suspicious activity related to money laundering and
terrorist financing.

The Child Exploitation and Online Protection Command organisation is another
example, with the body sharing 157 intelligence records with Scottish police
chiefs in 2012.

Other bodies on the list are the UK National Central Office for Counterfeit
Currency, the Human Trafficking Centre, the Anti-Kidnap and Extortion Centre and
the Illicit Laboratory Team.

The document goes on to claim that police chiefs north of the Border would lose
access to the National Crime Agency's intelligence hub, which would hinder the
battle against organised crime.

A series of high-profile examples of cross-border co-operation are included in
the report, including an operation against a drugs cartel that operated in
Merseyside and South Lanarkshire.

Mrs May said: 'If Scotland were a separate state, I would expect there to be
co-operation between the UK and Scotland, but that would be different from the
arrangements we have today.

'Those arrangements, crucially, is that natural working together, that automatic
access to capabilities [which] would not necessarily be there in the future were
it a separate state.'

The report states: 'Officers from Police Scotland have the powers to arrest and
detain suspects in the rest of the UK - and vice versa.

'This facilitates both the day-to-day pursuit of justice across the UK and also
provides the essential foundation for police mutual-aid in emergencies such as
civil disorder or terrorism.

'This would lapse with the establishment of an independent Scottish state
because the laws and institutions that underpin them would cease to exist.'

It adds: "Organised criminals do not respect borders - including between
Scotland and the rest of the UK - but rather work to exploit them, capitalising
on the additional challenges faced by law enforcement agencies when responding
to cross-border crime.

'Organised criminals may seek to exploit a new international border, perceiving
a more exposed target or potential legal loopholes.'

But SNP MSP Christine Grahame, chairwoman of Holyrood's justice committee, said:
"This paper completely ignores the fact that Scotland is already an independent
jurisdiction for justice and policing, and as such we already have lots of
cross-border cooperation on counter-terrorism and other issues which will
continue in an independent Scotland."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 29, 2013 Tuesday 12:37 PM GMT

Chinese police suspect Tiananmen Square car crash that left five dead WAS
terrorist suicide attack

BYLINE: TED THORNHILL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 727 words



     ·    Police want information on two ethnic Uighur minority suspects
     ·    The car drove into crowds at the famous square before bursting into
          flames
     ·    Two tourists have been killed and around 40 injured
     ·    Government officials are unsure if the incident was a terrorist attack
     ·    Hundreds of civilians were killed at the site in 1989 amid
          pro-democracy demonstrations


Police investigating the apparent car attack at Beijing's Forbidden City
searched Tuesday for information on two ethnic Uighur minority suspects, a hotel
employee said, a day after the vehicle plowed through a crowd and crashed,
killing five people and injuring 38.

Police released no public information about a possible motive for the incident
at one of China's most politically sensitive and heavily guarded public spaces,
and it was not immediately clear if the two suspects were among the three people
killed inside the vehicle.

Two bystanders, including a Filipino woman, also were killed when the sport
utility vehicle veered inside of a barrier separating a crowded sidewalk from a
busy avenue and then drove toward Tiananmen Gate, which stands opposite the
sprawling Tiananmen Square.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Any incident in the area is sensitive because the square was the focus of a 1989
pro-democracy movement that was violently suppressed by the military.

The 38 injured were among the crowds in front of the gate, where a large
portrait of Mao Zedong hangs near the southern entrance to the former imperial
palace. Three other Filipinos and a Japanese man were among the injured, police
said, but there were no immediate details on their conditions.

Zhao Fuzhou, a security official at Beijing's Xinjiang Dasha hotel, said police
had circulated a notice searching for information about two suspects with Uighur
names in the aftermath of Monday's deaths. Unconfirmed copies of the notice also
were widely circulated on the Chinese Internet.

One of the men, identified in the notice as Yusupu Wumaierniyazi, was listed as
living at the address of a town in Xinjiang in which 24 police and civilians and
13 militants were killed in an attack on June 26.

Radicals among the Muslim Turkic Uighurs have been fighting a low-intensity
insurgency against Chinese rule for years. This summer saw an unusually large
number of violent incidents and Chinese security forces say they have been
guarding against attacks outside of Xinjiang.

Uighurs are culturally, religiously and linguistically distinct from China's
ethnic Han majority and many have chafed under heavy-handed Communist Party
rule.

Beijing police said on their microblog that they were taking 'effective measures
to ensure the capital's safety and stability.'

A police statement said the vehicle had burst into flames after crashing at
about noon Monday into a guardrail for one of the ancient stone bridges leading
to the gate. The adjacent Chang'an Avenue was closed as police and rescue
services converged, but police said traffic was restored just over an hour
later.

The incident had every appearance of being deliberate, since the driver
apparently jumped a curb and traveled about 400 meters (yards) to the spot where
the car was said to have caught fire. Along the way, it avoided trees, street
lights and at least one security checkpoint.

Photos of the scene that briefly circulated on the Internet showed a vehicle
emitting thick smoke at the gate. Injured people, including a young girl, lay on
the ground, many of them bleeding heavily.

Philippine Department of Foreign Affairs spokesman Raul Hernandez said their
information indicated that the woman who died and the injured Filipinos - two
women and a man - were tourists. 'Our embassy is working to gather more details
about this incident and to extend the necessary and appropriate assistance to
the victims,' he said in a statement.

Police said the other tourist killed was a Chinese man from the southern
province of Guangdong.

Attendants and nearby concession stand vendors who were asked about the incident
all said they were not clear on what happened. Such employees are generally
understood to be part-time police informants.

Just west of the square lies the Great Hall of the People, the seat of China's
parliament, while many of China's top leaders live and work just a few hundred
meters (yards) away in the tightly guarded Zhongnanhai compound.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 29, 2013 Tuesday 3:15 PM GMT

Scottish independence threat to national security, says Theresa May;
Scottish independence would harm national security on both sides of the Border
by undermining the fight against organised crime, cyber attacks and terrorism,
Theresa May warns

BYLINE: By Simon Johnson Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 750 words


The Home Secretary said a separate Scotland could not replicate the protection
provided by the UK's intelligence and security services within the SNP's
suggested £2.5 billion budget, which would also pay for all three armed forces.

She unveiled a report warning that there would also be "diminished security" in
the remainder of the UK while Scotland tried to replicate the functions of
bodies like MI5 and the Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ).

Although they would continue to share intelligence with a separate Scotland, she
highlighted a series of barriers created by independence that would harm
information sharing.

Ms May rejected nationalist claims that Scotland would automatically faces fewer
threats if it separated from the UK, arguing that some terrorists hate the West
in general.

Independence would also harm cooperation between English and Scottish police
forces, the report said, making it more difficult to track and extradite
suspects from one country to the other.

SNP ministers have so far made little attempt to flesh out their plans for a
separate Scotland's intelligence and security services, with Nicola Sturgeon
unable to tell a Commons inquiry earlier this year what the cost would be.

However, the Deputy First Minister insisted that the capacity and infrastructure
to share intelligence was something Scotland would have on "day one of
independence."

Unveiling the Home Office report in Edinburgh, Ms May said that Scotland would
face some threats that are not "just country specific because of foreign policy,
but because there's an issue about the West and the way of life in the West.

"So I don't think that you can guarantee that the threat would diminish (after
independence). What would change would be the scale of capability that Scotland
would have access to."

Challenging the SNP to spell out its plans, the Home Secretary said: "This is an
area where they have been singularly unclear and hazy up to now."

The 64-page analysis said a separate Scotland would have to make provision for
its own security and intelligence agencies and prove to foreign allies that it
was capable of sharing information in a secure manner.

While the UK Government currently spends about £33 billion a year on defence and
more than £2 billion on security, the SNP has promised to replicate both for
only £2.5 billion a year.

The document said it was "unclear" what level of security could be provided for
this sum - which is less than Norway and Denmark spends on defence alone - or
what the Nationalists plan to set aside for initial set-up costs.

Whatever option was chosen would be "technically complex and expensive"
exercise, the Home Office said, with a separate Scotland needing time to get up
to speed and prove to allies it could be trusted to share intelligence.

Scotland could no longer "share" the UK's security and intelligence agencies
"for reasons of sovereignty and democratic accountability," the report said.

Similarly, there would be no automatic right of entry to the "Five-Eyes"
community that sees the UK, Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the US give each
other special access to each other's information.

Neither could the UK share intelligence with a separate Scottish state that had
been passed to it by a third country without the latter's permission, the report
said.

Ms May said it would be impossible to "hive off" part of MI5 or GCHQ and
Scotland would no longer have access to the UK's cyber security apparatus, which
is subject to a £860 million upgrade.

The report said that a single cyber security breach can cost a small firm up to
£65,000 and large organisations up to £850,000, with the total burden running
into billions of pounds.

Lord Reid of Cardowan, the former Labour Home Secretary, said: "Scotland could,
of course, separate from the UK, but it cannot separate itself from the
substantial and growing threats of international crime, terrorism or cyber
attack.

"A separate Scotland would need to massively reduce security spending and
operations from that of the UK, but the threat would not be commensurately
reduced."

But Kenny MacAskill, the Scottish Justice Minister said: "These claims are wrong
- not least because Scotland is already an independent jurisdiction when it
comes to policing and justice issues, and current cross-border cooperation shows
how well that can work to combat terrorism and other threats.

"An independent Scotland will have first rate security arrangements to counter
any threats we may face."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 29, 2013 Tuesday 12:45 PM GMT

Scottish independence threat to national security, says Theresa May;
Scottish independence would harm national security on both sides of the Border
by undermining the fight against organised crime, cyber attacks and terrorism,
Theresa May warns

BYLINE: By Simon Johnson Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 617 words


The Home Secretary said a separate Scotland could not replicate the protection
provided by the UK's intelligence and security services within the SNP's
suggested £2.5 billion budget, which would also pay for all three armed forces.

She unveiled a report warning that there would also be "diminished security" in
the remainder of the UK while Scotland tried to replicate the functions of
bodies like MI5 and the UK Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ).

Although they would continue to share intelligence with a separate Scotland, she
highlighted a series of barriers created by independence that would harm
information sharing.

Ms May rejected nationalist claims that Scotland would automatically faces fewer
threats if it separated from the UK, arguing that some terrorists hate the West
in general.

Independence would also harm cooperation between English and Scottish police
forces, the report said, making it more difficult to track and extradite
suspects from one country to the other.

SNP ministers have so far made little attempt to flesh out their plans for a
separate Scotland's intelligence and security services, with Nicola Sturgeon
unable to tell a Commons inquiry earlier this year what the cost would be.

However, the Deputy First Minister insisted that the capacity and infrastructure
to share intelligence was something Scotland would have on "day one of
independence."

Unveiling the Home Office report in Edinburgh, Ms May said that Scotland would
face some threats that are not "just country specific because of foreign policy,
but because there's an issue about the West and the way of life in the West.

"So I don't think that you can guarantee that the threat would diminish (after
independence). What would change would be the scale of capability that Scotland
would have access to."

Challenging the SNP to spell out its plans, the Home Secretary said: "This is an
area where they have been singularly unclear and hazy up to now."

The 64-page analysis said a separate Scotland would have to make provision for
its own security and intelligence agencies and prove to foreign allies that it
was capable of sharing information in a secure manner.

While the UK Government currently spends about £33 billion a year on defence and
more than £2 billion on security, the SNP has promised to replicate both for
only £2.5 billion a year.

The document said it was "unclear" what level of security could be provided for
this sum - which is less than Norway and Denmark spends on defence alone - or
what the Nationalists plan to set aside for initial set-up costs.

Whatever option was chosen would be "technically complex and expensive"
exercise, the Home Office said, with a separate Scotland needing time to get up
to speed and prove to allies it could be trusted to share intelligence.

Scotland could no longer "share" the UK's security and intelligence agencies
"for reasons of sovereignty and democratic accountability," the report said.

Similarly, there would be no automatic right of entry to the "Five-Eyes"
community that sees the UK, Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the US give each
other special access to each other's information.

Neither could the UK share intelligence with a separate Scottish state that had
been passed to it by a third country without the latter's permission, the report
said.

Ms May said it would be impossible to "hive off" part of MI5 or GCHQ and
Scotland would no longer have access to the UK's cyber security apparatus, which
is subject to a £860 million upgrade.

The report said that a single cyber security breach can cost a small firm up to
£65,000 and large organisations up to £850,000, with the total burden running
into billions of pounds.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 30, 2013 Wednesday

Djibouti minister warns of terror attacks by Somalia's Al-Shabab

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report by privately-owned Somali Dhacdo.com website on 29 October

Djibouti's Interior Ministry has said that Al-Shabab fighters are enroute to
their country in order to launch attacks within Djibouti.

Djibouti is now one of several countries that are said to be vulnerable to
Al-Shabab attacks. The group has warned this country on the same of several
occasions.

Djibouti's Minister for Local Affairs Hasan Umar Muhammad while addressing
guests at a function in Balballa said that they are under Al-Shabab attack.

He added that Al-Shabab have announced planned attacks inside Djibouti but that
they will not remain complacent about these threats.

He said that Djibouti is prepared to defend itself from what he termed attacks
by terrorists. He called on civilians of Djibouti not to shelter people they do
not know since it is possible for them to launch attacks within their country.

He added that security forces report on individual that they suspect to be
terrorists to ensure security.

Source: Dhacdo.com website, Hargeysa, in Somali 29 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 30, 2013 Wednesday

China report terms Tiananmen crash "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 158 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Beijing, 30 October: Chinese police have identified Monday [28 October]'s deadly
crash at the Tiananmen Square in downtown Beijing as a violent terrorist attack
and five suspects have been detained.

With the cooperation of police authorities including those in northwest China's
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Beijing police have captured the five
suspects, a spokesman with the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau said on
Wednesday.

Usmen Hasan, his mother and wife drove a jeep with a Xinjiang plate to crash
into a crowd of people at noon on Monday, killing two people and injuring
another 40, the spokesman said.

The jeep crashed into a guardrail of Jinshui Bridge across the moat of the
Forbidden City. The three people in the jeep died after they set gasoline on
fire, the spokesman said.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1118gmt 30 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           October 30, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

on the counter attack;
RAID TERROR FOR ASSISTANT AS HE FACES DOWN STORE GUNMAN ; The moment shopworker
bravely tries to wrestle away pistol from armed robber

BYLINE: RECORD REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 497 words


THIS is the terrifying moment a brave shopworker wrestled with a gunman during
an early morning raid on a newsagent.

The armed raider pulled a gun on Mohammed Abdullah in Dalhousie Newsagents in
Bonnyrigg, Midlothian, shortly before 8am on Monday.

CCTV footage shows the attacker demanding cash from the till while pointing the
gun at Mohammed, 41.

But the married dad-of-one, who was alone at the time, refused to hand anything
over and then lunged for the weapon.

The counter-attack resulted in a brief but desperate struggle in which Mohammed
was headbutted and hit with the gun before his assailant gave up and fled empty
handed.

Police and ambulance crews - who were alerted after Mohammed pressed a panic
button - arrived to find the area around the counter spattered in blood, with
goods strewn all over the floor.

Mohammed - who has only worked in the shop for a couple of months - was taken to
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, where he was treated for shock and head wounds.

Kashif Ali, who owns the newsagent in Dalhousie Place, was on the scene within
half an hour after being alerted by the panic alarm.

The 35-year-old said: "I am shocked - as a shopkeeper, I do not feel safe now.

"When I arrived the police had covered everything - they gave me gloves and put
something on my shoes and then they let me come into the shop. The blood was all
around."

Kashif owns two other newsagents and this was not the first time one had been
targeted.

He added: "When I saw the CCTV, I thought, 'thank God, the man did not fire on
him'.

"This time of year is the worst time for these incidents - there are less jobs,
people have less money.

"The process after arrest seems to be quite slow. The best thing is if this kind
of person is punished straight away and then named and shamed in the paper so
that everybody knows about him. That's what will help stop this kind of crime."
When the thought, 'thank the man did not on him' OWNER "  The suspect was white
and wearing a faded black top and blue jeans.

Police have appealed for anyone with information to come forward.

Inspector Stuart Reid said: "This must have been a terrifying experience for the
shopkeeper.

"However, he refused to hand over any money and successfully fended the suspect
off. Thankfully he did not sustain God, fire any serious injury and police are
now conducting inquiries within the area to identify the male responsible.

"During this time, highvisibility police patrols are being carried out to engage
with local residents and offer reassurance to the community."

Kashif said he now planned to update his shop's security systems.

He added: "This is the one shop where I don't have live a CCTV system that sends
footage to my mobile phone or laptop - I will get that in here.

"I really want to say to people, keep an eye on the people coming into the
shops, especially at Christmas time."

Anyone with information can contact Police Scotland on 101.

When I saw the CCTV, I thought, 'thank God, the man did not fire on him' OWNER
KASHIF

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCKED Shop owner Kashif Ali
CLUES Forensics officers examine scene after raid
ATTACKED The desperate raider headbutts Mohammed before running from the store
empty handed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           October 30, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

on the counter attack;
RAID TERROR FOR ASSISTANT AS HE FACES DOWN STORE GUNMAN ; The moment shopworker
bravely tries to wrestle away pistol from armed robber

BYLINE: RECORD REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 497 words


THIS is the terrifying moment a brave shopworker wrestled with a gunman during
an early morning raid on a newsagent.

The armed raider pulled a gun on Mohammed Abdullah in Dalhousie Newsagents in
Bonnyrigg, Midlothian, shortly before 8am on Monday.

CCTV footage shows the attacker demanding cash from the till while pointing the
gun at Mohammed, 41.

But the married dad-of-one, who was alone at the time, refused to hand anything
over and then lunged for the weapon.

The counter-attack resulted in a brief but desperate struggle in which Mohammed
was headbutted and hit with the gun before his assailant gave up and fled empty
handed.

Police and ambulance crews - who were alerted after Mohammed pressed a panic
button - arrived to find the area around the counter spattered in blood, with
goods strewn all over the floor.

Mohammed - who has only worked in the shop for a couple of months - was taken to
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, where he was treated for shock and head wounds.

Kashif Ali, who owns the newsagent in Dalhousie Place, was on the scene within
half an hour after being alerted by the panic alarm.

The 35-year-old said: "I am shocked - as a shopkeeper, I do not feel safe now.

"When I arrived the police had covered everything - they gave me gloves and put
something on my shoes and then they let me come into the shop. The blood was all
around."

Kashif owns two other newsagents and this was not the first time one had been
targeted.

He added: "When I saw the CCTV, I thought, 'thank God, the man did not fire on
him'.

"This time of year is the worst time for these incidents - there are less jobs,
people have less money.

"The process after arrest seems to be quite slow. The best thing is if this kind
of person is punished straight away and then named and shamed in the paper so
that everybody knows about him. That's what will help stop this kind of crime."
When the thought, 'thank the man did not on him' OWNER "  The suspect was white
and wearing a faded black top and blue jeans.

Police have appealed for anyone with information to come forward.

Inspector Stuart Reid said: "This must have been a terrifying experience for the
shopkeeper.

"However, he refused to hand over any money and successfully fended the suspect
off. Thankfully he did not sustain God, fire any serious injury and police are
now conducting inquiries within the area to identify the male responsible.

"During this time, highvisibility police patrols are being carried out to engage
with local residents and offer reassurance to the community."

Kashif said he now planned to update his shop's security systems.

He added: "This is the one shop where I don't have live a CCTV system that sends
footage to my mobile phone or laptop - I will get that in here.

"I really want to say to people, keep an eye on the people coming into the
shops, especially at Christmas time."

Anyone with information can contact Police Scotland on 101.

When I saw the CCTV, I thought, 'thank God, the man did not fire on him' OWNER
KASHIF

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCKED Shop owner Kashif Ali
CLUES Forensics officers examine scene after raid
ATTACKED The desperate raider headbutts Mohammed before running from the store
empty handed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 30, 2013 Wednesday 6:22 PM GMT

China arrests five suspected 'Islamist militants' over Tiananmen Square jeep
attack;
Authorities now describe the incident on Monday, which killed five and left
dozens injured, as a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Clifford Coonan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 412 words


Chinese police have detained five suspected Islamist militants after confirming
a deadly car crash at Beijing's Tiananmen Square was a "carefully planned,
organised and premeditated" terrorist attack.

Officers said the sports-utility vehicle that ploughed into a crowd of tourists
outside the Forbidden City in the capital on Monday was driven by Usmen Hasan,
an ethnic Uighur from the western region of Xinjiang.

His wife, Gulkiz Gini, and mother, Kuwanhan Reyim, were with him in the car,
which had Xinjiang number plates, along with "devices filled with petrol",
knives and a "jihad" flag, police said.

The three occupants of the car were killed and two tourists - one Chinese from
Guangdong province and one Filipino - died, while 40 people were injured.

Police found more knives and another flag in the temporary residence of the five
detained suspects, the Chinese news agency Xinhua reported. "With the
co-operation of police authorities including those in north-west China's
Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, Beijing police have captured five suspects
who had been at large," a spokesman from the Beijing Municipal Public Security
Bureau told Xinhua.

The spokesman admitted the authorities knew of Usmen Hasan, who, it is believed,
conspired to plan and carry out the attack. He said they had not expected the
police to capture the suspects so quickly after the incident.

The reaction on Sina Weibo, a Chinese blogging website, showed support for the
police. One person wrote, "a great job in cracking down these terrorists".

The main exiled Uighur group, the World  Uighur Congress, said a lack of
transparency in China meant there would only be one side of the story given and
said it feared the response to the incident would lead to "further demonisation"
of the Uighurs.

Rebiya Kadeer, president of the World  Uighur Congress, said from Washington DC:
"The Chinese government will not hesitate to concoct a version of the incident
in Beijing so as to further impose repressive measures on the  Uighur people.
Chinese officials commandeered the war on terror for its own cynical purposes to
justify harsh measures against the  Uighurs."

Xinjiang's eight million Turkic-speaking Uighurs are an ethnic group that shares
close linguistic and cultural links to Central Asia, distinct from China's
majority Han.

A separatist campaign in the region has occasionally resulted in violence over
the past 20 years, although the unrest has never before spilled over into the
capital.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    October 30, 2013 Wednesday 12:59 PM GMT

China arrests suspected 'Islamist militants' over Tiananmen Square jeep attack;

Authorities now describe the incident on Monday, which killed five and left
dozens injured, as a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 596 words


The Chinese authorities say they have caught five suspected Islamist militants
in the wake of the "terrorist attack" on Tiananmen Square which killed five and
wounded dozens.

Officials have also released details about the occupants of the jeep which
caused the chaos, slamming into a crowd of tourists and security officers before
bursting into flames.

They identified the driver as Usmen Hasan, whose name, local media reported,
suggests he was an ethnic Uighur, a Muslim minority living in the far western
region of Xinjiang.

His wife and mother were with him in the car, along with devices filled with
gasoline, knives and a flag with "religious extremist content" written on it, a
police statement said.

The vehicle ploughed into pedestrians in the square, which has drawn occasional
protests since 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations were suppressed by the
military. Sources earlier told Reuters it was a suspected suicide attack.

"Police have identified Monday's incident at Tiananmen Square as a violent
terrorist attack which was carefully planned, organised and premeditated,"
police said, adding the three people in the vehicle died after they set the
gasoline on fire.

The other two people killed were tourists. At least 38 people were injured.

Five people connected with the incident were caught just 10 hours after the
attack, with help from the Xinjiang government, the police said, all of whom
also have names that suggest they are Uighur.

Police said they had seized Islamist militant flags and knives from where they
were staying.

As authorities stepped up security in Xinjiang, Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for
the main exiled Uighur group, the World Uyghur Congress, warned against
believing China's side of the story.

"Beijing has always made these kind of accusations, but they refuse to make
public the reasoning behind them. They will not make the story behind the
accusations transparent," he told Reuters.

Raxit said he was worried the incident would provide authorities with an excuse
"to further repress Uighurs".

"If an attack is committed by a Han Chinese, it's not terrorism, but if a Uighur
commits it, it is," he said, referring to the majority community. "Beijing makes
these accusations in service of an ulterior motive."

The government denies accusations of repression.

Reuters reporters in Xinjiang were turned back by police at a roadblock outside
Lukqun town, and sent back to the nearby city of Turpan.

Police have identified one of the caught suspects as being from Lukqun, where 35
people died in June in what China also termed a terrorist attack.

"We have some police matters we are handling. For security reasons, you are not
allowed in. I imagine it will be at least another month or two before this area
is open," a police officer at the checkpoint said.

In a small village near the checkpoint, a young Uighur man who declined to give
his name said people were afraid.

"In the past few days, the police have been everywhere. At night, the sirens
were all around. We are afraid to speak. If you speak, you will be taken away or
shot," the man said, making a pistol shape with his hand.

Xinjiang is home to the Turkic-speaking Uighurs, many of whom chaff at China's
controls on their religion and culture and there have been violent clashes there
in the past.

The government blames Uighur militants for provoking violence in Xinjiang, which
borders the Central Asian states of the former Soviet Union as well as
Afghanistan and Pakistan.

But many rights groups and exiles say China exaggerates the threat to justify
its harsh rule.

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 30, 2013 Wednesday 3:52 PM GMT

Five held over Tiananmen Square terror attack that left five dead and 38 injured

BYLINE: TED THORNHILL and EMMA THOMAS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 719 words



     ·    State media report five people detained in connection with the attack
     ·    Police described the incident as a 'violent terror attack'
     ·    Three people in car died along with two bystanders


Five people have been arrested in connection with a terrorist attack in Beijing.

Chinese state media say the suspects were detained in connection with the
Tiananmen Square crash which police have described as a 'violent terror attack',
the BBC reports.

Officers said the incident was 'carefully planned and organised'. The jeep that
ploughed through a crowd and crashed into a bridge in front of the Forbidden
City was driven by a man who was with his wife and mother.

The three people had ignited petrol inside the car and police have since found a
container for petrol, two knives and what they describe as a flag with extremist
religious slogans on it.

They also said the car's number plates were registered in Xinjiang province.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

The sport utility vehicle veered inside of a barrier separating a crowded
pavement from a busy avenue and then drove toward Tiananmen Gate, which stands
opposite the sprawling Tiananmen Square.

A tourist from the Philippines and a tourist from Guangdong province were among
the five people killed. Another 38 people were injured, including three tourists
from the Philippines and one from Japan.

Any incident in the area is sensitive because the square was the focus of a 1989
pro-democracy movement that was violently suppressed by the military.

The 38 injured were among the crowds in front of the gate, where a large
portrait of Mao Zedong hangs near the southern entrance to the former imperial
palace. Three other Filipinos and a Japanese man were among the injured, police
said, but there were no immediate details on their conditions.

Zhao Fuzhou, a security official at Beijing's Xinjiang Dasha hotel, said police
had circulated a notice searching for information about two suspects with Uighur
names in the aftermath of Monday's deaths.

Unconfirmed copies of the notice also were widely circulated on the Chinese
Internet.

Radicals among the Muslim Turkic Uighurs have been fighting a low-intensity
insurgency against Chinese rule for years. This summer saw an unusually large
number of violent incidents and Chinese security forces say they have been
guarding against attacks outside of Xinjiang.

Uighurs are culturally, religiously and linguistically distinct from China's
ethnic Han majority and many have chafed under heavy-handed Communist Party
rule.

Beijing police said on their microblog that they were taking 'effective measures
to ensure the capital's safety and stability.'

A police statement said the vehicle had burst into flames after crashing at
about noon Monday into a guardrail for one of the ancient stone bridges leading
to the gate. The adjacent Chang'an Avenue was closed as police and rescue
services converged, but police said traffic was restored just over an hour
later.

The incident had every appearance of being deliberate, since the driver
apparently jumped a curb and traveled about 400 meters (yards) to the spot where
the car was said to have caught fire. Along the way, it avoided trees, street
lights and at least one security checkpoint.

Photos of the scene that briefly circulated on the Internet showed a vehicle
emitting thick smoke at the gate. Injured people, including a young girl, lay on
the ground, many of them bleeding heavily.

Philippine Department of Foreign Affairs spokesman Raul Hernandez said their
information indicated that the woman who died and the injured Filipinos - two
women and a man - were tourists. 'Our embassy is working to gather more details
about this incident and to extend the necessary and appropriate assistance to
the victims,' he said in a statement.

Police said the other tourist killed was a Chinese man from the southern
province of Guangdong.

Attendants and nearby concession stand vendors who were asked about the incident
all said they were not clear on what happened. Such employees are generally
understood to be part-time police informants.

Just west of the square lies the Great Hall of the People, the seat of China's
parliament, while many of China's top leaders live and work just a few hundred
meters (yards) away in the tightly guarded Zhongnanhai compound.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    October 30, 2013 Wednesday 12:54 AM GMT

Special Forces were poised to capture Benghazi suspect when they swooped on
terrorist behind 1998 attack in Kenya

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 415 words



     ·    Publicity surrounding capture of al-Libi jeopardized mission
     ·    Officials feared two high-profile U.S. raids would destabilize Libya's
          fragile government


U.S. commandos were just hours away from launching a raid this month to capture
a militiaman wanted in the deadly Benghazi terror attack, according to
officials.

Special forces were waiting for orders to capture Ahmed Abu Khattalah, part of
the Ansar Al-Sharia militia, but the mission failed to materialize according to
CNN.

The order never came after a terrorist wanted over the 1998 attack on the U.S.
Embassy in Kenya was seized in the Libyan capital Tripoli.

Publicity surrounding the October 5 capture of Abu Anas al-Libi, a suspect in
the 1998 terror attack, put the imminent Khattalah mission in jeopardy,
according to some officials.

It was feared that a second U.S. raid in Libya could destabilize the country's
already fragile government.

Khattalah is believed to be behind the armed assault on the U.S. Embassy that
killed ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans.

President Obama said it was a 'priority' to bring the Benghazi suspects 'to
justice'. Khattalah is under federal indictment and the FBI is still
investigating the attack.

The agency has published photographs of people seen at the compound on the night
of the raid, who it wants to question.

Although the Libyan government publicly denounced the capture of al-Libi it had
given the U.S. secret services permission to work in the country.

American officials have a list of about 12 suspects they want to question about
the attack.

However, the planned raid earlier this month may have been one of the closest
times forces have come to fulfilling a mission, officials said.

Khattalah, who was interviewed by CNN's Arwa Damon in July, has worked openly in
Benghazi for months but it was only in October that the U.S. had enough
information on his specific whereabouts.

A top level meeting was due to get the final sign off from President Obama
around October 7, officials told CNN.

The mission was never carried out however, in part because publicity over the
arrest of al-Libi led the White House to fear a raid in Benghazi would
destabilize the already fragile Libyan government.

The kidnapping of Prime Minister Ali Zeidan after al-Libi was seized highlighted
these concerns, leading U.S. officials to conclude the Libyan government may not
survive a second raid.

Although the raid was halted, the mission to capture the Benghazi suspects has
not been shelved.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                    October 30, 2013 Wednesday 02:00 PM GMT

Tiananmen Square 'Terror Attack' Arrests

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 479 words



HIGHLIGHT: Five people have been arrested over a fatal car crash in Beijing's
Tiananmen Square, as Chinese police described it as a terrorist attack for the
first time.


  The incident took place directly underneath the iconic portrait of Chairman
Mao, which hangs on the Tiananmen Gate at the north end of the square, and
represents one of the country's most symbolic locations.

The 4x4 vehicle left the main highway that crosses the square and veered into a
crowd of tourists queuing to visit the Forbidden City, before bursting into
flames.

The three occupants of the car were killed, while two tourists - one Chinese and
one Filipino - also died, and at least 38 people were injured.

Initially, Chinese authorities said the incident was a car crash, but they have
now said it was "a violent terrorist attack which was carefully planned,
organised and premeditated".

Police said knives, iron rods, fuel and a flag imprinted with religious slogans
were found in the vehicle.

The authorities said that the three people in the car were from the same family
- a man, named as Usmen Hasan, his wife and mother.

It is claimed they set light to the petrol inside the car causing it to catch
fire.

The names released for the dead and the five suspects suggest they are members
of the Muslim Uighur people of the western Xinjiang province.

The car also had a licence plate identifying it as being from that region.

The Uighurs have accused the Chinese government of violently eroding their
religion and their culture.

They consider themselves to be culturally and ethnically much closer to the
central Asian nations than to China and claim their ethnic identity is being
diluted by the co-ordinated mass migrations of Han Chinese, the country's
majority ethnic group, into the province.

The Chinese central government in Beijing, more than 2,000 miles to the east,
has long claimed the Uighurs are waging a campaign of violence in an effort to
secure themselves an independent state.

Incidents of violent clashes between Chinese state security forces and Uighurs
in Xinjiang are common.

However, facts are extremely hard to verify independently because foreign
journalists are restricted from reporting in the region.

At the time, no mention of Monday's crash was made on state television.

Chinese language newspapers reported simply that there was an accident in
Tiananmen Square, although the English language state-run newspapers included
the suggestion that there may be links to the Uighur people of Xinjiang
Province.

As authorities stepped up security in Xinjiang, Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for
the main exiled Uighur group, the World Uyghur Congress, warned against
believing China's side of the story.

"Beijing has always made these kind of accusations, but they refuse to make
public the reasoning behind them," he said.

"They will not make the story behind the accusations transparent."

     ·       Related Stories
     ·       Tiananmen Square Car Blaze: Police Hunt Suspects
     ·       Tiananmen Square: Car Crashes Into Crowd


PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2013 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    October 30, 2013 Wednesday 12:53 PM GMT

China captures five suspects over Tiananmen Square 'terror attack';
After days of silence Beijing claims explosion of jeep at heart of China's
capital was "carefully planned organised and premeditated" attack carried out by
"ferocious" criminals

BYLINE: By Tom Phillips Shanghai

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 698 words


The explosion of a car in Beijing's Tiananmen Square on Monday that killed five
people and injured nearly 40 was a "hideous" "terrorist attack" perpetrated by a
mother and son team of religious extremists, the Chinese government has claimed.

After over 48 hours of almost complete official silence, Beijing announced on
Wednesday evening that it had detained five suspects in connection with the
lunchtime "attack" which saw a jeep slam into tourists and police in the iconic
and highly sensitive square.

A police spokesperson also named one of the jeep's occupants as Usmen Hasan and
said that the man's mother and wife had been in the car. At around noon on
Monday the three had deliberately ploughed into crowds in Tiananmen Square
before using gasoline to set the vehicle on fire, the spokesperson added.

China's official news agency Xinhua said police described the attack as
"carefully planned, organized and premeditated."

"Police found gasoline, equipment full of gasoline, two knives and steel sticks
as well as a flag with extremist religious content in the jeep," Xinhua said.

A police raid on a "temporary residence" being used by the five suspects in an
undisclosed location had turned up "knives and at least one 'jihad' flag."

A commentary aired by the CCTV television channel shortly after the announcement
said: "This violent terrorist attack has caused casualties among innocent
people. It has revealed once again the hideous face and the ferocious nature of
these criminals."

CCTV blamed the attack on "violent terrorists, separatists and religious
extremists."

"We firmly believe that the Party and the government have the ability and the
strength to strike and defeat all violent terrorist activities, to maintain the
safety of people's lives and belongings, the stability and harmony of society
and the common interests of people in all ethnic groups across the country."

Beijing police said the suspects had been captured within 10 hours of the
incident and drew a clear link to the restive province of Xinjiang, in China's
extreme northwest.

Xinjiang's 22 million population is almost half made up of Uighurs, a largely
Muslim, Turkic-speaking group who widely resent the growing influx of Han
Chinese immigrants and government restrictions on religious and cultural
practices.

Beijing often portrays the sprawling desert region as a hotbed of religious
extremism and separatism where violent groups are agitating for the creation of
an independent East Turkestan.

However, rights activists accuse Beijing of exaggerating the threat in order to
justify repressive policies in the region. They believe much of the violence is
a spontaneous reaction on the part of some Uighurs to government repression and
exclusion.

The apparent connection to Xinjiang, which has already been the setting for a
sequence of bloody clashes between Han Chinese and Uighurs this year, is likely
to further inflame an already tense situation on the ground.

Media reports suggested at least one of the police's suspects hailed from
Xinjiang's Shanshan County, near the oasis city of Turpan where at least 35
people were killed in June during clashes.

During a visit to the region around Turpan and Shanshan last month, The
Telegraph was trailed for two full days by three cars carrying undercover
security agents.

Black-clad police special forces, many of them carrying automatic weapons, could
be seen manning roadblocks and mobile command centres all along the G30 motorway
which runs east to west through the desert.

In Urumqi, Xinjiang's capital, heightened tensions were also on full show. The
entrance to one of the city's biggest mosques, the Erdaoqiao, was hemmed in by
two heavily-manned military blockades, with worshippers forced to come and go
under the watch of uniformed soldiers carrying riot shields and batons.

On Tuesday a prominent Uighurs leader called for calm and said he feared Beijing
would manipulate Monday's events for "its own cynical purposes.

"The Chinese government will not hesitate to concoct a version of the incident
in Beijing, so as to further impose repressive measures on the Uighur people,"
said Rebiya Kadeer, a Washington-based activists in an online statement.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    October 30, 2013 Wednesday 11:35 AM GMT

China captures five suspects over Tiananmen Square 'terror attack';
Chinese police have captured five suspects over a "terrorist attack" in
Beijing's Tiananmen Square, the first time authorities have admitted to such a
strike taking place in the capital

BYLINE: By AFP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 635 words


Beijing police said on a verified social media account that three people in the
sports utility vehicle which crashed in the symbolic heart of the Chinese state
and burst into flames on Monday, all of whom died, were from the same family -
one man, his wife and his mother.

The car had a licence plate identifying it as from the restive western region of
Xinjiang, police said, and the names given for the trio sounded like ones used
by the mostly Muslim Uighur ethnic minority.

Another five people have been arrested in connection with the case, police said.

It was a "carefully planned, organised and premeditated violent terrorist
attack", the statement said, adding that the car carried petrol, knives and
banners bearing extremist religious content.

The suspects crashed the vehicle, "ignited the petrol inside the car so the car
caught on fire" and the three people inside "died at the scene".

Police said two tourists were killed in the incident, which took place close to
a huge portrait of Mao Zedong hanging from the walls of the Forbidden City, and
that another 40 people were injured.

Police had alerted hotels in the capital to look out for eight suspects from
Xinjiang, most of them apparently from China's mainly Muslim Uighur ethnic
minority, who are concentrated in the region.

Witnesses and reports said that in Monday's incident a vehicle drove along a
stretch of pavement near the Forbidden City, a former imperial palace and
popular tourist site next to Tiananmen Square, knocking over pedestrians before
bursting into flames, in what appeared to be a deliberate act.

Beijing has blamed Uighur groups for what it calls "terrorist" attacks in the
far west, but details of alleged incidents are hard to confirm, and exile groups
accuse China of exaggerating the threat to justify religious and cultural
restrictions.

The police notification seeking details of the suspects did not state their
ethnic backgrounds, but seven of their names were among those commonly used by
Uighurs.

It included at least one person from Lukqun, where state media said 35 people
were killed in June in what Beijing called a "terrorist attack".

No Uighur group has claimed responsibility for Monday's crash, which struck at
the symbolic centre of the Chinese state.

Three Philippine tourists and one Japanese were among the injured.

"All patients involved in the incident are recovering," a nurse who declined to
be named told AFP at Beijing's Tongren hospital, where Philippine officials said
the injured were being treated.

A statement from the World Uyghur Congress - an exile group which Beijing has
condemned as separatist - made before news of the arrests emerged said
suspicions that Uighurs were responsible could lead to stepped-up government
repression.

"Today, I fear for the future of East Turkestan and the Uighur people more than
I ever have," World Uyghur Congress president Rebiya Kadeer said in a statement
issued from Washington.

East Turkestan is the name which the activist organisation uses to refer to
Xinjiang, where Uighurs make up 46 percent of the population.

The group added that it fears the response by authorities in Beijing will "lead
to further demonisation of the Uighur people and incite a fierce state
crackdown" in Xinjiang.

Xinjiang is a sparsely populated but strategically important area which borders
several central Asian countries. It is periodically hit by violent clashes,
including riots in the region's capital Urumqi in 2009 which left around 200
dead, but information is often hard to obtain.

Police have arrested at least 139 people in Xinjiang in recent months for
allegedly spreading jihad, according to state-run media.

In August state-run media said that a policeman had been killed in an
"anti-terrorism" operation - although overseas reports said 22 Uighurs died in
the incident.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 31, 2013 Thursday

OIC Deplores Terrorist Attack in Southeastern Iran

LENGTH: 204 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News
Agency website

Tehran, 31 October: The Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) in a statement
condemned the Saturday terrorist attack in Southeastern Iran which killed 14
Iranian border guards. Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu, the Secretary-General of the OIC,
in a statement on Wednesday [30 October]] strongly condemned the attack on
Iranian border guards by militants linked to Jeish al-Adl terrorist group in the
city of Saravan in the Southwestern province of Sistan and Balouchestan.

He expressed his regret over the incident, sympathizing with the families of the
victims.

Ihsanoglu also called for the culprits of this terrorist action to be brought to
justice.

14 Iranian border guards - mostly conscripted soldiers, were killed and 6 more
were injured during the terrorist attack by outlaws in Saravan border region in
Southeastern Iran in the early hours of Saturday morning.

The terrorists who have reportedly been members of the outlawed Jeish Al-Adl
radical Sunni Wahhabi movement fled into Pakistan after the operation in Iran's
Southeastern Sistan and Balouchestan province.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1255 gmt 31 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 31, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

You should be ashamed of this cowardly attack on the victims of terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1711 words


Last week Maureen Messent, in her column, was critical of Birmingham's Justice
for the 21 group after members protested outside a Sinn Fein conference in
London.

Campaign members and other readers have responded with a large number of
letters.

AN OPEN LETTER TO THE MAIL'S MAUREEN MESSENT... ITHINK when having the temerity
to intervene and comment on such an emotive issue it is important, not to
mention common decency, to at least get your facts straight regarding the
terrorist atrocity you attempt to use as a stick to berate our campaign with.

May I remind you that the year those beautiful boys were murdered in Warrington
by the Provisional IRA was 1993 and not 1998 as you incorrectly stated.

As the brother of a cherished sister who was murdered in cold blood by cowardly
terrorists, I do not believe you could not begin to understand the pain that, as
a close relative, accompanies you through life.

That pain is compounded by the fact my sister's life does not appear to be
important to the authorities who are allegedly there to protect the public.

Having to take to the streets to fight for justice for Maxine and the other
victims isn't something my family and I, or the increasing number of supporters
rallying to our banner, enjoy.

We do this simply because we believe we have a duty to expose their killers and
bring them to justice. We do not want to score any political points.

We've received no help from anyone in authority or a position of influence, bar
Deputy First Minister for Northern Ireland Peter Robinson.

We have only come as far as we have due to the efforts and support of good,
honest ordinary people, who still remember what right and wrong and looking
after their own means.

Unlike Mr Parry, we do not receive funding, we and our supporters put in a lot
of hard work and our own money into our struggle, only to read someone like
yourself spouting ill-informed and poorly researched nonsense.

You say Mr Parry has helped the Peace Process, I dispute that. Mr Parry has
helped Sinn Fein, he's only allowed to go and be received in Ireland because he
is funded to do so, simply because he complies with the Sinn Fein/IRA rules of
engagement and agenda.

Colin Parry says that 'the armed struggle is over.' .' I find it concerning that
someone ostensibly fighting for victims should term a cowardly terrorist
campaign as an armed struggle.

An armed struggle is two opposite sides engaging with arms. My sister and her
fellow Brummies were not armed, they were defenceless members of the public on a
night out.

We see on-going shootings, bombings and murders in Northern Ireland, including a
recent letter bomb attack on the Chief Constable, Matt Baggott. It is a farce to
pretend everything in the garden is rosy.

It is, in fact, almost as deluded as your thinly veiled attack on the Birmingham
families of IRA victims who are fighting for justice for the loved ones and adds
to the inaccuracies of your piece. Justice for the 21 is all for a future of
peace and reconciliation in Northern Ireland but as we have stated, true
reconciliation is a two-way process. We see the take, take, take by Sinn Fein,
it is time for them to give a little now.

We see a 12-year inquiry and criminal investigation regarding the tragic events
of Bloody Sunday. I ask you, where are the Sinn Fein concessions, where is the
parity? Why doesn't the Bloody Sunday campaign damage the Peace Process as it is
being implied our campaign will or does? After leaving the Camden Irish Centre,
Mr Parry had to go out of his way to confront us. He came striding over
demanding to know where I was. He approached me and started bemoaning the fact
he'd faced criticism inside the event.

I replied he was entitled to criticism outside as well, (just as we are - as you
have demonstrated) and that we were obviously coming from wholly differing
perspectives.

Mr Parry obviously wasn't satisfied with this answer and continued in what I and
our supporters deemed a confrontational manner.

I again informed him that he should realise that through rubbing shoulders with
individuals who murdered innocent people he should expect criticism.

Mr Parry then asked if we realised what he did for victims? To which I replied,
'I'm sorry Mr Parry but my family and I are victims and we do not want to jump
on the Jolly Roger with you and your terrorist mates.' .

At this point, some of our supporters who had witnessed Mr Parry berating my
sisters and I, politely intervened. He turned on them and started shouting: 'Do
you know who I am?' The police, who, contrary to your claims, were already
present, then intervened. They asked Mr Parry to move on and then escorted him
away from the scene.

We, however, were repeatedly congratulated on our conduct by police during the
day, including following the confrontation with Mr Parry.

I doubt that if you had a relative murdered by the IRA, and knew relatives who
had to view the dismembered and charred remains of their loved one, you would
then make the self-righteous and abhorrent comments that you did about realism?
Your concerns, like ours, should be about the rights of the people who are no
longer with us due to the actions of the IRA led by the very people who Colin
Parry exalts.

I am sorry but I take your comments as a personal attack, not just on me, my
family and our supporters, but also on Maxine and the other 20 victims in
Birmingham on that terrible night when the IRA came visiting.

They aren't here to defend themselves anymore, but we are, and we're here to
fight for them and you and others need to start accepting the fact, we are not
going to go away.

You won't, but you should be, thoroughly ashamed of yourself.

Brian Hambleton On behalf of Justice for the 21 Hostile reaction I AM writing to
you with sincere anger at the way Maureen Messent has reported "completely
inaccurate facts regarding a recent meeting between Justice for the 21 and Colin
Parry. I was at the protest and all concerned behaved impeccably with the police
congratulating and thanking us at the end. Mr Parry, however, did not act in the
same way.

Late in the afternoon Mr Parry took it upon himself to march across the road and
confront the protest in a hostile and aggressive manner, shouting/ demanding
"Where's Brian?" Brian Hambleton came to speak to him in his usual polite way
but Mr Parry was having none, just wanting to criticise our presence as causing
him embarrassment amongst Sinn Fein members inside.

Other comments made were quite threatening, "do you know who I am" amongst them.

Maureen Messent has either been given the wrong facts or has done this
deliberately to try and discredit the campaign! Either way the report is totally
inaccurate.

I hope you can look into this as I am aware your paper has been very supportive
of the campaign to date, Mark Todd by email Tell the truth I MUST respond to
Maureen Messent's article of 25/10/2013. I was outside the London Irish Centre
in Camden on 19/10/2013, demonstrating peacefully with Justice4the21. Maureen
Messent is wrong and a number of points need correcting.

Mr Parry left the building and approached Brian Hambleton, and it was Mr Parry
who was asked by the police to move on due to his behaviour.

As for "upbraiding ..... Colin Parry", Mr Parry was remonstrating with the
Hambletons for having "taken a different path" to the one he had chosen.

The date of the Warrington bombing and the deaths of Tim Parry and Jonathan Ball
was 1993 not 1998.

Mr Parry has said a number of times since Martin McGuinness' visit to the
Warrington Peace Centre last month, and on BBC Breakfast News, that he has not
forgiven his son's murderers. This is all fact, not fiction as in Maureen's
article.

It's apparent Maureen's been listening to gossip and hearsay. What was that
comment Maureen made in her article? Oh yes, homework.

In your own words Maureen, you "must do your homework!" Certain journalists are
interested in the news, others have their own agenda. Whilst I'm loathe to refer
to Maureen as a journalist, I've no wish to get in to name calling.

I can't say what Maureen's agenda is, but I can tell you what it's not. The
truth.

Why do some people work so hard to pour shame on us for seeking justice for a
murdered loved one? Jayne Hambleton by email Find hell hounds 'HELL hounds' they
were called in Victorian times before 'terrorists'was used to describe these
purveyors of hate, death, destruction and heartbreak.

Justice for the 21 want the hell hounds who visited our great city and took 21
innocent lives to be muzzled because, who knows Maureen, one day they may come
back to Birmingham.

You might one minute be enjoying a drink with friends in a basement bar and then
the next minute be blown through that basement wall and what is left of you
draped over an electric sub station where no one can retrieve your body or help
you because all electric supplies to the surrounding area would be cut off while
pandemonium existed up on the street above.

Do you think the hell hound who walked back up those 17 steps into the chilly
November air after planting the bomb in the Tavern in the Town passed the
innocents walking down to their slaughter and looked up and smiled or kept his
eyes planted firmly to the floor? Before disappearing into the night wondering
if the bomb would go off and he would get away with the biggest mass murder of
the 20th century in peacetime mainland UK? Well Ms Messent, the hell hound may
have got away with it for now, but not forever.

For unlike you, we at Justice for the 21 will continue to seek justice for our
citizens and get these hell hounds muzzled.

And then when they are we can say sorry to the poor soul on the sub station who
was the last to be rescued and the other 20 innocent Brummies for taking so
long.

Phil Hatton by email ¦MAUREEN Messent's views and comments are her own, not
those of the Birmingham Mail.

The Birmingham Mail has a long tradition of supporting the people of our city in
many different ways.

It is supporting Justice For the 21 with a regular column and other news items
and features both in print and online.

It remains committed to backing the group in its search for the truth about the
Birmingham pub bombings and shares its desire to see justice done for the sake
of all who died and were injured and their relatives. - Editor

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2013 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                           October 31, 2013 Thursday

Beijing Terror Attack: Implications

LENGTH: 534 words


BMI View:   The  small-scale terror attack in Beijing on October 28 underscores
the risks posed by separatist sentiment in China's remote Xinjiang province.
Going forward, a heavy crackdown on Uighurs could increase their resentment of
the Chinese authorities , and lead to more unrest .

The Chinese authorities have described a deadly car crash in Tiananmen Square on
October 28 as a 'planned, organised, premeditated, violent terrorist attack'.
The incident involved a sports utility vehicle ploughing into a crowd and
bursting into flames, killing its three occupants - the driver, his wife, and
mother - as well as two tourists. Forty people were also injured.

The authorities blamed Uighur Muslim separatists from China's westernmost region
of Xinjiang for the incident, and have arrested five Uighurs for their alleged
involvement in the plot. Local police also said they had recovered 'religious
extremist content' from the burnt-out vehicle, which was set on fire using
gasoline by its occupants. Meanwhile, on October 31, Chinese media reported that
at least three airlines - Beijing Capital Airlines, Xiamen Airlines, and Sichuan
Airlines - had received bomb threats.

Like Tibet, which it neighbours, Xinjiang is a remote Chinese province whose
local population has long been opposed to Chinese rule and harbours separatist
inclinations. Tibetans and Uighurs have felt politically and culturally
persecuted by the Han Chinese majority, and the two regions have occasionally
seen outbursts of unrest. For example, rioting in Urumqi, Xinjiang's capital, in
2009 left around 200 people dead and 1,600 injured.

In the short term, the most likely response by the Chinese authorities is a
crackdown on perceived and actual Uighur separatists, both in Beijing and other
major cities, and in Xinjiang itself. However, a heavy-handed approach could
risk alienating the Uighurs, thereby potentially increasing the likelihood of
acts of violence. China could also attract greater criticism from international
human rights groups. Indeed, critics of China fear that Beijing will use the
October 28 incident as the pretext for a disproportionate crackdown.

In the long term, the bigger questions are whether Uighurs will become
radicalised, and whether they will attract the support of Islamist militants in
Central Asia, including Afghanistan, which shares a very short border with
western China. Back in 2009, Abu Yahya al-Libi, a senior al-Qaeda official who
was subsequently killed in a drone strike in 2012, called for a holy war on
China in response to Beijing's harsh treatment of Uighurs ( see our online
service, October 8, 2009, 'Al-Qaeda Threats: Key Implications'). China itself
claimed in 2008 to have foiled a terror plot aimed at disrupting the Beijing
Olympic Games.

If the Uighurs do become radicalised, and draw greater support from global
Islamist militants, then the threats facing China will surely increase. Although
it is highly speculative at this stage, it is conceivable that in the far
future, if China becomes more heavily involved in Middle Eastern affairs and
pursues similar policies to the US, then the anger fuelling radical Islamism
could be eventually be redirected towards China.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political Risk Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2013 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           October 31, 2013 Thursday

Tian'anmen jeep crash a terror attack

BYLINE: Cui Jia in Urumqi

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 750 words


Incident indicates extremists are spreading outside Xinjiang: Experts

Terrorist attacks carried out by extremists from the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous
region have spread outside the region and become more difficult to prevent,
experts said on Wednesday after police identified Monday's deadly crash at
Beijing's Tian'anmen Square as a terrorist attack.

Usmen Hasan, with his mother Kuwanhan Reyim and his wife Gulkiz Gini on board,
drove a jeep with a Xinjiang license plate into a crowd of people at noon on
Monday, killing two and injuring another 40.

"The attack was carefully planned, organized and premeditated," a spokesman for
the Beijing Public Security Bureau said on Wednesday.

The jeep crashed into a guardrail on Jinshui Bridge across the moat of the
Forbidden City. All three in the jeep died after they set gasoline stored in
containers inside the vehicle on fire.

Police found gasoline, two knives and steel rods as well as a flag with
extremist religious content in the jeep, Xinhua reported.

"It is an obvious suicide attack. It is also the first time that a family has
been involved in carrying out a terrorist attack," said Ma Pinyan, a senior
anti-terrorism researcher and deputy director of the ethnic and religious study
center at the Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences in Urumqi, capital of the
region.

Two of the attackers were women and they were carrying a flag of an extremist
religion, "which shows that the whole family was under the strong influence of
extremist religion, which has led to an increasing number of attacks in Xinjiang
in recent years", he said.

Suicide attacks have been seen in many terrorist incidents in Xinjiang since
2008, he added.

People often believe such attacks only happen in Xinjiang, especially the
southern part of the autonomous region, such as Kashgar and Hotan.

But a violent terrorist attack on June 26 in Lukqun, eastern Xinjiang's Turpan
prefecture that resulted in 35 deaths indicated that the location of attacks has
become more random, he said.

"This time the attackers targeted Tian'anmen, the heart of China's capital and
the country's political center, because they want to generate a greater sense of
fear and international impact. People should realize that terrorist attacks are
not something peculiar to Xinjiang," Ma said.

Li Wei, director of the anti-terrorism research center under the China
Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, said Monday's terrorist
attack was launched in a similar way to the one in Kashgar on July 30, 2011,
when terrorists drove a vehicle into a crowd in Kashgar city, killing eight
people.

Li said the best way to prevent such terrorist attacks is to increase
intelligence efforts and find signs of a planned attack in advance.

But the fact that the three suspects are from the same family shows that
terrorists are launching attacks in family units, which makes it difficult for
police to detect.

Ma said that most of the recent attacks were planned by groups of people
brainwashed by extreme religion rather than terrorist organizations, which are
more hidden.

"Effectively curbing the spread of extreme religion in Xinjiang, which is the
source of the problem, remains a challenge for authorities in the region as well
as the central government," he said.

About 10 hours after the attack at Tian'anmen Square, Beijing police captured
five suspects with the cooperation of police authorities including those in
Xinjiang.

Police also found knives and at least one "jihad" flag in the temporary
residence of the detained suspects, who admitted that they knew Usmen Hasan and
conspired to plan and carry out the attack, according to Xinhua.

It's still unknown where the suspects were detained and which parts of the
region they are from.

Meanwhile, the government has urged all-out efforts to save the lives of the
injured in Monday's attack, a quick search for the truth behind the incident and
strong measures to guarantee the safety and stability of the capital city.

The injured are being treated at nearby hospitals. Some have undergone surgery
and other emergency treatment.

Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said on Wednesday that China expressed
condolences to the victims, pledging to provide necessary assistance to the
countries concerned.

Police said a female Filipino tourist and a male tourist from Guangdong province
were killed in the attack.

The injured include three tourists from the Philippines and a male tourist from
Japan.

Xu Wei in Beijing and Xinhua contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           October 31, 2013 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Arrests after 'terror attack'

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 78 words


CHINA: Five people have been arrested suspected of being involved in a suicide
car attack near Beijing's Tiananmen Square.

Police said the three people who died when they carried out ­Monday's incident
have also been identified, and called it a planned terrorist attack.

Two tourists, including one hit by the speeding vehicle, were also killed and
another 38 injured. Police said knives, iron bars, petrol and a flag bearing
religious slogans were found in the vehicle.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 31, 2013 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

Assad attacks foreign backing of 'terrorists'

BYLINE: Nicholas Blanford, Beirut

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 248 words


President Assad condemned foreign backing for armed opposition groups yesterday,
insisting that there could be no peace in Syria until there was an "end to the
support for terrorists".

The Syrian leader's apparent rejection of the planned Geneva peace talks came a
day after he sacked Qadri Jamil, the Deputy Prime Minister and a political
moderate. Mr Jamil was dismissed after a weekend meeting in Geneva with Robert
Ford, the former US Ambassador to Damascus, to discuss the mooted peace
conference.

Syria's state TV accused Mr Jamil of leaving his "centre of work without
permission" and of undertaking "activities outside the nation without
co-ordinating with the Government".

Mr Assad denounced foreign intervention after meeting Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN
envoy for Syria. Mr Brahimi is on a regional tour to drum up support for the
peace conference. The Assad regime has said that it will attend. However, the
Syrian National Coalition (SNC) says that it will not go to Geneva unless there
are guarantees that Mr Assad will have no role in a transitional process to a
new leadership.

The SNC is hamstrung by its lack of credibility, with most rebel groups in Syria
saying that they will no longer co-operate with it. On Sunday, at least 19
jihadist factions said that attending peace talks with the Assad regime would be
"treason".

The rebels' uncompromising stance plays into the hands of regime hardliners who
have little to gain from a peace process supposed to topple the Assad dynasty.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 1, 2013 Friday

UN chief condemns recent terrorist attack in south-eastern Iran

LENGTH: 97 words


Text of report by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

UN Secretary General [Ban Ki-Moon] has condemned the recent [25 October]
terrorist attack in Iran's south-eastern Saravan region, in which 14 Iranian
border guards were killed.

According to the Mehr news agency, the UN secretary general condemned the recent
terrorist attack in Iran's south-eastern Saravan region, in which 14 Iranian
border guards were killed and expressed sympathy with the families of the
victims and condoled with the Iranian people and government.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 0718gmt 01 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           November 2, 2013 Saturday

ETIM terror group 'behind Tian'anmen suicide attack'

BYLINE: CUI JIA in Urumqi

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 733 words


Terrorist organization the East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM) was behind
this week's suicide attack in Beijing's Tian'anmen Square, China's top security
official said.

"This violent terrorist incident in Beijing was organized and premeditated by
the ETIM, which is entrenched in central and western Asian regions," said Meng
Jianzhu, chief of the Commission for Political and Legal Affairs of the
Communist Party of China Central Committee.

Meng was speaking to Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV.

He made the comments, without giving further details, on the sidelines of a
regional security meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in
Tashkent, capital of Uzbekistan, on Thursday.

Two people were killed and another 40 injured at noon on Monday when Usmen
Hasan, his mother Kuwanhan Reyim and his wife Gulkiz Gini, from the Xinjiang
Uygur autonomous region drove a jeep into a crowd after crashing into a
guardrail on the Jinshui Bridge, which spans the Forbidden City moat.

Two knives, an iron baton and flags related to religious extremism were found in
the jeep, Xinhua News Agency reported.

Five accomplices, also from Xinjiang, were arrested. Police found knives and at
least one "jihadist" flag at the temporary residence of the suspects, who
admitted that they knew Usmen, and to conspiring to plan and carry out the
attack.

On Friday, public security authorities released fresh details of the attack. All
the eight people came from Hotan in Xinjiang. They prepared 40,000 yuan ($6,570)
for the attack and collected 400 liters of gasoline from various gas stations.

They had checked the site three times before they launched the attack, according
to a report by China Central Television.

The United Nations and the United States listed the ETIM - which wants
independence for an "Eastern Turkistan" - as a terrorist organization in 2002.
China listed it as one of the four terrorist organizations related to "Eastern
Turkistan" forces in 2003.

China said the group was responsible for an attack on armed police in Kashgar on
Aug 4, 2008, four days before the Beijing Olympics.

Fourteen officers were killed after being hit by a truck driven by an attacker.
Earlier that year, police busted a terrorist cell run by the ETIM that had been
plotting to carry out suicide attacks, poisonings and kidnappings of Olympic
athletes.

Ma Pinyan, a senior anti-terrorism researcher and deputy director of the ethnic
and religious study center at the Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences in Urumqi,
said, "ETIM, which is one of the main terrorist groups posing a severe threat to
Xinjiang, has been the subject of crackdowns by the Chinese authorities for
years.

"As a result, border areas with China in neighboring countries have become
hotbeds for its activities, which are aimed at continuously providing training
for people in Xinjiang and masterminding attacks."

Security in Urumqi has been stepped up since the day of the attack.

Meng briefed fellow SCO members Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and
Uzbekistan, four of which share a border with Xinjiang, about the attack.

He said many countries, including China, are under threat amid increasing global
terrorist activities and China is more determined to fight against violence and
terrorist crimes.

Zhang Xinfeng, director of the executive committee of the SCO's Regional
Anti-Terrorism Agency, said it will help China "get to the bottom of the case"
by cooperating with the investigation, Xinhua reported.

Yang Yujun, a Defense Ministry spokesman, said on Thursday the Chinese army will
combat various terrorist activities when necessary according to government
instructions under the National Defense Law and the Emergency Response Law of
China.

He said terrorism is an international enemy that many countries' armies have
been ordered to combat.

Pierre Picquart, a China observer and professor of geopolitics at the University
of Paris-VIII, said China is no exception to terrorism, as it is becoming more
open.

"French President Francois Hollande has expressed his willingness to have more
political exchanges with China, which should also include cooperation on
fighting against global terrorism," he said.

"This type of terrorist attack can happen anywhere, in any city, in any country.
Therefore, we have to take effective and important action and cooperate to fight
all types of terrorism."

Li Xiang in Paris contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                     November 2, 2013 Saturday 10:31 AM GMT

Family's car smashed with brick by gang in Mischief Night attack;
Children screamed in terror, says mum

BYLINE: By Gemma Jaleel

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 428 words


A Merseyside mum-of-two spoke of her terror after her family was attacked by a
gang of Mischief Night vandals..

Sara Williams was with her husband Elis, mum Susan and five- year-old daughter
and 20-month-old son when their black Audi A1 was targeted as they travelled
along Lodge Lane, Toxteth, at around 7.30pm on Wednesday.

She described how a brick was thrown through the back windscreen of the car,
spraying broken glass over her screaming children.

Sara, 34, from Allerton, said: "I was dropping my mum home in Kensington and we
were on Lodge Lane and I could see cars starting to queue. A couple of wheelie
bins had been left across the road and the cars were slowing to get round them.

"Then I noticed about 20 to 30 youths at the side of the road dressed in dark
clothing and hoodies.

"The kids starting throwing rocks and stones at our car.

"Then a youth came out with a plank of wood raised above his head. My husband
got out because he was about to bring it down on our bonnet.

"It all happened so quickly. The next thing, my husband had a bloody nose. Then
they all started to come forward and were kicking and throwing stones at the
car. They grabbed hold of the car door and were trying to rip it off. My husband
scrambled back into the car and then a brick came through the back windscreen.
My kids were screaming and crying, there was shattered glass all over them."

Sara said a taxi that was travelling behind them was also hit by missiles being
thrown by the youths.

After managing to escape, however, Sara says she intends to file a complaint
against the police claiming officers in a nearby police car stood by and did
nothing. She said: "We told the officer what had happened and asking why when
they could see what was happening, they weren't arresting anyone.

"I asked if he would come down the road so I could point out who had smashed up
the car. The officer said: 'We're not policing that way tonight'."

Liverpool South Chief Inspector Keith McLachlan said: "We are aware of an
incident where a group of youths were throwing stones at cars. I recognise this
must have been a very frightening and intimidating thing to happen to this
family. Officers did speak with the family on the night and they were directed
to Admiral Street police station to report the crime. I would like to reassure
them that the investigation into this incident is being taken seriously.
Officers have since spoken with the family in question and at this time no
formal complaint has been made.

"The local Neighbourhood Inspector will re-contact the family to discuss any
concerns."

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            November 3, 2013 Sunday

Beijing on alert after Tian'anmen terror attack

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 245 words


BEIJING - Beijing's Party chief Guo Jinlong has called for enhanced capacity to
prevent the Chinese capital from terrorist attacks after a car crash in
Tian'anmen Square killed five people and injured another 40.

During a two-day inspection tour lasted from November 1 to 2, Guo urged police
and security forces to "look for vulnerable links" and "learn a lesson" from the
Tian'anmen terrorist attack, the Beijing Daily reported Sunday.

Guo, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central
Committee, stressed the importance of quick response to emergencies and asked
police and security forces to raise their awareness in countering terrorism and
violence.

Police are asked to strengthen security in key areas, enhance their capacity to
collect intelligence and take precautions against terrorist attacks, the
newspaper reported.

Authorities in downtown districts are required to strengthen urban management,
crack down on violations of laws and regulations, and improve management of
rented housing, small and medium-sized inns and floating population.

A jeep crashed into a guardrail of Jinshui Bridge across the moat of the
Forbidden City at noon October 28. Police said the three people in the jeep died
after they set gasoline inside the vehicle on fire.

The dead also include a Filipino tourist and a tourist from south China's
Guangdong Province.

Chinese police have identified the deadly crash as a terrorist attack and
detained five suspects.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 4, 2013 Monday

Egyptian army officer died of injuries in "terrorist" attack - agency

LENGTH: 113 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Al-Isma'iliyah, 4 Nov: An army officer died of wounds he sustained in a
terrorist attack on a security checkpoint on Al-Isma'iliyah-Cairo desert road
near the canal city on Monday [4 November].

A group of terrorists riding a car opened fire at the security checkpoint and
fled the scene, said a statement by the Ismailia Security Directorate.

Police and armed forces are combing the area in search for the attackers.

Earlier in the day, two policemen were killed in a terrorist attack on
Ismailia/Port Said agricultural road near the entrance of Ismailia governorate.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1540gmt 04 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            November 4, 2013 Monday

Obituary: Hakimullah Mehsud: Ruthless leader of the Pakistani Taliban held
responsible for numerous terror attacks

BYLINE: Declan Walsh

SECTION: GUARDIAN OBITUARIES PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 933 words


Hakimullah Mehsud, who has died in a US drone attack aged about 34, was one of
the most notorious leaders to emerge from Pakistan's cauldron of Islamist
militancy in the past decade. Charming, charismatic and ruthless in equal
measure, he was propelled to the leadership of the country's largest Taliban
group by the twin forces of his violent ambitions and the US drone strike that
killed its previous leader Baitullah Mehsud in 2009.

In 2010, Hakimullah Mehsud became Pakistan's main enemy, mounting a vicious
campaign that targeted soldiers and civilians in North-West Frontier province,
Punjab and Islamabad. Hundreds were killed. It was Mehsud's response to an army
assault on his mountain stronghold of South Waziristan, at the southern end of
the tribal belt. It was also an attack on his birthplace.

He was born Zulfiqar Mehsud - the exact date of his birth remains vague - in the
village of Kotkai. The Mehsuds have resisted outside interference for centuries
- the former colonial administrator and writer Sir Olaf Caroe compared them to
wolves - and the tribe's martial culture was deeply ingrained in the teenage
Zulfiqar. He dropped out of his madrasa to pick up his AK-47 gun, taking the nom
de guerre of Hakimullah. In militant circles, he cultivated a reputation for
bravery and recklessness. Years later, a visiting Pakistani reporter recounted
how Mehsud took him on a terrifying ride in which the militant raced his jeep
towards the edge of a cliff, skidding to a stop a few feet from the edge.

Admirers compared Mehsud to Nek Muhammad, another daring young Talib who had
been killed in the CIA's first drone strike in the tribal belt in 2004. But
ideologically speaking, Hakimullah was infected by the dark forces of bigotry
and sectarianism.

He joined a Taliban outfit led by his fellow tribesman, Baitullah Mehsud, which
was later formalised as the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP). Hakimullah Mehsud
sprang to prominence in 2007 with the kidnap of at least 200 Pakistani soldiers
in South Waziristan. The hostages were eventually released - reportedly in
exchange for dozens of Taliban prisoners - but only after the Shia soldiers had
been beheaded.

It exposed an ugly prejudice: Mehsud also had links to Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LEJ),
a Sunni extremist outfit responsible for massacres of Shias in the nearby Dera
Ismail Khan district. Mehsud had family ties to the group: his cousin, Qari
Hussain Mehsud, was a prominent LEJ activist. He later gained notoriety as the
Taliban's chief trainer of teenage suicide bombers and was killed in a drone
strike in 2010.

Hakimullah Mehsud soared through the ranks. In 2008, he invited reporters to the
Orakzai Agency (tribal area), where the grinning militant posed at the wheel of
a stolen American Humvee. Throughout the year his men had ambushed Nato convoys
as they crawled through the Khyber Pass, bound for Afghanistan. Weeks
afterwards, they torched Nato vehicles at a depot on the outskirts of Peshawar.
Baitullah appointed Hakimullah TTP commander for three of the seven tribal
agencies: Khyber, Kurram and Orakzai.

He continued to prey on the weak. Orakzai's handful of Hindu farmers were
ordered to pay jizya, an ancient Islamic tax levied on minorities. Sectarian
tensions were stirred in Kurram, which has a large Shia population. And Mehsud
claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist attacks, including the March 2009
assault on the visiting Sri Lanka cricket team in Lahore and, three months
later, a suicide bombing of the Pearl Continental hotel in Peshawar. Mehsud
declared that President Asif Ali Zardari was a main target because he had allied
himself with the US.

A CIA drone strike in 2009 killed Baitullah as he lay on a bed on the roof of a
relative's home in South Waziristan. Three weeks later, after some internal
tussles, Hakimullah Mehsud emerged as the TTP's new leader. There was no
honeymoon period. Two months later, the army mounted its assault on South
Waziristan. Within weeks, troops had overrun Kotkai, but they failed to catch
Mehsud, who had slipped through into North Waziristan. The government announced
a 50m-rupee (£300,000) bounty on his head; the following year, the US priced him
at $5m (£3.1m).

On 8 January 2010, a video was aired on Pakistan television showing Mehsud
sitting beside Humam Khalil Abu-Mulal al-Balawi, a Jordanian suicide bomber who
had killed seven CIA employees in Afghanistan 10 days earlier. Mehsud's role in
the "spectacular" was unclear, but his addiction to press attention portrayed
him as the gloating figure behind the CIA's greatest loss of life since 1983.

The CIA then launched a furious blitz of drone attacks on Waziristan, with
Mehsud as the main target. On 14 January 2010, after a Hellfire missile attack
from a drone, he was reported dead. But that May a video appeared to show Mehsud
alive and in an audio recording he vowed to send suicide bombers to the US. He
was again reported to have been killed in a drone strike in 2012.

Under his leadership, the TTP showed political savvy by selectively targeting
parties during this year's election. Campaigns by the Pakistan People's party
(PPP) and the Awami National party (ANP) were disrupted because of fears of TTP
attacks on candidates, with conservative parties unhindered and this helped to
guarantee a rightwing landslide.

In October, Mehsud gave an interview to the BBC in which he said he would be
open to peace talks but that drone strikes must be brought to an end as a
condition of any ceasefire.

Hakimullah Mehsud, Taliban leader, born c1979; died 1 November 2013

Captions:

Mehsud in the Orakzai region in 2008

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 5, 2013 Tuesday

Iran commentary urges action over "terrorist attack" in south-east province

LENGTH: 1030 words


Text of unattributed commentary: "On the Orders of Which Governments Do
Terrorists Perpetrate Their Disruptive Acts?" published by Iranian newspaper
Hemayat website on 27 October

Several border guards were martyred in the attack by terrorist groups on an
Iranian border post on Saravan's border with Pakistan. This bitter incident
immediately sparked reaction by various officials, including the president, the
speaker, and other legal institutions, and special committees were assigned to
examine the various dimensions of this incident. Following this terrorist crime,
Zahedan's public prosecutor stated that 16 insurgents who were involved in
previous terrorist acts were hanged as a lesson to others who attempt to
perpetrate criminal acts.

The first point that should be noted is: At a time when the Islamic Republic is
interacting with the international community on the nuclear issue and is
advancing along its rational course, and the impact of this on the sanctions and
on other differences between Iran and the opposite side Iran is expected to be
seen soon, which government or governments are trying to turn Iran's and the
international community's concentration to marginal issues? Definitely the
Zionist regime and some regional mercenary governments, most of which have
placed their services at the disposal of world political powers, want to use any
means in order to deviate Iran's domestic atmosphere. They want to distance the
atmosphere of Iran's negotiations with the opposite side from the course of
moderation and a rational approach so that instead of the politicians on both
sides being able to achieve tangible results in a correct atmosphere, they will
confront each other more. And then these governments will praise each other for
their achievements. If we possibly let free the wretched hands of the engineers
of such acts, they will resort to such harassment and inhuman acts and try to
make ultimate use of their hirelings. Such crimes have no military or
operational value. They are blind terrorist acts that may take place in any
country.

The second point is the legal aspects of such crimes. Legal experts are well
aware that at the global level numerous conventions on combating terrorism are
now at hand which assign specific legal commitments to various governments in
confronting terrorists. According to these documents, no government must extend
financial or logistic assistance to terrorists. No government must facilitate
terrorist actions and no government must ignore rendering justice by observing
the law. These general commitments are sufficient for neighbouring governments,
especially Pakistan - through whose territory the recent incident was
perpetrated - to regard themselves committed to take all the necessary steps.
The Islamic Republic of Iran has joint border agreements with Pakistan on
combating terrorism and drugs. This doubles the duty of the Pakistani officials.
An important point that should be noted is whether or not the Pakistani
government and the governments that are continuously issuing orders for the
bombings and crimes in Iraq and Afghanistan pay any attention to legal
commitments. Could one rest assured that legal steps are taken and that justice
is rendered or should such acts be constantly traced and such crimes be
confronted with a steely fist? Experience shows that we should concentrate on
preventive measures as far as such governments, and especially the Zionist
regime, are concerned; and we should also send a clear message to the mercenary
regional regimes that if they do not stop their support for terrorist
minigroups, they will face reaction.

The third point is that it would be good for the honourable people of
Sistan-Baluchestan to increase their solidarity and sympathy in the face of
these types of crimes. Our Sunni brothers, especially their ulema, should note
that the opposite side sometimes exploits elements of its own faith and portrays
them as Muslims or Sunnis. But these are people who are not faithful to any
religion or faith and only know how to be mercenaries and hirelings. Therefore,
first of all such criminal exploiters must be exposed and it should be stressed
to them that they can never resort to murders and such terrorist acts in the
name of Islam - acts that have nothing to do with Islam.

The fourth point is that the security and military apparatuses are expected to
identify the terrorists and their supporters without hesitating for even a
second, and to render justice in regard to the agents of these types of crimes
as soon as possible and in accordance with the law. Of course it should be noted
that rendering justice is a precise and legitimate issue that is in accordance
with various criteria. But we should expect sentimental approaches that are
outside the criteria of the law. Based on this, all the people in the region who
are victims of terrorism are expected to show patience and place the necessary
trust in their officials so that they can persistently and patiently identify
the roots of corruption and deal with such elements.

The last point is regarding the households of the martyrs and dear people who
lost their loved ones who reach martyrdom in such terrorist incidents or who are
exposed to other risks. While expressing our sympathies and our respect for
their patience, we call on the legal institutions not to hesitate one moment in
rendering the necessary services and respect to these families. Definitely the
relevant legal institutions must place assistance to the mourning families on
their agenda.

In conclusion, combating terrorism in the contemporary world is not facing any
considerable vacuums or shortcomings from the legal aspect. But since the
structure of the international system is unjust and some governments exploit
this injustice, the world community is always threatened by terrorist acts; and
this is a source of worry for all societies. Thus, all countries must join
efforts to combat this phenomenon. If today the honourable people of Saravan are
mourning, it is not clear which people in which country will face such similar
inhuman acts tomorrow.

Source: Hemayat website, Tehran, in Persian 0000 gmt 27 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 5, 2013 Tuesday

Turkish paper views possibility of terror attack in major cities

LENGTH: 874 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 4
November

(Todays Zaman) -The al-Qaeda-linked Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL)
has sent two of seven bomb-loaded vehicles it has been preparing to the
southeastern province of Sanliurfa to launch an attack on Turkey's biggest
cities, an intelligence source has told Today's Zaman.

After learning of ISIL's attack preparations, the National Police Department,
the Gendarmerie General Command and the National Intelligence Organization
(MA°T) issued a red alert. According to initial findings of security forces, two
bomb-loaded vehicles have entered Turkey, five more vehicles are being prepared
and ISIL plans to use them to commit a large-scale attack on Turkey's major
cities, including Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir. Detailed information on the two
vehicles has been shared with all intelligence departments across Turkey.
Security forces also warned that ISIL could amend its attack plans, which is why
security measures in Turkey's southern and southeastern provinces - among them
Gaziantep and Hatay, where refugee camps are found - has also been tightened.

According to the same intelligence source, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity, the vehicles are being prepared in Syria's northern city of Raqqa.
Intelligence units discovered detailed information on Oct. 30 about ISIL's plan
to carry out a terrorist attack, and got in contact with local units.

A Western official based in Ankara who spoke on the condition of anonymity said
that Turkey's Western allies are greatly concerned with the threat posed by
ISIL.

ISIL had earlier threatened Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan that it
would initiate a series of "suicide attacks" in Istanbul and Ankara and demanded
that Turkey reopen the Bab al-Hawa and Bab al-Salameh border crossing points,
which authorities closed after ISIL seized control of the town of Azaz in late
September.

The organization also claimed responsibility for twin car bombings in the town
of Reyhanli in the southern province of Hatay, killing 53 people and wounding
more than 100 in May. Reyhanli is an important point of refuge for Syrian
refugees who have fled the violence in their country.

Turkey seizes 20 bags of sulphur on Syrian border

In the meantime, three vehicles loaded with 20 bags of sulphur and eight
barrels, whose contents are currently unknown, have been seized on the Syrian
border while trying to illegally enter the Syria from Turkey.

According to a statement released by the Turkish Armed Forces (TSK), three
vehicles trying to illegally cross into Syria from Turkey were detained by the
TSK in Hatay on Saturday. One of the passengers, identified only by the initials
S.H., was taken into custody by the Reyhanli Gendarmerie General Command, while
the others managed to flee into Syria after abandoning their vehicles.

After warning the drivers that they had entered a military zone, soldiers opened
fire to block their passage into Syria. The individuals then left their vehicles
and crossed into Syria on foot, according to the statement.

Twenty sacks of sulphur, each weighing around 50 kilograms, and eight sealed
barrels were seized from the vehicles.

The barrels have been kept under guard in the area in which they were seized. A
Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (KBRN) team is charged with
identifying the contents of the barrels.

Sulphur is a vital ingredient in the manufacture of mustard gas, which has
powerful vesicant effects and can cause chemical burns on exposed individuals.
It is found in liquid, gas and solid forms. People can be exposed through
external contact, inhalation or ingestion.

There are also several reports alleging that the Syrian regime's chemical
weapons facility in Homs was seized by al-Qaeda-linked terrorists and that these
fighters are short of raw materials.

One Syrian and five Turks were detained in May in an Adana police operation to
seize materials used in the production of chemical weapons.

Initial reports said 2 kilograms of highly toxic sarin gas were discovered in
the operation, a claim later denied by the authorities. But the chemicals seized
could be used to manufacture sarin gas, according to news reports.

The six later admitted that they had obtained the chemicals in Turkey, but
claimed they did not know that sarin gas could be produced from them. Last week,
they appeared before a court in the southern province of Adana for their trial's
first hearing.

The one Syrian defendant under arrest faces up to 25 years in prison, while the
five Turkish citizens, all of whom were released pending trial, each face up to
15 years imprisonment.

Meanwhile, suspects accused of carrying chemical materials in a vehicle in
Bingol province appeared before a court in the southeastern province of
Diyarbakir for the first hearing of their trial. Four of the suspects attended
the hearing and alleged that they had been threatened by the Kurdistan Workers'
Party (PKK) to take a package to Lice, a district of Diyarbakir province, when
they were detained on their way back home. The four suspects and one other were
arrested in early September with more than 200 kilograms of explosive material.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 4 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 5, 2013 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

May under attack as hunt for fugitive terror suspect continues

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 762 words


Theresa May was battling to defend the credibility of a key government
counter-terror measure last night after a suspected Islamist extremist escaped
surveillance by disguising himself in a burka.

The Home Secretary faced derision in the Commons after she insisted that
Mohammed Ahmed Mohamed, who had been fitted with an electronic tag, did not
represent a threat to the public. He is the second person to abscond in less
than a year while on a Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures (TPim)
notice.

The TPim system, which replaced the last government's control orders regime, is
under further scrutiny because of technical problems with the tags. Prosecutions
against three men accused of tampering with their tags were abandoned last week
when it emerged that the devices could have accidentally become loose.

Police say Mr Mohamed, 27, who has been linked to the Somali militant group
al-Shabab, was wearing Western-style clothes when he entered at the An-Noor
Masjid mosque in Acton, west London, at 10am on Friday. Five hours later,
security cameras recorded him dressed in a burka as he left the building.

Another TPim subject, Ibrahim Magag, ripped off his tag, hailed a black cab and
vanished in December. Like Mr Mohamed, he has been linked to terrorist activity
in Somalia.

In angry exchanges in the Commons yesterday, Mrs May was accused of having made
it easier for the two men to escape because TPim orders, unlike control orders,
allowed suspects to live in their home cities.

Yvette Cooper, the shadow Home Secretary, said: "Ibrahim Magag was previously
relocated to the West Country. The Home Secretary's decision brought him back
and he disappeared.

"Mohammed Ahmed Mohamed was previously relocated outside London and the Home
Secretary's decision brought him back and he too has disappeared. Her policies
brought these two terror suspects back into contact with their old networks,
with people who could help them disappear and made it easier for these terror
suspects to run off."

Jack Straw, the former Home Secretary, attacked Mrs May for complacency and said
no one had absconded on a control order in the five years after they were
strengthened in 2007.

She responded by saying that TPim notices had been required because judges were
steadily eroding the powers of control orders. "Unlike control orders, TPims
have been upheld consistently by the courts so we now have a strong and
sustainable legal framework to handle terror suspects," she told MPs. "The
police and the security services have always said that there has been no
substantial risk since the introduction of Tpims."

Mr Mohamed was named after a court-imposed anonymity order was lifted by the
Home Secretary to allow police to make an appeal for public help to track him
down. It is understood he took part in terrorist training in 2008 and is
believed to have helped people to travel from the UK to Somalia to join
terrorism-related activity.

Along with Mr Magag and others, he is thought to belong to a British network
that supplied extremists travelling abroad with cash, forged passports and fake
travel documents.

A spokesman for Scotland Yard said: "The Counter-Terrorism Command immediately
launched inquiries to trace Mr Mohamed and these continue. Ports and borders
were notified with his photograph and details circulated nationally. Public
safety remains our priority."

Mrs May will face a dilemma early next year when the two year-limit for TPim
notices expires. David Anderson, the independent reviewer of terrorism
legislation, has said it was "tempting, in the most serious cases, to wish for
longer".

HOW THEY WORK

TERRORISM PREVENTION AND INVESTIGATION MEASURES

Mr Mohamed was fitted with an electronic tag and was required to live at home
and remain there overnight. Although TPim regimes are tailored to individual
terror suspects, they are typically required to observe a curfew of up to 10
hours a day. Suspects are often banned from visiting specified places, meeting
certain individuals and from travelling abroad. Family and friends are usually
only allowed to visit if the Home Office has given permission.

Mr Mohamed (left) would have been allowed to use a mobile phone and the internet
for work or study, but his use would have been closely monitored.

It is forbidden to take off a tag. Police and staff from the monitoring company
are allowed to enter and search a suspect's home at any time. TPim notices are
limited to two years. They can be renewed if the Home Secretary thinks there are
fresh suspicions of a suspect's involvement in terrorist activity.

NIGEL MORRIS

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      November 5, 2013 Tuesday 3:05 PM GMT

The smog of war: China's pollution is so bad 'it raises risk of terror attacks'
because CCTV cameras can't see a thing

BYLINE: PETER SIMPSON and SIMON TOMLINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 821 words



     ·    Security cameras cannot pick up anything beyond 12 metres, experts
          claim
     ·    Government has called on scientists to find a solution within four
          years
     ·    Fears come after suspected terrorist attack in Tiananmen Square last
          week


Smog in China has become a threat to national security because surveillance
cameras guarding sensitive sites can't film through the thick haze, experts
claim.

The smog that blankets the country for much of the year is getting worse and now
the central government fears terrorists may choose a smoggy day to launch
attacks.

Kong Zilong, a senior project engineer and an expert in video surveillance
technology said: 'As the visibility drops below three metres, even the best
camera cannot see beyond a dozen metres.'

The security fears come just days after suicide bombers protesting against
oppression in the western Muslim province of Xinjiang drove a car into a crowd
of tourists in Beijing's Tiananmen Square - the site of the 1989 massacre of
pro-democracy protesters by government troops and tanks.

The car exploded into a fireball, killing the three occupants and two tourists
and injuring 40. Five people have been arrested in connection with the attack.

According to government advisers, existing technology, such as infrared imaging,
can help cameras see through fog or smoke at a certain level, but the smog on
the mainland has reached apocalyptic proportion.

The particles are so dense, they block light almost as effectively as a brick
wall but 'the security devices that could function in heavy smog had yet to be
invented' Mr Kong said.

CHINESE GIRL, 8, CONTRACTS LUNG CANCER 'BECAUSE OF SMOG'

An eight-year-old girl has reportedly become the youngest person in China to
contract lung cancer which doctors claim was caused by country's horrendous air
pollution.

The girl, who has not been named, lives nears a busy road in the eastern
province of Jiangsu, according to AFP which cited Xinhuanet, the website of
China's official news agency.

The report quoted a doctor at Jiangsu Cancer Hospital in Nanjing who said the
girl had been exposed to harmful particles and dust for an extended period.

News of her illness, which normally strikes at an average age of 70, came as
China's top negotiator at international climate talks admitted that air
pollution in his own country is harming its citizens.

Like Britain, Beijing has invested heavily to build up a nationwide surveillance
network that lets police watch every major street and corner in main cities.

The government has now turned to scientists to come up with a solution.

The National Natural Science Foundation of China funded two teams, one civilian
and one military, to study the issue and has told the scientists involved to
find solutions within four years.

Professor Yang Aiping, an expert in digital imaging, said she was facing
tremendous pressure because of the enormous technological challenges.

It comes as China's top negotiator at international climate talks said on
Tuesday that air pollution in his own country - the world's biggest carbon
emitter - is harming its citizens.

'China indeed is suffering from severe air pollution,' said Xie Zhenhua, vice
chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission, the top economic
planning body.

Smoggy conditions have 'now become the norm which has severely affected the
mental and physical health of the Chinese people', he added - but voiced hope
for improvement in the next decade.

Xie, speaking to reporters before global climate talks in Poland next week,
attributed China's air problems to the country's 'obsolete development model',
its 'unreasonable industrial and energy structure" and discharge of pollutants
by some companies 'in a very extensive way'.

The root cause, he added, is the 'use of fossil fuels'.

Pollution is becoming a major source of public anger in China and authorities
vowed in September to reduce levels of atmospheric pollutants in Beijing and
other major cities by as much as 25 per cent by 2017 to try to improve their
dire air quality.

The government said pollution levels would be cut by slowing the growth of coal
consumption so that its share of China's energy sources fell to 65 percent by
2017.

Last month, choking smog forced Chinese authorities to shut down one of the
country's largest cities.

The dense pollution in Harbin - a city of more than 10 million people - meant
that visibility was reduced to less than 10 metres.

The smog forced schools to suspend classes, caused snarling traffic and closed
the airport, in what was the country's first major air pollution crisis of the
winter.

The cold weather typically brings the worst air pollution to northern China
because of a combination of weather conditions and an increase in the burning of
coal for homes and municipal heating systems.

China is the world's biggest coal consumer and is forecast to account for more
than half of global demand next year.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            November 5, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

12 dead in Iraq terror attacks;
WORLD BULLETINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 94 words


AT least 12 people were killed in a double suicide bombing and other attacks in
Iraq.

Four people were killed and three hurt when a roadside bomb hit two civilian
cars near the town of Taji some 20 kilometers (12 miles) north of Baghdad.

The double suicide attack hit a police station in the northern town of Hawija, a
police official said. Two officers were killed.

Earlier, three people died when gunmen attacked government employees in Ninevah
province.

Also in Mosul, gunmen using pistols fitted with silencers shot dead a judge as
he was having a meal in a restaurant.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 6, 2013 Wednesday

Official says Pakistan should account for "terrorist attack" in southeast Iran

LENGTH: 224 words


Excerpt from report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news
agency

Tehran, 6 November: Pakistan should respect its international and legal
obligations by accounting for the recent terrorist attack orchestrated from
within its territory on an Iranian border post that claimed the lives of more
than a dozen border guards, said an Iranian deputy foreign minister.

This comes after a group of armed men carried out an ambush attack on 25 October
on a border post in Gazbostan, near Iran's southeastern city of Saravan, on the
border with Pakistan, which has almost no control over its side of the shared
frontier with Iran, killing 14 border guards and injuring six others.

"The fact that such incidents take place on the border and bandits retreat to
the neighbouring country after committing their crimes make that country
responsible and it cannot shirk responsibility," said Hasan Qashqavi, deputy
foreign minister for consular and Iranian expatriates affairs, on Wednesday [6
November].

Iran and Pakistan signed a security agreement in February, intended to take
strict measures to combat terrorism as well as human and drug trafficking and
other activities posing a threat to the national security of either country.

[Passage omitted: Background information]

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 1505 gmt 6 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           November 6, 2013 Wednesday

US media under attack for 'double standards' on terror

BYLINE: ZHAO YANRONG

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 600 words


Experts have criticized US media outlets for their unbalanced coverage of
terrorism after a car crashed and exploded in Tian'anmen Square, saying such
coverage could damage the national interests of the two countries.

Using different standards to define terrorism in the two countries will hinder
cooperation in the fight against terror, they said.

US media, including CNN, questioned the characterizations of the attack in front
of the Tian'anmen rostrum in central Beijing on Oct 28. The vehicle plowed
through a crowd, crashed and caught fire, killing five people and injuring
another 40.

Chinese police have identified the crash as a violent terrorist attack, and five
suspects have been detained. The attack was "carefully planned, organized and
premeditated", police said.

Inside the car were Usmen Hasan; his mother, Kuwanhan Reyim; and his wife,
Gulkiz Gini, from the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region.

An article published by CNN from Sean Roberts, an associate professor and
director of international development studies at George Washington University,
criticized China's ethnic and religious policy and expressed his sympathy for
the terrorists.

The article, which appeared three days after the attack, called the crash in
Beijing a "cry of desperation" and blamed it on the conflicts between China's
Han and Uygur ethnic groups.

Yu Tiejun, secretary-general of the Center for International and Strategic
Studies at Peking University, said the report reflects a double standard in
reporting on terrorism.

"When the Western media made such comments, they should have thought about the
Sept 11 attack. If we had said it was not terrorist activity, when the Twin
Towers collapsed and the Pentagon was damaged, what would the US people have
felt about such comments?"

Yu said the square is a site with special meaning for Chinese people. Located in
the heart of Beijing, the square has witnessed many important moments of China's
development.

The five killed in the attack include three people in the jeep, a Filipino
female tourist and a male tourist from Guangdong province. The 40 injured people
included tourists from the Philippines and Japan.

"Every country has ethnic issues, but an ethnic problem is not terrorism. The
attack killed and injured so many innocent people. Can they still use 'an ethnic
issue' as an excuse?" Yu added.

Alessandro Rippa, a PhD candidate in social anthropology at the University of
Aberdeen, insisted that the attack should be called what it was: terrorism.

"We are constantly reminded of this when something happens in Boston, London,
Madrid or any other Western city. Media run stories on the victims, their
backgrounds, and how they happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Why hasn't this been the case with Monday's attack in Beijing?" Rippa said in
his article, published in The Diplomat on Sunday.

Meng Jianzhu, chief of the Commission for Political and Legal Affairs of the
Communist Party of China Central Committee, said the instigator behind the
scenes is a terrorist group - the East Turkistan Islamic Movement - which is
also listed as a terrorist organization by the United States and the United
Nations.

Denying the existence of terrorism in the attack is harmful to the US'
interests, said Shi Yinhong, a professor of international relations and director
of the Center for American Studies at Renmin University of China.

"The US media and government should be very clear that the ETIM is connected
with al-Qaida. They attack China, and there is the possibility that they will
attack the US in the future," Shi said.

zhaoyanrong@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 6, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Boris attacks terror suspect's 'absurd" escape

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 589 words


BORIS JOHNSON yesterday called for tougher controls over terror suspects after
the "absurd" escape of a man under surveillance who disguised as a woman in a
burka to evade the authorities.

The escape of Mohammed Ahmed Mohamed came as it emerged that the nine most
dangerous terrorism suspects in Britain will be free of all restrictions on
their activities within three months, after the introduction of Terrorism
Prevention and Investigation Measures (Tpims).

Mr Johnson, the Mayor of London, said it was clear that Tpims were not working
properly. He blamed "Coalition politics" for watering down the previous control
order system.

He also backed calls for people to be prevented from wearing face veils in
court, and said it should extend to state school classrooms, but dismissed calls
for an outright ban.

Mohamed, who is on the run after slipping surveillance when leaving a mosque in
the capital on Friday, is the second person to breach a Tpim since they were
introduced early last year.

He and Ibrahim Magag, who ripped off his electronic tag and vanished in a black
cab, were part of a British-based network for terrorism-related activity in
Somalia.

The mayor said it was clear to him, though unconfirmed by the police, that
Mohamed had been able to contact supporters to help him escape.

"Plainly they [Tpims] are not working in the way we would like them to work in
the sense that this guy Mohamed was able to flee in absurd circumstances and
there must be questions about whether we should be tougher in the way we
administer these things," Mr Johnson told LBC radio.

"If a fellow can get into a burka and evade his invigilators in the way that Mr
Mohamed has done, then we clearly need to look at how it is working.

"Depending on how much of a risk you are deemed to pose, you should be deprived
of contact with networks that might help you with any end you desire."

He added: "Characters such as him [Mohamed], and even if he doesn't pose an
immediate threat to this country, it is plain he is a danger, should be more
closely invigilated than they currently are and I am sure that is a point that
Theresa May will be taking up very actively."

Mr Johnson urged Theresa May, the Home Secretary, to work with Liberal Democrats
in the Coalition to make the monitoring regime stronger.

He said: "I am sure she will be saying to them, 'Listen, this is ludicrous, we
are having too many of these types of evasion and the Tpim system perhaps should
be strengthened'." Tpims replaced control orders in January last year. But
changes to the monitoring regime included a twoyear time limit on the measures.
It means that the nine terror suspects will be free of all constraints by the
end of January.

The nine men include two suspected of involvement in the 2006 liquid bomb plot
to bring down transatlantic planes, a man linked to the failed July 21 suicide
bombers and a separate would-be suicide bomber. The nine men, along with one
non-British suspect, are the only people subject to Tpims.

Mr Johnson was also asked about the insistence of Ken Clarke, the Tory minister,
that women should not be allowed to give evidence in court with their faces
covered. He told listeners to his phone-in radio show that it was "a bit much to
ask teachers or judges to deal with people who have their faces covered".

He added that "it is absolutely reasonable to say that face veils, burkas,
whatever, should not be acceptable in state-funded classrooms in this country
and nor should they be acceptable in the system of British justice".

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 6, 2013 Wednesday 2:49 PM GMT

9/11 families' fury after two British students WIN fancy dress competition
wearing TWIN TOWERS outfits (and one of them is daughter of pilot who flew in US
on day of terror attacks)

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON and HUGO GYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 947 words



     ·    Amber Langford and Annie Collinge, 19, dressed as World Trade Center
     ·    Costumes showed blazing towers and victims jumping from windows
     ·    They won a £150 prize for 'best dressed' at Halloween club night in
          Chester
     ·    Miss Langford's father Martin was a pilot who used to work in America
     ·    Mother of British 9/11 victim says: 'It's hard to understand'


Two female students have outraged the families of 9/11 victims by entering a
nightclub fancy dress competition dressed as the Twin Towers being hit by
planes.

Amber Langford and Annie Collinge, both 19, won the contest and a £150 prize at
a Chester nightclub despite lampooning the worst terrorist attack in modern
history.

Today, families of those who lost loved ones in the New York terror attack said
that they found the costumes distressing.

Patricia Bingley, 79, whose 43-year-old son Kevin Dennis died in the atrocity
said: 'It's hard to understand where they've come from to do this.'

Mr Dennis was working as a bond trader on the 101st floor of the North Tower
when a plane struck the skyscraper on September 11, 2001.

Their actions have also enraged Miss Langford's father Martin, a pilot who was
working in the US for United Express on the day Al Qaeda brought down the World
Trade Center and killed 2,996 people, including 67 Britons.

'I didn't know anything about it, but I'm not happy at all,' the retired pilot,
who now lives in Anglesey, told The Sun.

'She knows I'm a pilot and that's not cool at all. We will be having a little
chat, I think.'

Miss Langford, who is studying biology at the University of Chester, and Miss
Collinge, a criminology student, wore the outfits to a Halloween event at Rosies
nightclub last Thursday evening.

They had modelled their costumes on the North and South Tower wreathed in flames
and with victims jumping from windows. Both women also wore hats topped with the
wreckage of the planes and U.S. flags.

The widow of a 9/11 victim living near Chester said she was 'angry and
disgusted' at the girls' outfit and suggested that they were ignorant about the
true horror of the terror attack.

Liz Gilligan, whose husband Ron was working in the World Trade Center at the
time of the atrocity, told the Chester Chronicle: 'I can't begin to tell you how
angry and disgusted I am.

'These girls and Rosie's need to be made aware that 9/11 was very real and while
it was 3,000 miles away, it affected people on their doorstep.'

Some clubbers were so disgusted that they tried to complain to management.

'I was completely outraged,' said 20-year-old George Borsberry. 'Not only were
they labelled the "best dressed", but they were also given £150 to dress up in
this way and mock the victims and the families of the victims.

'We asked to see the manager to complain and was turned down due to him being
"too busy" to see us.

'After waiting two and a half hours to see the person who decided this dreadful
winner all we got was, "Sorry but it was a good costume."

'He then had the audacity to say there were people in other disgusting costumes
such as Jimmy Savile, as if to justify that it was alright to dress like that.'

Others took to the club's Facebook page to vent their anger about the decision
to give the teenagers a prize for their outfits.

Ashley Goodall wrote: 'That's not even Halloween that's just a very bad joke,
not like you'd walk around America like that.'

Millie Robinson tweeted: 'Can not actually believe that some people went as the
Twin Towers blowing up on Halloween.'

John Feal, founder of the FealGood Foundation which supports 9/11 victims'
families, told The Sun: 'The insensitivity level for this act of ignorance is
topped by none.

'As for the nightclub who allowed it, sponsored it and endorsed it, shame on
you.'

The pair at the centre of the storm said last night: 'We never meant to be
offensive, but we apologise if any offence was caused.

'The idea was to depict a modern-day horror that happened in our lifetime and
was not intended as a joke.'

The University of Chester and Chester Students' Union said in a statement: 'We
utterly condemn the appalling photos.

'Both organisations have begun an urgent investigation with a view to taking the
necessary action.'

American political commentator Charlie Wolf, a right-wing broadcaster who has
used to present a regular show on TalkSPORT, called the outfits 'shameful and
disgusting'.

Sarah Rappaport, an American TV producer working for CNBC in London, tweeted:
'Don't get how anyone could think dressing as the Twin Towers for a party woul
be remotely okay or appropriate.'

Another American, commenting on a news story about the costumes, wrote: 'Just
sickening. They owe all the families an apology. And our country.'

Miss Langford is from Menai Bridge, a small town on Anglesey, where she lives
with her pilot father, her mother Marion and sister Freya, 22, a student at the
University of Derby.

Their family home has three garages and a large garden overlooking the Anglesey
countryside.

Miss Collinge was brought up on a dairy farm in Clitheroe, Lancashire, with her
father Bryan, mother Carol, sister Katie, 22, and 24-year-old brother Tom.

She is vice-president of the university 'People and Planet Society', which says
it is aimed at students who 'want to make a positive difference to the world
they're living in'.

A spokesman for the Stonegate Pub Company, which runs Rosies, said: 'We are
extremely concerned that an award of vouchers was made to two young women who
were dressed in a distasteful and offensive manner.

'There was a serious error of judgement made on the evening by a contracted DJ
to award such a prize and we apologise to anybody who may have been upset or
offended by this.

'A full investigation by the company is taking place.'

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 6, 2013 Wednesday 9:12 AM GMT

Fury over British girls' Twin Towers fancy dress costumes... and one of them is
the daughter of a pilot who was flying in the US at the time of the terror
attacks

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON and HUGO GYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 463 words



     ·    19-year-olds Amber Langford and Annie Collinge won the Chester contest
     ·    Miss Langford's father Martin admits he is 'not happy at all' about
          stunt
     ·    Their costumes showed blazing towers and victims jumping from windows
     ·    Mum of Briton Kelvin Dennis, who died on 9/11 said: 'It's hard to
          understand'


Two female students have upset the bereft families of 9/11 victims after
entering a fancy dress competition as the Twin Towers being hit by planes.

Amber Langford and Annie Collinge, both 19, won the contest at a Chester
nightclub despite lampooning the worst terrorist attack in modern history.

Today families of those who lost loved ones in the New York terror attack said
they are upset about their joke.

Miss Langford, who is studying biology at the University of Chester, and Miss
Collinge, who is studying criminology, wore costumes modelled on the North and
South Towers, which were wreathed in flames and even had victims jumping from
windows.

They also wore U.S. flag-topped hats containing the wreckage of the planes.

It has emerged that Miss Langford's father Martin was a pilot in the United
States when al-Qaeda brought down the World Trade Center and killed 2,996
people.

Mr Langford, who was flying United Express jets in 2001 when it happened,
admitted he was 'not happy at all' about his daughter's costume.

'I didn't know anything about it, but I'm not happy at all,' the retired pilot
told The Sun.

'She knows I'm a pilot and that's not cool at all. We will be having a little
chat, I think.'

Despite their tasteless costumes, they won the 'best-dressed' award at Rosies
nightclub in Chester and were handed a £150 prize.

67 Britons died in the 9/11 atrocity and their relatives today said they are
struggling to come to terms with the girls' fancy dress.

79-year-old Patricia Bingley whose son Kelvin Dennis, 43, was murdered that day
said: 'It's hard to understand where they've come from to do this.'

The pair at the centre of the storm said last night: 'We never meant to be
offensive, but we apologise if any offence was caused.

'The idea was to depict a modern-day horror that happened in our lifetime and
was not intended as a joke.'

The University of Chester and Chester Students' Union said in a statement: 'We
utterly condemn the appalling photos.

'Both organisations have begun an urgent investigation with a view to taking the
necessary action.'

A spokesman for the Stonegate Pub Company, which runs Rosies, said: 'We are
extremely concerned that an award of vouchers was made to two young women who
were dressed in a distasteful and offensive manner.

'There was a serious error of judgement made on the evening by a contracted DJ
to award such a prize and we apologise to anybody who may have been upset or
offended by this.

'A full investigation by the company is taking place.'

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 7, 2013 Thursday

Pakistan red alert, terrorists may attack procession in country's north - Paper

LENGTH: 384 words


Text of report by Pakistan daily The Express Tribune website on 7 November

According to a threat-alert sent by the federal interior ministry to the
Gilgit-Baltistan (G-B) government on Tuesday [5 Nov], at least three terrorists
- Liaquat and accomplices - have made their way into the region via the
Karakoram Highway.

The letter, addressed to the home secretary, has called for strict security
measures along [Muharram] procession routes in the region to foil any terrorist
attempts.

"The month of Muharram is very important for Gilgit Town and we have completed
our homework with regards to organising security," said SSP Muhammad Ali Zia on
Thursday. "The threat in Gilgit cannot be ruled out, given the whole country,
especially Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, is in the grip of terrorism."

Zia explained the measures taken to ensure security of entry and exit routes,
sharing travellers, especially outsiders, are not allowed to enter without
proper identification. "Intelligence officials in plain clothes are actively
doing their job in this connection." Data from 600 families living in rented
houses in Gilgit has been collected as part of the security plan for Muharram,
said the SSP.

TNFJ demands army deployment:

The provincial chapter of Tehrik-e-Nafaz-e-Fiqah-e-Jafaria (TNFJ) demanded army
deployment in sensitive areas across Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa.

Addressing a news conference at Peshawar Press Club on Wednesday, TNJF
provincial resident Sardar Ali Asghar Qizilbash, patron-in-chief Agha Abass Ali
Kiyani and other members said the security situation was precarious and all
turbulent cities throughout Pakistan should be handed over to the army.

Attempting to dispel the notion that the deployment of army troops leads to
problems for the public, the TNJF leaders argued Rangers have been deployed in
Karachi for many years and no such problem has risen.

They asked the government to arrange for proper security and district
authorities to cooperate with organisations which arrange the processions.
Appropriate power arrangements would also be necessary as load-shedding could
help terrorists with their nefarious designs, said the leaders.

The TNFJ officer bearers clarified they were against closing shops and markets
on the eve of Muharram.

Source: The Express Tribune, in English, Karachi, 0555gmt, 7 Nov13.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 7, 2013 Thursday

Syrian "terrorists" attack Aleppo power station

LENGTH: 91 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Aleppo, (SANA)-An official source at the Ministry of Electricity on Wednesday [6
November] said that terrorists attacked Aleppo power station, causing
electricity to break off in the whole city.

"The terrorist attack led to cutting off the generating groups and going out of
service," the source told SANA, adding that the ministry is ensuring substitute
sources to restore the electric current gradually to Aleppo.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 6 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                           November 7, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Sword attack terror for bus driver and passengers

BYLINE: Laura Churchill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 499 words


A BUS driver and passengers were left terrified after a Matson gang, armed with
a Samurai sword and a truncheon, attacked the vehicle.

Keiron Fitzgibbon and Jordan Shepherd brandished the weapons and stopped the
driver of the number one night bus from leaving the Matson Avenue stop.

Gloucester Crown Court was told that Paul Purdy, a Stagecoach bus driver of 24
years said he was frightened for his life as Shepherd, 19, smashed a window with
the baton, while Fitzgibbon stood in front of the vehicle hitting the windscreen
with the sword.

Prosecutor Tim Hills said the attack proved so petrifying there were talks of
cancelling the night bus route.

He said neighbours looked on in horror and dialled 999 as they watched the
affray before the bus managed to drive off.

The court was told father-of-one Shepherd had been burgled on the night of June
20 and went on the hunt for culprits with his cousin and neighbour, 24-year-old
Fitzgibbon, and three other men. Mr Hills said they found the two men and an
altercation started before the bus came along and the pair jumped on board and
shouted to close the doors.

He told the court Fitzgibbon was shouting "go on run me over" at the driver.

He said: "There was a lot of shouting and swearing and all of it was noticed by
residents.

"All were very concerned about the safety of the bus driver."

After the glass was smashed the five attackers ran off and the two men were said
to have got off at the next stop and "ran off into the night".

Andrew Hobson, in mitigation for Shepherd, said the burglars had taken his late
father's phone, which contained pictures of him before his death in February,
aged 42, of cancer, which was why Shepherd had reacted so angrily. In police
interview, unemployed father-of-one, Shepherd, said: "I was that angry, I
thought I was going to kill them. I wanted revenge."

Frazer Stuart said labourer Fitzgibbon was expecting a child. He said he
realised the moment the glass had smashed on the bus where he was and what he
was doing.

He said: "He realises now what must have been going through that bus driver's
mind."

Fitzgibbon and Shepherd, of Norbury Avenue in Matson, both pleaded guilty to
affray and possession of an offensive weapon. Judge William Hart jailed
Fitz-gibbon for 11 months and Shepherd for eight.

He told the pair: "Your premises and families were effectively the victims of
criminal activities. But what our society will not tolerate is people taking the
law into their own hands.

"He was a bus driver at night going about his lawful business and he was
terrified of what turned into a gang attack on his bus. "Those who are going
about their lawful business have to know that the courts will send out the
message that this kind of behaviour will not be tolerated."

FOR MORE CRIME NEWS GO ONLINE www.gloucestercitizen.co.uk/crime

"Your premises and families were effectively the victims of criminal activities.
But what our society will not tolerate is people taking the law into their own
hands." JUDGE WILLIAM HART

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2013 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 7, 2013 Thursday 5:44 PM GMT

Terrorist who ordered attack on schoolgirl Malala is appointed new leader of the
Pakistani Taliban

BYLINE: LEON WATSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 980 words



     ·    Maulana Fazlullah was elected by the Taliban's supreme council
     ·    He is one of the most ruthless Taliban commanders in Pakistan
     ·    Fazlullah led the militants' brutal two-year rule in the Swat Valley
     ·    Schoolgirl education activist Malala was shot there in October 2012


A hardline cleric linked to the attack on schoolgirl campaigner Malala Yousafzai
has been appointed the new chief of the Pakistani Taliban, it emerged today.

Maulana Fazlullah, elected by the Taliban's supreme council, led the militants'
brutal two-year rule in Pakistan's north-west valley of Swat in 2007 to 2009,
before a military operation retook the area.

Pakistani intelligence also believes Fazlullah is linked to the failed attempt
to kill schoolgirl education activist Malala, who was shot in Swat in October
2012.

Announcing the new leader at a press conference in an undisclosed location in
northwest Pakistan, caretaker chief Asmatullah Shaheen said the
Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan would not negotiate with the government 'until it
announces the complete enforcement of sharia'.

Nicknamed 'Mullah Radio' for his fiery speeches over the airwaves, Fazlullah
takes over leadership of the TTP after his predecessor Hakimullah Mehsud was
killed in a U.S. drone strike last Friday.

During Fazlullah's rule in his home area Swat, the Taliban imposed a rigorous
version of Islamic law, publicly beheading and flogging wrongdoers and burning
schools.

Fazlullah fled Swat when the army retook the valley, and is believed to have
been in hiding in the mountains of eastern Afghanistan. Pakistan says he has
directed attacks on its soil from across the border.

His men were blamed for beheading 17 Pakistani soldiers in a checkpost attack in
June 2012, and he appeared in a video posted online in September claiming a bomb
blast that killed a major general.

In another video he vowed to do whatever it took to enforce sharia across
Pakistan.

'We will eliminate anything that will get in the way of achieving this goal:
father or brother, soldier or police, khan or malik (tribal elders) or mullah,'
he said in the undated footage.

The decision to appoint him leader of the TTP was greeted with heavy celebratory
gunfire in Miranshah, the main town in the North Waziristan tribal area.

Taliban 'will be more brutal' The TTP, an umbrella organisation grouping
numerous militant factions, has killed thousands of soldiers, police and
civilians since 2007 in its campaign against the Pakistani state.

The killing of Mehsud in North Waziristan on Friday came as government
representatives prepared to meet the militants with a view to opening peace
talks.

It drew an angry response from Islamabad, with Interior Minister Chaudhry Nisar
accusing Washington of sabotaging peace efforts.

Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif was more measured, but said his government was
committed to seeking peace through dialogue and stressing that an end to
bloodshed could not be achieved 'by unleashing senseless force'.

Sharif came to power in May partly on a pledge to hold talks to try to end the
TTP's bloody insurgency, which has fuelled instability in the nuclear-armed
nation.

Imtiaz Gul, an author and expert on militancy in Pakistan, warned the choice of
such an uncompromising leader would spell problems for the embryonic peace
process - and a bloodier campaign from the TTP.

'The nomination of Fazlullah is a continuation of the terror campaign in
Pakistan since the creation of TTP. It means they are not serious about any
talks with the government,' Gul told AFP.

'TTP will be more brutal now.'

MALALA, THE GIRL FAZLULLAH TRIED - AND FAILED - TO MURDER

On October 9 last year a masked gunman in Pakistan's Swat Valley jumped into a
pick-up truck taking a group of girls home from school and shouted 'who is
Malala?' before shooting her in the head.

Her father asked his brother-in-law to prepare a coffin for her funeral but
Malala was flown to the UK and woke up a week later at a hospital in Birmingham.
Following treatment she gradually regained her sight and voice.

The world's reaction to her attempted murder led to the creation of the Malala
Fund, which campaigns for girls' education around the world.

She has since received multiple awards including the prestigious Sakharov Prize
for free speech, which is awarded by the European Parliament annually in memory
of Soviet physicist and dissident Andrei Sakharov.

Previous winners include South Africa's Nelson Mandela and Burma's Aung San Suu
Kyi.

No clear progress had been made in peace negotiations before the strike on
Mehsud, and Shaheen dismissed the whole process as a sham.

'All the drama in the name of peace talks was staged to please America: on one
side government wanted to talk to us and on the other side was talking to the
Americans in Washington,' Shaheen said.

'We will not talk to the Pakistani government until it announces the complete
enforcement of sharia.'

Retired brigadier Mahmood Shah, a former security chief for the tribal areas,
said Fazlullah's appointment had 'completely changed dynamics of the Pakistani
Taliban'.

'Fazlullah was ousted from Swat valley, his hometown, and he is living in
Afghanistan. He is wanted by Pakistan, so can he run the organisation smoothly
from other side of the Durand Line?' Shah said.

The Durand Line is the border with Afghanistan.

Fazlullah, believed to be about 39, is the first leader not to come from the
Mehsud tribe which dominates the TTP, or even the tribal areas, and Shah said
this would weaken the movement's unity.

'There are other groups based in North Waziristan who were helping the Pakistani
Taliban but they won't help Fazlullah as he can't even live among them,' he
said.

The Taliban's ruling council, or shura, took several days to reach a decision,
indicating a lack of consensus about who should lead them, but Shaheen insisted
the movement was united.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                           November 7, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

CELTIC FANS IN AJAX GUN ATTACK TERROR;
Violence as Hoops beaten 1-0

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE, TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 53 words


¦ TERRIFIED Celtic fans told how Dutch thugs shot at them as they cowered in an
Amsterdam bar.

The attack happened as violence erupted for the second night running ahead of
the Hoops' Champions League clash with Ajax.

But despite the provocation, none of the 12,000 travelling Celtic fans was
arrested.

Full story: P11 & Sport

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PATROL: Amsterdam police

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 8, 2013 Friday

Pakistan lawmakers protest against minister's casualty figures in terror attacks

LENGTH: 765 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper The Express Tribune website on 7
November; subheads as published

Islamabad: An informal session of the Senate [the upper house of the Pakistani
parliament] outside the House of Parliament continued into its second day on
Thursday [7 November], Express News reported.

The opposition remain firm in their belief that the figures of casualties in
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa (K-P) presented by Interior Minister Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan
are wrong, whereas Nisar denies this claim.

PPP [Pakistan People's Party; former ruling party] senator Mian Raza Rabbani
said that if talks with the Taleban commence "all acts of terrorism should
stop." He added that if any agreement is reached during the course of these
talks, that agreement should then be ratified by the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa (K-P)
Assembly and the Parliament.

"The government needs to emphasize a regional approach for resolving the current
situation which is essentially regional in nature; a solution enjoying the
support of all regional countries will be sustainable," he said, quoting
recommendation 13 of the consensus passed at the conclusion of the joint sitting
of Parliament on 22 October, 2008.

He added that the government needs to implement clause four of the same
consensus, which reads "Pakistan's territory shall not be used for any kind of
attacks and all foreign fighters, if found on our soil, shall be expelled."

Day 1

On 6 November, the first day of the protest, opposition lawmakers - barring
those from the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) - had gathered outside the House
of Parliament.

"Parliamentary practices were bulldozed inside parliament. The house is being
taken hostage and we would not allow this. Our fight for safeguarding
parliamentary traditions will continue," PPP Senator Raza Rabbani had told his
protesting colleagues during the informal session.

Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, on the other hand, had remained resolute in his belief
that he had neither committed any "non-parliamentary" act nor misbehaved.

Background

It all started on 30 October when Nisar presented figures of casualties in
terrorist attacks in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa while answering questions in the Senate.
The statistics were considered unrealistically low, and also called a "pack of
lies" by Awami National Party (ANP) Senator Zahid Khan. The incident had
triggered a verbal duel between Nisar and Rabbani, after which the opposition
first staged a walkout and then boycotted the session.

Meanwhile, Nisar had told the National Assembly [lower house of the Pakistani
parliament], while replying to leader of opposition Khurshid Shah's point of
order, "I have checked with the provincial government and they have confirmed
that the statistics I quoted before the Senate on terrorism-related casualties
were correct."

Khurshid Shah had requested the interior minister to "let go of his ego" and
bring back the estranged senators to the upper house of parliament. In response,
the interior minister had said that parliament could see the video of the Senate
session in question. "You can listen to my words, see my body language and
attitude, and judge for yourself whether I was wrong. I have no ego problem,"
Nisar had said.

Addressing the boycotting senators on the street, Senator Rabbani had said the
opposition only wanted the interior minister to withdraw the "wrong" statistics
and demanding this was his parliamentary right. "But the minister made it into
an ego problem. Even the Foreign Office and the Ministry of Defence have
declared the figures incorrect," he had argued. The minister breached the
Senate's privilege by providing it with wrong information, he had maintained.

Leader of the Opposition in the Senate Aitzaz Ahsan, who had chaired Wednesday's
informal session, had claimed that Nisar's own party colleagues acknowledge that
the statistics were incorrect but they are afraid of him and cannot openly speak
about it.

Aitzaz had said the protesting senators were forced to come out in the open and
hold a separate session (on the street) as the government had closed the doors
of the Senate.

During the National Assembly session, parliamentary leader of the PTI [Pakistan
Tehrik-i-Insaf] Shah Mehmood Qureshi and MQM [Muttahida Qaumi Movement] Farooq
Sattar had urged both the interior minister and the opposition members to let go
of their respective egos and return to the house. "Important issues of public
interest need our immediate attention. We should be debating those instead of
fighting with each other," Qureshi had said.

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 07 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            November 8, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We've foiled 34 terrorist plots since 7/7 attacks;
Leaks threaten security say spy chiefs

BYLINE: CHRIS HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 274 words


SPIES have helped foil 34 major al-Qaeda attacks on the UK since 2005, Britain's
top security chiefs revealed yesterday.

But GCHQ head Sir Iain Lobban said the terrorists have been helped by leaks from
US intelligence whistleblower Edward Snowden published in the Guardian
newspaper.

Over the last five months, the paper has exposed techniques used by the
listening centre GCHQ.

And MI6 boss Sir John Sawer told MPs: "Our adversaries were rubbing their hands
with glee."

Lobban, Sawer and MI5 director general Andrew Parker were seen in public
together for the first time yesterday as they faced the Commons intelligence and
security committee.

Spymaster Sawers said there was no doubt the threat of terrorist attacks on UK
citizens is rising.

Parker said so-called "terrorist tourism" - where UK nationals travel abroad for
terror training before returning to plot attacks - is a major strand of the
threat faced by Britain.

He said that since the 7/7 attacks in London in 2005, 34 plots have been
disrupted in the UK - some aimed at causing mass casualties.

Most were thwarted by intelligence and security agencies, he added.

Lobban said terrorists in Afghanistan, the Middle East and "closer to home"
could now avoid means of communication they perceived as vulnerable.

Asked whether that related directly to the recent revelations about
surveillance, he said: "It is a direct consequence."

But Shami Chakrabarti, director of human rights group Liberty, said: "These
public servants presided over blanket surveillance of the entire population yet
faced a grilling that wouldn't scare a puppy.

"A real inquiry into this grand breach of trust must now begin."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LEAKS Edward Snowden
SPYMASTERS Andrew Parker, SirJohn Sawers and Sir Iain Lobban

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Loughborough Echo

                                November 8, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack 'planned for April next year'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1205 words


on which he had spraypainted the words "No more mosques", were shown to the
jury.

He told the court he had been making the salute, with an arm raised up in the
air, after seeing Norweigan mass killer Anders Breivik making a similar gesture.
Newspaper cuttings of reports about the murderer's trial were found in the
teenager's bedroom after his arrest.

Mr Hill asked the youth why had wanted to copy Breivik, to which he replied: "I
thought it was a cool salute."

He also said he posed with a machete because he "thought it would be cool", the
court heard.

The teenager admitted to having shown a pistol to a group of strangers on a
boat.

He said the incident happened at some point in early 2012 but he was not sure
when.

The court heard he sent a text message to a friend reading: "So, pulled a pistol
on people before." In a message sent to a friend on Facebook about the event, he
also wrote: "Looked scared. They were on a boat. LOL."

The defendant, who cannot be named for legal reasons, denies a charge of
possessing items for the purpose, preparation and instigation of an act of
terrorism.

They include nine partially assembled petrol bombs, a quantity of commercial
firework powder, a quantity of part-assembled pipe bombs, partially constructed
improvised explosive devices (IEDs), quantities of commercial pyrotechnic fuse
cords, a stab-proof vest, a gas mask, three 0.22 air rifles, one Olympic 0.22
blank-firing pistol and a quantity of ammunition, one 0.22 air pistol, three BB
guns, a black military belt containing air gun pellets and a silver cartridge,
and one notebook containing information about the planning and construction of
explosive devices, it is alleged.

The teenager also denies one count of possessing a document or record containing
information likely to be useful for a person committing or preparing an act of
terrorism, and a further count of possessing explosives in the form of component
parts of IEDs.

He and two other 17-year-old boys have already pleaded guilty to two charges of
possessing A SCHOOLBOY plotted to carry out a Columbinestyle massacre on the
15th anniversary of the atrocity, the Old Bailey was told.

The 17-year-old, accused of planning to launch a terror attack on his old school
in Loughborough, also downloaded and kept a photograph of the pair who murdered
12 students and one teacher at Columbine High School in Colorado, United States
in 1999.

Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold are pictured in the image after they killed
themselves, surrounded by weapons, with blood and bullet wounds visible.

The teenager, who was diagnosed with Asperger syndrome after his arrest, had
considered killing himself, and other people, as he felt angry and depressed
earlier this year, the court heard.

But he denied wanting to copy the Columbine killers during his
cross-examination.

Prosecutor Max Hill QC told the court the teenager intended to carry out his
attack, which he referred to himself as "the operation", on April 20, 2014.
Asked if that was correct, the defendant, wearing a black T-shirt and jeans as
he sat in the dock, replied: "Quite possibly, yes."

He denied April 20 was a significant date for him as it was the day of the
Columbine killings and the day Hitler was born.

Mr Hill asked if by next April the defendant intended to have a gun licence. He
replied: "Possibly, yes" and he also told the court he wanted a licence and
wanted to buy firearms.

Asked why he had the picture of Klebold and Harris, he said: "Because it was to
do with Columbine and part of history."

The teenager was found to have petrol bombs, air rifles, pistols and armour at
his home which he planned to use against staff and pupils at the school in
Loughborough, it is alleged.

He also named his college, a local mosque, a cinema, Loughborough University and
the town's council offices as potential targets, it is claimed, and is alleged
to have written a "hit list" of people he intended to target.

Photographs of the teenager making a militarystyle salute outside a mosque in
Loughborough and outside a leisure centre, petrol bombs and component parts of
pipe bombs for the use of explosive devices.

The court heard he wrote a Facebook message to a friend saying he had "fought"
the urge to shoot at the nursery, and that instead he had physically attacked
his mother. Being cross-examined, the youth admitted that he would "sometimes"
walk to college from his home carrying a knife and, on some occasions, a pistol.

The teenager said that shortly after midnight on December 20 last year, he wrote
a message to his friend on Facebook about the nursery incident.

Mr Hill asked him: "Did you tell (your friend) that you were walking past the
nursery when you felt a strong urge to shoot?" The defendant, who was 16 at the
time the alleged offences were discovered, replied: "I did, yes."

Asked who he had felt like shooting, he added: "People around the nursery."

Pressed for whether he meant children or adults, or both, the teenager told the
court: "I don't know. Because I wouldn't have done it."

Mr Hill told the court a later Facebook message to the same friend read: "I
nearly gave in, but I fought it and I hit my mum."

The teenager admitted sending the Facebook message and hitting his mother,
adding: "She said some mean stuff."

He was angry because his mother had said he would "end up like that guy in
America" who "shot those children", the jury was told. The prosecutor also told
the court of letters written by the teenager in which he said: "One day I will
get the scumbags back."

Mr Hill read out part of one which said: "The only way to get some proper power
is to hit back against the scum."

Facebook messages written to a different friend on New Year's Eve also were read
to the court, in which the teenager asked for his recordings and letters to be
passed to a news channel to "inspire people".

The youth, who was aged 16 when the alleged offences were discovered, said he
had been fascinated by the military when he was growing up.

Questioned by Ali Bajwa QC, for the defence, about messages he had written in a
notebook that was seized by police, the teenager said it all related to his
interest in war.

The court heard the small notepad was found to contain extracts he had written
on tanks and their engines and Chinook helicopters as well as instructions on
how to make petrol bombs and chlorine gas.

Asked why he made such notes, the teenager said: "If there was an outbreak or
rioting or war we'd be ready."

"We were friends doing something that we thought was fun," he added.

The court heard he and his three friends called themselves the Urban
Revolutionary Army, or United Rebel Army. Asked if they saw themselves as an
extremist group, the youth replied: "We saw ourselves as a sort of antiextremist
group. We weren't entirely serious, it was just for laughs," he added.

The teenager said he was often bullied at the many different schools he
attended, sometimes physically.

The teenager said he and his mother were evicted from their home on a number of
occasions and he once went for more than a year without attending school.

Asked by Mr Bajwa if he was happy, the teenager said: "Not really, no. I didn't
really get on well with the school - with lots of people at the school."

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LBE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      November 8, 2013 Friday 8:49 PM GMT

Publisher pulls Benghazi book after CBS admits the security officer they
interviewed who 'fought off a terrorist during the attack' was lying on air

BYLINE: MEGHAN KENEALLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 898 words



     ·    60 Minutes aired an interview with a security contractor who claimed
          to rush over to the American consulate after the attack began in 2012
     ·    After the interview with Dylan Davies aired, CBS learned that Davies
          told the FBI a different version of events
     ·    Now CBS has apologized for being 'misled'
     ·    Publishing house that planned to publish Davies' book has now
          cancelled


CBS has issued an apology after realizing that a man that they interviewed about
his actions on the night of the attack in Benghazi  was lying on air.

Dylan Davies previously worked as a security contractor hired by the State
Department and he told 60 Minutes that he was not on the ground of the Special
Consulate when the attack began on the night of September 11, 2012, but he
rushed over as soon as he heard.

After his interview with reporter Lara Logan aired on the show last Sunday, his
account began being questioned publicly and though the initially stood by him-
believing his claims that he was the subject of a slander attack by the State
Department- they issued a public apology for their mistake on Friday.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

'The most important thing to every person at 60 Minutes is the truth, and today
the truth is we made a mistake. That's very disappointing for any journalist,
that's very disappointing for me,' Logan said when she gave an on-air mea culpa
during CBS This Morning.

'Nobody likes to admit that they made a mistake, but if you do, you have to
stand up and take responsibility and you have to say that you were wrong and in
this case we were wrong.'

During the original interview, Davies- who went by the pseudonym that he used
while writing a book about his version of events, Morgan Jones- said that he
scaled a 12 foot wall and fought off a terrorist when he arrived at the
consulate on the evening of the attack.

He also said that he later saw the body of Ambassador Chris Stevens when he went
to a local hospital that evening.

Now it has been revealed that in reports he made both to his company, Blue
Mountain Group, and the FBI, he said that he never made it to the compound on
the night of the attack. He said in those reports that he never made it to the
Special Mission compound until the next morning on September 12.

Logan said that they were aware of the discrepancy between the version of events
that he was telling CBS and the Blue Mountain Group report, saying that before
they aired the piece he told them that he lied in the company's report to go
along with his boss' story which said that Davies tried going to the mission but
there were roadblocks and he couldn't make it.

'His boss is someone he cared about enormously. He cared about his American
counterparts in the mission that night, and when his boss told him not to go, he
couldn't stay back. So that was always part of the record for us,' Logan said.

She made it clear that what they did not know was that Davies had given that
account to the FBI in their incident report. His involvement with the FBI report
came via The Washington Post after the 60 Minutes piece aired, and Logan said
that when they confronted him over the claims, he denied it.

Logan said that they have since tried contacting Davies about the situation and
they have not been able to get in touch with him.

'We were misled and we were wrong and that's the important thing and that's what
we have to say here: we have to set the record straight and take
responsibility,' she said.

Davies motivation to lie presumably has something to do with the fact that he is
coming out with a book about alleged warnings that he gave the U.S. government
about security flaws before the attack.

The publisher of the book, The Embassy House, has now said that they have
retracted the book.

It had already been on sale online and an unknown number of people had already
bought the book. Simon & Schuster announced Friday afternoon that 'in light of
information that has been brought to our attention' they will no longer be
selling the book.

Anyone who purchased the book in the past week since it went on the market can
now return it to the publisher, Politico  reports.

The book itself was another problem for 60 Minutes because while they did
disclose that Davies had a book that was being published, they failed to mention
that Threshold Editions is an imprint of Simon & Schuster which is owned by CBS.

CNN said that they got a statement from Davies who said that his book is
'consistent' with what he told U.S. authorities and the FBI, but their own
reporter said that there were discrepancies between his book and official
reports.

When asked about what steps they took to vet that Davies was telling the truth
before they put him on air, Logan said that they did independent research and
also used material that he provided.

'We verified that he was who he said he was, that he was working for the State
Department at the time, that he was in Benghazi at the Special Mission compound
the night of the attack,' she said on CBS' morning news show.

'He gave us access to communications that he had with government officials. we
used US government reports and congressional testimony to verify many of the
details  of his story and everything checked out. He also showed us photographs
that he had taken at the Special Mission compound the following morning.'

WATCH THE VIDEO HERE

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      November 8, 2013 Friday 2:46 PM GMT

New leader of Pakistan Taliban vows wave of terror attacks to avenge the death
of his predecessor

BYLINE: DANIEL MILLER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1161 words



     ·    Maulana Fazlullah was elected by the Taliban's supreme council
     ·    They promised attacks on security forces, political leaders and the
          police
     ·    Former leader Hakimullah Mehsud killed in a U.S. drone strike on Nov 1


The new leader of Pakistani Taliban has promised a wave of terror attacks in
revenge for the death of his predecessor who was killed last week in a U.S.
drone attack.

Hardline commander Mullah Fazlullah was elected leader by Shura, the Taliban's
supreme council, following the killing of Hakimullah Mehsud, the in a drone
strike on November 1.

Fazlullah, known for his fierce Islamist views and rejection of peace talks, led
the militants' brutal two-year rule in Pakistan's north-west valley of Swat in
2007 to 2009, and has been linked to the failed attempt to kill schoolgirl
education activist Malala Yousafzai.

Head of the Shura Asmatullah Shaheen said: 'We will target security forces,
government installations, political leaders and police.'

He said the Taliban's main targets included army and government installations in
Punjab province, the political stronghold of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif.

He added: 'We have a plan. But I want to make one thing clear. We will not
target civilians, bazaars or public places. People do not need to be afraid'.

Pakistan publicly condemns U.S. drone strikes as a breach of its sovereignty but
in private officials admit the government broadly supports them. Militants are
mainly holed up in remote areas on the Afghan border where the army has no
presence.

'Pakistan has full information about drone attacks,' said Shaheen. 'Pakistan is
a slave of America. It is an American colony.'

The Pakistani Taliban are fighting to topple the government and impose Islamist
rule in the nuclear-armed nation.

Attacks have been on the rise since Sharif came to power in May, a concern for
global powers already unnerved by the possible security implications of the
planned withdrawal of most U.S.-led troops from neighbouring Afghanistan in
2014.

Mehsud and his allies had been tentatively open to the concept of ceasefire
talks with the government, but Fazlullah, whose men were behind the attack on
schoolgirl Malala Yousafzai last year, strongly opposes any negotiations.

No meaningful talks have taken place since Sharif's election and Fazlullah's
rise could signal the start of a new period of uncertainty and violence in the
already unstable region.

The Pakistani Taliban have links with al Qaeda and are also allied with but
separate from the Afghan Taliban.

Fazlullah fled Swat when the army retook the valley, and is believed to have
been in hiding in the mountains of eastern Afghanistan. Pakistan says he has
directed attacks on its soil from across the border.

His men were blamed for beheading 17 Pakistani soldiers in a checkpost attack in
June 2012, and he appeared in a video posted online in September claiming a bomb
blast that killed a major general.

In another video he vowed to do whatever it took to enforce sharia across
Pakistan.

'We will eliminate anything that will get in the way of achieving this goal:
father or brother, soldier or police, khan or malik (tribal elders) or mullah,'
he said in the undated footage.

The decision to appoint him leader of the TTP was greeted with heavy celebratory
gunfire in Miranshah, the main town in the North Waziristan tribal area.

Taliban 'will be more brutal' The TTP, an umbrella organisation grouping
numerous militant factions, has killed thousands of soldiers, police and
civilians since 2007 in its campaign against the Pakistani state.

The killing of Mehsud in North Waziristan on Friday came as government
representatives prepared to meet the militants with a view to opening peace
talks.

It drew an angry response from Islamabad, with Interior Minister Chaudhry Nisar
accusing Washington of sabotaging peace efforts.

Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif was more measured, but said his government was
committed to seeking peace through dialogue and stressing that an end to
bloodshed could not be achieved 'by unleashing senseless force'.

Sharif came to power in May partly on a pledge to hold talks to try to end the
TTP's bloody insurgency, which has fuelled instability in the nuclear-armed
nation.

Imtiaz Gul, an author and expert on militancy in Pakistan, warned the choice of
such an uncompromising leader would spell problems for the embryonic peace
process - and a bloodier campaign from the TTP.

'The nomination of Fazlullah is a continuation of the terror campaign in
Pakistan since the creation of TTP. It means they are not serious about any
talks with the government,' Gul told AFP.

'TTP will be more brutal now.'

MALALA, THE GIRL FAZLULLAH TRIED - AND FAILED - TO MURDER

On October 9 last year a masked gunman in Pakistan's Swat Valley jumped into a
pick-up truck taking a group of girls home from school and shouted 'who is
Malala?' before shooting her in the head.

Her father asked his brother-in-law to prepare a coffin for her funeral but
Malala was flown to the UK and woke up a week later at a hospital in Birmingham.
Following treatment she gradually regained her sight and voice.

The world's reaction to her attempted murder led to the creation of the Malala
Fund, which campaigns for girls' education around the world.

She has since received multiple awards including the prestigious Sakharov Prize
for free speech, which is awarded by the European Parliament annually in memory
of Soviet physicist and dissident Andrei Sakharov.

Previous winners include South Africa's Nelson Mandela and Burma's Aung San Suu
Kyi.

No clear progress had been made in peace negotiations before the strike on
Mehsud, and Shaheen dismissed the whole process as a sham.

'All the drama in the name of peace talks was staged to please America: on one
side government wanted to talk to us and on the other side was talking to the
Americans in Washington,' Shaheen said.

'We will not talk to the Pakistani government until it announces the complete
enforcement of sharia.'

Retired brigadier Mahmood Shah, a former security chief for the tribal areas,
said Fazlullah's appointment had 'completely changed dynamics of the Pakistani
Taliban'.

'Fazlullah was ousted from Swat valley, his hometown, and he is living in
Afghanistan. He is wanted by Pakistan, so can he run the organisation smoothly
from other side of the Durand Line?' Shah said.

The Durand Line is the border with Afghanistan.

Fazlullah, believed to be about 39, is the first leader not to come from the
Mehsud tribe which dominates the TTP, or even the tribal areas, and Shah said
this would weaken the movement's unity.

'There are other groups based in North Waziristan who were helping the Pakistani
Taliban but they won't help Fazlullah as he can't even live among them,' he
said.

The Taliban's ruling council, or shura, took several days to reach a decision,
indicating a lack of consensus about who should lead them, but Shaheen insisted
the movement was united.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 8, 2013 Friday 11:07 AM GMT

Pakistan Taliban vows new wave of attacks;
Pakistan braced for violence after hardliner takes over terrorist movement,
promising attacks on military, police and government targets

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly Islamabad, and agencies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 435 words


The Pakistan Taliban claimed it was ready to launch a wave of revenge murders on
Friday, after announcing a new hardline leader.

The umbrella movement of insurgent groups and al-Qaeda-linked terror outfits
said it would target government installations to avenge the death of Hakimullah
Mehsud in an American drone strike a week earlier.

On Thursday, a spokesman announced that the Maulana Fazlullah, the man who
ordered the assassination of Malala Yousafzai, the schoolgirl education
activist, had been elected the organisation's new leader.

"We will target security forces, government installations, political leaders and
police," Asmatullah Shaheen, head of the shura, told Reuters by telephone from
an undisclosed location.

He said the Taliban's main target included army and government installations in
Punjab province, the political stronghold of Nawaz Sharif, the prime minister.

He also repeated a long-discredited claim that attackers would not kill
civilians.

"We have a plan. But I want to make one thing clear. We will not target
civilians, bazaars or public places. People do not need to be afraid," Shaheen
added.

It is the latest in a string of threats issued since Mehsud was killed outside
one of his homes near Miranshah, in the tribal area of North Waziristan.

Such is the apparent danger that United Nations workers have been ordered not to
visit a new shopping mall in the capital Islamabad and Western embassies have
warned citizens to be vigilant.

The group has also said it will not take part in peace talks which Mr Sharif's
government has offered as part of an attempt to ease Pakistan's terrible
security problems.

The appointment of Fazlullah has led analysts to anticipate a new, even bloodier
chapter in the country's history of violence.

His men seized control of the Swat Valley in 2007 and advance gradually towards
the Islamabad, reaching within 60 miles of the capital before being forced back.

He sent two assassins to kill Malala last year, when she was 15, to silence her
campaign for girls education. The move backfired when she survived being shot in
the head, propelling her message of peace on to a global stage.

Some analysts now believe that the elevation of such a hardliner will force
Islamabad's hand, making a full-scale military offensive inevitable.

Talat Masood, a retired general, said it was like a "red rag to a bull".

"This leaves no margin for negotiation and they will have to resort to a
military operation and will have to be fully prepared to prevent terrorist
actions in the country," he told the AFP news agency.

"He is enemy number one of the military."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday

Somali prime minister condemns "terrorist" attack on Mogadishu hotel

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report in English by Somali news website Mareeg on 8 November

Prime Minister Abdi Farah Shirdon today [8 November] condemned the terrorist
attack targeted at Hotel Makkah al-Mukaramah in Mogadishu and sends his
condolences to the civilian casualties.

The prime minister, said: "I condemn this attack in the strongest terms and

send my condolences to the families and friends of all the innocent victims who
were killed and wounded. Once again the enemies of peace show their true colours
to the world.

"These cowardly acts of terrorism will not derail the progress made in

Mogadishu and across Somalia. We, the Somali people and the Somali

Government, will stand shoulder to shoulder to defeat these killers. These

terrorists will not defeat us but make us stronger."

Source: Mareeg website in English 8 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday

Horserider's terror at firework attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 358 words


A HAMPSHIRE rider has described the terrifying moment her pony ran away in panic
after a lit firework was thrown at the animal.

Veterinary nurse Helen Walker was one of several people who were targeted by a
gang of youths who are thought to have been driving a dark-coloured BMW estate
car.

Helen, 55, was riding in the New Forest when she saw an arm emerge from a
vehicle that had just overtaken her at speed.

She said: "The driver dropped something in the road, which I assumed was a
cigarette.

"As the car sped off there was a loud bang, at which point my pony spun around
and started going off in the direction from which we'd just come.

"I managed to get him under control quite quickly and when we went back I saw
smoke coming out of the hedge. I never felt I was in danger of being thrown off
but I was trembling - and quite shocked by the fact that someone could do
something so vindictive."

Helen, who works for the Seadown Veterinary Group in Hythe, was targeted as she
rode 13-year-old Sam along Winsor Road in Winsor.

She said the firework, thought to be a banger, landed only a few metres away.

"Sam could have bolted and run into a car. I could have been injured, my pony
could have been killed, or an innocent bystander might have been hurt," she
said.

Helen called the police and was told that several similar incidents, possibly
involving the same car, had been reported in the area.

Seadown is using a social networking site to publicise the issue and alert other
riders.

One user replied: "I passed a black BMW estate car parked up at Calmore with
several young lads in it. I was also riding. They were a bit abusive."

Diana Fry of the British Horse Society described the incident involving Sam as
"very dangerous".

Last night police confirmed that a firework was also thrown at a 60-year-old man
who was walking along Winsor Road at about the same time Helen was targeted.

Both incidents occurred on Wednesday between 4pm and 5pm.

Officers are anxious to trace an older-style BMW estate car that was seen in the
area at the time and was also spotted near Tatchbury Mount Hospital in Calmore.

Call PC Rob Morant at Lyndhurst police station on 101.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 9, 2013 Saturday 4:29 PM GMT

Prince Charles pays tribute to victims of Mumbai terror attacks during India
tour;
Prince Charles pays tribute to victims of Mumbai terror attacks during visit to
India ahead of Commonwealth summit in Sri Lanka

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson Mumbai

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 790 words


The Prince of Wales paid tribute to the bravery of staff at Mumbai's Taj Mahal
Palace hotel, including two chefs who were shot, as they helped hundreds of
guests escape the worst terrorist attack in India's history.

The Prince and the Duchess of Cornwall were visiting the hotel on Saturday to
lay a wreath in memory of the 30 guests and staff who were killed at the hotel
when 10 terrorist commandos came ashore in a boat on Nov.26, 2008 and launched a
three-day massacre in which more than 160 died. India will mark the fifth
anniversary of the attacks later this month.

After laying a jasmine wreath and bowing his head in silence, the Prince,
accompanied by the Duchess, met waiters, bell boys, telephone operators, chefs
and managers who were working that night when the gunmen entered the hotel.

One operator, Sophia D'Silva, 35, told the Prince who she had been besieged with
heart-breaking calls from guests trapped in their rooms crying and screaming for
help as the gun men prowled the hotel's corridor.

"Tragic," he replied, as she described their distress.

Prakash Bangera, senior captain in charge of waiters in the hotel's Zodiac
Grill, had told the Prince how he had tried to calm dozens of guests in his
restaurant as the gunmen rampaged outside its locked doors.

He had braved three runs through the gunfire upstairs to the main kitchen to
bring back platters of sandwiches to his traumatised guests.

"The Prince said he was very proud that had tried our best to save the guests
and that 'we need more guys like you everywhere,'" he said.

The Prince heard the moving story of two chefs at the hotel who were both the
sons of army men, had trained together at catering college, got their first jobs
together at the Taj Palace at the same time and were both shot on the same
night.

The Prince turned and exclaimed to The Duchess of Cornwall: "these two were
shot!" Nitin Minocha, 39, had been Rowan to the ground by a hail of gunfire
while being guests escape from a bracket entrance until he tried to stand up. He
had been shot in use hand and was bleeding heavily.

"Was it a Kalashnikov?" The Prince asked him.

"I think it was a fake Chinese one, because it caused so much damage," he
replied, indicating his hand and arm which was covered with a protective support
bandage.

"He has had nine operations to restore the full use of his hand.

His college friend and Taj colleague Raghu Deora, 39, told the Prince how he had
been hiding in the first floor kitchen along with a father and his son when a
gunmen in a red cap discovered them and forced them to lie down on their fronts
in the corridor.

"He asked us our names, realised we were not the ones he was looking for and
then shot all three of us with a spray of bullets. First they hit my leg and
broke it, and the second went through the back of my stomach like a punch. The
other two just couldn't make it and died in front of me. The gunman presumed I
was dead," he said.

He crawled past colleagues who had been killed - seven of the hotel's chefs were
shot dead - and was eventually rescued by the hotel's head of security Sunil
Kudiali, who oversaw the security for the Prince and Duchess's visit today.

He had chased after the "fidayeen" terrorist commandos, but was forced to
retreat after being shot at himself. He, a senior officer armed with only a
handgun, and other staff had tried to distract the terrorists by using moving
targets in the hotel's old wing to keep them from reaching hundreds of guests in
the large Tower Wing.

"One person had started firing in the Shamiana (coffee shop) and I thought I
could take him on. I ran through the corridor that links the two wings, then
realised that one terrorists was in the corridor waiting. He started firing at
me continuously," he said.

He later saw one of his colleagues, a popular chef at the hotel whom he had been
with in the morning, dead on the floor and two others, one who also died, and
Raghu Deora, whom he saved.

"I lost a lot of friends, and they shot my dog, Lucy. She was a sniffer dog and
she and her handler ran towards the smell of sulphur away shot twice at point
blank," he said.

The Duchess of Cornwall had early been moved close to tears when she met abused
and abandoned children at a children's home, including teenagers who had been
raped.

She was persuaded to join in a dance routine with some of the girls and was
moved when a boy no older than three who was unable to walked crawled on his
stomach to meet her. He beamed when she touched his hand tenderly.

She had especially moved by the young abandoned, in particular a three day old
baby boy. "They are just such tragic stories, you cannot believe....You just
want to scoop them all up in your arms and take them home," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 10, 2013 Sunday

Senior MP blames "Zionists" for recent terrorist attack in Iran

LENGTH: 247 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News
Agency website

Tehran: The al-Qa'ida-affiliated Jeysh al-Adl terrorist group which killed 14
border guards in a recent attack in Southeastern Iran took orders from the
Zionist regime, a senior Iranian legislator said on Sunday [10 November].

"If the roots of the recent terrorist events in the borders are found, the hands
of the Zionists will be seen and revealed in them," member of the parliament's
Economy Commission Seyyed Nasser Musavi Largani told FNA.

"The Zionists are angry at the nuclear issue (agreement between Iran and the
world powers), Iran's nuclear progress and opening of a window for talks between
Iran and the world and are attempting to adopt measures against Islam and the
Islamic Republic by mobilizing their forces," he added.

Noting that the Zionists and terrorists are trying to create obstacles on the
way of Iran's progress, Mousavi Largani stressed that such terrorist attacks and
hostilities will not affect the Iranian nation and instead will further
strengthen the Iranians against their internal and foreign enemies, especially
against the mercenaries of Wahhabis and the Zionists.

14 Iranian border guards were killed and 6 more were injured during the
terrorist attack by outlaws affiliated to Jeysh al-Adl terrorist group in
Saravan border region in Southeastern Iran in the early hours of 26 October.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1025 gmt 10 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      November 10, 2013 Sunday 7:47 PM GMT

British troops deployed to save Kenyan elephants from illegal slaughter trade
that is funding terrorist attacks

BYLINE: MIA DE GRAAF

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 529 words



     ·    Al Shabaab is thought to earn £400,000 a year selling ivory in Somalia
     ·    60 wardens and 38,000 elephants have been killed in the past year
     ·    25 British soldiers will spend coming weeks teaching rangers to patrol
          better


British troops have been deployed to save Kenya's elephants being slaughtered by
terrorists for their valuable tusks.

Al Shabaab, a group linked to Al Qaeda, is said to be funding their training and
attacks by selling elephant and rhino horns on the Somalian black market - a
trade worth £12billion a year.

In the past year, 60 wardens and 38,000 elephants have been killed by illegal
poachers.

In an initiative backed by Prince Charles and Prince William, 25 soldiers from
3rd Batallion Parachute Regiment have been sent to train Kenyan rangers.

The paratroopers, currently based 200 miles north of Nairobi, will spend the
coming weeks teaching the Kenyan Wildlife Service, Kenyan Forestry Service and
Mount Kenya Trust to patrol better, work more effectively as a team, and how to
tackle poachers.

The Government has also arranged for a British prosecutor to also advise her
Kenyan counterparts in a bid to cripple terrorist funding in North Africa and
protect the endangered species.

Environment secretary Owen Paterson, who was in Kenya last week, said: 'Illegal
poaching is having a devastating effect on some of the world's most iconic
species.

'By joining forces with those on the frontline in Kenya, our armed services will
be able to provide training and support to the courageous people who put their
lives on the line every day.'

Earlier this year, Prince William urged leaders to take on illegal poachers to
'determine the fate of some of the world's most captivating species.'

He said failure to do so would be 'a catastrophe'.

Brigadier Duncan Francis, the UK's defence attache in Nairobi, said: 'This is an
excellent example of the British Army taking positive action on an issue close
to many people's hearts.

'The 25 soldiers will be making an immense contribution to securing the future
of some of the world's most endangered species.'

As the price of 'blood ivory' - illegally poached tusks - soars in Africa, gangs
have developed new techniques to slay animals, such as poisoning watering holes.

Al Shabaab is believed to be one of the key groups behind the increasing
figures.

The terrorist clan earns £400,000 a month in the trade - enough to pay their
jihadists £75 a week, the Sunday Express reported.

In a bid to quash the business, Hillary Clinton unveiled an $80 million plan to
tackle elephant poaching in September.

She warned that money from the wildlife crime could have funded the attack on
the Westgate shopping mall in Kenya last month, a theory which is backed by
elephant conservation groups.

Rhinos are also highly sought after in the trade.

Sellers are now said to be pricing single rhino horns higher than its weight in
cocaine.

Last month the Kenyan government said every rhino in the country would have a
microchip implanted in its horn to help stop the trade.

The micro-chipping project is being supported by the World Wildlife Fund, which
donated the chips.

Rhino horn is highly sought after in Asia, where it is used in traditional
medicines.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 11, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

White Widow is tracked to Somalia;
Fears she is plotting al-Shabaab terror attack

BYLINE: RUSSELL MYERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 411 words


FUGITIVE terror suspect Samantha Lewthwaite has been spotted travelling through
Somalia, sparking fears she is plotting an attack with al-Shabaab fanatics.

Intelligence experts claim there have been two sightings of the White Widow in
the lawless African country since the gang's Westgate mall massacre in Nairobi,
Kenya, seven weeks ago.

The 29-year-old from Aylesbury, Bucks, was reportedly seen at the north eastern
city of Qardho, in Somalia's volatile Puntland Province.

Two weeks earlier, an informant is said to have spotted her in Baidoa, a south
eastern city. Officials warn the mum-of-four still poses a serious threat. A
security source said: "These two sightings are believed to be the most credible
intelligence received in months concerning Samantha Lewthwaite's whereabouts.
Her contacts have allowed her to stay in hiding and move quickly between areas,
but one day there will be nowhere left for her to hide."

A senior intelligence insider added: "Every informant in the East Africa and
Middle East regions are being tapped for information. Any crumb of evidence is
being used to locate her.

"The threat Samantha Lewthwaite poses is real and dangerous."

Officials fear she could be trying to travel to Yemen where she is thought to
have spent time in the past with extremist preachers including al-Qaeda's most
prolific recruiter, Anwar al-Awlaki. The area is also controlled by al-Shabaab,
a radical Islamist group.

Lewthwaite, named the world's most wanted woman, has been on the run for two
years after being linked to a failed bomb 2011 plot to blow up hotels and a mall
in Mombasa.

The plan was foiled when her accomplice, Brit bomb maker Jermaine Grant, 30, was
arrested and charged with terror offences.

Former British soldier's daughter Lewthwaite was interviewed at her Mombasa home
by Kenyan police but fooled them by handing over fake ID papers. Hours later she
fled the city with her children and has been in hiding ever since.

It is believed the Muslim convert, who was married to 7/7 London suicide bomber
Germaine Lindsay, has altered her appearance, losing more than two stone,
changing her hair colour regularly and possibly having plastic surgery.

She is believed to be a vital link between al-Qaeda cells in Pakistan and
Africa. It is thought informants in the group have been offered huge rewards to
help find her.

russell.myers@mirror.co.uk

The threat Samantha Lewthwaite poses is real and dangerous SECURITY SOURCE on
hunt for the terror suspect

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: killers Armed al-Shabaab thugs
horror Nairobi shopping mall after attack
WANTED WOMAN Lewthwaite was spotted in Somalia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      November 11, 2013 Monday 8:09 PM GMT

Mall massacre suspects handcuffed in the dock: Four Somalians appear in court
accused of helping gunmen carry out Kenya terror attack which left at least 67
dead

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 550 words



     ·    Abdi Mohamed Ahmed, Liban Abdulle Omar, Adan Mohamed Ibrahim and
          Hussein Mustafa Hassan, appear in Nairobi court
     ·    All pleaded not guilty to charges of carrying out a terrorist attack
          by supporting a terrorist group
     ·    None are accused of being among the gunmen who carried out the attack
     ·    At least 67 people died when al-Shabaab gunmen stormed the building
     ·    Children as young as five were shot up to five times by the terrorists


Four Somalians have appeared in court charged with carrying out the terror
attack at the Westgate shopping Mall in Kenya, by supporting the gunmen who
slaughtered at least 67 people.

In total at least 67 people died when al-Shabaab gunman carried out the siege at
Westgate in Nairobi on September 21. Children as young as five were shot up to
five times by the terrorists.

Hussein Mustafa Hassan, Adan Mohamed Ibrahim, Liban Abdulle Omar and Abdi
Mohamed Ahmed pleaded not guilty to charges of carrying out a terrorist attack
by supporting a terrorist group.

Scroll Down for Video

All four are ethic Somalis and in their 20s. They pleaded not guilty to the
charges, which also included entering Kenya illegally and obtaining false
identification documents.

None are accused of being among the four gunmen in the mall who carried out the
attack, who are all believed to have died during the four-day siege.

The suspects, who had no lawyer, were remanded in custody for one week after the
prosecution asked for more time for further investigations.

Interpol is assisting Kenya in trying to identify four bodies suspected to be
the gunmen, police said last week.

Witnesses in the mall described how the fighters stormed the crowded complex,
firing from the hip and hurling grenades at shoppers and staff.

The gunmen coldly executed scores of people, with witnesses recounting how in
some cases they called out to those wounded, then shot them at close range.

The Kenyan Red Cross has said some 20 people are still missing, and there are
fears more bodies could be found in the wreckage of the mall.

Some of those charged were arrested in Kenya's northwestern desert refugee camp
of Kakuma, a vast settlement home to over 125,000 refugees from across the
region, including Somalia.

Detectives are continuing to investigate a possible link to Norway, with Ndegwa
Muhoro, head of Kenya's Police Criminal Investigation Department, saying last
week that a telephone call was made to the country from the mall during the
attack.

A Norwegian citizen of Somali origin is suspected of being one of the attackers,
a 23-year-old named in media reports as Hassan Abdi Dhuhulow.

Norway's PST intelligence agency has said it has investigated reports about the
possible involvement of a Norwegian of Somali origin in both planning and
carrying out the attack, but has declined to comment if Dhuhulow was involved.

After the attack, the Shabab threatened further attacks against Kenya, after
Nairobi refused to pull its troops out of Somalia, warning that, 'rivers of
blood will flow in Nairobi."

Kenya invaded southern Somalia to attack Shabab bases two years ago, and later
joined the 17,700-strong African Union force deployed in the country.

In Somalia, efforts continue to target the Shabab, with a US drone strike
killing the extremists' top suicide bomb-maker last week.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 12, 2013 Tuesday

(Corr) "Terrorist attack" on police station in Egypt's Al-Arish

LENGTH: 47 words


[Reissuing to correct headline]

Egyptian state-run Nile News TV said in an "urgent" caption at 1543 gmt on 12
November: "TV's correspondent: Fierce terrorist attack on Al-Arish's third
police station and the forces are responding".

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 1543gmt 12 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 12, 2013 Tuesday

Terrorist attack on police station in Egypt's Al-Arish

LENGTH: 42 words


Egyptian state-run Nile News TV said in an "urgent" caption at 1543 gmt on 12
November: "TV's correspondent: Fierce terrorist attack on Al-Arish's third
police station and the forces are responding".

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 1543gmt 12 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 12, 2013 Tuesday 7:42 AM GMT

More than $150MILLION in U.S. contracts with Afghan companies have gone to
groups that back anti-American terrorist attacks

BYLINE: MEGHAN KENEALLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 459 words


A new investigation has revealed that the U.S. government has paid more than
$150million to groups that fund terror attacks against American soldiers.

The findings have been reported by the Pentagon itself as the Special Inspector
General for Afghanistan Reconstruction compiled a list of 43 such companies who
are connected to Taliban leaders who have arranged bombs and attacks on American
targets.

'It's like the United States government subsidizing the Taliban, al Qaeda, the
Haqqani network, those groups that are trying to shoot and kill our soldiers,'
New Hampshire Senator Jeanne Shaheen told ABC News.

The Haqqani Network may be lesser known of those three groups, but they are
familiar to security experts.

The group has been blamed for the attack on the American embassy in Kabul in
2011 that left 16 people dead.

Rather than give money to the group directly, the way that American funds have
made its way through to the organization is via a road construction company that
is owned by the Haqqani Network.

The company is one of 43 such private companies that the government has given
contracts to, and although they have denied the connection to the Haqqani
Network, the Pentagon still listed them in the report.

Red tape and bureaucracy are keeping these contracts from being immediately
pulled in light of the new revelations.

'The reason they've given us is that it's not fair to these contractors that the
evidence that we've presented, and this is evidence collected by the United
States government, is classified,' said Special Inspector General John Sopko.

'That's the absurdity of it. We can probably attack them via drone on Monday and
we'll issue them a contract on Tuesday,' the told ABC News.

All told, the 43 contracts that have been highlighted by Mr Sopko's department's
report total more than $150million.

'I am deeply troubled that the U.S. military can pursue, attack, and even kill
terrorists and their supporters, but that some in the U.S. government believe we
cannot prevent these same people from receiving a government contract,' Mr Sopko
wrote in a report he submitted to Congress last July.

'I feel such a position is not only legally wrong, it is contrary to good public
policy and contrary to our national security goals in Afghanistan.'

Following the report, the Army put out a statement saying that the companies
have not be awarded new contracts in light of the findings, but they did not say
anything about ending the contracts currently in place.

'The army takes seriously any allegations of improper contractor activities and
has vigorous processes to ensure that those with whom we do business are not
supporting the insurgency or otherwise opposing U.S. and collation forces in
Afghanistan,' the statement said.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 13, 2013 Wednesday

Kenyan Westgate mall denies receiving warning on terror attack

LENGTH: 330 words


Text of report by Peter Obuya entitled "We were not warned, says Westgate
official" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on
13 November

The management of the Westgate Mall did not receive any prior reports of a
possible terror attack on the building, an official said Tuesday [12 November].

The mall's property manager, Ms Simmi Chanda, Tuesday said the only report of a
possible terror attack ever received by the management was on 17 June, 2009,
from the International Criminal Tribunal of Rwanda, warning of a possible attack
on sites frequented by foreigners.

She was speaking to the parliamentary committees on administration and national
security and the one on defence and foreign relations which are jointly
conducting an inquiry into the 21 September attack on the mall.

"No information was received by the management or any other person I know of,
whether from government security organs or any other source of an impending
terrorist attack on the building," Ms Chanda told the joint committee.

Asked by the team to clarify whether there was a tunnel which could have been
used by the terrorists to escape, Ms Chanda said that the building only has a
sealed drainage which comes out via a pump room through a four-inch pipe.

"There is no tunnel out or into the building and I wish to state that the issue
of a tunnel was one further creation of the media," she said.

Ms Chanda said the tunnel that was presented in the reports as the one
terrorists might have used to escape is one below the road passing a plot away
from the mall.

She also denied widespread reports that terrorists could have rented space
within the mall.

Ms Chanda told the joint committee that they wrote to both Inspector-General of
Police David Kimaiyo and CID [Criminal Investigation Department] Director Ndegwa
Muhoro to ensure that each tenant was duly identified and the certainty of their
premises and goods confirmed.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 13 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 13, 2013 Wednesday

Israeli lawmakers call for halt in peace talks following suspected terror attack

LENGTH: 440 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 13 November

[Report by Lahav Harkov: "Likud Hardliners Call To Stop Peace Talks After
Suspected Terror Attack"]

Lawmakers in Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu's party called for him to stop
peace talks after a Palestinian teen stabbed a soldier near Afula Wednesday [13
November].

"The talks are deluding both the Israeli public and the Arabs," Deputy Defence
Minister Dani Danon said. "We must stop this predictable crash course
immediately."

Danon also called to stop the release of Palestinian prisoners.

Deputy Transportation Minister Tzipi Hotovely said "the Palestinian [National]
Authority's well-oiled incitement system continues to claim victims."

"(PNA President) Mahmud Abbas has a tactic of indirectly harming Israel. Jews
aren't killed by PNA officials but by the 'Palestinian street,' which is fed
each day by anti-Israel propaganda. We cannot continue talking peace while the
PNA is talking terror," Hotovely added.

Meanwhile, opposition leader Sheli Yacimovich said she trusts the IDF in its
fight against terror and called on Netanyahu not to use the attack "to continue
sabotaging negotiations, which anyway are bruised and battered taking place
under the shadow of a crisis with the US."

Jewish Home MKs also spoke out against concessions in negotiations, with Knesset
Finance Committee chairman Nissan Slomiansky saying the stabbing "is a direct
result of Israel's policy of freeing terrorists."

"We make difficult concessions for which we pay in human lives, while the
Palestinians only talk," he stated. "The current situation endangers our sons
and daughters while the PNA celebrates the release of murderers. This is
intolerable and must stop immediately."

MK Motti Yogev (Jewish Home) said the attack was a result of the IDF not doing
enough to stop Palestinians from illegally entering Israel.

"When PNA incitement teaches hatred of Jews and calls to destroy us...our
security forces must enforce the law and realize that they can prevent the next
murder," he remarked.

Almagor Terror Victims Organization chairman Meir Indor said "we cannot ignore
what is behind the recent chain of terror attacks. It is encouraged by the
American government, which threatens the obedient Israeli government if they do
not release terrorists."

"The lives of Jews are not as important to (US Secretary of State) John Kerry as
the residents of Boston. He wouldn't have released the Chechen terrorist," Indor
added, in reference to Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the suspected Boston Marathon bomber.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 13 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    November 13, 2013 Wednesday 8:37 PM GMT

U.S. government knew about al-Qaeda 'pep rally for jihad' in Benghazi that
included calls for the murder of American diplomats - just months before terror
attack

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, U.S. POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 638 words



     ·    A report prepared for the government in August 2012 described a
          massive military presence of Ansar al-Sharia, the group behind the
          Benghazi attack
     ·    It warned 'assassinations' would follow, and said the first attack on
          the U.S. diplomatic station quickly followed the two-day June rally in
          Benghazi
     ·    U.S. State Department intelligence undoubtedly saw the report, yet the
          agency denied frequent requests for extra security in the city
     ·    The Sept. 11, 2012 attack left U.S. Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens
          and three other Americans dead, and razed the facility


Al-Qaeda terrorists held a massive military rally just a few miles from the U.S.
State Department compound in Benghazi, Libya during the summer of 2012 and
called for the murder of U.S. diplomats, it was revealed today.

And the U.S. government knew about it by August, a full month before the attack
that left the American ambassador and three others dead, official papers state.

Black al-Qaeda flags were out in full force at the June 7-8 event, a two-day
rally including 300 armed men gathered in Benghazi's Al-Tahrir Square.

Just days later on June 11, bombers targeted the Benghazi U.S. mission, blowing
40-foot hole in the installation's perimeter wall. The larger attack came three
months later.

On Wednesday Investors Business Daily  drew on research by the nonprofit
American Media Institute to detail parts of a damning August 2012 report  by the
Library of Congress's federal research arm.

The report, delivered to the federal government two months later, predicted
al-Qaeda would soon begin employing 'selective terrorism, threats, intimidation
and assassination.'

It described 'dozens of military vehicles' on display in June, including heavy
automatic machine guns, rocket launchers and truck-mounted anti-aircraft
weapons.

'They had a crapload of stuff,' a former U.S. security officer told IBD. 'They
were itching to use it.'

Islamists at the event, organized by the al-Qaeda-linked group Ansar al-Sharia,
made credible threats that terrorists were prepared to assassinate U.S.
personnel in the city.

'It was like a team pep rally before the game, only for jihad," a U.S.
intelligence analyst told the newspaper.

'Organized and deadly. You saw what followed. People died.'

Ansar al-Sharia was later named as the group most likely behind the September 11
attack, which left the U.S. diplomatic station and a nearby CIA annex in ruins.

According to the August 2012 report, American intelligence analysts documented a
'military show of force' consisting of 'a parade in which some 30 battalions
from Benghazi, Darnah, Misrata, Al-Nufilyah, Ajdabiyah, and other Libyan towns
took part in the first meeting in support of sharia in Benghazi.'

'Islamist leaders pointed out that the aim of the military parade was to
"terrorize" those who do not want to be judged by God's law.'

The unclassified August report, issued under an agreement with the Defense
Department's Combating Terrorism Technical Support Office, coincided with a
State Department warning, telling U.S. citizens to avoid traveling in Libya.

But during the same time the agency refused to provide Ambassador Chris Stevens
and his team with long-requested additional security.

The analyst quoted in the IBD story said that the U.S. intelligence community
was well aware of the threats documented in the August report.

'We all read the same stuff,' the analyst said. 'It gets circular, going through
all the relevant government agencies. That report for the Irregular Warfare
office got passed around a lot.'

The report also warned that al-Qaeda's senior leadership had issued 'strategic
guidance' to followers in Libya, telling them to 'gather weapons, establish
training camps, build a network in secret,   establish an Islamic state, and
institute sharia.'

The State Department did not return a phone call seeking comment.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                           November 14, 2013 Thursday

Mother speaks of terror after Ringland attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 298 words


A MOTHER has spoken of her terror after she fought off a man who tried to attack
her near a woodland as she walked to work late at night.

Emma Lanigan, from Ringland, was walking along Sterndale Bennett Road, towards
the junction of Hendre Farm Drive, shortly before 10pm on Sunday night, when she
was asked for a light by a man standing near the entrance to a wooded area.

But when she crossed the road to give him one, the man - whom she described as
in his early 20s - grabbed her by the collar of her coat, and tried to pull her
into the wood.

Thirty-year-old Ms Lanigan managed to push her attacker off, but in the scuffle
which ensued she fractured her wrist and fell into some nearby brambles, bumping
her head on a wooden post.

The mum-of-five said she was "hysterical" by the time police arrived.

"They had to pull me out of the thorns which were stuck in my head," she said.

"It's a secluded area and there is very little street light. Just before ten I
was plunged into complete darkness, alone, and injured. I could barely breathe I
was in such a state when they arrived.

"But unfortunately the man was long gone."

Ms Lanigan was walking to meet a friend for a taxi share to RF Brooks, in
Newport, when the attack occurred at 9.45pm. She was taken to the Royal Gwent
Hospital following the incident.

She said she had a handbag with her but he had not tried to grab that.

The area was taped off by police after the attack.

A spokeswoman for Gwent Police described the attackers as "white, about 6ft
tall, with short dark hair, and of a skinny build."

Ms Lanigan added: "I just hope someone can identify him, and I want people in
the area to be aware of what happened. There has been quite a lot of concern on
Facebook."

Anyone with information is asked to call 101 quoting log 494 10/11/13.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 15, 2013 Friday

Kenyans blame spy agency, police for Westgate terror attack - poll

LENGTH: 332 words


Text of report entitled "Mall attack blamed on weak intelligence" published by
Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 15 November

Weak intelligence, corruption among government officers and insufficient
cooperation between the spy agency and police have been blamed for the terror
attack at the Westgate shopping mall on 21 September.

An Ipsos Synovate survey also revealed that 67 per cent of Kenyans said the
attack by Al-Shabab could have been prevented had the National Intelligence
Service (NIS) and police cooperated.

Forty seven per cent of the respondents blamed the attack on weak intelligence,
while 19 per cent believed that it was due to corruption among government
officials.

Sixteen per cent attributed it to insufficient cooperation between NIS and
police. Sixteen per cent gave other reasons while 19 per cent declined to answer
the question.

The survey - which was conducted between 1 and 9 November, and released
yesterday - also revealed that 63 per cent of Kenyans believe that the attack
succeeded because of the participation of some Kenyans.

Most Kenyans were not satisfied with the information about the attack.

Dr Tom Wolf, a research analyst with Synovate, said nearly three quarters (71
per cent) of Kenyans feel the motive of the attack is the presence of the Kenya
Defence Force [KDF] in Somalia, now part of the African Union Mission in
Somalia.

Forty-one per cent of the respondents believed that the attack was meant to
punish Kenyans for KDF's presence in Somalia while 32 per cent thought that it
was aimed at convincing government officials to withdraw the soldiers from
Somalia.

Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph ole Lenku was rated as a government officer
who performed badly in dealing with the Westgate attack, followed by KDF and
Inspector-General of Police David Kimaiyo.

Kenyans rated the Kenya Red Cross at 96 per cent as an institution that
performed well in handling the terror attack.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 15 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 15, 2013 Friday

Two-thirds of Russians fear new terrorist attacks - poll

LENGTH: 278 words


Two-thirds of Russians think news acts of terror, similar to the recent bus
bombing in Volgograd, may be carried out in Russia in the near future, a poll
published by the independent polling organization Levada Centre has shown. The
results of the poll were published on its website on 15 November.

A suspected suicide bomber blew herself up on a bus in the southern city of
Volgograd on 21 October, killing six passengers.

Asked whether they thought the organizers of the Volgograd attack would try to
organize new attacks in Russia in the near future, 66 per cent of respondents
said yes, 15 per cent said no, and 19 per cent had difficulty answering.

Altogether, 33 per cent of respondents said that they think that the Russian
law-enforcement agencies can protect them from new acts of terror, compared with
43 per cent just a month earlier in September. Meanwhile, 55 per cent said that
they don't think the law-enforcement agencies can protect them, compared with 44
per cent in September 2013. These were the lowest figures cited by Levada Centre
since July 2003, when 29 per cent thought law-enforcers could protect them,
whilst 63 per cent thought they could not.

Asked whether they were afraid that they or their loved ones may become the
victim of an act of terror, 20 per cent said they were very afraid and 51 per
cent said they were afraid to some extent. However, 9 per cent expressed
confidence that this would not happen and 18 per cent said they do not think
about this.

The poll was conducted on 25-28 October among 1,600 respondents aged over 18 in
130 localities in 45 Russian regions.

Source: Levada Centre website, Moscow, in Russian 0000 gmt 15 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                            November 15, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MY £7,500 TICKET TO NOWHERE;
Travel agent runs off with gran's life savings Family of 11 arrive at airport
with bogus tickets Rep's 'terror attack' story to cover her tracks ; Family
arrive at airport to discover tickets are fake

BYLINE: Nicky Harley

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 577 words


A FAMILY of 11 turned up at an airport for their dream holiday only to discover
the travel agent had given them bogus tickets and stolen their money.

Travel agent Ellen Harrison, 49, pictured left, even claimed there had been a
terrorist attack in Turkey hours before they were due to fly out to try to cover
up her fraud.

It was only when Maureen Kay, 67, and her family, of Hull, turned up to the
airport that they discovered their tickets were fake.

Harrison, who is now a care home chef in Beverley, had sent the
great-grandmother two texts saying "Don't take those two beautiful children to
Turkey" followed by "It's . cancelled. Speak to you later". Mrs Kay had used her
£7,500 of her lifesavings to book through Harrison's company, Turkish Riviera
Travel, in Anlaby, which she had used six times before. But Harrison, who had
been having financial problems, took the money and failed to admit the deceit
for a year. Mrs Kay, a care worker, said: "I didn't realise anything until I got
to the airport and got her text. It was absolutely horrendous. I just felt
absolutely gutted for everyone. "I saw them all sitting on the suitcases and the
image has stayed with me.

"We got to the check-in desk and discovered the tickets she had given us were
bogus. "She even told us there had been a terrorist attack to stop us travelling
and said here was a news blackout on it. It is absolutely disgusting what she
has done." Mrs Kay ended up paying another £7,500 to make sure she took her
family - aged 67 to eight months - on holiday. But she said: "I didn't enjoy the
holiday because of what Harrison had done." Harrison, of Taunton Road, west
Hull, took the money between November 2011 and October last year. Mrs Kay's
daughter Debbie said: "It was an awful experience. She told us Turkey was a war
zone to stop us travelling. My gut instinct was that something was wrong."
Harrison pleaded guilty to fraud at Hull Crown Court on the basis her actions
were not fraudulent from the outset. Recorder Anthony Hawks told her: "You were
running a travel agency and got yourself into financial difficulty. "You decided
that the money the Kay family were giving to you for 11 of them to go on a
family holiday was going to be used by you, not to pay for their holiday and
pass the money on to the various companies, but you were going to keep that
money for yourself and use it to try to pay other expenses of your business.

"You sent bogus tickets and the fraud continued until they actually got to the
airport. They turned up at the airport to find to their horror no-one knew
anything about the flights or holiday. "You ought to be ashamed of yourself.
Even the day before you were telling lies saying there had been a bomb or a
terrorist outrage. "You have disgraced yourself and lost your business as a
result. It caused a considerable amount of distress and financial loss to these
people who trusted you." Harrison has been given an eight-month prison sentence,
suspended for 18 months, ordered to pay £1,000 compensation and carry out 150
hours of unpaid work. Detective Constable Steve Bromby said: "The defendant has
abused her position of trust as a travel agent. The Kay family trusted her not
only booking their family holiday to Turkey, but with their money. "Harrison
never booked the holiday and allowed the family to believe she had. The
defendant allowed the Kay family to attend Manchester airport before informing
them that the holiday had been cancelled."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DUPED: Maureen Kay and her family turned up at the airport and
discovered their tickets were fake.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDM


                         Copyright 2013 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Kent Messenger

                               November 15, 2013
                               KM MALLING Edition

Couple's dog attack terror

LENGTH: 347  words


by James Walker

jameswalker@thekmgroup.co.uk

@JWalkerKM

A Tonbridge couple are warning neighbours that a dangerous dog could be in the
area.

A rottweiler attacked Chris Brotherwood while he was walking his labrador Coco,
on Saturday afternoon.

The 35-year-old, of Knight Road, was with his pet in nearby Turner Road when the
other dog appeared and attacked Coco.

When Mr Brotherwood tried to protest his pet, the rottweiler went for him
instead.

Mr Brotherwood made a distressed phone call to his wife, 29-year-old Margaret,
at 6.30pm and she rushed to her husband's aid.

Mrs Brotherwood said: "It's something that you think you're never going to see
in your life.

"The rottweiler went for Coco and shook him around. My husband tried to protect
him but the dog then went for him instead.

"Chris eventually got into someone's front garden and shut the gate but that
didn't stop the animal, it was still trying to get at them.

"When I pulled up I had my hand on the horn but it didn't scare the dog. He
wasn't bothered that I was there, but he eventually backed off a bit.

"My husband picked up our dog and bundled him into the car. The rottweiler ran
around the outside and jumped at the passenger window. As stupid as it sounds, I
didn't want to run it over. Eventually I managed to ease away.

"It's left them both shaken but it could have been a lot worse. We regularly
have our nephews over and they're one, four and 16. I can't begin to imagine
what the dog could've done to them."

Mr Brotherwood hit his head during the ordeal but did not seek medical aid.
Coco, six, needed emergency vet treatment and was taken to Newnham Court
Veterinary Surgery, near Maidstone, for treatment to internal bruising and two
puncture wounds in his back.

Police said they were aware of the incident and the dog warden at Tonbridge and
Malling council has also been alerted.

Mrs Brotherwood said she would like the dog's owners to let the authorities know
it is dangerous: "We are not looking for revenge, but somebody has to take
responsibility and own up. It's about keeping the area safe. This has
traumatised us."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                               November 15, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pollution drama is aiming to save lives;
EMERGENCY PLANNING: Police, fire and ambulance ; services test out their
responses ; EMERGENCY services serving Kent and Sussex have lifted the lid on
how they will deal with critical situations - including terror attacks, chemical
outbreaks or extreme weather. Even in Tunbridge Wells, where such incidents are
rare - the authorities have evolved a complex strategy to protect people in the
event of a major incident. Craig Saunders reports...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30,31

LENGTH: 1838 words


IT'S Thursday afternoon and men in boiler suits are swarming all over Tunbridge
Wells Hospital.

But happily, it's just a chemical training drill, where staff learn about the
procedures to take if someone becomes contaminated with dangerous substances.

The exercise, which was run by the Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust (MTW)
in conjunction with South East Coast Ambulance Service (SECAMB) and police, is
just one example of a contingency plan the services come up with.

Emergency planning manager for MTW NHS Trust John Weeks, who is in charge of
establishing strategies for a variety of incidents, said only authorities
working cohesively could mean members of the public remain safe. "Every agency's
primary responsibility in any incident is the preservation of life, so whether
you are police, fire, local authority or hospital, right at the top of your list
is preservation of life and the welfare of the public," he said.

"Whatever our other responsibilities are we all have the same objective. "What
we do is look at risk and then together with our colleagues from the other
services we then look at a risk and say 'we actually haven't practiced that in a
while' and put the effort into practising it."

Teamwork During a major incident any number of agencies can form part of the
response. As well as the emergency services - including the air ambulance and
coast guard - the authorities may call on staff from organisations like county
councils if roads have been affected, the Environment Agency for dangerous
substances or even charities and local groups.

It means staff have to work tirelessly and communicate clearly to make sure all
parts of the operation are in the loop and understand how any decision can
impact on another agency.

But whether it is a major task or a smaller incident the same principles are
applied with all the bodies working together.

PC Vince Mott, who has headed Kent Police's emergency planning department for
four years, said as soon as an emergency is called the authorities act quickly
and use each agency's skill to their advantage.

Commander "If you are talking about a major incident - like a major chemical
incident involving a large number of people - we would set up a command and
control structure that would normally be headed at strategic level by a police
commander but we would have to leave the expertise to the relevant agency.

"If it is a medical emergency then the health professions would lead on the
resolution of that, likewise, if it is criminal then it would be the police.

"It is purely a case of multi-agencies working together - fire, ambulance,
police local authority, working together to resolve any incident that arises. Mr
Weeks added: "We have a standard framework that you put over any incident.
Whatever the incident is you put a command structure in place and the on-call
commanders for the various services will get together so everyone is aware of
the decisions that are made and the impact on the other agencies."

The last major emergency called at Tunbridge Wells Hospital was in April when a
bus crashed in Five Ashes in East Sussex and 12 people were injured. Although
the hospital did not receive many patients, all command and communication
procedures were undertaken.

Train crash Previous occasions when an emergency was called include in 1994 when
a train crashed in Cowden and in 2005 when Hawkhurst Cottage Hospital was
evacuated due to an electrical fault.

However, contingency plans are prepared for a wide range of events from terror
attacks which result in multiple casualties to how icy roads will affect the
services.

There is no rule to say how often drills and training have to take place but
under the Contingency Act an authority must come up with a strategy to cope with
a risk if it is identified.

Anne Harvey who has been SECAMB's contingency planner and resilience manager
since 2007 said paramedics were often on the scene early and would be in the
position to call a major emergency.

She said: The first crew on scene will declare a major incident and they will
pass us a report of the situation of the type of incident, the possible number
of casualties and information. "We will then contact the hospital through a
dedicated group through the main switchboard and we would set up our own command
structure through the ambulance service and respond to that incident and we
would send the hospital's ambulance liaison officers down to the hospital to
support crews coming in and the handover of patients to keep track of patients
and also liaise with the hospital for their capacity." With so many new threats
and different types of incidents as well as an advancement in technology the
services constantly have to review and rewrite existing plans.

Mr Weeks said it was that part of the job that he thrived on.

"If you have got a new development or different changes like winter weather is
forecast or a new disease, then you are constantly talking to colleagues about
how it will affect us and change our plans to try and cope with it and it is
that constant challenge that I think is great."

Both the police and SECAMB agree that they take enormous pleasure when their
plans are executed perfectly - but hope they never have to carry them out.

Ms Harvey said: "We collate the plans hoping they will never be used but hope
that when they do they support our staff in carrying out their role because when
it goes well it is a wonderful feeling."

PC Mott added: "We are all people who put plans together but we all pray that
those plans are never opened, they are the things that we don't want to go
wrong.

"But on the occasions our plans are implemented and they go well I think there
is a great deal of pride and satisfaction that you have had a hand in helping
your colleagues but also colleagues in other services to achieve that
objective."

LAST Thursday I was invited to take part in a training exercise at Tunbridge
Wells Hospital to help staff prepare for a chemical incident.

The scenario was I had just been to a DIY store and bought some dangerous
chemicals when, on my way home, the canister holding the liquid came open and
splashed me. Scared and starting to burn I drove myself to the A&E department
for treatment.

Although I was fully briefed for what was about to happen the staff
participating in a training day were left in the dark until the last minute.

They were given mere moments to suit up and told a patient who had suffered a
chemical accident had arrived.

Separated In this scenario the staff are trained to not let anyone get in
contact or be close to the patient because of the uncertainty of the potency of
the chemical.

More importantly the victim should not be let in the hospital before they have
been washed to make sure others being treated in the department are safe. So
with that I was greeted by a man in a green space-age style suit who threw me an
emergency kit. Inside was a long orange overall with a mask, socks, rubber shoes
and gloves as well as a body wipe and a plastic bag with ties.

In an incident like this around 80 per cent of the chemical is retained in the
clothes so on a fairly chilly November morning I had to strip down outside the
A&E department of Tunbridge Wells Hospital with only swimming shorts to hide my
modesty. I was then instructed to put on the jacket, gloves, shoes and socks and
make sure my old clothes were bagged.

I was then beckoned forward to a decontamination chamber where I was told to
strip down for the second time.

Emergency planning manager John Weeks said fresh air was very important in a
chemical incident which is why treatment will always be outdoors. In the case of
multiple casualties the principle remains the same but would be scaled up with a
larger chamber and more resources.

I was met in the decontamination tent and washed down with a sponge and hose .
It was simply soap and water but it is the most effective treatment for a
chemical injury.

After five minutes I was given a second pack, this time containing trousers and
a top, a green boiler suit, socks, shoes and a towel and dried myself off and
applied the new clothes.

Once the process is complete a patient is then safe to go into A&E to receive
further treatment. Reassurance Despite being a training exercise the staff took
it seriously trying to reassure me that everything was fine and keep my mind at
ease.

This is just one of the incidents the hospital trains for and all the drills are
designed to make sure staff are in a position to react in a calm and effective
fashion.

Speaking to Mr Weeks after I had been decontaminated he said: "What you have
seen today is our capability to manage chemical incidents by decontaminating
casualties and getting chemicals off them and making them safe to treat within
our A&E department.

"There''s always a risk of chemical incident and they do happen around the
county on a regular basis - we just need to make sure we are ready and quickly
and efficiently deal with it."

WATCH THE VIDEO ON OUR WEBSITE ¦ For a video of Craig in action VISIT OUR
WEBSITE www.courier.co.uk PLANS IN ACTION Times when emergency plans have been
put into action ¦ Cowden Train Crash In October 1994 five people were killed and
many more injured when an Uckfield train was involved in a head-on collision at
Cowden prompting an emergency response ¦ Millennium Bug At the dawn of the new
millennium emergency services had to prepare for the Year 2000 Problem - also
known as the Y2K bug. Organisations worldwide had to update their computer
systems after worries the switch to the year 2000 would invalidate computer data
and affect electrical equipment ¦ Fuel protests and shortages The emergency
services have to be prepared in the event of petrol protests or a shortage to
make sure vehicles are topped up. In 2005 and 2007 plans were drawn up when
protesters created blockades at various petrol stations and last year during the
fuel crisis contingency strategies were put in place to make sure tanks were
filled ¦ Evacuation of Hawkhurst Hospital In January 2005 a serious electrical
fault at Hawkhurst Cottage Hospital led to 13 patients needing to be
transferred. The hospital was evacuated while firefighters entered to find the
cause of the issue and make it safe ¦ Flooding With rivers in the region
including the Medway and the Uck as well as rural areas prone to floods, plans
have to be made when the forecasters predict widespread flooding. This can
include plans on what roads emergency services should use to avoid flooded
highways ¦ Severe Winter Weather Each winter plans are prepared and used to help
people during the harsh and treacherous conditions.

¦ Fire at the Kent and Sussex Hospital In October 2008 a large scale emergency
drill took place at the old Kent and Sussex Hospital. More than 40 fire-fighters
using five fire appliances took part in Exercise Scorch with smoke and fire
bells used to simulate a real blaze ¦ Mayfield Bus Crash The last time an
emergency was called was in May when a bus crashed in Mayfield. There were a
reported 12 injuries

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLEAN UP: Reporter Craig Saunders gets decontaminated
TWGF20131107A-041-C
PROTECTED: Courier reporter Craig Saunders at the major incident scenario
CONTAMINATED CRAIG: Courier reporter Craig Saunders takes part in a chemical
contamination spill at Tunbridge Wells hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KSC


                     Copyright 2013 Kent and Sussex Courier
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 15, 2013 Friday 10:12 PM GMT

NSA chief says Edward Snowden has shared up to 200,000 classified documents with
media and that leaks increase the probability of a terrorist attack

BYLINE: REUTERS REPORTER and DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 716 words


Former NSA contractor Edward Snowden leaked as many as 200,000 classified
documents to the media, according to little-noticed public remarks by the
eavesdropping agency's chief late last month.

NSA Director General Keith Alexander was asked what steps U.S. authorities were
taking to stop Snowden from leaking additional information to journalists at a
Q&A session in Baltimore October 31.

'I wish there was a way to prevent it. Snowden has shared somewhere between 50
(thousand) and 200,000 documents with reporters. These will continue to come
out,' Alexander said. He also warned that these leaks made a terrorist attack
more likely.

Alexander added that the documents were 'being put out in a way that does the
maximum damage to NSA and our nation,' according to a transcript of his talk
made available by NSA on Thursday.

The agency chief claimed it is 'very hard' for the NSA to prevent such leaks.
'But I'll tell you, this increases the probability that a terrorist attack will
get through,' he said.

'I think it's absolutely wrong. When we look back on this, people are going to
see that and understand that and say what they did was wrong.

'Until then, we're at their mercy. They're putting them out, one or two a week,
to cause the maximum problem. They get it wrong.'

Officials briefed on investigations into Snowden's activities have said
privately for months that internal government assessments indicate that the
number of classified documents to which Snowden got access as a systems operator
at NSA installations ran into the hundreds of thousands.

Officials said that while investigators now believe they know the range of
documents that Snowden accessed, they remain unsure which documents he
downloaded for leaking to the media.

By comparison, the number of Pentagon and State Department documents leaked to
WikiLeaks by a disgruntled U.S. Army private was much larger.

The anti-secrecy group obtained around 400,000 Pentagon reports on the Iraq war,
as well as 250,000 State Department cables and tens of thousands of documents on
U.S. operations in Afghanistan.

None of the WikiLeaks material was classified higher than 'Secret' but many NSA
documents leaked by Snowden were marked 'Top Secret' or with an even more
restrictive 'Special Intelligence' stamp.

The material includes highly technical details on U.S. and allied eavesdropping
activities.

Snowden's revelations, which first surfaced in June, are still causing a
headache for the government of President Barack Obama, particularly in its
dealing with allies.

For example, Germany was outraged by reports that the NSA monitored Chancellor
Angela Merkel's cellphone.

Alexander also spoke about the report that the NSA had gained access to the
phone records of over 70 million French citizens over a 30-day period.

The NSA chief said that was aimed at gathering data to support NATO-related
activities, adding 'none of that information was collected in France, on French
people or European citizens.'

'Yet the uproar in Europe over this is huge,' Alexander said. 'And it's
interesting. It's almost like 'the War of the Worlds.'

Matthew Olsen, director of the National Counterterrorism Center in the Office of
the Director of National Intelligence, said Snowden's leaks were 'extremely
damaging.'

'There is no doubt that those disclosures have made our job harder. We've seen
that terrorists or adversaries are seeking to learn about the ways that we
collect intelligence and seeking to adapt and change the ways that they
communicate,' he told a congressional hearing on Thursday.

In the past few days, U.S. officials say, a panel of former officials and
experts set up by Obama to review NSA operations in the wake of Snowden's
disclosures has privately reported interim conclusions to the White House.

The group's final report is due on December 15. The report, along with the White
House's own review, is likely to lead to policy changes to be announced by
year's end.

These are expected to include some constraints on the NSA's wide-ranging
eavesdropping.

Also included in documents leaked by Snowden are at least 58,000 classified
documents generated by Government Communications Headquarters, the NSA's British
counterpart, according to UK authorities.

Snowden is in Russia, where he was granted asylum in August for at least a year.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            November 15, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror as brick yobs attack car;
PROBE ; Shocked woman and kids escape injury

BYLINE: Gavin McInally

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 243 words


A female driver and her two young children were left terrified after twisted
yobs chucked boulders at her car.

One brick smashed the windscreen and dented the roof as the 40-year-old driver
was travelling under a bridge at Gallow Green Road, in Paisley on Wednesday
night.

Fortunately, the startled mum was able to pull over safely and her children were
not hurt in the sickening incident which happened between 5.10pm and 5.15pm.

Last night, Paisley inspector Stuart Thomson said cops were committed to
tracking down the neds who tossed the bricks off the bridge.

He added: "The consequences of this act of stupidity could have been very
serious for this woman and her two young children.

"The brick hit the top of her window as she passed under the bridge which
connects King Street to Ferguslie Park, between 5.10pm and 5.15pm.

"Luckily, it didn't come through the windscreen and the driver was able to pull
over safely and alert the police.

"She was, however, very shaken by the incident, as were her children."

He added: "As it was dark at the time and it was completely unexpected, the
driver did not see those responsible for throwing the bricks.

"We will be studying CCTV images and committing resources to track down those
responsible for this incident.

"I would appeal to anyone who was in the area at around that time to come
forward with any information they may have."

Anyone who can help officers with their enquiries is asked to contact Paisley
police on 101.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Scene The bridge over Paisley's Gallow Green Road where the woman's car
was targeted

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 17, 2013 Sunday

Somalia: Somaliland court jails poet for lauding Nairobi mall terror attack

LENGTH: 151 words


Text of report by Somali pro-Al-Shabab news website Sabaax on 16 November

The Hargeysa regional court today sentenced Abdiwahid Ali Gama'did, a young
Somaliland poet who recently recited a poem composed in support of the bloody
attack on Westgate Mall in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. The poet, who has been
in detention at Hargeysa Central Prison for some time, was sentenced this
morning to one year in prison and fined 1m Somaliland shillings [about $150],
according to the Somaliland media, particularly Hadhwanaag.com.

Shaykh Mohamud Abdullahi Gelle [founder of Somaliland Islamist political party
named Hizbullah] is also currently in detention, having been arrested for
speaking out [in favour] of the attack on Westgate Mall attack.

People in areas controlled by Ahmed Silanyo [Somaliland president] have no right
to express negative opinions of Ethiopia and Kenya.

Source: Sabaax in Somali 16 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 17, 2013 Sunday

Iran paper accuses US of backing "grouplet" behind recent "terrorist Attacks"

LENGTH: 915 words


Text of commentary by Abbas Khosravani: "Another indication of distrust" by
Iranian newspaper Resalat on 29 October.

The terrorist actions of Saravan occurred on Friday 3 Aban [25 October] of the
present year in the confines of police precinct 167 of Gazbastan, during which,
14 people were martyred and six were wounded. The group described as "The Army
of Justice," which presents itself as "The Army of Justice and Equality," took
responsibility for having martyred the border guards of Iran's police force.
This bitter action has again caused the finger of accusation to be pointed at
America's government as the principle backer of the terrorist grouplets in the
region, especially grouplets that are against the Islamic Republic of Iran. The
historical record of America's government is besmirched with equipping and
inciting these kinds of mercenary grouplets for the purpose of creating
instability in the region and striking a blow against the Islamic Republic
system.

Every year America's government designates substantial budgets for equipping and
supporting these terrorist grouplets. These budgets are always set aside for a
wide spectrum of destructive and terrorist actions in the geography of the
Islamic Republic. From the military air strikes on Tabas to the battle of the
oil tankers in the Persian Gulf; arms support and political backing of the
Ba'ath regime in Iraq throughout the eight-year imposed war [referring to the
Iran-Iraq war], supporting currents of anti-Iranian terrorism and [backing] the
Mojahedin-e Khalq [MEK] and the Taliban, and the grouplets of Jundollah and the
PKK, are an extensive attempt to create ethnic and sectarian wars in Kurdistan,
Golestan, Azarbayjan, Khuzestan, and Sistan. Using tools such as international
entities and groups like the IAEA, the UN, and the UN Human Rights Council and
the assassination of nuclear scientists, etc. are [among] America's terrorist
activities against Iran. All of these are a sign of the fundamental hostility of
the Americans with regard to the Islamic Republic and is obviously inconsistent
with fighting terrorism.

The recent terrorist incident was also carried out by a grouplet that is
dependent on the US Government and is trying to prevent tranquility in the
region and its becoming free of terrorist grouplets. After the upset of Rigi's
grouplet, this grouplet, i.e. "The Army of Justice," began fomenting conflict
with the government in this region of the country. The command of this current
is also under the responsibility of an evil individual--Wahhabi and inimical--by
the name of Abdorrahim Mollazehi, a resident of Rask County, who, after the
arrest of his evil brother, was accused of taking part in martyring Mowlavi
Jangi-Zehi and has gone into hiding in Pakistan.

The grouplet that Abdorrahim Mollazehi established was also called the Army of
Justice in order to engage in spreading Salafist ideas and beliefs, according to
his own belief, by hiring an extremist force in regions like the counties of
Rask, Nikshahr, and Iranshahr. Now, by martyring a number of [guards] from
Saravan's border regiments, this group has shown that it is seeking to broadcast
the beliefs of Abdolmalek Rigi, which were both Salafist and Wahhabist as well
as takfiri. Although the inimical career of the enemies of the Islamic Republic
of Iran is full of destructive and terrorist deeds against the nation of Iran,
in the present circumstances in which, on the one hand, the Americans are
desirous of negotiations with Islamic Republic of Iran's government and claim
earnestness in this path, on the other hand, a domestic group of [people who
are] thrilled with this possible [renewal of] relations [with the United States]
are happy. The actions at Saravan can be another seal of approval for the claim
that the Americans were never sincere and that they do not harbor good will
towards our nation. How is it possible that a government that has sullied its
hands with the blood of many young people of this land could want to enter into
friendship with us? From another perspective, the financial backing of a
terrorist group of the hypocrites for the security and safety of the members of
this grouplet shows that a change in the behavior of America has not occurred
and likewise on the basis of the spirit of arrogance that exists among the White
House officials, they are pursuing the achievement of their illicit wishes. This
duplicitous behavior of the Americans, with regard to confronting terrorism and
clashing with the Islamic Republic, brings to mind the eloquent words of the
Supreme Leader when he said: "Likewise, we do not trust the Westerners and the
ancient enemies of the Islamic Republic of Iran." Therefore it is expected of
statesmen and the negotiating team that until the time when the position of the
Americans becomes clear and their innocence with regard to such terrorist
activities is declared, they will not give the green light to the P5+1 group and
will also insist upon and recall the calamitous crimes of America in pursuit of
demanding the rights of the nation of Iran and will not retreat in any way from
this path. Countries that beat the drum of struggling with terrorism with the
support of the terrorist group of the hypocrites whose hands are stained with
the blood of thousands of innocent Iranian youth, prove once again that
struggling with terrorism is only a pretext for achieving their arrogant wishes.

Source: Resalat website, Tehran, in Persian 29 Oct 13

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                     November 18, 2013 Monday 11:48 AM GMT

When Birmingham Pub Bombing families met Paddy Hill;
Documentary shows campaigners' momentous meeting with man wrongly jailed for 16
years over terror attack

BYLINE: By Gary Young

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 872 words


On the eve of Thursday's 39th anniversary of the Birmingham pub bombings, Graham
Young watches a new documentary asking who was behind it.
Maxine Hambleton's brother and sister are about to enter a room containing one
of the men wrongly jailed for 16 years over the city's most heinous, unsolved
crime.

They are in the Warrington Peace Centre, a building designed to bring people
together, not blow them apart.

The room looks as anonymous as a nursing home reception, with chairs designed to
keep people upright instead of slouching.

Paddy Hill makes as if to get up to welcome his visitors, whose movements are
also being tracked by the same, solitary cameraman.

For a split second, the impression is that Hill is ready to shake hands.

But the mediator in the next chair asks him to sit down.

Walking towards the two chairs nearest the door are Julie Hambleton and her
brother Brian.

As siblings of Maxine, who was 18 when she was killed by the Tavern in the Town
bomb on November 21, 1974, this is one of the most difficult moments of their
lives.

Coming face to face with one of the Birmingham Six, men they had once been told
- and believed - were responsible for killing their sister and 20 others.

The Six had their convictions quashed by the Court of Appeal in 1991 and the
real bombers have never faced justice.

Off-camera, the Hambletons have already said they are not there to shake hands.

Part of them cannot believe they are there at all.

For a meeting said to have lasted two hours, precious little of it made the
final cut of this 30-minute insight into their growing Justice4the21 campaign.

But it's a central fulcrum on which two very different sets of emotions are
balancing.

Hill, a wee man with still piercing eyes despite his own ill health, is worked
up enough to use the F-word in relation to his own suffering.

"My mother...', he begins.

"My kids ended up in f******* homes and everything.
Birmingham pub bombings

"Moving house nine times in 11 years. They didn't even know what name they would
use.

"I have never, in my life, been asked one question by the police about the
Birmingham pub bombings.

"They said: 'We know you didn't do the pub bombings, but we've got you and
that's good enough for us'."

As for the Hambletons, Brian explains that he thinks himself a pretty good judge
of character.

Paddy advises the Hambletons that he "has a copy of everything" and they are
welcome to study the files kept by his London solicitor, Gareth Pearce, who says
the police "failed these families (of the victims) in a disgraceful way".

One of the most remarkable aspects of producer/director Anthony Bartram's film
is that, less than a month before broadcast, the police insisted that they -
rather than the BBC - filmed their own shelves of files into the case, which are
kept at a secret location.

Executive producer Rachel Bowering says: "I think the police are genuinely
scared. They don't know what they have got and what they haven't got."

Narrated by Birmingham actor David Harewood - he recorded it in New York where
he is     appearing    in     a     Shakespearean production - it's almost
inevitable that this programme will pose more questions than it might be able to
answer.

The Hambletons might have found the strength to try to find answers after almost
four decades of hurt but it is unclear how many other relatives of those killed
want to revisit this territory. Testimony to the depth of emotion still raging
inside is the heartfelt moment when Julie meets Maureen Mitchell for the first
time.

Maureen was given the last rites after the Mulberry Bush bomb. The pair had
never met until they embraced in New Street, where the Justice4the21 group has
been collecting a petition all year.                            With almost
90,000 signatures still needed to reach their 100,000 target to try to trigger
action, Who Killed Maxine? might be the Hambletons' last chance to find any kind
of resolution in time for next year's 40th anniversary.

Anybody who watches this programme cannot but commend them for their bravery,
wish them well and hope that someone, somewhere knows something. And is brave
enough to come out of the proverbial woodwork to say it.

As Hill himself says: "None of us will get closure until we know the truth."

* Who Murdered Maxine? is on BBC1 at 7.30pm tonight
*              The anniversary of the pub bombings will be marked on Thursday
with a candlelit vigil in the grounds of St Philip's Cathedral in Birmingham
city centre.

Campaigners, families and friends of those caught up in the tragedy are expected
to gather from 6pm, along with civic dignitaries and other guests.

There will be special prayers and readings.
PETITION                            Please sign the petitions:

* E-petition: http://epetitions.direct.gov.uk/petitions/42684

* Website address: www.justice4the21.co.uk

* Avaaz Petition: http://www.avaaz.org/en/petition/Justice_
for_the_21_Innocent_Victims/?tJuipeb

* Blogspot: http://justice4the21.blogspot.co.uk/

* Email address: justice4the21@hotmail.co.uk

* Follow us on Twitter@justice4the21

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 18, 2013 Monday 12:46 PM GMT

Worst student prank in history: Four students in African robes and brandishing
fake Kalashnikovs stage 'terror attack' in French hospital

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 388 words



     ·    The men stormed into the building last night in Saint-Roch hospital,
          Nice
     ·    Feared a repeat of the 2012 Al-Qaeda-inspired attack in south France
     ·    Police spent 45 minutes hunting down the men before they were arrested
     ·    Building was put on lockdown as patients were evacuated


Four students in African robes and brandishing fake Kalashnikovs caused
widespread panic and hysteria by staging a 'terror attack' in a French hospital.

The men stormed into the building last night in Saint-Roch hospital in the
Riviera city of Nice.

Fearing a repeat of the 2012 Al-Qaeda-inspired attack in south France, which
left six dead, the building was put on lockdown as patients were evacuated to a
different part of the hospital and incoming ambulances were diverted.

Between 50 to 70 police officers were deployed to hunt down the apparent
terrorists, who one witness told local newspaper Nice Matin were carrying what
looked like M16 or Kalashnikov assault rifles.

Police spent 45 minutes hunting down the men before they were arrested in the
corridor, reported French website The Local.

That is when they discovered the 'terrorists' were four dental students taking
part in a prank.

Hospital director Martine Rajzman told AFP: 'The four lads had a dismayed look
about them, having suddenly realized the consequences of their actions.'

But the consequences of their actions had already proved terrifying for staff
and patients.

The neighbourhood surrounding the Saint-Roch hospital in the centre of Nice was
placed on lockdown by authorities.

The students were taken to a local police station after their fake firearms were
confiscated.

France is on high alert for attacks - earlier this month, two French
journalists, Claude Verlon and Ghislaine Dupont of Radio France Internationale,
were found dead on the outskirts of the northern town of Kidal after being
kidnapped - Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb later claimed responsibility.

It followed France launching air strikes and sending hundreds of soldiers into
Niger's neighbour Mali in January to drive back Al Qaeda rebels, saying they
would use the West African country as a base for attacks on the west.

The prank brought unwelcome reminders of the March 2012 killing spree by
Al-Qaeda-inspired gunman Mohamed Merah, who shot dead seven people in
southwestern France, including three Jewish children.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 19, 2013 Tuesday

Egyptian embassy in Beirut condemns "terror attack" on Iranian embassy - agency

LENGTH: 109 words


Beirut, 19 November: The Egyptian embassy here condemned the terror attack that
hit the Iranian Embassy here earlier Tuesday.

A statement issued by the Egyptian embassy in Beirut said no Egyptians were hurt
in the blast.

The embassy also denounced any act that could threaten the stability of Lebanon
and offered condolences to the families of the victims of the attack.

Meanwhile, Information Counselor at the Egyptian embassy Subhi Abd-al-Bassir
told MENA that there are no deaths or injuries among the Egyptians and the
embassy is contacting the hospitals where the injured and dead were carried.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0909gmt 19 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 19, 2013 Tuesday

Afghan paper asks how recent Kabul terrorist attack happened

LENGTH: 482 words


Text of editorial "What is the explanation?" by Afghan independent secular daily
newspaper Hasht-e Sobh on 17 November

Like any other terrorist attack, yesterday's suicide attack claimed the lives of
poor labourers, vendors and defenceless civilians. Two Afghan army soldiers also
lost their lives. Attackers targeted an area close to the venue where the loya
jerga would be held. The area is heavily protected. So how did the terrorist,
who according to security officials was under surveillance, manage to enter a
heavily fortified area? Authorities must answer this question.

Vendors on the street had probably thought they would not become victims of a
blind Taleban terrorist attack in view of the security measures taken.

This is the sixth jerga being held since the new political system was installed
in the country. Afghan security forces have experience from the past five
jergas. Security lapses during the consultative peace jerga resulted in a
Taleban attack and removal of senior security officials.

Yesterday's terrorist attack shows that there are still lapses in the security
arrangements which terrorists exploit. The public must be briefed about how
exactly the terrorist, who was under surveillance, succeeded in reaching the
jerga venue and wrought havoc. Authorities must explain to the people what
security lapses he took advantage of.

Clearly, the Taleban stage such attacks to spread terror ahead of the
consultative jerga. They will spare no effort to disrupt the security of the
jerga and its surrounding areas with the ultimate goal of sabotaging all the
security measures taken. The security forces, however, are expected to
neutralize these efforts. The jerga held two years ago went well. Although the
Taleban issued a fake document suggesting that they had received a copy of the
jerga security arrangement, they failed to disrupt security of the jerga.

In view of the past experience, terrorists are expected to fail to enter
sensitive areas. It is clear that the National Security Directorate (NDS) and
the interior ministry are investigating the incident. They should share their
findings with the public to the extent possible. The public must know if the
terrorist had collaborators at the security checkpoints or if there are other
explanations. How can a terrorist enter a sensitive and heavily protected area
and cause a disaster? This is what the public want to know. The NDS and security
ministers should provide accurate reports on this. If there is a traitor, they
must be exposed and handed over to legal and judicial authorities.

Unfortunately, security officials speak little about such incidents and their
perpetrators. The public want to know what exactly happened that a terrorist
attack was staged in an area protected by security forces. This question needs
to be answered accurately and satisfactorily.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, in Dari 17 Nov 13 p 2

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     November 19, 2013 Tuesday 11:04 AM GMT

Gunman 'sowing terror' with attacks on Paris media and bank

BYLINE: Adam Sage, Paris

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 442 words


A lone gunman brought terror to the streets of Paris yesterday with attacks on
prominent media and financial institutions.

Officers were searching the roads around the Champs Élysées and reinforcements
were drafted into the city's affluent western districts after a member of staff
at a newspaper was shot and critically wounded, a car was hijacked and bullets
were fired at the Société Générale bank.

The city's day of fear began after a photographer's assistant was shot at the
main offices of Libération, the left-wing daily newspaper, by an intruder who
appeared to be carrying a 12-bore shotgun commonly used for hunting.

Panic spread to La Défense, the capital's most important business district, when
bullets were fired at the headquarters of Société Générale. The gunman then
hijacked a car and forced the driver to drop him off on the Champs Élysées,
allegedly telling the driver that he was carrying a grenade.

Within minutes a police helicopter was circling over the avenue as officers
spanned out along adjoining roads.

Detectives said the same gunman was also likely to have been responsible for an
attack on the rolling news channel BFMTV on Friday.

Closed-circuit television images of the gunman were released last night. Police
said that he was white, aged between 35 and 45, and between 5ft 6in and 5ft
10in, with greying hair. He wore a khaki coat and used a .729 rifle that costs
(EURO)150 and can be obtained by anyone with a hunting permit.

A police source said last night that there had been several reported sightings
of the suspect.

Manuel Valls, the Interior Minister, who compared the scene inside Libération to
that of a war zone, said: "As long as this individual is at large and we don't
know his motivations, he represents a danger. " The capital's media outlets were
placed under police protection.

Police said the gunman was believed to have fired two shots at the 23-year-old
photographer's assistant at Libération, hitting him in the chest and the abdomen
before leaving the building on foot. The injured man underwent an emergency
operation at La Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, and is in intensive care.

The gunman appeared to have chosen his victim at random, according to witnesses.

Less than two hours after attacking Libération, the gunman fired at least two
bullets at the windows of La Tour Granite, the tower that houses Société
Générale's headquarters. No one was injured and the man ran off before taking a
65-year-old motorist hostage.

The motorist told police that the gunman had said: "I am an escaped convict.
Take me to the Champs Élysées'."

He is thought to have left the Champs Élysées on the underground.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     November 19, 2013 Tuesday 12:01 AM GMT

Gunman 'sowing terror' with attacks on Paris media and bank

BYLINE: Adam Sage, Paris

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 506 words


A photographer at Libération, the French daily, was fighting for his life today
after being shot by an armed man who burst into the newspaper's office in Paris
with shotgun.

The incident comes three days after a gunman threatened staff at BFMTV, the
French rolling news channel, before fleeing without firing a shot.

All media outlets in Paris were immediately placed under police protection. "We
are obviously going to see if there is a link between these two cases," said a
police source.

Hours after the Libération attack, Société Générale, the French bank, said that
shots had been fired outside its headquarters in La Défense business district.
No one was injured.

A car driver told police he had been taken hostage in La Défense by a gunman who
forced him to drive to the Champs Elysées where he dropped off the kidnapper.

Although police could not say whether the same man had attacked Libération and
Société Générale, Le Figaro appeared in no doubt.

"An armed man is sowing terror in Paris," it said.

Witnesses said that the gunman arrived in Libération's entrance hall in
mid-morning armed with a pump-action shotgun.

He fired two shots, hitting a freelance photographer in the chest and abdomen
before leaving the building on foot and heading towards the nearest Metro
station.

Anastasia Vécrin, a features editor at Libération, said: "I arrived and I saw a
man on the ground with blood all around him holding his stomach. I was
terrified.

"I came across two colleagues who work on the reception and they were white with
fear. They said: 'We've just been shot at, we hid behind the reception desk'."

Police said that the victim, who has not been named and who was preparing for a
photography session at the newspaper's head office, had a life-threatening
wound.

"We are the horrified witnesses of a drama," said Nicolas Demorand, director of
the Left-wing daily founded in 1973. "When you enter a newspaper armed with a
gun in a democracy it's very serious, whatever the mental state of the person
concerned.

"If newspapers and media must go into bunkers, it means that something is not
right in our society."

Fabrice Rousselot, Libération's editor, said: "We are going to call upon a team
of psychologists because the direct witnesses are going to find it very
difficult to come to terms with what they saw.

"If people can attack the press, it shocks and sickens us."

As police sealed off Libération's offices and ordered journalists to stay
inside, Manuel Valls, the Interior Minister, arrived at the newspaper office.

The Parisian Police Criminal Brigade, which was called to investigate the
shooting, was studying security camera footage in an attempt to identify the
gunman.

He was described as about 40, with short hair, and wearing a green coat.

The man who attacked BFMTV on Friday was also about 40 and wearing a long coat.

He threatened a news editor at the headquarters of the channel before removing
two bullets from his gun and dropping them on the floor. "Next time I won't miss
you," said the man before leaving.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                     November 19, 2013 Tuesday 2:51 PM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY HAGUE CONDEMNS BEIRUT TERRORIST ATTACK

LENGTH: 135 words


LONDON, Nov. 19 -- The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills issued the
following press release:

The Foreign Secretary William Hague sends condolences to the families of killed
and injured.

The Foreign Secretary said:

I strongly condemn the shocking terrorist attack on the Iranian embassy in
southern Beirut today that has led to such tragic loss of life. I send my
condolences to the families of those killed and injured. The UK is strongly
committed to supporting stability in Lebanon and seeing those responsible for
this attack brought to justice.

Our Embassy in Beirut remains at a high state of vigilance. A consular team
stands ready to assist British nationals." For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:15:46

