



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:19:29
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 1, 2014 Wednesday

Syrian Speaker condemns terrorist attacks in Egypt, Lebanon

LENGTH: 982 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

1 January , 2014  (SANA) -Damascus, (SANA)-The People's Assembly condemned the
terrorist bombings which took place in Egypt, Iraq, Lebanon, and in Russia,
affirming that Syria will continue to combat terrorism.

This came during the Assembly's last session of the 5th ordinary session of the
1st legislative term held on Tuesday in presence of Prime Minister Wael al-Halqi
and government's members.

Speaker of the People's Assembly, Muhammad Jihad al-Laham, said that terrorism
targeting Syria is expanding and beginning to affect Egypt, Tunisia, Lebanon,
Iraq and most recently the Russian city of Volgograd, which confirms Syria's
warning about the need to confront terrorism.

He affirmed that the terrorist war hatched against Syria has failed, and despite
all the destruction, murder and abduction committed by terrorism, the Syrian
people continue to live their lives and the state's establishments continue to
carry out their duties.

Al-Laham asserted that Syria will go to the international conference on Syria
"Geneva 2" to propose Syrian solutions without foreign interference, calling on
all Syrians to resort to dialogue and political action to resolve disputes and
express themselves.

He also called on the countries supporting the so-called "opposition abroad" to
return to their senses and realize that there can be no solution in Syria except
through dialogue, saying that these countries are working day and night to
increase chaos and exacerbate the situation in Syria by arming terrorists.

The Speaker concluded by saluting the martyrs of Syria, the injured, and those
who lost loved ones and family members, stressing that Syria's victory is
imminent.

For his part, Prime Minister al-Halqi said that the government is committed to
confronting the war waged on Syria and reduce its effects as much as possible,
noting that the government is facing big challenges due to the crisis in Syria,
the continued economic sanctions imposed on it, and the systematic sabotage acts
perpetrated by the armed terrorist groups.

He said that the government's efforts concentrated on emergency procedures to
face the repercussions of the crisis, mainly providing the citizens' basic
requirements, supporting the stability of the Syrian currency, supporting the
Syrian Army, and providing relief aid.

Al-Halqi affirmed that Syria will continue to fulfil its obligations as per the
Chemical Weapons Convention and is committed to preparing for Geneva 2 and
cooperating with its friends to thwart all attempts of accusing it that it does
not embrace political solutions.

Concerning the health sector, al-Halqi pointed out the Health Ministry launched
six vaccination campaigns against polio as prevent this disease from returning
to Syria after it was eradicated in 1995.

He added that the ministry is providing all health services and it is importing
its needs from the friendly countries, noting that 21 medical factories went out
of service out of 70 factories because of the terrorist attacks.

The Prime Minister said that the most important challenges facing the government
was providing the requirements for 4 million students and maintaining 17,000
schools to provide the educational requirements.

He added that 70 per cent to 72 per cent of the students went to school in 2013
while the percentage of the teaching cadres who went to work reached 95 per
cent.

The issue of humanitarian relief and the affected people was the priority of the
government as it allocated 884 government centres for over 182,000 citizens,
while the makeshift centres of the civil society were enough for 5 million
citizens, al-Halqi added.

The Prime Minister pointed out to the agreement signed between the Syrian oil
company and Russian Soyuzneftegaz company to start excavation in the Syrian
coastand regional waters.

He added that the Ministry of Economy and External Trade is importing the
necessary goods as to decrease prices, noting that the government managed to
keep the Syrian pound exchange rate stable.

Al-Halqi hailed the glorious achievements of the Syrian Arab army which had the
greatest role along with the Syrian success of the Syrian diplomacy in making
the Syrians assured about the Syrian currency.

Concerning the agricultural sector, al-Halqi pointed out that the percentage of
wheat corps reached 798,000 hectares; that is, 46 per cent of the areas planned
for season 2013/2014 and 9009 hectares of barley with a percentage of 62 per
cent and an increase of 15 per cent compared to the previous year.

On the industrial sector, al-Halqi said that the armed terrorist groups and
their supporters have attacked the industrial sector being the essential factor
for the national economy, noting that the industrial sector is gradually
overcoming as the government started activating the production process of the
micro projects.

Al-Halqi hailed the efforts exerted by the Syrian parliamentary delegation
during the Asian Parliamentary Assembly's session in Islamabad and its active
role in drafting the final statement and assembling the international
parliamentary efforts to confront terrorism and extremism.

He said that his visit last month to Tehran had political and security
implications regarding coordination for holding Geneva 2 conference, adding that
his visit resulted in reaching an agreement to combat global terrorism and
religious extremism practiced by the armed terrorist groups.

The Prime Minister stressed that the Syrian government delegation is going to
Geneva 2 if it was held on 22 January shouldering the aspirations of the Syrian
people and the recommendations of President Bashar al-Assad to shape the future
of Syria, adding that those who think that the Syrian delegation is going to
Geneva 2 to hand over power to the others are deluded.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 1 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 1, 2014 Wednesday

Serbian minister sends condolences to Russian president over terrorist attack

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report in English by Serbian pro-western Belgrade-based Radio B92
website, on 31 December

B92 Politics) -BELGRADE - Serbian Foreign Minister Ivan Mrkic has sent a
telegram of condolence to Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov following the
second terrorist attack in Russia.

Ivan Mrkic (Tanjug) "It is with disbelief that we have received the news about
the death of innocent citizens in a repeated, mindless, criminal act in
Volgograd," the Serbian Foreign Ministry on Tuesday quoted the message.

"I wish to assure you that the Russian Federation and its citizens have our
unreserved support in the fight against terrorism," reads Mrkic's telegram.

Two terrorist attacks shook Volgograd within 24 hours on Sunday and Monday.

The number of casualties increased to 33 after one wounded person passed away in
the hospital on Monday evening, Russian officials stated on Tuesday.

Source: Radio B92 text website, Belgrade, in English 0000 gmt 31 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 2, 2014 Thursday

Tehran seeking to interrogate "terrorist" behind attack on Iran embassy

LENGTH: 319 words


Text of report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news agency

A report by Lebanese Al Manar TV said Iran has asked Lebanon to take part in the
interrogation session of Majed al-Majed, the Saudi commander of the Abdallah
Azzam Brigades that claimed responsibility for the Iranian Embassy bombings.

The Lebanese media reported on Wednesday [1 January] that the Arab country's
Army had arrested Majed al-Majed, the Saudi commander of Abdullah Azzam Brigades
a few days ago.

In a relevant report, Lebanese daily, The Daily Star, quoted Iran's Envoy to
Beirut Ghazanfar Roknabadi as saying that Tehran has asked Lebanon to take part
in the ongoing investigation with a Saudi man suspected of being the head of the
Abdullah Azzam Brigades.

"Iran officially asked Lebanon to participate in the investigation with Majid
al-Majid given that he is the one responsible for the Iranian Embassy bombings,"
Roknabadi told a local television, Daily Star reported.

Caretaker Foreign Affairs Minister Adnan Mansur also confirmed Iran's request,
the report added.

Meantime, the Iranian parliament on Wednesday expressed gratitude to the
Lebanese government for its successful efforts to capture the commander of a
terrorist group.

On 19 November, two explosions occurred around Iran's embassy in the Lebanese
capital of Beirut, killing more than two dozen of people and injuring some 150
others. Iranian cultural attaché in Beirut was also among the dead.

Later, an al-Qa'idah-linked group, Abdullah Azzam Brigades, claimed
responsibility for the twin bombings.

Vice Chairman of Iranian Parliament's National Security and Foreign Policy
Commission Mansur Haqiqatpur told the Tasnim News Agency on 1 January  that the
legislature has sent a message to the Lebanese government in acknowledgement of
its efforts to arrest perpetrators of the terrorist attack.

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 1225 gmt 2 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                            January 2, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Leader sends condolences to twin city following terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 179 words


COVENTRY City Council leader Ann Lucas has written to offer her condolences to
the people of Volgograd after the double bombing.

In a message to what was Coventry's first twin city, she said: "I am writing to
express my personal condolences and those of my city to you and the people of
Volgograd. The unspeakable horror that has been visited upon your city over the
course of the last few days is unimaginable to any decent human being.

"Our hearts go out in sharing the anguish and pain of the citizens of our
much-loved twin city."

Coun Lucas said there could never be "any excuse" for what she described as acts
of pure wickedness, and added: "Those responsible in not just the execution but
the planning of these acts must never be allowed to succeed in changing the way
in which ordinary human beings behave towards one another. As a city with a
reputation for the promotion of peace and reconciliation, we want you to know
that if there is anything practical that we can do to assist the people of your
city, then we will endeavour to to provide such assistance and help."

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMP


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            January 2, 2014 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Putin visits victims of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: VOLGOGRAD

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 204 words


PRESIDENT Vladimir Putin has visited victims of two recent terrorist suicide
attacks.

He placed a bouquet on a pile of flowers, balloons and other commemorative items
that has risen at the site of the trolleybus bombing in Volgograd, and then
visited a hospital in the city where some of the wounded are being treated.

A total of 34 people were killed and about 60 people were injured in the two
suicide attacks. The other attack was committed at a railway station.

Mr Putin's pre-dawn visit came after he pledged on state TV to annihilate those
responsible as security is stepped up prior to the Winter Olympics in Sochi,
which will begin next month.

"No matter what motivated the criminals, there can be no justification for
crimes against civilians, particularly against women and children," Mr Putin
said.

"The vileness of the crime - or crimes - that were committed here, in Volgograd,
needs no additional commentary."

Islamist insurgents in the North Caucasus have plagued Mr Putin's 14-year rule.

A suicide bomb blast in Volgograd's main railway station on Sunday afternoon
killed at least 18 people, and a second attacker blew up a trolley bus in rush
hour on Monday morning, killing 16 and leaving bodies strewn on the street.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONCERN: Russian President Vladimir Putin and Health Minister Veronika
Skvortsova, right, visit terrorism victims in hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2014 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 2, 2014 Thursday 9:36 AM GMT

Kenya: Grenade attack on Mombasa tourist nightclub leaves 10 injured;
Area police chief says 'it cannot be anything else but a terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 277 words


A grenade attack on a nightclub outside the coastal Kenyan city of Mombasa has
injured at least 10 people, police said.

The incident occurred at 3.30 am (00.30 GMT) at a popular tourist nightclub in
Diani some 25 km outside Mombasa, according to authorities.

Kwale County Commissioner Evans Achoki said the attackers hurled a grenade
toward customers at the Tandoori bar. The attackers then fled before police
arrived and the injured were taken to hospital.

At least one of the victims was seriously wounded and had undergone surgery.

Jack Ekakuro, Kwale area police chief told journalists gathered at the scene
that the club was busy with New Year revellers at the time of the attack. He
said: "Three people appeared from the other side of the road and threw a grenade
at the night club which exploded injuring 10 people. The attackers escaped on a
motor bike."

He added: "It cannot be anything else but a terrorist attack. A grenade is a not
a maize cob that any village boy can handle and throw around at will."

Ekakuro did not state who was responsible for the attack, but the government has
in the past put the blame on Somalia's al-Qa'ida-linked al-Shabaab insurgents,
who have demanded the withdrawal of Kenyan troops who have joined African
peacekeepers fighting the group in Somalia.

Kenya's coast is a popular tourist destination but has been plagued by attacks
blamed on Islamist militants and their sympathisers.

In September, al-Shabaab gunmen attacked a attacked a Nairobi shopping mall,
killing at least 67 civilians in the country's worst incident since the 1998
bombing of the US embassy that killed more than 200 people.

Additional reporting by Reuters

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 2, 2014 Thursday 6:52 AM GMT

Kenya: Grenade attack on Mombasa tourist nightclub leaves 10 injured;
Area police chief says 'it cannot be anything else but a terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Joseph Akwiri

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 229 words


A grenade attack on a popular nightclub outside the coastal Kenyan city of
Mombasa has wounded at least 10 people, police said.

The incident occurred at 3:30 am (0030 GMT) at a nightclub frequented by
tourists in Diani some 25 km outside Mombasa, they said. It resembled explosions
in 2012 and 2013 that were blamed on Somali militants.

"The club was busy with New Year revellers. Three people appeared from the other
side of the road and threw a grenade at the night club which (the grenade)
exploded injuring 10 people. The attackers escaped on a motor bike," Jack
Ekakuro, Kwale area police chief told journalists at the scene.

"It cannot be anything else but a terrorist attack. A grenade is a not a maize
cob that any village boy can handle and throw around at will."

Ekakuro did not say who was behind the attack, but the government has in the
past put the blame on Somalia's al-Qa'ida-linked al-Shabaab insurgents, who have
demanded the withdrawal of Kenyan troops who have joined African peacekeepers
fighting the group in Somalia.

Kenya's coast is dependent on tourism and has been plagued by attacks blamed on
Islamist militants and their sympathisers.

In September, al-Shabaab gunmen attacked a attacked a Nairobi shopping mall,
killing at least 67 civilians in the country's worst incident since the 1998
bombing of the US embassy that killed more than 200 people.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 3, 2014 Friday

Morocco strongly condemns `terrorist' attacks in Beirut

LENGTH: 153 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, Jan.03, 2014 (MAP) - Morocco strongly condemned Thursday's [2 January]
terrorist attack against a residential and commercial area in southern Beirut,
killing several people and injuring others.

A release of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation also expresses
Morocco's solidarity with Lebanon against terrorist attacks.

Thursday's blast was the second in less than a week after a car bomb explosion
killed former Finance Minister Muhammad Shatah, along with seven others in
downtown Beirut.

The release offered condolences to the innocent victims' families, stressing
that Morocco, which refuses and denounces all forms of terrorism, condemns this
criminal act and expresses solidarity with Lebanon against all terrorist acts
and threats.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 1906 gmt 3 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       January 3, 2014 Friday 5:41 PM GMT

Birmingham's IRA terror attack - 11 months BEFORE pub bombings;
Campaigners ask: Could blasts 40 years ago this week hold clues to outrage which
claimed 21 lives?

BYLINE: By Matt Lloyd

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 699 words


It should have been a time for celebrations and New Year optimism.

But just 48 hours after Birmingham celebrated the start of 1974, two terrorist
bombs tore through city centre buildings.

The 5lb devices exploded in Colmore Circus and Stephenson Place on January 2,
showering glass onto the streets below.

Miraculously, no-one was injured in the bombings 40 years ago, which marked the
continuation of a long-running terror campaign in the city and around the UK.

The blasts were the biggest Birmingham had ever seen - but were just a precursor
to              the deadly pub bombings which would claim 21 livesin November
that year.

The IRA was always suspected of carrying out the bombings at the Tavern in the
Town and Mulberry Bush, which also left 180 people injured, but never admitted
responsibility.

Justice for the 21 campaigner Julie Hambleton lost her sister Maxine, 18,in the
terrorist attacks and believes earlier attacks, like the January explosions,
could hold vital clues for a new police investigation.

She said: "We were aware there were over 30 attacks in and around Birmingham
prior to the pub bombings.

"Because nobody was killed (in the New year attack) or injured that's why, for
lack of a better word, they pale into insignificance even though they are not
insignificant. But they could have brought death and destruction.

"In a way we like to think our campaign encompasses not just Maxine and the
other 20 victims and survivors but all the bombings that occurred unsolved in
England."

As was common at the height of The Troubles, the New Year attack began with a
telephone warning at around 11.35pm.

That night it was made to Caters News Agency when a man with an Irish accent
said: "This is a warning. Two bombs have been planted in the city, one at New
Street Station and one at the corner of Steelhouse Lane. They will explode in 15
minutes."

Police raced to the two scenes; the first at Stephenson Place, a shopping centre
on New Street, and the second on Colmore Circus near the police headquarters at
Lloyd House.

The first device exploded in a disused store in the shopping centre, destroying
part of the first floor.

At Colmore Circus, a young police officer, Alan Whately, then 19, and a
colleague uncovered the second bomb.

Incredibly, the pair leapt over a pedestrian barrier with just three seconds to
spare before the blast tore through Colmore Circus, near to the former
Birmingham Mail offices.

PC Whatley later recalled how he and his colleague found the bomb in a cardboard
box.

"It was about 15ins long and nine inches wide,'' he said.

"We went up to it together and had a look at it. Bill picked it off the ledge
and turned it over. We saw a clock and heard the ticking.

"We just ran for our lives and shouted to all the others.
Birmingham Colmore Circus bombings

"I was at the side of the Evening Mail building. I went up against the wall and
bounced off with the explosion

"It was a terrific loud bang and crashing noise, what we had seen earlier was
completely gone."

The New Year bombings were said by a leading detective to have been a reprisal
attack by the IRA after a recent court case.

Just three months earlier Father Patrick Felt and six others from Coventry had
been jailed at Birmingham Crown Court for conspiracy to cause explosions.

After their jailing, the IRA chillingly warned they would take revenge.

But even before the jailing of Felt, other attacks had taken place in Solihull,
Sutton Coldfield, Edgbaston and Witton.

Despite a ring of steel descending around Birmingham in the wake of the January
blasts, nobody was ever caught for the attacks.

The New Year explosions remain unsolved along with the pub bombings, which would
leave a permanent scar on Birmingham just months later.

Julie said she hopes pressure will grow during the 40th anniversary year of the
bombings for police to finally bring those responsible to justice.

"What happened in 1974 and what happened previously they want to keep buried for
fear of being seen as being inept,'' she said.

"It's hard for us, it's a constant battle but that's what the authorities want,
they want us to give up.

"We're not going to give up."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             January 3, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Al-Qaeda fighters seize control in Iraqi cities;
"Heavy clashes' as special forces are sent into quell terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Colin Freeman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 597 words


IRAQI security forces were engaged in major battles with al-Qaeda yesterday
after the group attempted to seize control of two entire cities west of Baghdad.

In some of the country's heaviest fighting of recent years, Iraq's special
forces had to be drafted in to quell attacks on the flashpoint desert cities of
Ramadi and Fallujah.

Both were notorious as al-Qaeda strongholds during the years of the US
occupation, and the moves to seal them off with troops and tanks bore strong
parallels to two previous US sieges of Fallujah a decade ago in 2004. At the
time, the city proclaimed itself "the graveyard of the Americans".

The renewed fighting also showed the extent of al-Qaeda's resurgence across
western Iraq over the past 12 months, to the point where it now feels confident
enough to try to reclaim swathes of its former territory.

The violence first flared in Ramadi, a city of sprawling mansions in the
Euphrates Valley that was home to many senior security officials during the rule
of Saddam Hussein. It was apparently provoked by an attempt by Iraqi security
forces on Monday to dismantle a Sunni Muslim protest camp that has served for
the past year as a staging point for huge anti-government demonstrations.

While local people claimed that the demonstrations were peaceful protests
against discrimination by Iraq's Shiamajority government, Nouri al-Maliki, the
prime minister, said the camp had become infiltrated by Sunni militants from
al-Qaeda.

When the troops moved in, the unrest quickly spread to nearby Fallujah, forcing
them to pull out of both cities. According to interior ministry officials,
fighters from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), the country's new
al-Qaeda grouping, then began setting up checkpoints across parts of both
cities.

In Ramadi, a journalist for the AFP news agency saw dozens of trucks carrying
heavily armed men in the east of the city, playing songs praising ISIL and
carrying its black flags. Four police stations were destroyed.

The militants' reappearance terrified local residents, many of whom remember the
beheadings and brutal punishments that took place when al-Qaeda last controlled
the region in 2007. "We are not leaving our homes," said Abdel Nasser. "There is
no food. Even if you manage to go to the market, you find nothing."

In a sign of the weakness of the Iraqi security forces, police in Fallujah
abandoned most of their positions, allowing militants to seize weapons and free
more than 100 prisoners. The interior ministry demanded that the police
deserters return "and do their patriotic duty in confronting the terrorist
attack".

Iraqi security forces were later said to have regained the initiative, joining
up with local Sunni tribal militias that oppose al-Qaeda. Tanks were reported on
Fallujah's eastern edge.

"We entered Fallujah with heavy clashes," said Maj Gen Fadhel al-Barwari, a
special forces commander.

Last night, some analysts played down the significance of the al-Qaeda attack,
saying that the group was still too small in numbers to hold a major city
against government security forces. But the fact that it feels able to attempt
even temporary control shows how emboldened it has become. Buoyed by the success
of Sunni militants in the civil war in Syria, it is now considered every bit as
deadly a threat as it was during the US occupation.

An al-Qaeda-led car bomb campaign has pushed Iraq's death rate back to about
1,000 per month. And last summer, an al-Qaeda attack on Baghdad's Abu Ghraib
prison freed nearly 1,000 inmates, including hundreds of hard-core al-Qaeda
members.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 3, 2014 Friday 12:28 PM GMT

Vodafone accused of inserting coded messages calling for terrorist attacks in
Egypt in TV advert featuring a puppet

BYLINE: LIZZIE EDMONDS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 650 words



     ·    State security prosecutors investigating claims of rapper Ahmed
          Spider, 25
     ·    Claims branches of trees in advert symbolise four-finger gesture used
          during raid last year which killed hundreds of Mursi supporters
     ·    Says tree's baubles are bombs and words mall and dog hint of new
          attack
     ·    Vodaphone Egypt strongly deny claims, saying they are 'pure fiction'
     ·    Says advert, which features famous Egyptian puppet, is 'comic'


The makers of a commercial for Vodafone Egypt are being investigated after a
little-known rapper claimed the advert included coded signals for bomb attacks
by the Muslim Brotherhood.

Egyptian state security prosecutors said they have launched an investigation
following a complaint by 25 year-old rapper Ahmed Spider.

Spider told Al-Tahrir TV channel baubles on a Christmas tree featured in the
commercial represented bombs.

He said the tree's branches mimicked the four-finger gesture used to symbolise
the raid by security forces last year which killed hundreds of supporters of
ousted Islamist President Mohamed Mursi in Cairo.

The ad shows Egyptian puppet character Abla Fahita and her daughter Karkoura
desperately searching for her deceased father's SIM card.

Speaking on the phone with a friend called 'Mama Touta', Fahita says she asked
for the sniffer dog of a shopping mall to search for the missing card.

Spider said the mall and the dog were code words for the planned sites of a
coming attack. He added that 'Mama Touta' was a name for the Brotherhood.

'These elements tell us that there will be a big mall and an explosion after a
dog fails to find the bomb in a car', he said.

Vodafone, the world's biggest mobile operator by revenue, rejected the
suggestions there was any hidden meaning.

In a statement yesterday it said the ad posted on YouTube and social media
channels, which features a well-known puppet character, was meant to promote a
special offer for customers to re-activate their old SIM cards.

Any other explanations 'are pure fiction and personal opinions' for which the
company is not responsible, it added, suggesting it might take legal action
'against whomever (is) trying to distort the company's reputation'.

'Abla Fahita is a comic character, used in this ad as a tool to clarify the
offer to viewers/customers, in a comic and sarcastic context,' Vodafone said in
its statement.

'The ad is only a marketing communication tool. It does not carry any hidden
messages or meanings other than what has been mentioned above.'

Company spokesman Khaled Hegazy had earlier said that employees from Vodafone
Egypt's marketing and legal departments had been asked about who made the
commercial.

'We are very sad that there are people who think in this way in Egypt,' said
Hegazy, voicing concern a top state prosecutor had taken the suggestion the
advert was promoting terrorism seriously.

Security sources told Reuters reporters the singer was known to be an
anti-Islamist and a supporter of the army which last July removed elected
president Mursi after protests against his rule.

The case triggered satirical comment on social media.

'Egypt security: If somebody sees or knows where Abla Fahita, the Muslim
Brotherhood terrorist puppet, is hiding contact our Muslim Brotherhood hotline,'
a tweet under the name of arab resistance read.

Another tweet by Iyad El-Baghdadi said: 'Forget the four-finger sign, Abla
Fahita should become the symbol of resistance to Egypt's new regime'

The government has designated Mursi's Muslim Brotherhood a terrorist
organisation and accused it of carrying out a suicide bomb attack last week on a
police compound in Nile Delta in which 16 people were killed.

The Brotherhood, long Egypt's main political opposition force, has denied any
links to the attack.

Vodafone Egypt, one of three mobile network operators in the country, is about
55 per cent owned by Britain's Vodafone and around 45 per cent by state-owned
landline monopoly Telecom Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            January 4, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Three seconds from death... but 11 months later there was to be no miracle
escape;
COULD TERROR ATTACK 40 YEARS AGO THIS WEEK HOLD KEY TO PUB BOMBS THAT CLAIMED 21
LIVES?

BYLINE: Matt Lloyd

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 707 words


IT should have been a time for celebrations and New Year optimism.

But just 48 hours after Birmingham celebrated the start of 1974, two terrorist
bombs tore through city centre buildings.

The 5lb devices exploded in Colmore Circus and Stephenson Place on January 2,
showering glass onto the streets below.

Miraculously, no-one was injured in the bombings 40 years ago, which marked the
continuation of a long-running terror campaign in the city and around the UK.

The blasts were the biggest Birmingham had ever seen - but were just a precursor
to the deadly pub bombings which would claim 21 lives in November that year.

The IRA was always suspected of carrying out the bombings at the Tavern in the
Town and Mulberry Bush, which also left 180 people injured, but never admitted
responsibility.

Justice for the 21 campaigner Julie Hambleton lost her sister Maxine, 18, in the
terrorist attacks and believes earlier attacks, like the January explosions,
could hold vital clues for a new police investigation.

She said: "We were aware there were over 30 attacks in and around Birmingham
prior to the pub bombings.

"Because nobody was killed (in the New Year attack) or injured that's why, for
lack of a better word, they pale into insignificance even though they are not
insignificant. But they could have brought death and destruction.

or "In a way we like to think our campaign encompasses not just Maxine and the
other 20 victims and survivors but all the bombings that occurred unsolved in
England."

As was common at the height of The Troubles, the New Year attack began with a
telephone warning at around 11.35pm.

That night it was made to Caters News Agency when a man with an Irish accent
said: "This is a warning. Two bombs have been planted in the city, one at New
Street Station and one at the corner of Steelhouse Lane. They will explode in 15
minutes."

Police raced to the two scenes; the first at Stephenson ur ot 20 ll Place, a
shopping centre on New Street, and the second on Colmore Circus near the police
headquarters at Lloyd House.

The first device exploded in a disused store in the shopping centre, destroying
part of the first floor.

At Colmore Circus, a young police officer, Alan Whately, then 19, and a
colleague uncovered the second bomb.

Incredibly, the pair leapt over a pedestrian barrier with just three seconds to
spare before the blast tore through Colmore Circus, near to the former
Birmingham Mail offices.

Pl h it PC Whatley later recalled how he and his colleague found the bomb in a
cardboard box.

ho th "It was about 15ins long and nine inches wide,'' he said.

"We went up to it together and had a look at it. Bill picked it off the ledge
and turned it over. We saw a clock and heard the ticking.

"We just ran for our lives and shouted to all the others.

"I was at the side of the Evening Mail building. I went up against the wall and
bounced off with the explosion "It was a terrific loud bang and crashing noise,
what we had seen earlier was completely gone."

The New Year bombings were said by a leading detective to have been a reprisal
attack by the IRA after a recent court case.

Just three months earlier Father Patrick Felt and six others from Coventry had
been jailed at Birmingham Crown Court for conspiracy to cause explosions.

After their jailing, the IRA no h sh Ev E chillingly warned they would take
revenge.

But even before the jailing of Felt, other attacks had taken place in Solihull,
Sutton Cold-field, Edgbaston and Witton.

Despite a ring of steel descending around Birmingham in the wake of the January
blasts, nobody was ever caught for the attacks.

The New Year explosions remain unsolved along with the pub bombings, which would
leave a permanent scar on Birmingham just ten months later. Julie said she hopes
pressure will grow during the 40th anniversary year of the bombings for police
to finally bring those responsible to justice.

"What happened in 1974 and what happened previously they want to keep buried for
fear of being seen as being inept,'' she said.

"It's hard for us, it's a constant battle but that's what the authorities want,
they want us to give up.

"We're not going to give up."

''We saw a clock and heard the ticking. We just ran for our lives and shouted to
all the others. PC ALAN WHATELY

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Campaigner Julie Hambleton and opposite, her sister Maxine, who died in
the pub bombings
How the Mail reported the bomb blasts that rocked the centre of Birmingham at
the start of 1974

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 4, 2014 Saturday 3:25 PM GMT

Fears of terror attack on metro system in Delhi: Authorities double security to
prevent Mumbai-style atrocity

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 478 words



     ·    All Delhi Metro travellers being frisked upon entry to the network
     ·    Rapid response teams and bomb disposal squads on standby
     ·    Second warning of possible hijack attempt at Delhi airport
     ·    Foreign travellers advised to comply with the demands of local
          authorities
     ·    Terror group Indian Mujahideen responsible for string of attacks since
          2007
     ·    They have warned of an attack during the first 10 days of 2014


Security forces in Delhi have been placed on high alert after receiving warnings
of a possible terrorist attack on the metro system.

Security has been doubled across crowded areas of the underground rail network
with passengers being frisked on entry and their baggage searched.

The Islamic Terrorist group Indian Mujahideen is understood to have threatened a
Mumbai-style attack some time during the first 10 days of 2014.

On November 26, 2008 12 gunmen went on a shooting and bombing spree across
Mumbai which left 166 people dead.

Foreign travellers are being advised to remain vigilant and comply with the
demands of local authorities.

India's Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has been increasing the working
hours of its 5,000 staff working across Delhi's 140 Metro stations.

A spokesman told the Hindustan Times : 'We have personnel working in three
shifts. Their eight-hour shifts have been increased to 10 hours so that we have
more hands at any given point.

'The alert talks about the possibility of a Mumbai-type attack on Delhi Metro.

'We are concentrating mainly on the outside security because it is impossible
for someone to carry a weapon beyond the check-point.

'We already have 100 per cent frisking and baggage screening in place. Now, the
guards have been asked to pat down suspicious passengers'.

An additional threat has been received of a possible hijack attempt at Delhi
Airport.

It is believed the Indian Mujahideen may be trying to secure the release of its
leader Yasin Bhatkal who was arrested in August 2013.

Extra Quick Reaction Teams (QRTs), bomb disposal experts and dog teams have been
placed on standby with security increased at the most busy stations including
Ashok Park Main, Inderlok, Kirti Nagar, Rajiv Chowk, Kashmere Gate and Central
Secretariat.

Over two million passengers use the Delhi Metro every day.

Indian Mujahideen, which is believed to be linked to the Pakistan-based group
Pakistan based Lashkar-e-Taiba, has carried out a string of attacks since 2007.

These include the September 2008 Delhi bombings which killed 30 people, the May
2008 Jaipur bombings which left at least 63 dead, and the July 2008 Ahmedabad
bombiongs which killed 56.

The group says it aims to create an Islamic State and implement Shariat law in
India, by use of indiscriminate violence.

The British Foreign Office currently warns of a high threat from terrorism
throughout India. Recent attacks have targeted public places including those
visited by foreigners.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 5, 2014 Sunday

Syrian minister inspects damaged gas pipeline caused by "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 93 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus, (SANA) -Minister of Electricity Imad Khamis and Damascus Governor
Husayn Makhluf inspected the gas line which was attacked by terrorist groups
earlier on Friday [3 January] in Damascus Countryside.

Minister Khamis said that the maintenance teams are working on fixing the damage
and restoring electricity in the few coming days, adding that volume of damage
is estimated at hundreds of millions Syrian pounds.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0020 gmt 5 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       January 5, 2014 Sunday 1:08 AM GMT

Crackdown by security forces 'alienating many young Egyptians';
Sinai jihadists say they are behind terrorist attacks on police and army

BYLINE: Nadine Marroushi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1272 words


Sitting on a large wooden chair with a green leafy plant by his side, the
bearded man looked down to the ground and confessed to his alleged crimes.

"My name is Yahia al-Mongi Saad Hussein. My name in the movement is Nasser. I'm
a member of Ansar Jerusalem," he said in a video aired three days ago by the
Ministry of the Interior, which runs Egypt's police forces. A deep-voiced,
off-camera interrogator then intervened and told him to "raise his voice".

He continued: "I live in Dakahlia. I joined the movement after the 25 January
revolution, after the events around Mohamed Mahmoud [a week-long series of
violent protests in Cairo in November 2011], and I trained in Sinai for two
weeks."

He went on to detail how he and his colleagues were behind a series of attacks
in Mansoura, capital city of Egypt's Dakahlia province, north-east of Cairo,
including a deadly bomb blast on Christmas Eve at a security headquarters that
killed 16 people, almost all policemen.

Mr al-Mongi is also the son of a senior member in the Muslim Brotherhood, the
Islamist organisation that last week was declared a terrorist group by the
government after the 24 December bombing. The movement ruled Egypt until only
six months ago.

If the confession is true, he is one of a number of people who, analysts claimed
last week, are now being pushed towards terrorist attacks by the crackdown. "The
current oppression is alienating many young Egyptians, particularly Islamists
who [have] lost faith in politics and democracy and might adopt violence as the
only way to deal with the current government," Khalil al-Anani, a senior fellow
at the Middle East Institute, told al-Jazeera.

The confession is the first piece of purported hard evidence produced by the
authorities to link the Brotherhood to Sinai-based militants, including Ansar
Jerusalem, a connection that is central to the government's case for labelling
the group a terrorist organisation. Human rights groups, however, criticised the
terrorist label as a politically driven tag to justify a further crackdown on
the Brotherhood's peaceful activities.

Analysts said the confession, and those of others extracted by the seven-member
cell accused of the Mansoura bombing, need to be treated with a measure of
scepticism. "You cannot treat evidence produced by the current regime or the
Muslim Brotherhood objectively any more," said Ziad Akl, a researcher at the
state-run al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies, a Cairo-based
think-tank. "It has been turned into a political battle. The confession could be
true, or it could be made up. We will never know because the regime is not
credible."

A military-backed interim government took over after the army's ousting of
President Mohamed Morsi, Egypt's first democratically elected civilian president
and Brotherhood member, in July after a popular wave of protests calling for his
removal. Since then, there has been a violent crackdown by Egypt's security
forces against the Brotherhood and Mr Morsi's supporters.

Eric Trager, an expert on the Muslim Brotherhood at the Washington Institute for
Near East Policy, said: "It's pretty clear the government is using the Mansoura
attack as a pretext for going against the Brotherhood. The concern in the
international community is that the Egyptian government is not taking the jihadi
threat in the Sinai seriously, and is more focused on its own domestic politics
than a very serious threat to its own people."

Attacks against security forces have escalated since Mr Morsi's removal, with
about 400 police and soldiers killed in bombings and shootings, according to
Reuters. Sinai-based militant groups have carried out many of these attacks.

Ansar Jerusalem, called Ansar Bayt al-Maqdis in Arabic, claimed responsibility
for the Mansoura attack. It has also claimed responsibility for a failed
assassination attempt against the Interior Minister in Cairo in September, and
for the killing of a senior national security officer, Mohamed Mabrouk, also in
Cairo in November.

Islamist militants in the Sinai peninsula, a lawless desert region that
straddles the borders of Egypt, Israel and Gaza, have increased their attacks
against security forces, and expanded their reach beyond Sinai and into mainland
Egypt with increasing sophistication. They have gone from shootings to the use
of improvised explosive devices and suicide car bombings. One group, the
al-Furqan Brigades, claimed responsibility in September for an attack by
rocket-propelled grenades against a moving cargo vessel in the Suez Canal.

Sinai's militants see in Mr Morsi's removal as "an opportunity to promote their
cause and portray themselves as the defenders of Egyptian Muslims", said David
Barnett, a research associate at the Washington DC-based Foundation for Defense
of Democracies, a policy institute focusing on terrorism.

"The Muslim Brotherhood has long been criticised by jihadists for partaking in
the democratic process. Now that they have been overthrown after engaging with
Egypt's political system, jihadists see an opening to possibly garner support
for their violent approach," said Mr Barnett.

The Brotherhood won every election in Egypt since the overthrow of Hosni Mubarak
in 2011.

Mr Morsi's removal was followed by a bloody crackdown by Egypt's security forces
against the Brotherhood and its allies. Conservative estimates put the death
toll since Mr Morsi's removal at 1,500. Hundreds were shot when the police and
army cleared a protest encampment of Morsi supporters in August, in what was
described as the "most serious incident of mass unlawful killings in modern
Egyptian history" by Human Rights Watch, a New York-based advocacy group.

Clashes between the Brotherhood and security forces continue and are likely to
get worse, analysts said, as there appears to be little attempt by the
government for reconciliation.

Thirteen people were shot dead on Friday as Brotherhood supporters clashed with
police across Egypt in demonstrations defying the crackdown on the group. More
protests have been called for by the Anti-Coup Alliance on Wednesday, the day Mr
Morsi's trial resumes. He is being tried along with 14 other Muslim Brotherhood
members, who are charged with inciting the killing of protesters outside the
presidential palace in 2012.

Mr Trager sees the political conflict between security forces and the
Brotherhood as a crisis that is unresolvable. "The Egyptian military is freaked
out. They know the Brotherhood is coming for their heads, because of the way
they removed them from power. So they're going to kill or be killed," he said.

Some of the fiercest battles between security forces and Brotherhood supporters
have been taking place across Egypt's university campuses since the start of the
current academic year last September.

Anti-military and anti-police graffiti is scrolled all over the walls of
al-Azhar University in Cairo, where many pro-Brotherhood students have been
holding demonstrations. "Morsi will return, CC is a killer" is one example, in
reference to defence chief Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, who could be Egypt's next
president if he decides to run in presidential elections expected within six
months.

Youssof Salhen, 21, an al-Azhar student and spokesman of the students' anti-coup
movement, said students will not stop protesting until those who supported Mr
Morsi's removal are judged for their alleged crimes.

"Any leader of the coup is a war criminal, and should be judged that way. A
killer should be killed. We're not going to attack them personally, but they
should be judged according to their crimes. If they are proven guilty, they
should be executed," he added.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 6, 2014 Monday

US embassy warns citizens of possible "terrorist" attacks in Lebanon

LENGTH: 436 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Lebanese newspaper The Daily Star
website on 6 January

Beirut: The American Embassy in Lebanon warned US citizens Sunday to avoid
certain "Western-style" establishments and if possible to leave the country,
citing heightened security concerns.

"Following recent bombings in Beirut and other instances of violence that have
occurred in Lebanon in recent months, the US government strongly urges US
citizens in Lebanon to exercise extreme caution and to avoid hotels,
western-style shopping centres, including western-style grocery chain stores,
and any public or social events where US citizens normally congregate, as these
sites are likely targets for terrorist attacks for at least the near term," the
statement read.

"The US Embassy further urges all US citizens to avoid all travel to Lebanon due
to safety and security concerns," said the statement, which was also tweeted by
the official embassy Twitter account.

" US citizens living and working in Lebanon should understand that they accept
risks in remaining and should carefully consider those risks," it continued.
"The ability of US government personnel to reach travellers to provide emergency
services may be limited."

Sunday's cautionary notice was more specific than general warnings issued in the
past, but an embassy spokeswoman emphasized that the intention was to increase
awareness, not induce panic.

"I can't comment on specific intelligence," she told The Daily Star. "We have
very good relations with Lebanese security offices and we work together."

"We do not say there is going to be an attack," she said, adding that the
statement was jointly drafted by the embassy in Beirut and the US State
Department.

Regarding the singling out of hotels and Western-style establishments, the
spokeswoman said: "These are places where traditionally, US citizens may
congregate ... we want them to be vigilant when visiting these places."

She said the statement reflected the unpredictable nature of recent violent
attacks, including the bombing just over a week ago in Downtown Beirut, an area
that, until recently, was considered relatively safe.

"We just want to make Americans aware that really, no place is off-limits," she
said.

The US Embassy's statement follows decisions by a number of countries, many of
them in the Gulf, to renew or issue their own travel warnings. Over the weekend,
the Kuwaiti Embassy called on its citizens to leave. Saudi Arabia and the United
Arab Emirates have also asked their citizens to leave the country for their own
safety.

Source: The Daily Star website, Beirut, in English 6 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    DmEurope

                             January 6, 2014 Monday

'Beeline raises money for Volgograd terrorist attack victims'

LENGTH: 59 words


Russian mobile operator Vimpelcom, working under the Beeline brand, in
cooperation with other operators, has started a campaign to support of victims
of the terrorist attacks in the city of Volgograd. The action has the support of
Russian payment system Ruru. Donors can transfer RUB 50 to the fund by sending
an SMS to a special premium telephone number.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: DME


                             Copyright 2014 DME Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                       January 6, 2014 Monday 8:44 AM GMT

Terror victim fights to win justice;
Liverpool dad who survived Algeria gas plant terrorist attack backing campaign
to provide for families of three murdered colleagues

BYLINE: By John Siddle

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 448 words


A Liverpool dad who survived the Algeria gas plant terrorist attack is backing a
campaign to provide for the families of three murdered colleagues.

Kirkby engineer David Murray was among those held hostage by Islamic militants
during the four-day siege at the In Amenas gas facility,  in the Sahara Desert.

Forty hostages were slaughtered during the bloody siege in January, including
Liverpool men Paul Morgan, 46, and Garry Barlow, 49.

Dad-of-two Mr Murray was among eight workers who risked execution by daring to
flee after being holed up inside the compound for almost two days.

They toppled a barbed wire fence and walked for hours in the baking desert heat
seeking refuge.

Now reunited with his family in Kirkby, the 47-year- old is supporting a drive
to help the families of three close colleagues brutally killed by al-Qaida
militants.

Compensation or insurance pay-outs are yet to be made to the relatives of
Angelito Manaois, Raffy Edubane and German de Guzman, who were all
sub-contractors working at the BP plant.

An online donations site has been set up to provide support to those families.

Mr Murray said: "It's almost a year since the attack and the families of these
three men, who were all breadwinners, have been left with nothing.

"They were fantastic people and close friends of mine and it's sad that the
firms they were employed by have not yet compensated their families.

"Angelito's wife, Laarni, has three children. She hasn't received compensation,
his death insurance or his unpaid salary.

"There are a lot of other people who are unfortunately in a similar position."

Everton fan Mr Murray, who had spent time working in Algeria since 1998, hid
beneath a desk for hours before barricading himself in a cupboard when the
terrorists struck.

He stayed there until the following day when he and colleagues broke cover to
try and help people who had been injured in an air strike.

One of the injured tended to by Mr Murray was Filipino contractor Angelito.

Sadly, as Mr Murray looked for first aid supplies and for other hostages,
Angelito was found, taken away by the terrorists and probably executed.

Mr Murray and seven colleagues escaped by scaling a barbed wire fence and
trekking through the desert for 15 hours.

He was moved to safety by the Algerian military and eventually reunited with
wife Anna and his sons AJ, 12, and Jonathan, 19.

Mr Murray has undergone counselling after suffering flashbacks of the terror.

He admitted: "It is something that will be with me for ever."

Visit the secure donation pages at:              http://bit.ly/1fyTBCZand
http://bit.ly/1bL8ws9

*Escape from terror: Mersey dad tells of break for freedom from Algeria massacre

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 7, 2014 Tuesday

Egypt security forces arrest two "terrorists" involved in attacking Armed Forces

LENGTH: 112 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Port Said, 7 January: Security forces in Port Said on Tuesday [7 January]
managed to arrest two members of a terrorist gang that has been involved in
assaulting Armed Forces personnel and policemen and attacking police stations
and military facilities in the province.

They confessed to committing many crimes including opening fire at a police
vehicle, killing Ahmad Hamid Yusif Muhammad, a conscript.

They also said they took part in the shooting at Al-Dawahi police station which
left Mahmoud Ibrahim, another conscript, dead and firing at Port Said harbor.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1419gmt 07 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                      January 7, 2014 Tuesday 3:30 PM GMT

Science teacher arrested on suspicion of plotting terror attack in Syria;
Jamshed Javeed, 29, from Levenshulme, was arrested by counter-terrorism officers
as part of an investigation into concerns surrounding travel to Syria.

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 119 words


A science teacher has been arrested on suspicion of plotting a terrorist attack
in war-torn Syria.

Jamshed Javeed, 29, from Levenshulme, was arrested by counter-terrorism officers
as part of an investigation into concerns surrounding travel to Syria.

Javeed, a teacher at Sharples High School in Bolton, was arrested on December 22
and has since been released on bail until March 5, pending further enquiries.

A Greater Manchester Police spokesman said: "The investigation focuses on
concerns over an individual travelling to Syria for purposes that are as yet
unknown, but are believed to potentially involve terrorism.

"There is nothing to suggest that any of the wider community in Manchester has
been under threat."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           January 8, 2014 Wednesday

Stability tops Xinjiang's agenda after terror attacks

BYLINE: Cui Jia

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 675 words


Local Party chief urges strong steps against separatism

Maintaining social stability and forging a lasting peace have become the top
priorities in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region after President Xi Jinping
presided over a meeting in December to hear reports from top officials from the
region, local media reported on Tuesday.

According to Xinjiang Daily, the meeting was held by the Standing Committee of
the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee on Dec
19, four days after 14 terrorists were shot dead as they attacked police
officers with knives and explosives in Shufu county, southern Xinjiang's Kashgar
prefecture. Two officers were killed in the clash.

People should bear in mind that Xinjiang's stability is relevant to the whole
country, and maintaining it long-term should be the No 1 task for the region in
the future, Zhang Chunxian, Party chief of Xinjiang, was quoted as saying.

Zhang added that Xinjiang officials must clearly understand the region's
situation and take the initiative in the battle against separatism.

Xi said at the meeting that economic development in the region has sped up, the
living standard of people has increased and the ability to maintain social
stability has improved since the central government held a work conference on
Xinjiang's development in 2010.

That conference, which took place a year after the deadly riot in Urumqi that
left 197 people dead, set strategic plans for the region's leapfrog development
and lasting stability.

Despite the region's development in the past few years, problems undermining its
stability have not been fundamentally solved, as foreign and domestic separatist
forces have intensified their activities, Yu Zhengsheng, a member of the
Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC, said in June.

Yu's remarks came after an attack on June 26 rocked Lukqun township, Turpan
prefecture. Twenty-four people were killed by terrorists.

Xinjiang experienced a series of terrorist attacks in 2013, many of which
directly targeted local authorities such as police officers. Terrorists in
Xinjiang became more active and their attacks became more frequent in 2013,
Xinhua News Agency said after nine terrorists attacked a police station in
Yarkan county in Kashgar, throwing explosives and setting fire to police cars on
Dec 30.

Ma Pinyan, a senior antiterrorism researcher and deputy director of the ethnic
and religious studies center at Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences, said the
penetration of religious extremism in the region has led to increased attacks,
many of which are suicidal and difficult to prevent.

Experts also worried that terrorist activities in Xinjiang might spread to other
parts of China after five people, including three attackers, were killed and
another 40 injured on Oct 28 after a jeep, driven by Usmen Hasan and carrying
his mother and wife from Xinjiang, crashed into a crowd at Tian'anmen Square.

Police later confirmed the incident as a terrorist attack that was planned by
the East Turkistan Islamic Movement. Five suspects were detained.

Terrorism is one of the key factors that cause social instability and restrain
economic development in Xinjiang, said Zhu Hui, an expert in political science
from the Party school of the region. He hoped that the establishment of a State
security committee could help the region more effectively eliminate the threat.

According to a communique issued in November after the Third Plenary Session of
the 18th Central Committee of the CPC, China will set up a State security
committee that aims at improving systems and strategies to ensure national
security.

"The committee could lay out a long-term strategic plan at the national level to
fight terrorism in Xinjiang. It is also expected to coordinate different forces
that could safeguard the national security in different departments in the
government and army to tackle the root of the problem. What's more, the
integration of those forces could make Xinjiang deal with terrorist attacks more
swiftly and effectively," Zhu said.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 8, 2014 Wednesday 2:47 PM GMT

NY's fallen heroes: More than 100 retired 9/11 cops and firefighters busted for
swindling $24million in disability benefits with fake illnesses and made-up
psychological trauma arising from terror attack

BYLINE: MEGHAN KENEALLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 889 words



     ·    Retired NYPD officers, firefighters and corrections officers claimed
          they had PTSD and depression because of the Ground Zero clean up
     ·    Received thousands in annual disability compensation from 9/11
          disability fund as a result, promising that they retired
     ·    Investigators found that they had second careers and did things that
          their supposed disabilities wouldn't have allowed them to do
     ·    Cost taxpayers $21.4million dollars
     ·    Lawyers coached fraudsters on how they should talk about leaving the
          TV on all day and constantly napping, having trouble grooming
          themselves


More than 100 first responders who claimed to have psychiatric conditions and
medical disorders because of their work at Ground Zero are being arrested today
for disability fraud.

The arrests come after the Manhattan District Attorney's office spent more than
two years investigating the claims made by some NYPD officers and firemen who
were part of the September 11 response and clean up efforts.

The officers submitted forms saying that they had varying disorders like PTSD,
anxiety or depression- claims which were discovered to have falsified.

ABC 7  reports that many of the retired officers that had said that they were
being treated for stress retained their gun licences, which is not allowed if
the holder has such a condition.

Another tip off was that in order to receive the benefits, the individuals had
to be fully retired and while the majority of them had retired from the New York
police and fire departments, many had taken up a second job.

Investigators used photos on Facebook as evidence that the men have taken up
jobs ranging from martial arts instructors to helicopter pilots.

Some photos directly contradicted specific parts of the disorders that the
responding officers claimed to have.

The individuals' claims- whether they be depression or assertions that they felt
unable to spend time with family and friends in social settings- have not been
revealed- but the District Attorney's office released a set of photos that
depict some of the men in question having a great time on jet skis or marlin
fishing as examples of their fraudulent claims.

One instance came from an officer, whose name has not been released, that told
authorities that his work after the September 11th attacks left him witha
debilitating fear of crowds. On Facebook, he was pictured selling canollis at
the crowded San Gennaro festival in Little Italy.

The suspicion is that there were a handful of 'crooked' lawyers and doctors who
worked with the responders in question and were fully aware of how to 'game the
system'.

The four alleged 'ringleaders' were identified first, and it is clear that their
positions within the NYPD and background in legal work helped them evade capture
for years.

Participants would start out by contacting John Minerva, 61, a Detectives
Endowment Association consultant, or Joseph Esposito, 64, a retired member of
the NYPD.

Minerva or Esposito would then refer the fraudsters to one of two lawyers who
were in on the scheme- Thomas Hale, 89, and former FBI agent Raymond Lavallee,
83.

All four are charged with first and second degree grand larceny. The 9/11
disability claims are not the first that the four men have had a hand in, as ABC
reports that they are believed to have been running disability scams since 1988.

'My client's involvement in this scheme was minimal at best... he maintains his
innocence,' Minerva's lawyer Glenn Hardy told The New York Daily News.

The lawyers put the schemers in touch with two different doctors- but not after
some coaching.

The district attorney laid out a series of different trigger phrases that would
help justify an anxiety condition prescription.

They range from 'I nap on and off during the day' to 'my (family member) is
always after me about my grooming'.

Other possible additions included the lamentation that they were 'healthy,
active, productive' people but no longer.

'They're liable to say... spell the word "world," so you go "W-R-L-D." Then
they're gonna say "Spell it backwards." You think about it, and you can't spell
it backwards,"' court papers report that Esposito said in a recording.

All told, the fraudulent claims cost $24.5million in taxpayer-funded benefits.

'For years, federal taxpayers have unwittingly financed the lifestyles of the
defendants charged today,' district attorney Cy Vance said in a statement which
listed all of the 106 accused.

'Many participants cynically manufactured claims of mental illness as a result
of September 11th, dishonoring the first responders who did serve their City at
the expense of their own health and safety. This alleged scam further depleted
the already limited resources available for battling the real and complex
conditions of PTSD and depression.'

The case is the biggest bust that was announced since the new Mayor, Bill de
Blasio, and his team has been in office, making this the first time in his
recent tenure that new police commissioner William Bratton has weighed in on the
work of the DA's office.

'The retired members of the NYPD indicted in this case have disgraced all first
responders who perished during the search and rescue efforts on September 11,
2001, and those who subsequently died from 9/11 related illness, by exploiting
their involvements that tragic day for personal gain,' Bratton said in the
statement.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 9, 2014 Thursday

France launches belated probe into January 2013 "terrorist" attack in Algeria

LENGTH: 435 words


Text of report by French Europe 1 radio on 9 January

[Report by Anne-Julie Contenay and Walid Berrissoul: "In Amenas: Judicial
Inquiry (At Last)"]

It has taken a year for investigating judges to take up the case. Monday [6
January], the Paris prosecutor's department launched a judicial inquiry into the
January 2013 terrorist attack at the In Amenas gas plant in Algeria. No fewer
than 38 hostages, including France's Yann Desjeux, died, as did 29 assailants.
According to Europe 1's information, the French judiciary now have transcripts
of statements made by commando's the three surviving terrorists.

"I promised myself to discover the truth." Yann Desjeux's son, a former
paratrooper working as a security officer at In Amenas, told Europe 1 that he
had "promised" himself "to discover the truth" about his father's death. "I have
succeeded in retracing my father's itinerary from the start (the kidnaping) to a
few moments before his death," Florian Desjeux said. "We know that he was killed
by Kalashnikov bullets but we don't know which side they came from," Florian
Desjeux also said, adding that "both the terrorists and the Algerian Army had
Kalashnikovs." The son said that the last people to have seen his father alive
saw him "bound and manacled, with the terrorists' leader," and that he believes
that his father was "probably used as a human shield."

Algeria reluctant to cooperate with France - As for the inquiry, the reason why
it has taken so long to start is that for the past year Algeria has responded to
none of France's request for judicial cooperation. The Algerian authorities have
agreed to cooperate only with the Americas. The reason for this is more
diplomatic than judicial. Algiers wants to buy drones from Washington and
imagines that it can improve its chances by cooperating.

FBI police officers have thus had access to a crucial piece of evidence in the
inquiry - transcripts of statements made by the commando's three surviving
terrorists, captured by the army following the assault on the gas plant.
According to information gathered by France1, France's three investigating
judges now also have these valuable records.

Records very valuable to investigation - These records should make it possible
to answer two questions: who killed Yann Desjeux? The jihadis or the Algerian
Army, during the assault? The aim is also to shed light on complicities in this
kidnapping. The French judges must now request the Algerian authorities'
permission to conduct their investigations in Algeria, a procedure that could
take years.

Source: Europe 1 radio, Paris, in French 0000 gmt 9 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               PR Newswire Europe

                      January 9, 2014 Thursday 4:51 AM EST

Frost & Sullivan: Intelligence Fending Off Growing Terror Attacks Supports US
ISR Video Analytics Market

LENGTH: 933 words

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, California, Jan. 9, 2014


-- Video analytics expected to restructure intelligence training, data, and data
storage standards

 The demand for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) video
analytics solutions that assist in the processing, exploitation and
dissemination (PED) of full motion video (FMV) has increased significantly in
the U.S. The need to provide actionable, real-time intelligence to U.S. troops
on the ground, based on the FMV gathered through sensors and platforms that have
grown from a few dozen systems a decade ago to thousands today, is the main
driver for the market.

According to new research from Frost & Sullivan's US ISR Video Analytics
(http://www.defense.frost.com), the defense budget for this market will reduce
to $837.5 million in 2018 from $1,207.2 million in 2012, as the combat
operations in Afghanistan cease over the next few years and forces are
withdrawn. No less, necessary intelligence to fend off increasing terror attacks
sustains the market and presents future commercial market opportunity.

Click here to view the video on Frost & Sullivan's US ISR Video Analytics and
gain access to the online community-http://bit.ly/1lPRxHP.

For more information on this research, please send an email to Jennifer Carson,
Corporate Communications, atJennifer.Carson@frost.com

"The vast amount of video analytics equipment used in Iraq and Afghanistan to
warn troops of impending threats and allow them to locate targets will soon
return to the U.S.," said Frost & Sullivan Aerospace & Defense Senior Industry
Analyst John Hernandez. "Converting these tools into useful assets that can
protect the homeland will open up lucrative opportunities in the commercial
sector."

In fact, the importance of video surveillance, electro-optical/infrared
technologies, and the exploitation of social media within the country is growing
considering recent terrorist attacks such as the Boston Marathon bombings.

ISR video analytics is expected to restructure the long-established intelligence
cycle in the U.S. Growth in the number of unmanned vehicle systems that can stay
air borne for longer periods and collect more data has set in motion changes in
the PED of ISR collections. This, in turn, is altering intelligence training,
data and data storage standards.

However, insufficient bandwidth is a key market restraint. The fast transfer of
FMV output along with other sensor content is affected by inadequate bandwidth,
causing end users to spend more time on processing data instead of focusing on
additional collection, dissemination and planning.

Varying data encoding standards also make it difficult for end users to fuse
intelligence from different sensors. Limited data storage capacity is another
challenge keeping the US ISR video analytics market from reaching its full
potential.

"Market participants should keep these challenges in mind when designing video
surveillance systems," advised Hernandez. "In addition to network bandwidth and
storage requirements, factors such as the number of cameras, image resolution
used, compression type and ratio, frame rates, as well as scene complexity must
be considered."

US ISR Video Analytics is part of the Defense Growth Partnership Service
program, which provides global mega trends, information on emerging markets and
the latest technology innovations, market, economic, customer, competitive, and
best practices research. This CEO 360 degree perspective will enable your
company to effectively plan your strategies for growth. All research services
included in subscriptions provide detailed market opportunities and industry
trends that have been evaluated following extensive interviews with market
participants.

Connect with Frost & Sullivan on social media,
includingTwitter,Facebook,SlideShareandLinkedIn, for the latest news and
updates.

About Frost & Sullivan

Frost & Sullivan, the Growth Partnership Company, works in collaboration with
clients to leverage visionary innovation that addresses the global challenges
and related growth opportunities that will make or break today's market
participants.

Our "Growth Partnership" supports clients by addressing these opportunities and
incorporating two key elements driving visionary innovation: The Integrated
Value Proposition and The Partnership Infrastructure.

The Integrated Value Proposition provides support to our clients throughout all
phases of their journey to visionary innovation including: research, analysis,
strategy, vision, innovation and implementation. The Partnership Infrastructure
is entirely unique as it constructs the foundation upon which visionary
innovation becomes possible. This includes our 360 degree research,
comprehensive industry coverage, career best practices as well as our global
footprint of more than 40 offices.

For more than 50 years, we have been developing growth strategies for the global
1000, emerging businesses, the public sector and the investment community. Is
your organization prepared for the next profound wave of industry convergence,
disruptive technologies, increasing competitive intensity, Mega Trends,
breakthrough best practices, changing customer dynamics and emerging economies?

Contact Us:     Start the discussion

Join Us:           Join our community

Subscribe:       Newsletter on "the next big thing"

Register:         Gain access to visionary innovation

US ISR Video Analytics
NCE7-16

Contact:
Jennifer Carson
Corporate Communications - North America
P: +1-210-247-2450
E:jennifer.carson@frost.com

Twitter:@Frost_Sullivan
Facebook:FrostandSullivan
LinkedIn:Frost & Sullivan's Aerospace, Defence and Security Forum

http://www.frost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 09, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                   Copyright 2014 PR Newswire Europe Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 9, 2014 Thursday 4:10 PM GMT

Security forces probe 'terrorist attack' in southern Russia;
Counter-terrorist operation underway 150 miles from Sochi after what security
services believe is second terrorist attack in region in less than two weeks

BYLINE: By Roland Oliphant in Moscow

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 466 words


A counter terrorist operation was underway in Southern Russia on Thursday night
as security services responded to what appeared to be the second terrorist
attack in the region in less than two weeks.

The operation follows the discovery of six bullet-ridden bodies in four vehicles
in villages in the southern Stavropol region, about 150 miles from Sochi, on
Wednesday.

The victims - which included three taxi drivers, as well as a local furniture
dealer - had all been shot, and three of the four vehicles were rigged with
explosives.

A bomb rigged to the first car to be discovered went off as police approached
the vehicle to investigate, but injured no one. The other two devices were
reportedly defused.

Investigators said Wednesday that they were treating the killings as related but
declined to name suspects or speculate about the motives for the attacks.

But while officials and media originally speculated that the killings may have
been gang-land related, by Thursday evening it was becoming clear that police
and security services were treating them as terror related.

On Thursday evening counter terrorist operations were ongoing in two districts
of the Stavropol region, both of which border Kabardino Balkaria, a republic in
the Russian North Caucasus where a separatist Islamist insurgency continues to
battle Russian forces.

The Federal Security Service, Russia's main internal security agency, asked
locals to remain indoors and if they were on the streets to exercise vigilance,
looking out for abandoned vehicles in particular.

Earlier in the day local authorities called out the army and even local Cossacks
to back up a high-visibility security presence across the region.

"In addition to law enforcement agencies, the Stavropol region is also now being
patrolled by Cossack brigades," regional governor Vladimir Vladimirov said in a
statement on Thursday afternoon. "I have appealed to Defense Minister Sergei
Shoigu for help in strengthening security in the region with the 49th Army."

Reports that three insurgent fighters from Kabardino Balkaria had been named as
likely suspects were unconfirmed on Thursday evening, as were earlier reports
that that FSB officers had detained a woman wearing a suicide vest.

The attacks follow successive suicide bombings in Volgograd, about 400 miles
from Sochi and major transport hub that acts as a gateway to much of the
Caucasus.

Russia's security forces are on a state of high alert ahead of the opening of
the Sochi Winter Olympics on February 7, which insurgent leaders have vowed to
disrupt.

Some 40,000 police and troops backed by drones, surface to air missiles, and
Cossacks have been deployed to form a so-called "ring of steel" around the host
city, which sits at the Western end of the mountain chain at the centre of the
insurgency.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 9, 2014 Thursday 2:23 PM GMT

Pakistan's top Taliban hunter killed in terrorist attack;
Pakistan Taliban claims responsibility for killing Chaudhry Aslam, who claimed
to have collected more than £600,000 in bounties on militants

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly Islamabad

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 417 words


A suicide bomber on Thursday murdered one of Pakistan's most feared police
officers, a figure credited with killing or capturing dozens of Taliban and
al-Qaeda members.

Chaudhry Aslam had a reputation for using unorthodox methods - making him
Pakistan's answer to Dirty Harry - and had survived at least nine previous
assassination attempts.

He died along with at least two other officers when a suicide bomber detonated a
powerful explosion close to the 4x4 vehicle in which he was travelling in the
port city of Karachi.

The Pakistan Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, according to local
media.

It brings to the end a colourful and effective career in a country where the
main political parties say they want to open peace talks with the terrorist
group.

Mr Aslam headed Karachi's Anti-Extremism Cell - a unit of 100 men tasked with
tackling the bewildering array of terrorist outfits operating in the city.

He operated largely at night, running countless operations against terrorist
targets. He claimed to have collected at least £600,000 in bounty payments in a
career that saw him meet the risk of death head on.

"For me, in my religion, if I die in the line of duty fighting criminals then I
am a martyr and for us that's like a new life," he told The Telegraph in an
interview last year.

He shrugged off frequent allegations of brutality and accusations that he
executed terrorist suspects rather than turn them over to the courts.

"What am I supposed to do? They carry out bomb blasts in my city," he said.
"Should I go and talk to them nicely? If they throw bombs should I start
throwing flowers?"

His death brought tributes from across the political spectrum.

Nawaz Sharif, the prime minister, condemned the attack and called described Mr
Aslam as a "brave officer", saying his sacrifice would not go to waste.

Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, the son of Benazir Bhutto, tweeted: "Shaheed [martyr]
Chaudhry Aslam had been threatened & attacked B4. He didn't back down. He died a
brave man. Shame on cowards."

Sajjad Mohmand, a spokesman for the Pakistan Taliban, told the Associated Press
he had been killed for torturing the group's associates.

The past year has seen an increase in terrorist activity in Pakistan, according
to a report published this week.

The Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies recorded a nine per cent increase in
the number of reported attacks in 2013 - claiming the lives of 2451 people -
compared with the previous year.

That increase follows two years of declines.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 14, 2014 Tuesday

Iran arrests several suspects in terrorist attack in south-eastern province

LENGTH: 182 words


Iran has arrested several suspects in an attack on an Iranian checkpoint on the
Pakistan border on 25 October 2013, Fars news agency reported on 14 January
quoting an Iranian official.

"Thanks to the activities [of security forces], a number of perpetrators of the
Saravan terrorist attack have been arrested and good information was extracted
from them," Iran's Deputy Interior Minister for Security Affairs Ali Abdollahi
has said on the sidelines of a ceremony to mark the 40th anniversary of the
foundation of Saravan University.

"We are also seeking to hold consultations and negotiations with the
neighbouring Pakistani authorities in order to avoid such incidents in the
future," he said, adding that 65 per cent of south-eastern border regions of the
country were properly supervised.

A total of 14 Iranian border guards were killed and six more were injured in the
"terrorist attack" perpetrated by the Jeysh al-Adl (Jaishuladl) terrorist group
in Iran's south-eastern Saravan region on 25 October 2013, the agency added.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 0716gmt 14 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 14, 2014 Tuesday 3:14 PM GMT

24: Live Another Day - More details released as Jack Bauer returns;
The series will follow Bauer in London as he attempts to stop a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Daisy Wyatt

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 241 words


Kiefer Sutherland will return to our screens as Jack Bauer for another series of
24, Fox has confirmed.

The new series, called 24: Live Another Day, is to be set in London and will
follow Bauer as he attempts to stop a terrorist attack.

Original cast members Mary Lynn Rajskub, Kim Raver and William Devane will also
appear in the new season.

The new 12-episode series will start in the US on 5 May with a two-hour special.
It will then take up its usual one-hour format a week later.

The popular series will return to Sky 1 in the UK, which won the rights to show
the original series after outbidding the BBC for the third season.

The show will retain the real-time format with split screens and interwoven
storylines, and will pick up four years after the events of the last series.

The one-hour episodes, which originally ran on Fox in the US from 2001 to 2010,
depicted events as they happened in real time, an innovative format that made
the series hugely popular around the world.

Speaking about his return to the series, Sutherland told the Television Critics
Association: "The response to 24 is unlike anything I have ever experienced as
an actor before. There's a great impetus for all of us to create something new
with the show.

"To have the chance to reunite with the character Jack Bauer is like finding a
lost friend."

A transmission date for Sky1 has yet to be announced, but it has been confirmed
the new series will return to the UK in May.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Luton On Sunday

                                January 14, 2014

Terrorist who plotted attack on Luton Territorial Army centre faces an extra
five years in jail for refusing to hand over computer password

BYLINE: JULIA SUTTON

LENGTH: 568  words


GUILTY: Syed Hussain

A TERRORIST who plotted an attack on a Territorial Army centre is facing an
extra five years in jail for refusing to hand over his computer password.

Syed Hussain, 22, was part of a Luton-based cell which discussed attacking MI5,
the US Air Force, the English Defence League and their local shopping centre.

He was jailed for five years and three months at Woolwich Crown Court last
April.

Hussain failed to meet a deadline to reveal the key to an encrypted USB stick
found at his home during the police investigation.

He was today convicted by a jury of failing to comply with a disclosure order
after a short trial at the Old Bailey.

The jury took just 19 minutes to reach its guilty verdict.

Prosecutor Alex Chalk said the files contain evidence that he carried out a
possible fraud and that Hussain deliberately withheld the key for 20 months.

He said: 'This is a case about a USB stick that was seized by police as part of
an investigation into terrorism.

'It is alleged that Mr Hussain failed to comply with a deadline to reveal the
password to that device.

'He pleaded guilty to the terrorism which forms the context to this case and he
has been sentenced for that.

'This is about his failure to reveal the password.

'We say that he always knew the password and only disclosed it, as he recently
did in December a year or so after the notice, because he thought it would be in
his interests to do so.'

Hussain will be sentenced tomorrow (weds) at 10am. The maximum penalty for the
offence is five years imprisonment.

Last March he admitted conspiring to send a remote-controlled toy car carrying a
home-made bomb under the gates of a Territorial Army centre in Luton.

Police searched his home in March 2011 as part of an investigation into the
terrorist offences.

Officers found a USB stick and external memory drive which were both encrypted
with a password.

Hussain refused to hand over the passwords and claimed the hardware was not
working.

The devices were sent away to NTAC (National Technical Assistance Centre) and
both passwords were revealed to be the same phrase from the Koran, the court
heard.

'The police examined the contents of the items,' Mr Chalk said.

'On the external hard drive police discovered large volumes of material
glorifying jihad and practical guidance on carrying out acts of terrorism.

In April 2012 officers searched Hussain's address and found another encrypted
USB stick.

When questioned by police he said he could not remember the password because he
was 'stressed'.

Hussain only revealed the password in December 2013 after officers informed him
that they wanted to question him over the alleged fraud.

The password turned out to be the same phrase from the Koran that he had used
before.

The USB was decrypted and police found material linking the defendant to an
alleged fraud,' Mr Chalk said.

'He was interviewed on suspicion of fraud and asked about the decrypted
material.

'Those investigations remain live.

'The defendant maintained for 20 months he could not remember the password.

'Just months before this trial and when he was told he would be interviewed on
suspicion of fraud he said he remembered.'

Hussain, of Cornel Close, Luton, admitted one count of engaging in conduct in
preparation for acts of terrorism between 1 January 2011 and 25 April 2012.

He denied failing to comply with a disclosure order. Hussain has not been
charged with fraud.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Luton


                    Copyright 2014 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 14, 2014 Tuesday 11:29 PM GMT

Mastermind behind the 9/11 terrorist attacks renounces violence in a 36-page
manifesto where he tries to convert his lawyers and his trial judge to Islam

BYLINE: MEGHAN KENEALLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1534 words



     ·    Khalid Sheikh Mohammed was the self-proclaimed mastermind who planned
          the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks
     ·    He has now released a 36-page manifesto from Guantanamo Bay
     ·    Decries 'the so-called War on Terror' and announced his plans to
          convert all of the non-Muslims involved in the 'kangaroo court' to
          Islam
     ·    Criticizes adultery, same sex relationships, depression, soldier
          suicides and AIDs all as examples of problems with Western morality
     ·    His trial has been a point of controversy since he was charged in 2008


The mastermind of the September 11 terrorist attacks has penned a 36-page
manifesto in an effort to convert his lawyers and the judge in the 'kangaroo
court' to Islam.

Khalid Sheikh Mohammed uses quotes from former presidents George W. Bush and
Richard Nixon as argument points in his push against America, 'the so-called
"War on Terror"' and Christianity.

The manifesto, obtained by The Huffington Post, was the first of three planned
parts that the al Qaeda leader has written from inside the most secure portion
of Guantanamo Bay where he and other high-value detainees are held.

Mohammed's statement marks a dramatic change from his earlier statements, as he
previously defended the right to use violence in order to spread the word of
Islam. Instead, the document attempts to make a more rationalized and
philosophical argument.

'It is my religious duty in dealing with any non-Muslim such as the people in
court (the Judge, the prosecution, attorneys, etc.) to invite them to embrace
Islam... it is my own belief that Allah will ask me on the Day of Judgment why I
did not invite these people to Islam?' he writes.

'American crusader soldier men and women join the U.S. army, wear the latest
military gear, eat the best food in Iraq and Afghanistan, and play with their
play stations... but at the end, the American soldiers'

-writes Khalid Sheikh Mohammed

'Do not believe those who claim that the Mujahedeen fight infidels to turn them
to Islam or that we are fighting you because you practice democracy, freedom, or
claim that you uphold human rights. Islam prohibits us to force our religion on
any human being but encourages us to invite them with wisdom and fair preaching
and to persuade them in the best way.'

The document is written in English as the terrorist attended college in North
Carolina and has a strong understanding of the language. He regularly refers to
the collective group of those fighting- many times violently- for Islam as the
Muhajedeen.

'I wanted to write these papers in three parts. I had written most of the first
part before they took away our laptops that contain the evidence, at the end of
2009. I will later work on to complete the remaining two parts after the
government returns our computers soon,' he wrote.

He teases that the two yet-unwritten chapters will include his justifications
for the September 11th terrorist attacks, as well as his views on the ensuing
war on terror.

'The second part deals with why the Mujahedeen carried out 9/11 and whether it
was a terrorist operation or an act of self-defense sanctioned by every
constitution and international laws as the right of everyone whose land is
occupied and whose people are attacked,' he wrote.

The third portion poses a number of questions about the wars that followed which
will surely become fodder for conspiracy theorists, as he asks 'Were they fought
to defend freedom and human rights? Women's rights? Or were they fought for the
benefits and interests of individuals and corporations?'

While the first few pages focus largely on the sunny interpretation of himself
as a messenger of Allah, the manifest spins into a diatribe against Western
social ills, slamming the Catholic church, same sex relationships, and greed.

One of the most pointed critiques comes when he uses the high rate of suicide
among returning American veterans as a mark against the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan as well as American might.

'American crusader soldier men and women join the U.S. army, wear the latest
military gear, eat the best food in Iraq and Afghanistan, and play with their
play stations while their enemies, the poor Muslim can't find their daily bread
or jacket to protect themselves from the harsh snowstorms over Afghanistan
mountains, but at the end, the American soldiers go home and commit suicide but
the poor man still with his dry bread and black tea lives with his poor wife in
their humble muddy house but with happy hearts and souls,' he wrote.

The legal fight against Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who is commonly referred to as
KSM, formally began in February 2008 when he was charged with organizing the
September 11 attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people.

The trial has been plagued by controversies, starting with whether it would be
held in a military or civilian court and more recently with the decision to
allow Mohammed and his other defendants from wearing soldier's fatigues in the
courtroom.

INSIDE THE MASTERMIND: EXCERPTS FROM KHALID SHEIKH MOHAMMED'S 'INVITATION TO
HAPPINESS'                       MANIFESTO

On his current state of happiness:

With my current condition, I live in solitary confinement, but I am very happy
in my cell because my spirit is free even while my body is being held captive

Happiness is not found only in money, in hearing music, in dancing, or in living
a so-called "free life." Eve if you were a rich man or woman, you would need to
follow the real path of happiness as it has been established in the humans'
catalog and manual, "The Holy Qu'ran".

On his call to convert non-Muslims:

It is my religious duty in dealing with any non-Muslims such as the people in
the court (the Judge, the prosecution, attorneys, etc.) to invite them to
embrace Islam. I realize very well that you have heard about Islam and know much
about it. But it is my own belief that Allah will ask me on the Day of Judgment
why I did not invite these people to Islam?

On same sex relationships and sexual activities:

If God said no adultery or no sexual contact without a marriage contract between
man and woman, the Westerner's God says men and women are free to do whatever
they want to do. A mother can even lie with her son and they can issue a
marriage certificate for them if the majority in Congress or Parliament agrees
to such a thing. Or a man can marry a man or a woman can marry a woman, but by
God's laws, these acts are considered social crimes and it will cause
unhappiness in their life, it breaks their families and at the end it will break
the whole society.

On Western moral bankruptcy:

Their communities have been destroyed by the high rates of divorce, rape,
robbery, killing, suicide, AIDS, and often depression, bankruptcies, abortion,
drugs, homosexuals, homelessness, psychological disorders, mental illnesses and
most of the U.S. prisons are over capacity and crime is everywhere among all
races and states'

On American military suicide rates:

(H)undreds of American crusader soldier men and women join the U.S. army, wear
the latest military gear, eat the best food in Iraq and Afghanistan, and play
with their play stations while their enemies, the poor Muslim can't find their
daily bread or jacket to protect themselves from the harsh snowstorms over
Afghanistan mountains, but at the end, the American soldiers go home and commit
suicide but the poor man still with his dry bread and black tea lives with his
poor wife in their humble muddy house but with happy hearts and souls.

On his process of writing the manifesto:

I wanted to write these papers in three parts. I had written most of the first
part before they took away our laptops that contain the evidence, at the end of
2009. I will later work on to complete the remaining to parts after the
government returns our computers soon as it has promised:

The first part is an invitation to happiness, to everyone the crusader
government has provided to administer this kangaroo trial in Guantanamo: The
judge, the prosecution, the lawyers and anyone who works with those groups.

The second part deals with why the Mujahedeen carried out 9/11 and whether it
was a terrorist operation or an act of self-defense sanctioned by every
constitution and international laws as the right of everyone whose land is
occupied and whose people are attacked.

The third part is the truth about the so-called "War on Terror". For whose
benefits or interests were these wars fought? Did these wars take place to
defend the American people and their interests? Were they fought to defend
freedom and human rights? Women's rights? Or were they fought for the benefits
and interests of individuals and corporations? Who are those individuals and
corporations? What are their interests and benefits? Isn't it true that they
work for the weapons industry lobbies, security contractors or Halliburton
sister companies etc.?

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 14, 2014 Tuesday 7:05 AM GMT

Top secret Benghazi documents prove Obama administration 'knew about terrorist
attack within minutes'

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1119 words



     ·    Newly declassified testimonies about what happened among Pentagon
          officials the night of the Benghazi attack on September 11, 2012 have
          been obtained by Fox News
     ·    The documents show the U.S. military found out about 15 minutes after
          the attack - which killed four Americans - that it was an act of
          terror and communicated that to the Obama administration
     ·    However the government - including Obama and then-U.S. Secretary of
          State Hilary Clinton, who were in the throes of the 2012 US
          Presidential election - maintained for two weeks afterward the attack
          started as a protest against an anti-Islamic film and turned violent


Pentagon officials knew almost immediately that the attack on the U.S. facility
in Benghazi, Libya, on 9-11-2012 was a terrorist attack and not a demonstration
gone wrong, declassified documents have shown.

The documents - which were obtained by Fox News and contain 450 pages of top
secret testimonies about the attack - has proven the Obama administration lied
about the cause of the attack for two weeks afterward, having repeatedly
maintained it was sparked by a violent demonstration against an anti-Islamic
movie.

According to the documents, Gen. Carter Ham - who at the time was head of
AFRICOM, the Defense Department combatant command with jurisdiction over Libya -
said that while there was mention of the demonstrations - which started on the
same day day as Benghazi but in Egypt - he and the other commanders involved
were always clear that Benghazi was a terrorist attack.

That information was delivered to President Obama and his top advisers,
including then-Defense Secretary Leon Panetta.

However the government said the attack was caused out of protest of Innocence of
Muslims, a controversial 14-minute video uploaded to YouTube that was seen as
denigrating of the prophet Muhammad.

The movie subsequently caused a breakout of violence in Egypt on September 11
that spread to other Arab and Muslim nations and caused the death of 50 people.

That night, a heavily armed group of between 125 and 150 gunmen attacked the
American diplomatic mission at Benghazi, killing U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher
Stevens and another diplomat.

Then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton supported the Obama administration
claims that Muslim of Innocence was believed to be cause, and chose the
Accountability Review Board to conduct an 'investigation' into the attack.

The investigation determined that there was no such protest in Behnghazi and
that the attack was premeditated and launched by Islamist militants.

Skepticism has surrounded the government's explanation of the attack, especially
from the Republican party, mostly because Benghazi happened just two months
before the 2012 Presidential Election.

However the declassification of the documents proves the Obama administration
were not divulging details of the attack to the American people.

Numerous aides to the president and Clinton repeatedly told the public in the
weeks following the murder of Ambassador Stevens and three other Americans that
night - as Obama's hotly contested bid for re-election was entering its final
stretch - that there was no evidence the killings were the result of a
premeditated terrorist attack.

According to Fox, Gen. Ham said he learned about the assault on the consulate
compound within 15 minutes of its commencement, at 9:42 pm Libya time, through a
call he received from the AFRICOM Command Center.

'My first call was to General Dempsey, General Dempsey's office, to say, ''Hey,
I am headed down the hall. I need to see him right away'',' Ham told lawmakers
on the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation on June
26 of last year.

'I told him what I knew. We immediately walked upstairs to meet with Secretary
Panetta.'

Ham's account of that fateful day was included in some 450 pages of testimony
given by senior Pentagon officials in classified, closed-door hearings conducted
last year by the Armed Services subcommittee.

The testimony, given under 'Top Secret' clearance and only declassified this
month, presents a rare glimpse into how information during a crisis travels at
the top echelons of America's national security apparatus, all the way up to the
president.

Also among those whose secret testimony was declassified was Dempsey, the first
person Ham briefed about Benghazi.

Ham told lawmakers he considered it a fortuitous 'happenstance' that he was able
to rope Dempsey and Panetta into one meeting, so that, as Ham put it, 'they had
the basic information as they headed across for the meeting at the White House'.

Ham also told lawmakers he met with Panetta and Dempsey when they returned from
their 30-minute session with President Obama on September 11.

Armed Services Chairman Howard 'Buck' McKeon, R-Calif., sitting in on the
subcommittee's hearing with Ham last June, reserved for himself an especially
sensitive line of questioning: namely, whether senior Obama administration
officials, in the very earliest stages of their knowledge of Benghazi, had any
reason to believe that the assault grew spontaneously out of a demonstration
over an anti-Islam video produced in America.

'In your discussions with General Dempsey and Secretary Panetta,' McKeon asked,
'was there any mention of a demonstration or was all discussion about an
attack?'

Ham initially testified that there was some 'peripheral' discussion of this
subject, but added 'at that initial meeting, we knew that a U.S. facility had
been attacked and was under attack, and we knew at that point that we had two
individuals, Ambassador Stevens and Mr. [Sean] Smith, unaccounted for'.

Rep. Brad Wenstrup, R-Ohio, a first-term lawmaker with experience as an Iraq war
veteran and Army reserve officer, pressed Ham further on the point, prodding the
29-year Army veteran to admit that 'the nature of the conversation' he had with
Panetta and Dempsey was that 'this was a terrorist attack'.

'As a military person, I am concerned that someone in the military would be
advising that this was a demonstration. I would hope that our military
leadership would be advising that this was a terrorist attack,' Wenstrup said.

'Again, sir, I think, you know, there was some preliminary discussion about, you
know, maybe there was a demonstration. But I think at the command, I personally
and I think the command very quickly got to the point that this was not a
demonstration, this was a terrorist attack,' Ham answered.

'And you would have advised as such if asked. Would that be correct? Wenstrup
continued.

'Well, and with General Dempsey and Secretary Panetta, that is the nature of the
conversation we had, yes, sir,' Ham responded.

Fox says they are going to continue to release more information found in the
testimonies.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           January 15, 2014 Wednesday

ON FILM, TERROR OF TEACHER'S ELEPHANT ATTACK

BYLINE: BY DAN NEWLING

LENGTH: 131 words


DWARFING a one-ton car with two terrified occupants, an enraged bull elephant
charges and flips the VW Polo on its roof before pushing it 130ft into a ditch.

In seconds, what started as a remarkable photo opportunity became a dance with
death as teacher Sarah Brooks, 30, was gored in the leg by a tusk that tore into
the car as the beast battered it.

The attack on Miss Brooks and fiance Jans de Klerk was captured in South
Africa's Kruger National Park by holidaymakers in images released yesterday.

Miss Brooks, of Spalding, Lincolnshire, was airlifted to hospital after being
hurt on December 30. The elephant was shot.

Trapped: Briton Sarah Brooks and her fiance pray for their lives in the upturned
hatchback as it is battered

Rammed: It flips the car, crushing the steel body

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 15, 2014 Wednesday 7:10 PM GMT

EU citizens fighting in Syria pose threat of terror attacks when they return
home, says domestic affairs chief;
The first challenge for European governments is how to prevent young men and
women from leaving to take part in the conflict

BYLINE: Charlotte McDonald-Gibson

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 544 words


European governments risk more terror attacks at home unless they tackle the
growing threat from extremist groups and radicalised individuals, including some
of the 1,200 EU citizens believed to be fighting in Syria, the bloc's domestic
affairs chief has warned.

So concerned are EU nations about the threat the fighters pose upon their return
that some intelligence agencies have held secret meetings with officials from
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's regime, according to the Wall Street Journal.

The alleged talks involving British, French, German and Spanish spy agencies
were specifically focused on sharing intelligence on the foreign combatants, the
paper said, underscoring the concern that European citizens are becoming
entangled with al-Qa'ida-linked rebel groups.

"Europeans travel abroad to train and to fight in combat zones, becoming more
radicalised in the process," said the EU Home Affairs Commissioner, Cecilia
Malmström.

"Some of these young men have joined groups with terrorist agendas, they have
been trained and hardened in war, and could pose a threat to our security upon
their return from a conflict zone. In the longer term they could act as
catalysts for terrorism."

The challenge for European governments is, first of all, how to prevent the
young men and women from leaving for Syria. Then they have to decide how to deal
with fighters upon their return, with some countries including Belgium jailing
youngsters who have fought abroad.

Ms Malmström proposed establishing support programmes to de-radicalise members
of extremist groups. Currently such programmes only exist in a handful of member
states. The EU has also set aside (EURO)20m to establish an anti-extremism
centre, which will gather and share knowledge from the 28 member states on
tackling terrorism.

Other measures on the table include working with religious communities to reach
out to potential extremists, and increased efforts to remove propaganda
materials posted online by terror groups. Ms Malmström also raised concern about
a growing extremist threat from far-right groups like Golden Dawn in Greece and
Nazi gangs in Hungary.

"Traditional law enforcement techniques are insufficient to deal with these
evolving trends in radicalisation and violent extremism," said Ms Malmström.

"A broader approach is required to prevent and counter this phenomenon."

Despite a growing awareness of the phenomenon, the number of young Muslims going
to fight with the rebel forces is not abating. The figure of 1,200 given by the
EU is conservative, with the International Centre for the Study of
Radicalisation last month estimating that 1,900 Western Europeans are fighting
in the Syrian conflict, triple the 600 there in April last year.

The flow of fighters is unlikely to stop until there is some kind of political
settlement to the three-and-a-half year conflict. In the meantime, millions of
Syrians have been forced from their homes and are living in refugee camps or in
pitiful conditions in war-ravaged towns and villages.

Meanwhile, a conference of Western and Arab donors has pledged another $1.4bn to
provide humanitarian assistance to those in need in the country, a response to
an unprecedented appeal by the United Nations last month for $6.5bn for in aid
for Syria.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Luton On Sunday

                                January 15, 2014

Terrorist who plotted attack in Luton handed extra FOUR MONTHS in jail for
refusing to hand over computer password

BYLINE: JULIA SUTTON

LENGTH: 475  words


GUILTY: Syed Hussain

A TERRORIST who plotted to attack on a Territorial Army centre in Luton with an
exploding toy car was jailed for an extra four months today for failing to hand
over his computer password.

Syed Hussain, 22, was part of a Luton-based cell which discussed attacking MI5,
the US Air Force, the English Defence League and their local shopping centre.

One of their ideas was to pack a remote controlled car with explosives and drive
in into an army base.

Hussain was jailed for five years and three months at Woolwich Crown Court last
April.

When police searched his home they found two encrypted USB sticks, but Hussain
said he had 'forgotten' the passwords.

It was not until 20 months later that he gave police the password to one of the
sticks and they found it contained material about a major fraud.

Passing sentence Judge Richard Marks QC said: 'A deliberate failure to comply
with a notices is a very serious offence.

'It has the potential to hamper the police in their investigations.'

Hussain denied failing to comply with a disclosure order after a short trial at
the Old Bailey.

'He always knew the password and only disclosed it, as he recently did in
December a year or so after the notice, because he thought it would be in his
interests to do so,' said prosecutor Alex Chalk.

Last March he admitted conspiring to send a remote-controlled toy car carrying a
home-made bomb under the gates of a Territorial Army centre in Luton.

Police searched his home in March 2011 as part of an investigation into the
terrorist offences.

Officers found a USB stick and external memory drive which were both encrypted
with a password.

Hussain refused to hand over the passwords and claimed the hardware was not
working.

The devices were sent away to NTAC (National Technical Assistance Centre) and
both passwords were revealed to be the same phrase from the Koran.

Material on the drive glorified jihad and contained guidance on how to carry out
terrorist atrocities.

In April 2012 officers searched Hussain's address and found another encrypted
USB stick.

When questioned by police he said he could not remember the password because he
was 'stressed'.

Hussain only revealed the password in December 2013 after officers informed him
that they wanted to question him over the alleged fraud.

The password turned out to be the same phrase from the Koran.

'The defendant maintained for 20 months he could not remember the password,'
said Mr Chalk.

'Just months before this trial and when he was told he would be interviewed on
suspicion of fraud he said he remembered.'

Hussain, of Cornel Close, Luton, admitted one count of engaging in conduct in
preparation for acts of terrorism between 1 January 2011 and 25 April 2012.

He denied failing to comply with a disclosure order.

His four month sentence will be served consecutively to his current jail term.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Luton


                    Copyright 2014 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    January 15, 2014 Wednesday 10:39 PM GMT

'Devil baby attack' prank terrorises New Yorkers;
'Devil baby' terrorises New Yorkers in remote-controlled buggy

BYLINE: By Sally peck

LENGTH: 240 words


If you encountered an abandoned baby buggy on the street, you'd be pretty
heartless not to investigate. But if you did so in New York in recent days, your
Good Samaritan move would play right into the hands of the marketing team behind
the horror film Devil's Due .

In the "Devil Baby Attack, " a remote-controlled red-canopied Bugaboo cameleon
whizzes along sidewalks of downtown Manhattan and through Washington Square
Park, drawing concerned looks from passers by who, upon investigating, are
startled by a red-eyed baby that springs out of the buggy,
Jack-in-the-box-style, and occasionally emits projectile vomit or shoots a rude
hand gesture at its baffled audience.

The film follows the fate of a couple who believe they are expecting their first
child. What first seem to be pregnancy jitters manifesting themselves in "dark
changes to her body and mind" turn out to have a "much more sinister origin", as
per Wikipedia . Cue dramatic music.

The prank had drawn 4.3 million viewers on YouTube just two days before the
film's scheduled American release on January 17. Marketing team: 1. Employers of
bored office workers who took the time to watch the lame stunt: 0.

What is actually most exciting about this film - and may make me break my strict
no-horror rule - is that it stars the charming Matt Saracen, of Friday Night
Lights (aka the best American drama you haven't seen). Clear eyes. Full hearts.
Can't lose. Take that, Devil Baby.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 16, 2014 Thursday

Russian pundit views reasons behind recent terror attacks

LENGTH: 624 words


Text of report in English by Moscow Times website on 15 January

Nikolai Petrov The end of the year was marred by a series of high-profile
terrorist attacks both within the North Caucasus and close to its borders.
First, a car packed with explosives blew up in Pyatigorsk. That was followed by
two major explosions in Volgograd. Then, earlier this month in Stavropol, the
authorities discovered four automobiles at the Kabardino-Balkaria border
containing both corpses and car bombs.

Had the explosions in the Volgograd train station and trolleybus that claimed 34
lives never happened, the much smaller attacks in Stavropol might not have
gained so much attention. After all, Russians long ago became accustomed to
numerous, small-scale terrorist attacks there. Last year alone, 700 North
Caucasus citizens died in armed violence and 525 were injured.

But the terrorist attacks in Volgograd were different in their brutality and the
high number of victims. The scale of those bombings, their thorough preparation
and the carefully chosen timing of the blasts to achieve the maximum
psychological effect point to the work not of scattered individuals or small
groups, but of the radical Islamist Caucasus Emirate organization headed by Doku
Umarov who last July declared the end of the moratorium on attacking civilians
and his intention to disrupt the Olympic Games in Sochi.

In fact, local criminals might have been enlisted to actually carry out those
attacks. Over the past two decades, terrorism has become something of a business
in the region. But even the most skilled local thugs could hardly have
orchestrated the attacks themselves.

The fact that both bombings just before the New Year took place only a short
time after the first blast on public transportation might be interpreted as an
especially daring stunt by the organizers, one intended to demonstrate that law
enforcement and intelligence agencies are unable to adequately protect Russian
citizens.

The way commentators have reacted to the terrorist attacks reveals something
about the public's state of mind. Among those suspected of organizing the
attack, analysts named not only local militants, but also the political elite
who are disgruntled over the sharp reduction in funding from the federal budget,
with the name of Chechen President Ramzan Kadyrov topping the list. They also
mentioned several siloviki groups, which face tighter budgets after a generously
funded federal programme to provide passenger safety on public transportation
-initiated after the Domodedovo Airport bombing -ended in 2013.

The truth of this or any theory based on the answer to the question, "Who
profits from terrorism?" is not important. More important is the fact that such
ideas are put forward at all and discussed seriously in public. It indicates
serious divisions in society and peoples' deep mistrust of the political elite
and law enforcement bodies.

If the theory is true that the Volgograd bombings were perpetrated by forces
more interested in maintaining or restoring the status quo than in destabilizing
society, then perhaps such blasts will not occur in Sochi or during the Olympic
Games. At the same time, however, after the Olympics when Russia is out of the
global spotlight, the huge flow of federal funding to the region will dry up.
Freed from any pressing public relations concerns, Moscow will likely use a firm
hand to restore order in the North Caucasus, as it is already doing in Dagestan
and Kabardino-Balkaria.

At that point, we might witness new, more deadly terrorist attacks in protest
against those changes.

Nikolai Petrov is a professor of political science at the Higher School of
Economics.

Source: Moscow Times website, Moscow, in English 0000 gmt 15 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           January 16, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We'll keep putting ball in full-back of the net;
SPFL TERRORS ON ATTACK ; Stoppers' goals duel boosts United

BYLINE: GAVIN BERRY

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 437 words


KEITH WATSON hopes his scoring duel with fellow full-back Andy Robertson will
fill the goals void left by Dundee United's striker shortage.

David Goodwillie is back at Blackburn after his loan spell, Brian Graham could
be out for a month and Nadir Ciftci is struggling.

As a result United are looking to on-loan Farid El Alagui to produce the goals
but Watson insists it's up to others throughout the team to chip in and find the
net.

The stopper bagged his fourth goal of the campaign with his leveller in the 1-1
draw with Inverness that leaves him just one behind Robertson.

He said: "I've been having a bit of banter with Andy to see who can score most
goals. It was just a laugh at the start but I've pulled a couple back and I'm
one behind him. It's good fun.

"There are no bets on it but if I can keep this up I might try to get a wager
on. It's nice to score and four isn't a bad tally so far but I want to play
every week and hopefully I can keep my place in the team after scoring at
Inverness.

"As full-backs, the manager just tells us to go out and do our job. We defend
first and foremost and anything else is a bonus. We haven't been working on
scoring from other areas of the park. We just love to get forward, although I
know my goal was from a corner at the weekend, and the goals have been coming
from us gambling and pushing up the park.

"It's good to have full-backs getting forward.

Mark Wilson who loves to get forward too.

We're a bit light in the striking department with injuries and it's important
the rest of us chip in with goals.

"Farid scored a lot of goals when he was at Falkirk. He has fitted in well. He
looks strong in training and can put himself about. He caused the Inverness
defence problems when he came on.

"We came up against him when we lost to Falkirk on penalties in the Cup. He
scored with a header and caused us problems so it's better to have him on our
side.

"But we have players who can score from all over the pitch. Andy has had a few
and Stuart Armstrong, Gary Mackay-Steven and Ryan Gauld have all chipped in."

Watson admits United's five-game winless run has been hard to take as it comes
on the back of six victories on the spin which had many tipping them to finish
second.

Now he is looking to help the Taysiders return to winning ways when at Ross
County on Saturday.

He said: "The fans expected us to win every game after that run. The two late
goals to draw against Hibs has given us a bit of life again and we created a lot
of chances at Inverness so we're looking to get winning again at Dingwall."

The goals have been coming from us gambling and pushing up the park KEITH WATSON

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CROWN DUEL Keith Watson and Andy Robertson, below, are on a mission to
score

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     January 16, 2014 Thursday 6:23 PM GMT

First pictures inside Kenya's Westgate shopping mall months after terrorist
attack show huge bullet holes and toxic rubble;
The first pictures since the terrorist attack show the devastating scale of the
damage inside the popular mall

BYLINE: By Don Mackay

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 309 words


The Westgate Shopping Mall four months after the deadly terrorist attack.

Hundreds of bullet holes and the 'smell of decay' welcomed the first
photographers into Kenya's Westgate shopping centre - four months after the
terrorist massacre.

These shocking images show the devastating scale of the damage inside the
popular mall, where 72 people lost their lives and more than 200 were injured.

It shows the car park reduced to a pile of rubble while shops are stained by
fire damage and riddled by gaping 3cm bullet holes.

The attack has been blamed on four al-Shabaab militants, who stormed the
building armed with AK-47 assault rifles and explosives -before firing on
shoppers at random.

American photographer Jennifer Huxta, 36, was one of the few photojournalists
given access to the devastated building in Nairobi today.

She said: "It is very eerie. There is still a lot of rubble and support beams
sticking out of of the concrete.

"There is also a lot of fire damage and bullet holes, which are about 3cm wide.

"You can smell bodies decaying, even though they say no bodies have been found
in the clean-up operation."

Diggers continue to remove the debris left behind by the collapse of the
Nakumatt Supermarket.

Elsewhere, day labourers pick through the toxic rubble looking for metal pieces
that can be transferred to the nearby Dandora dumpsite for recycling.

Jennifer, from Pennsylvania, said: "Tonnes of debris has already been removed,
including the cars that were incinerated and crushed when the mall collapsed.

"The debris left now is really just a load of metal. I did find a shoe and some
office debris but apart from the bullet holes and fire damage there is not too
many clues about what happened in there."

She said most of the shops remain boarded up but renovations are already
underway with a view to getting back to business as soon as possible.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                      January 17, 2014 Friday 7:22 AM GMT

UN staff missing following Kabul terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 277 words



HIGHLIGHT: 14 killed in Kabul terror attack


Four United Nations' employees are missing following multiple Taliban suicide
attacks on a popular restaurant in Kabul, UN officials said.

Taliban suicide attackers stormed the Taverna du Liban in the upmarket Wazir
Akbar Khan neighbourhood killing at least 14 people, including foreigners.

The assault was quickly claimed by Taliban militants fighting against the Afghan
government and US-led foreign forces in the country.

"Four UN civilian personnel, who reportedly could have been present in close
proximity to the scene of the attack in Kabul, still remain unaccounted for," UN
spokesman Ari Gaitanis said.

"The UN is making efforts to clarify the status of its personnel."

The British embassy said it was investigating reports that a British national is
among the dead.

The long-established Taverna is a regular dining spot for foreign diplomats,
consultants, aid workers and Afghans, and is likely to have been busy with
customers on Friday, the weekly holiday in Afghanistan.

The United States and British embassies are among those situated in Wazir Akbar
Khan, though neither was directly affected by the attack.

Deputy Interior Minister Mohammad Ayoub Salangi said two of the attackers forced
their way into the heavily guarded restaurant after an initial explosion at
about 7.30pm.

"At least 14 people have been killed, both foreigners and Afghans. One suicide
attacker detonated himself outside the restaurant and two others got inside
indiscriminately killing people," Mr Salangi said.

"There were three attackers. All have been killed. Unfortunately, 14 people have
also been killed, including some foreigners," city police chief Mohammad Zahir
told reporters.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2014 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 18, 2014 Saturday

Pakistan's Sindh Governor orders strict security after Karachi terror attacks

LENGTH: 111 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Karachi, 17 Jan: Sindh Governor Dr Ishrat-ul-Ebad Khan, taking serious notice of
terrorist incidents, has ordered Director General, Rangers and Inspector General
of Police , Sindh to use all available means to ensure security in the city and
immediately arrest the killers.

He expressed sympathies with the bereaved families of the deceased Express News
employees who were killed in firing on their van on duty by some unknown
terrorists.

He assured that the culprits would be taken to task at the earliest.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1909gmt
17 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 18, 2014 Saturday

Iran ministry summons Yemeni diplomat following "terrorist attack" - agency

LENGTH: 74 words


Yemeni charge d'Affaires in Tehran has been summoned to the Iranian Foreign
Ministry, following the murder of an Iranian diplomat, Abolqasem Asadi, in
Sana'a in a "terrorist attack" on 18 January, Islamic Republic News Agency
(IRNA) reported on the same day.

The Iranian Foreign Ministry announced its strong protest over the incident to
the Yemeni official, the report said.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 1611 gmt 18 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                           January 18, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Sex attacker jailed for rape terror at his flat

BYLINE: Gareth Lightfoot

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 494 words


A VICIOUS rapist has been jailed for eight-and-a-half years for a terrifying sex
attack on a woman at his home.

Graham Craddock was convicted by a jury of rape and sexual assault charges at
Teesside Crown Court yesterday.

Craddock, of Durham Road, Redcar, denied both counts and put the woman through
the ordeal of giving evidence in a trial.

Judge Simon Bourne-Arton QC, the Recorder of Middlesbrough, jailed Craddock for
six-and-a-half years for the rape plus two years for the sexual assault.

Detective Constable Paul Matthews, the investigating officer from Cleveland
Police, said today: "I am very pleased with the sentence that has been handed to
Graham Craddock.

"He subjected his victim to a vicious sexual assault and rape which left her
traumatised. She then showed great courage in giving evidence during the trial.

"Justice has now been done and hopefully this will allow the victim some form of
closure."

The court heard how Craddock met the woman, who cannot be named for legal
reasons, in an East Cleveland pub on a night out.

He went back to her home with others, then attacked her after she gave him a
lift home in the early hours of July 21 last year.

The prosecution said he took her keys to get her out of her car, then grabbed
her and pulled her into his flat building.

He shoved her to the floor in the hallway and told her she'd "get what she
deserved".

He raped and sexually assaulted her, putting her in "terror", jurors heard.

Then he threw her keys at her, telling her: "You dirty cow. Get out of here."

The woman cried as she described her horrific ordeal in a video interview with
police, which was played to the jury.

She said: "I just wanted to go home. I told him I wanted him to stop. He just
carried on."

She said she never consented or did anything to make him think she did, and he
ignored her pleas to "let me go".

Asked what was going through her mind at the time, she replied: "Pain. Fear."

The court heard how she went home, crying and hardly able to speak and rang the
police sobbing.

Craddock then turned up at her home shouting through her letterbox, she said.

Police arrived at her home and arrested him on suspicion of rape, to which he
replied: "Dirty cow, need to get herself sorted."

He gave officers a prepared statement saying he had sex with the woman in her
car and in the flat building, at her instigation.

In the courtroom he changed his account.

Still denying all of the allegations, he said he did not have full sex with her
but they took part in other consensual sexual activity.

He said he could not perform, having experienced erectile dysfunction for a few
years.

He claimed the woman started the encounter, suggested sexual activity "out of
the blue" in his car and offered him a "threesome".

He told the jury she climbed on to him, ripped his T-shirt open, tried to have
sex with him and told him to "do me now" in the flat building hallway.

The jury did not believe him and took just over an hour to reach unanimous
guilty verdicts.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graham Craddock:, Court told how he subjected his victim to vicious
sexual assault and rape

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EGM


                    Copyright 2014 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 18, 2014 Saturday 7:02 PM GMT

Iranian diplomat shot dead in drive-by shooting in Yemen in attack condemned as
'terrorist criminal act'

BYLINE: DANIEL MILLER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 482 words



     ·    Economic attaché Ali Asadi was reportedly shot multiple times to the
          body
     ·    Targetted as he drove out of the Iranian ambassador's residence in
          Sanaa
     ·    A source claimed gunmen tried to kidnap him but shot him when he
          resisted
     ·    It is the latest in a spate of attacks on Iranian officials in the
          Middle East


An Iranian diplomat has been killed in a drive-by shooting in the Yemen, the
latest in a spate of attacks on Iranian officials in the Middle East in recent
months.

Economic attaché Ali Asghar Asadi was reportedly shot multiple times to the body
as he drove out of the Iranian ambassador's residence in the southern Hadda
district of the capital Sanaa.

According to one Yemeni police source, the attackers had driven past in a van
and opened fire.

However a separate source claimed the gunmen had first attempted to kidnap the
diplomat but when he resisted, they shot him and fled.

Yemeni security officials said Asadi died of his injuries hospital. Iranian
state television said he had been 'martyred'.

Yemen's Foreign Minister Abu Bakr al-Qirbi quickly condemned the attack,
describing it as a 'terrorist criminal act' that targeted bilateral relations.

Relations between Iran and Yemen have soured over what Sanaa calls Iranian
meddling in its domestic affairs.

Al-Qirbi said the two countries want to avoid any attempts to harm relations.

'This operation has targeted the Yemeni-Iranian relations before it targeted the
diplomat,' he told the state news agency SANA. He said authorities will purse
the culprits and bring them to justice.

An Iranian foreign ministry spokesman said: 'The Islamic Republic of Iran
strongly condemns this incident and will follow up on the case with the Yemeni
authorities'.

Another Iranian diplomat in Yemen was abducted by gunmen in July and remains in
captivity. Officials suspect al-Qaida militants to be behind that kidnapping.
Negotiations to secure his release have so far failed.

Al-Qaida's Yemen branch is the world's most active, using political turmoil in
the impoverished Gulf country to strengthen its presence there.

The government has been battling the militant groups, with assistance from the
U.S., which has killed a number of suspected members in drone strikes.

Targeted killings of security officials have been on the rise in Yemen. A
security official said an intelligence officer was shot dead by unknown
assailants Thursday in a drive-by shooting in the southern province of Lahj.

Iran's diplomats also have been targeted elsewhere in the region. In November,
suicide bombers targeted the Iranian Embassy in Beirut, killing at least 23
people.

Shiite-powerhouse Iran is the chief patron of Lebanon's Hezbollah and an ally of
Syria's embattled President Bashar Assad.

In Yemen, the government and neighboring Saudi Arabia accuse Tehran of
supporting Shiite rebels in the north, seeking to destabilize the country. Iran
has dismissed the accusations.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 18, 2014 Saturday 11:33 AM GMT

Two Britons killed in Kabul restaurant attack;
Taliban say they carried out terrorist assault in revenge for airstrike that
killed civilians, as death toll rises to 21, including two Britons

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly Islamabad, and agencies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 488 words


The death toll from a Taliban suicide attack in the Afghan capital Kabul rose to
21, according to police on Saturday, including two Britons in a violent assault
on a fortified restaurant.

One of the Britons was a close protection officer working for the European Union
in the city.

Catherine Ashton, European foreign policy chief, paid tribute to him and a
Danish member of the EU police mission to Afghanistan who also died.

"My deepest sympathy goes to the families and friends of our colleagues, as well
as to the families and loved ones of the other innocent victims of this terrible
attack," she said.

"I condemn in the strongest possible terms this appalling and unjustifiable
violence. The perpetrators must be brought to justice."

The Foreign Office confirmed that two British nationals were killed in the
attack and named one of them as Dhamender Singh Phangurha.

The dead included 13 foreigners in total as they dined at the Taverna du Liban,
a spot frequented by aid workers, diplomats, security contractors and
journalists.

Witnesses said desperate customers tried to hide under tables after one attacker
detonated a suicide vest at the reinforced entrance to the Lebanese restaurant,
allowing two accomplices to enter and open fire with AK-47s.

Among the dead were two British citizens, two Canadians and the Lebanese head of
the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in the country. The owner of the
restaurant, Kamal Hamada, died trying to fight off the attackers with a handgun.

Gen Mohammed Zahir Zahir, Kabul police chief, said all three attackers were also
killed.

The Taliban claimed responsibility for attack in the neighbourhood of Wazir
Akbar Khan, a heavily defended area dense with foreign embassies, Nato
facilities and charity offices. Local police said they believe operatives from
the movement's closely allied Haqqani Network planned and carried out the
assault.

Although terror attacks are commonplace in Kabul, it is unusual for attackers to
penetrate the heart of the city's diplomatic quarter and target one of the
well-guarded restaurants used by foreigners.

Like other night spots, the Taverna ran strict security checks at the door,
watched over by armed guards. Diners were frisked and had to pass through at
least two steel doors before gaining entry.

The attack comes at a crucial time for Afghanistan, less than three months
before the country is due to elect a new president. Meanwhile Nato-led forces
continue their drawdown and are due to end combat operations this year.

The Taliban said the attack was to avenge an American airstrike in Parwan
province this week, which President Hamid Karzai said killed seven children and
one woman.

"These invading forces have launched a brutal bombardment on civilians... and
they have martyred and wounded 30 civilians. This was a revenge attack and we
did it well, and we will continue to do so," Zabihullah Mujahid, a spokesman,
said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 19, 2014 Sunday

Iran FM condemns terrorist attack in Lebanon

LENGTH: 203 words


Excerpt from report by Iranian news channel Press TV website

Iran Foreign Ministry has strongly condemned the terrorist attack in the
Lebanon's north-eastern town of Hermel, saying acts of terror are aimed at
destabilizing the country.

"The Islamic Republic of Iran considers these terrorist measures in line with
the interests of the Zionist regime and enemies of the noble people of Lebanon,
"Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marzieh Afkham said on Saturday.

Iran invites "all Lebanese tribes, movements and political groups to exercise
self-restraint and vigilantly beware of moves by Lebanon's enemies, whose aim is
to...destabilize Lebanon," Afkham pointed out.

At least four people were killed and over 30 others injured in a car bomb attack
at Hermel's main square on 16 January.

The town is located 10 kilometres from the Syrian border. It has a pro-Hezbollah
majority population and has witnessed numerous rocket attacks by foreign-backed
militants in Syria.

In a statement on its Twitter account on January 16, the al-Qaeda-linked
al-Nusra Front claimed responsibility for the bombing.

[Passage omitted: Background information on other recent attacks in Lebanon]

Source: Press TV website, Tehran, in English 0932gmt 19 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 19, 2014 Sunday 3:06 PM GMT

Briton killed in terror attack on Kabul cafe was standing as a Labour MEP
candidate

BYLINE: ABUL TAHER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 949 words



     ·    Del Singh, 39, a former adviser to Ed Miliband, was killed in suicide
          attack
     ·    Mr Sing was dining at Taverna du Liban restaurant when gunmen burst in
     ·    Family say aspiring politician wanted to create 'more peaceful world'
     ·    Former soldier Simon Chase, who was working as a bodyguard, also
          killed
     ·    Blast occurred in venue popular with tourists and Westerners in Kabul
     ·    UN said four of its staff were missing and 'may be among the dead'
     ·    Taliban claimed responsibility within an hour of the attack
     ·    Is part of a stepped-up campaign of violence against government
          interests


A Labour MEP candidate was among two Britons killed in a Taliban suicide attack
at a restaurant in the Afghan capital Kabul.

Del Singh, 39, a former adviser to Ed Miliband, was dining at the Taverna du
Liban restaurant when two Taliban gunmen stormed in, spraying customers and
staff with bullets.

The attackers were later shot dead at the scene by security forces.

Scroll down for video

They had burst in after a suicide bomb exploded at the front gates of the
heavily fortified restaurant.

Simon Chase, 41, a former soldier working as a bodyguard for the European police
Europol, was also killed in the attack, which left 13 foreigners and eight
Afghans dead.

Mr Singh's family paid tribute to the aspiring politician, describing him as
someone who wanted to create 'a more peaceful world'.

LIFE-LONG LABOUR MAN WHOSE WORK HAD TAKEN HIM TO TROUBLE SPOTS AROUND THE GLOBE

Labour election candidate Del Singh, who was killed last night in Kabul, was a
former advisor to the UN and Department for International Development whose work
had taken him to a string of trouble spots.

Born and raised in Southampton, Hampshire, to factory worker parents, he went on
to earn a Business degree and a Masters in European Studies, before beginning
work with the EU in 2000.

According to a website set up to help his election bid, Mr Singh from 2002-2004
worked for as an Adviser to the European Mission in Kosovo, where he helped
develop the first economic national plan for the country.

In 2006/7, in Sudan, he managed a European Commission aid development programme
and has also worked on UN and DfID funded projects in Afghanistan, Sierra Leone,
Libya, Nepal, and Palestine.

It is unclear what he was doing in Afghanistan at the time of his death, but he
had worked in at least four different roles advising on development in the
country over the past decade.

A campaigner for the Labour Party since 1992, he had worked part time between
1999 and 2000 as a research assistant for Nick Ainger, then Wales Minister, and
in 2004 in support of John Prescott as Deputy Prime Minister.

Mr Singh had hoped to represent the South West in the European Parliament,
running on a ticket promising greater regulation for banks and tighter rules on
corporate tax.

The activist - full name Dharmender Singh Phangura - was due to stand in this
year's European elections and had been placed fourth on the Labour list of
candidates for the South East region.

Girlfriend, Komal Adris, 35, said: 'Everyone in our family is upset, shocked and
devastated.

'He was such a friendly and happy person.He genuinely cared about Afghanistan
and he loved the country.

Mr Singh, from Southampton, had been in Kabul for a week, working with the
Afghan government's budget department on behalf of the Adam Smith International
consultancy firm.

Mr Miliband was among senior Labour figures to also pay tribute to Mr Singh.

He said: 'My thoughts -  and the thoughts of the Labour Party - are with the
family and friends of Mr Singh. He dedicated his life to working with people
across the world who needed his support.'

Mr Singh was a life-long Labour supporter and had spells working in British
government departments, including the Department for International Development
and the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, where he advised John Prescott.

He advised Mr Miliband on the Middle East as an executive of the Labour Friends
of Palestine and worked in international development for a decade in war zones
such as Sierra Leone, Palestine, Libya and Afghanistan.

His sister, Dishi Phangura, 34,  spoke to him on the text messaging service,
WhatsApp, just three hours before he was killed.

She said: 'He was so optimistic so there was no suggestion something like this
was about to happen. It's a heavily guarded restaurant.

'He was due to go to Afghanistan at the beginning of the year, but he waited to
celebrate my mother's birthday the day before he left.'

https://twitter.com/HarrietHarman/statuses/424525232188448769]

https://twitter.com/IainMcNicol/statuses/424488259579035648]

https://twitter.com/hilarybennmp/statuses/424525864219709440]

Former soldier Mr Chase, 41, had spent time in Northern Ireland, serving in the
Cheshire and the Royal Irish regiments.

He had been working as a private security guard in Kabul for a number of years.

His partner, Norma McDowell, 35, and their two children, Alfie and Jake, were
last night being consoled by relatives at the couple's home in Limavady, Co
Londonderry.

James McCorkell, the Deputy Mayor of Limavady, said: 'Simon was carrying out an
incredibly important yet highly dangerous job.

He was extremely brave and fearless in his service, yet also incredibly kind and
loving.'

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 19, 2014 Sunday 4:57 AM GMT

Revealed: INSIDE the President's $223m 'DOOMSDAY PLANE' that protects him
against nuclear war, asteroids and terror attacks

BYLINE: HAYLEY PETERSON and ZOE SZATHMARY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 861 words



     ·    On call 24/7 in case of nuclear war
     ·    Features 67 antennae and satellite dishes for telecommunications
     ·    Plane can fly for days without refueling at whopping 620mph
     ·    Can launch within five minutes of emergency alarm


[digg

It can withstand a nuclear bomb, asteroid blasts and terror attacks while
staying airborne for days without refueling: it's the president's $223 million
'doomsday' plane and it's on standby 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, ready to
launch at a minute's notice.

Remarkably, a new video  takes visitors inside the plane, looking at its
impressive array of features, including technology services, a working office, a
conference room, sleeping quarters, and a telecommunications control center.

Perhaps the most surprising fact about the 'doomsday' plane is its age. The
aircraft in the 1980s, and still retains much of its technology from that era.

'In the event of a disaster low tech can be very advantageous,' a tech sergeant
told the Discovery Channel in 2012. 'The higher the tech, the more electronics.
[When] you rely on more parts, it's more susceptible to breaking.'

The plane has been modified and updated over the years with advances in
technology.

Though the galley may look unremarkable, it is able to serve and prepare all
types of meals. Near the galley is a small NCA suite, allowing VIP passengers to
use telecommunications systems.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Close to the suite is a conference room, allowing for senior officials to gather
and discuss strategy. A press conference room is immediately behind the
conference room - possibly a convenient spot for journalists eager to know
instant updates from the room next door.

Immediately behind the press room is a workstation for battle staff, followed by
smaller rooms. These smaller rooms are responsible for 'staff planning' and data
transmissions. Another room, further back, is the expansive tech control center.

Despite all of this work space, a sleeping area is on the upper level of the
converted 747.

The United States' so-called doomsday plane is a jumbo jet on steroids, set
apart from other Boeing 747's by its radiation-protected shell, 67 antennae and
satellite dishes that can communicate with anyone on the ground, advanced
heating and cooling systems and loads of other high-tech top-secret gear.

In the case of a national disaster, the plane's four turbofan jet engine can fly
for days without refueling and it can reach speeds of up to 620 miles per hour,
whereas commercial planes can only fly up to 580 miles per hour.

Lt. Col. David Gaskill, who oversees the day-to-day operations of the
president's Doomsday plane, told U.S. Strategic Command in 2010 it is the 'most
technologically advanced airborne system in the world.'

The plane, which was last airborne during the terror attacks on 9/11, is
designed to launch within five minutes in the case of a surprise alarm.
Specially-trained technicians sleep near the plane in case of emergency.

But the doomsday aircraft is only one slice of the United States' plans for
protecting high-ranking officials in the case of a national emergency.

The federal government also has a top-secret underground complex called 'Mount
Weather' located 64 miles from Washington, D.C. in Virginia.

Buried 300 feet underground, the massive complex features 20 multistory
buildings, water reservoirs, a sewage treatment plant, a hospital, a crematorium
and a television studio where the president can keep the American people
apprised of what's going on.

The compound has enough supplies to last 200 personnel a month, but enough bunks
for 2,000 people.

Former president Ronald Reagan made the country's doomsday plan a top priority
during his administration.

Reagan put his chief of staff, Donald Rumsfield, and then-congressman Dick
Cheney in charge of his 'continuity of government' plan.

Rumsfeld and Reagan role-played doomsday scenarios as top level officials.

'We would have a scenario that was a nuclear war,' Jim Wink, who oversaw the
role-playing and preparation, told the Discovery Channel. 'Washington, D.C.
would get wiped out. The president of the United States would be killed and the
senior candidate out there would become the president.'

Wink said top-level cabinet officials would be secluded for up to three days
during the exercises.

'The way the exercises were carried out was in the utmost secrecy and they would
tell no one -- not even tell their wives -- where they would be,' said national
security expert James Mann.

The annual budget for the U.S. doomsday plan is reportedly between $5 billion
and $6 billion dollars.

Much of the country's emergency preparation falls to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, or FEMA, which also handles natural disasters, such as
Superstorm Sandy.

Roughly 30 percent of FEMA head Craig Fugate's job is dealing with the secret
continuity programs, according to U.S. News and World Report.

The U.S. Air Force is also a key part of the plan. The Air Force has a a
strategic command center dedicated to emergency preparation at its at Offutt Air
Force base near Omaha, which houses four Boeing 747s designed to allow the
president to govern from the air.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 19, 2014 Sunday 1:39 AM GMT

Briton killed in terror attack on Kabul cafe was standing as a Labour MEP
candidate

BYLINE: ABUL TAHER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 901 words



     ·    Blast occurred in venue popular with tourists and Westerners in Kabul
     ·    UN said four of its staff were missing and 'may be among the dead'
     ·    Taliban claimed responsibility within an hour of the attack
     ·    Is part of a stepped-up campaign of violence against government
          interests


A Labour MEP candidate was among two Britons killed in a Taliban suicide attack
at a restaurant in the Afghan capital Kabul.

Del Singh, 39, a former adviser to Ed Miliband, was dining at the Taverna du
Liban restaurant when two Taliban gunmen stormed in, spraying customers and
staff with bullets.

The attackers were later shot dead at the scene by security forces.

Scroll down for video

They had burst in after a suicide bomb exploded at the front gates of the
heavily fortified restaurant.

Simon Chase, 41, a former soldier working as a bodyguard for the European police
Europol, was also killed in the attack, which left 13 foreigners and eight
Afghans dead.

Mr Singh's family paid tribute to the aspiring politician, describing him as
someone who wanted to create 'a more peaceful world'.

LIFE-LONG LABOUR MAN WHOSE WORK HAD TAKEN HIM TO TROUBLE SPOTS AROUND THE GLOBE

Labour election candidate Del Singh, who was killed last night in Kabul, was a
former advisor to the UN and Department for International Development whose work
had taken him to a string of trouble spots.

Born and raised in Southampton, Hampshire, to factory worker parents, he went on
to earn a Business degree and a Masters in European Studies, before beginning
work with the EU in 2000.

According to a website set up to help his election bid, Mr Singh from 2002-2004
worked for as an Adviser to the European Mission in Kosovo, where he helped
develop the first economic national plan for the country.

In 2006/7, in Sudan, he managed a European Commission aid development programme
and has also worked on UN and DfID funded projects in Afghanistan, Sierra Leone,
Libya, Nepal, and Palestine.

It is unclear what he was doing in Afghanistan at the time of his death, but he
had worked in at least four different roles advising on development in the
country over the past decade.

A campaigner for the Labour Party since 1992, he had worked part time between
1999 and 2000 as a research assistant for Nick Ainger, then Wales Minister, and
in 2004 in support of John Prescott as Deputy Prime Minister.

Mr Singh had hoped to represent the South West in the European Parliament,
running on a ticket promising greater regulation for banks and tighter rules on
corporate tax.

The activist - full name Dharmender Singh Phangura - was due to stand in this
year's European elections and had been placed fourth on the Labour list of
candidates for the South East region.

Girlfriend, Komal Adris, 35, said: 'Everyone in our family is upset, shocked and
devastated.

'He was such a friendly and happy person.He genuinely cared about Afghanistan
and he loved the country.

Mr Singh, from Southampton, had been in Kabul for a week, working with the
Afghan government's budget department on behalf of the Adam Smith International
consultancy firm.

Mr Miliband was among senior Labour figures to also pay tribute to Mr Singh.

He said: 'My thoughts -  and the thoughts of the Labour Party - are with the
family and friends of Mr Singh. He dedicated his life to working with people
across the world who needed his support.'

Mr Singh was a life-long Labour supporter and had spells working in British
government departments, including the Department for International Development
and the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, where he advised John Prescott.

He advised Mr Miliband on the Middle East as an executive of the Labour Friends
of Palestine and worked in international development for a decade in war zones
such as Sierra Leone, Palestine, Libya and Afghanistan.

His sister, Dishi Phangura, 34,  spoke to him on the text messaging service,
WhatsApp, just three hours before he was killed.

She said: 'He was so optimistic so there was no suggestion something like this
was about to happen. It's a heavily guarded restaurant.

'He was due to go to Afghanistan at the beginning of the year, but he waited to
celebrate my mother's birthday the day before he left.'

https://twitter.com/HarrietHarman/statuses/424525232188448769]

https://twitter.com/IainMcNicol/statuses/424488259579035648]

https://twitter.com/hilarybennmp/statuses/424525864219709440]

Former soldier Mr Chase, 41, had spent time in Northern Ireland, serving in the
Cheshire and the Royal Irish regiments.

He had been working as a private security guard in Kabul for a number of years.

His partner, Norma McDowell, 35, and their two children, Alfie and Jake, were
last night being consoled by relatives at the couple's home in Limavady, Co
Londonderry.

James McCorkell, the Deputy Mayor of Limavady, said: 'Simon was carrying out an
incredibly important yet highly dangerous job.

He was extremely brave and fearless in his service, yet also incredibly kind and
loving.'

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                January 19, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

LIMAVADY MAN DIES IN AFGHAN ATTACK;
TERRORIST STRIKE 21 PEOPLE MURDERED Ex-soldier killed by suicide bomber died
protecting life of policewoman

BYLINE: Christopher Woodhouse

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 608 words


A FORMER soldier living in Limavady has been killed in a Taliban suicide bomb in
Afghanistan which claimed the lives of 21 people.

Simon 'Si' Chase, who was working as a close protection officer with the EU
police mission, Eupol, lost his life protecting a female Danish police officer,
who unfortunately also died from her injuries in the massive blast.

He was originally from Liverpool but had made Limavady his home, settling there
with his partner and two children.

His fiancée Norma McDowell, a healthcare worker from Li-mavady, was last night
being comforted by family and friends as were their sons, aged 15 and six.

The bodyguard died in the explosion at the Taverna du Liban restaurant in
central Kabul, popular with foreigners and affluent Afghans.

The dad of two, who lived at Drumachose Park in the Co Londonderry town, was
working as a doorman at Sweet Nightclub and the Corner Bar in Limavady before
going to Afghanistan for security work.

EXPLOSIVES

Del Singh, a Labour Party MEP candidate for the South East of England, also died
in the attack.

The suicide attacker detonated his explosives outside the gate of the heavily
fortified restaurant before two gunmen entered the restaurant and started
'indiscriminately killing'  people inside.

Kabul police chief General Mohammad Zahir said that the victims included 13
foreigners and eight Afghans, and that the majority were civilians.

He said the three attackers were killed by security forces after Friday's
assault on the Lebanese restaurant.

The 13 foreign victims included Canadians, UK, US, Lebanese, Russian and Danish
citizens.

Mayor of Limavady Gerry Mullan extended his condolences to Mr Chase's family.

"There is cloud that has descended upon the local community who are very shocked
and saddened by his loss," said the SDLP councillor.

"He was a well-known and wellrespected figure in the community."

The deputy mayor of Limavady, James McCorkell, said that Mr Chase, who was a
keen amateur boxer, was "an adopted son of Limavady".

He said: "Simon was carrying out an incredibly important yet, as we know now, a
highly dangerous job.

"He was extremely brave and fearless in his service, yet also incredibly kind
and loving to those he had gone out to protect.

"We will explore avenues within the council as to how best we can honour Simon
but for now, my thoughts and prayers remain with everyone concerned."

Limavady DUP councillor Alan Robinson added: "Our community is very proud of the
work that Simon Chase was doing in Afghanistan but equally the entire community
is shocked and devastated at his loss."

The politician revealed the Limavady Branch of the Royal British Legion will fly
the Union flag at half mast as a mark of respect to the former serving soldier.

Corner Barmanager, Anthony Doherty, said: "Si worked here for years.

"The staff that worked with him commented that he was a true gentleman, a great
friend and had a nature that he couldn't see the wrong in anyone."

As news of his death broke, tributes flooded in on social media sites for the
dead ex-serviceman.

GIANT

Andrew McMillan wrote on Twitter: "Had the pleasure to serve with big Simon
Chase many years ago. Giant of a man. RIP mate."

Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid claimed the attack targeted foreign
officials dining at what he described as a 'hotel'. '.

He said: "There was a suicide attack on a foreign hotel where special foreign
invaders are coming for dinner. In this attack an explosive was used which was
very strong and heavy casualties and massive destruction happened."

The UN in Kabul said its three staff members killed included a Pakistani, a
Russian and a Somali-American.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KILLED: Labour candidate Del Singh (left)
MASSACRE: The Taverna du Liban in Kabul
VERY POPULAR: Simon 'Si' Chase worked as a doorman at Sweet Nightclub in
Limavady

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2014 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                            January 20, 2014 Monday

Tributes paid to Afghanistan terror attack victim Del Singh

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 892 words


JUST hours before he died Del Singh was doing what he always did - helping
others.

A friend has revealed that the popular Southampton politician and humanitarian
had e-mailed her about his plans to take part in a charity event that aimed to
help Palestinian refugees.

But less than 24 hours later Satvir Kaur heard that Mr Singh had been killed in
a terrorist attack.

He was one of 21 people, including another Briton, who died in Afghanistan last
Friday when the Taliban targeted a restaurant in the capital, Kabul.

Witnesses said customers tried to hide under tables as one attacker detonated a
suicide vest at the reinforced entrance to the restaurant, allowing two
accomplices to enter and open fire with AK- 47s. The Taliban claimed it was in
revenge for an American airstrike that killed a woman and seven children.

Middle East experts said it was the deadliest violence against foreign civilians
in Afghanistan since the war started nearly 13 years ago.

Mr Singh's Malayan advisor Gnana Nagarajah was also among those killed in the
attack which has been condemned by world leaders.

Southampton councillor Ms Kaur and Mr Singh exchanged a series of e-mails on the
day of the explosion.

The two politicians had been good friends for five years.

They were both members of the Labour Party and attended the same Sikh temple,
the Gurdwara Tegh Bahadur in St Marks Road, Southampton Mr Singh was arranging a
group of friends to join him in this year's Bethlehem Marathon, having supported
a similar event in Gaza in 2012, when he died.

He offered to be Ms Kaur's running partner in a bid to persuade her to take
part.

She told the Daily Echo: "He was just the usual Del - very chirpy, a man on a
mission.

"If there was one person to save the planet it would be Del Singh."

Describing her friend's passion for the Middle East she said: "He was totally
committed and dedicated his life to social justice and human rights. That's all
he wanted for that region, for people to live with opportunity and not be
suppressed," she said.

Mr Singh was also known his work with the homeless, the unemployed and other
under-privileged members of the community.

Ms Saur added: "He was really good at bringing people together and a real
champion of the working classes.

"A lot of communities in Southampton knew of Del and really respected him - he
was a pioneer for change."

Mr Singh is thought to have been one week into a month-long visit to Afghanistan
when he was killed.

Ms Kaur said he had visited the country before as part of his campaign to ensure
that aid got to the right place.

She added: "It's sad to lose anyone like this but he was doing what he did best,
trying to defend human rights, trying to fight for social justice, trying to get
people aid."

The other Briton who died in the atrocity was Simon Chase, a father-of- two who
had been living with his fiancée in Northern Ireland.

The former soldier is believed to have been working as a bodyguard for a Danish
policewoman.

Senior UN officials, Afghan dignitaries and restaurant staff were also killed in
the blast.

Del was a good guy, who wanted to make a difference

"HE was the good guy that wanted to make a difference."

That was how Del Singh's partner described him as family and friends struggle to
come to terms with his loss.

His younger sister Dishi Phangurha said she believed that life would never be
the same again.

Dishi, 34, spoke of Del's love for his family and support for his three sisters
Dishi, Ruby, 26, and Bally, 39, and the fun times they had as siblings.

Despite all his achievements, she said her brother remained modest and shy.

Management consultant Dishi and Del, who lived with mother Kulvir, 62, and
sister Ruby at the family home in Northumberland Road, St Mary's, had planned to
move the family to Bugle Street in a few weeks' time.

The family, who attend the Singh Sabha Gurdwara, in Cranbury Avenue, have been
receiving tributes from across the world.

Speaking from the family home, Del's partner of four years Komal Adris, 35,
said: "He was such a friendly and happy person. One of those people that would
light up a room - he had this real infectious humour.

"He was just such a humble guy."

Komal said Del never forgot his roots, despite travelling all over the world.

She added: "He spent time in these far-flung places, but he loved Southampton.

"He used to love coming home because of his family."

Komal said Del had worked in conflict areas like Kosovo, Libya and Sudan, and
had been going to Afghanistan for around six years.

"He genuinely was one of those idealists that wanted to make the world a better
place," she said.

The family also told how he had been slightly injured from an explosion in the
weeks before the attack and had even celebrated his 39th birthday in the same
Kabul restaurant only a few weeks before.

"I think we're still coming to terms with it," said Komal.

"I still think we might get that phone call that they have made a mistake and
he's going to turn up. It's inconceivable that somebody who's done so much for
everybody throughout his life should end so quickly and in that manner as well.

"We have always been worried about where he goes for work because they are
always volatile regions, but at the same time we're so proud of him.

"You just imagine that he's got so much positive energy it should counteract
anything negative and the universe will take care of him."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      January 20, 2014 Monday 11:01 AM GMT

Supertramp Breakfast in America album cover in bizarre 9/11 conspiracy theory on
David Icke forum;
The odd - and frankly nuts - suggestion is that the British rock band's 1979
record apparently forecast the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center in
2001

BYLINE: By Ben Burrows

SECTION: NEWS,WEIRD NEWS

LENGTH: 171 words


Supertramp's 1979 album Breakfast in America is at the centre of one of the most
bizarre 9/11 conspiracy theories yet.

A poster on a David Icke forum suggests that the cover of the record forecasted
the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center in 2001, some 22 years later.

The 'conspiracy' was revealed on a forum for author and theorist David Icke.

The off-the-wall cover shows a woman with a glass of orange juice in front of a
rendition of the New York skyline, all from a plane window.

Forum member 'Eve' posted the pic along with the following cryptic description:

"Album came out in 1979," it reads.

"9/11 reference.

"9/11 was served with breakfast...not to mention the everyday fight for freedom:
"Breakfast In America."

'Eve' appears to be convinced and continues:

"Orange juice = fireball," she adds.

"You are looking out of the window of a plane, she is showing the target."

'Eve' even posts a reversed view of the cover which 'appears' to show the 'U'
and 'P' of Supertramp flipped around to look like the figures '9' and '11'.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            January 20, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

My half-naked window leap to escape thug ex;
BATTERED MUM'S ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: GRANT McCABE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 372 words


A TERRIFIED mum told how she was forced to leap half-naked from a window to
escape a savage attack by her crazed ex-lover.

Lyndi Brown, 27, feared she was going to die after burly thug Graham Lang rained
down blows on her.

The brutal bouncer battered and choked his former girlfriend because he found
texts on her phone from another man.

But - fearing he was going to burn her on the gas cooker - she fled from the
"savage and cowardly" assault by leaping out the bathroom window of his home in
Uddingston, Lanarkshire.

The sickening details of the attack emerged last week as Lang, 42, was found
guilty at the High Court in Glasgow.

Giving evidence from behind a screen, Lyndi said: "I thought he was going to
kill me.

"I jumped out the window and managed to land on the grass. I was screaming,
crying, hoping someone would hear me."

The victim - who'd moved out of his home when the couple split last year - was
on a night out in October when Lang called and offered her a lift home.

Pain She accepted then agreed to stay over at his house because she was worried
she would wake her toddler son - who was being looked after by his grandparents
- if she arrived home late.

But she told the court she woke up to find furious Lang lashing out at her. And
Lang then made his halfnaked victim go into the kitchen - where she claims he
threatened to burn her on the gas hob then attacked her.

She said: "He was on top of me punching into my face. He was saying I was a
slapper and he wanted me to feel the pain he felt."

Lyndi tried to grab her mobile phone to call her dad for help.

But she added: "That was when he strangled me - he kept pressing. The next thing
I remember is waking up on the floor."

Fearing Lang would kill her, brave Lyndi screamed for help before throwing
herself out of the bathroom window wearing just a jacket and a top. A neighbour
came to her aid and called the police and paramedics, despite Lang insisting his
ex was "talking rubbish".

Lang was accused of attempted murder but was found guilty of assault to the
danger of life.

Claims he tried to burn Lyndi on the oven hob were deleted from the charges.

Judge Lord Pentland warned a jail sentence was "inevitable" when he's sentenced
next month.

scottish-sun@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Brute ... Lang, left, launched savage assault on Lyndi, right, at his
home in Uddingston, top

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      January 21, 2014 Tuesday 2:25 PM GMT

US to have warships on hand at Winter Olympics in case of terror attack

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 260 words


<em class="bold">TWO American warships will be on standby in the Black Sea
during the Winter Olympics in Russia.</em>

The Americans intend to use the vessels to evacuate their countrymen in the case
of a terror attack at the Sochi games which start next month.

The US is also exploring the possibility of stationing helicopters and other
transport aircraft nearby.

Pentagon spokesman Rear Admiral John Kirby said: "Air and naval assets, to
include two Navy ships in the Black Sea, will be available if requested for all
manner of contingencies in support of - and in consolation with - the Russian
government."

Pentagon spokesman Rear Admiral John Kirby

Despite spending over £30bn on the Winter Olympics, much of it on security,
fears of a terrorist attack remain high in southern Russia.

In December the Russian city of Volgograd was targeted Islamist militants who
carried out two suicide bombings which killed 34 people and injured over 100.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has frequently insisted the two week event will
pass off without incident, with his government organising a huge security
operation around the international showpiece.

Roughly 40,000 police officers will be on hand at the Black Sea resort while
fighter jet squadrons and surface-to-air missile batteries will also be in
place.

Related articles At least 10 left dead in SECOND Russian bombing within 24 hours
in Volgograd Vladimir Putin hails Elton John as 'extraordinary' as Russia
prepares for Winter Olympics IOC given assurance on anti-gay law

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 21, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terror suspect 'determined to attack' is freed

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 259 words


AN ISLAMIST terror suspect being released from all controls on him has the
"determination" and network to launch a Mumbai-style atrocity in the UK,
according to court papers.

The man is one of seven allegedly dangerous suspects who, by Sunday, will have
been freed from counter-terror orders designed to restrict their movements and
activities.

Papers show that MI5 and a senior judge fear that without controls there is a
"real risk" the suspect, who can only be identified as CD, will "revive his
plans to undertake attacks in the UK".

The man, who allegedly attended a terrorist training camp with four of the
failed July 21 suicide bombers, is likely to have access to firearms, the
documents reveal. It is feared the 29-year-old British citizen may have
deliberately kept a "low profile" while under control measures.

The man and the other suspects have all been subject to terrorism prevention and
investigation measures (Tpims), which replaced controls orders and were designed
to restrict their activities. A two-year time limit on the orders will expire by
the end of this week. He will be free of control because there has been no new
evidence of terrorist activity.

A year ago, Mr Justice Ouseley backed the Home Secretary's application to
maintain the Tpim on CD amid concerns over the risk he posed. The judgment,
obtained by Labour yesterday, said the Security Service assessed that: "Without
a Tpim, there was a real risk that CD would seek to revive his plans to
undertake attacks in the UK or engage in other terrorism-related activity."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                            January 21, 2014 Tuesday

Loved ones of terror attack victim Del Singh to bring home his body

BYLINE: Emma Streatfield

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 451 words


THE sister and partner of a Southampton man killed in a terrorist attack in
Afghanistan last night flew out to bring him home.

Del Singh's younger sister Dishi Phangurha and his partner of four years Komal
Adris were due to depart for Kabul to collect his possessions and escort his
body back to the UK.

As reported, the 39-year-old, from St Mary's, was one of 21 people, including
another Briton, who died when the Taliban targeted a restaurant in the Afghan
capital last Friday night.

A funeral will take place in Southampton, but the date has yet to be decided and
a further memorial event may take place in London.

Mr Singh, of Northumberland Road, was working as an international development
consultant for Adam Smith International - a leading international advisory firm.
The family say the firm is working with the Foreigh Office to repatriate Mr
Singh.

Miss Phangurha said that despite the company advising them not to make the
distressing journey they wanted to go and expect to return by Thursday.

Miss Phangurha, 34, said: "I don't want him to be on his own, I want to bring
him back."

Mr Singh had worked in international aid for more than a decade, managing EU and
UN projects as well as others for the Department for International Development
in the Middle East.

His work had taken him to some of the world's most war-torn countries in a bid
to help them rebuild, incuding Kosovo, Sierra Leone and Sudan.

But his work was not limited to abroad and he also worked with the homeless,
unemployed and underprivileged in the UK.

Mr Singh was particularly interested in human rights issues in Palestine and was
a co-ordinator in the Labour Friends of Palestine group.

Yesterday, the Ambassador for the Palestinian Mission in the UK joined the
mounting tributes to Mr Singh.

Manuel Hassassian said: "Del Singh epitomized the symbol of commitment and
dedication to freedom and justice. He was an inspiration to all freedom fighters
and an example of integrity of international supporters of the Palestinian
people and cause.

"Until the last minute of his life, Palestine was always in his heart and soul."

The Palestinian Mission in the UK added: "The Palestinian people have lost a
dear and genuine friend and supporter of Palestine.

"Del devoted his life campaigning for social justice and peace in Palestine and
the world at large.

"He was an outstanding and committed advocate for Palestinian human rights full
of passion, humility, and dedication trying to make the world a better place.

"He has touched so many hearts and has left a great legacy that many
international solidarity activists should follow."

The mission plans, together with other groups, to hold a memorial in tribute to
Mr Singh's work in Palestine.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            January 21, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack on lone pensioner, 83 over the in the vehicle. They drove her to
Salendine NooK and;
Gang forced her to hand over £1,500

BYLINE: LINDA WHITWAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 418 words


AN 83-year-old woman endured a terrifying ordeal at the hands of five men.

The woman was left physically unhurt, but frightened and confused after the gang
forced her to hand over a substantial amount of cash.

Two men KnocKed on the door of the woman's home in Deer Croft Avenue, Salendine
NooK. She answered the door and the men came straight into her home, demanding
money for WORK they claimed to have carried out on her property. When she
refused to hand any money over, three more men came into the bungalow. They then
tooK her outside the bungalow, indicated a small patch of pointing at the bottom
of an external house wall and demanded £2,000. The woman again disputed with the
men and refused to pay. The gang reduced the amount to £1,500 and told the old
lady to get her coat, saying they would TAKE her to the banK to get the cash.
Fearing for her safety, the pensioner agreed and was driven to her banK in
Huddersfield town centre.

There she withdrew £1,500 in cash, which she handed over to the men in the
vehicle. They drove her bacK to Salendine NooK and left her at the top of her
road.

Despite the fact the woman was not physically injured, the police have described
it as a "particularly nasty" incident which has left the pensioner confused and
afraid.

Police are conducting house-to-house enquiries and appealing to the public for
help.

The incident happened between January 6 and 8, but has only just come to light
when the woman told her family at the WEEKEND. They immediately informed the
police.

Police would LIKE to hear from anyone who saw a red Ford Fiesta-type vehicle in
or around the Deer Croft Avenue area between January 6 and 8. It may or may not
be connected with the crime. The men are all described as white and SPOKE with
Huddersfield accents. The leader of the gang, who did all the talKing, is
described as aged between 40 and 50. He is around 5ft 5ins tall, of medium build
with brown hair in a short bacK-and-sides style. Det Insp MARK Truelove, from
KirKlees CID, said: "The elderly lady was intimidated and this has been an
extremely upsetting and confusing incident for her. "We are appealing for the
public to help us trace these men and also to prevent a repeat of this incident.

"We want to hear from anyone who has seen any cars or vans, anyone acting
suspiciously or anything out of the ordinary in or around Deer Croft Avenue or
in any areas where there are potentially old people's homes."

Anyone with any information should contact Huddersfield CID by calling 101.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ ORDEAL SCENE: Deer Croft Avenue and DI Mark Truelove

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     January 21, 2014 Tuesday 12:17 AM GMT

Cops hunt 'Black Widow' suicide bomber thought to be in hiding in Winter Olympic
Games city of Sochi;
Ruzana Ibragimova has threatened to carry out a terror attack at the Games in
revenge for the death of her Islamic militant husband

BYLINE: By Piers Eady

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 259 words


Russian police are hunting a 'Black Widow' suicide bomber they fear may be in
hiding in the Winter Olympic Games city of Sochi.

Ruzana Ibragimova has threatened to carry out an attack at the Games in revenge
for the death of her Islamic militant husband, who was killed by Russian
security forces last year.

Police believe the widow may already be in Sochi and have handed out fliers to
hotels warning them to be on the look out.

There are also fears that other women whose husbands have been killed could be
used by Islamic terrorists to carry out suicide attacks.

News of the hunt came as the US said it would have two warships anchored in the
Black Sea and transport planes on standby to evacuate athletes in the event of a
terror attack.

US Congressman Mike Rogers, chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said:
"We don't seem to be getting all of the information we need to protect our
athletes in the Games.

"I think this needs to change and it should change soon."

Russian President Vladimir Putin has assured the US - and the world - that the
Games will be safe.

But security fears have heightened since an online video surfaced on a jihadi
forum at the weekend threatening the 17-day Games that start on February 7.

The warning came after deadly bombings in the southern Russian city of Volgograd
and growing violence in the southern republic of Dagestan.

Access to Sochi has been heavily restricted ahead of the Games and President
Putin has said that around 40,000 members of Russian police and security forces
would be mobilised to guard events.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     January 21, 2014 Tuesday 12:01 AM GMT

Terror suspect who 'plotted attack in London' to walk free

BYLINE: Richard Ford, Home Correspondent

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 722 words


A terror suspect feared to have been plotting a Mumbai style attack in London is
to be free to walk the streets in days despite MI5 warning against lifting
restrictions on his movements.

The security service said there was a "real risk" that the man, known as CD,
would attempt to revive plans for terror attacks in the UK if curbs were lifted.

MI5 judged the man, aged 30, to be a leading figure in a group of Islamist
extremists in north London and believed he was planning a Mumbai-style attack.

The intelligence service "strongly assessed" that CD, who has joint UK and
Nigerian nationality, attended a training camp in Cumbria at the same time as
four men involved in the failed London underground attacks in July 2005.

He is also thought to have trained in Syria and to have sought to buy firearms
to carry out a terror attack.

The man is one of seven terror suspects who are being released as a two year
time limit on terrorism prevention and investigation measures (Tpims) are
lifted.

Tpims replaced control orders and were intended to restrict the activies of
terror suspects but the two year limit put in place by the Coalition means the
Government is powerless to stop restrictions on their activities being lifted
over the next few weeks.

Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, today calls on the Home Secretary to
tell the country whether CD and the other suspects who have already been
released or are about to be freed next weekend remain a risk to the public.

"CD and other suspects were deemed highly dangerous committed terrorists only
months ago by the Home Secretary and independent judges. Are they still
dangerous now or not? We need to know," she said.

"We need an urgent independent threat assessment of each Tpim terror suspect and
the Home Secretary and Prime Minister need to assure the country that they will
not increase the danger to the public."

Court papers show that the security services judged that CD would be able
quickly and covertly to purchase firearms for use in his attack plans and that
without a Tpim in place there was a "real risk" that he would seek to revive his
plans to carry out attacks in the UK or engage in other terrorism related
activity.

A judge said that being under first a Control Order and then its replacement
Tpim had affected CD's behaviour.

Mr Justice Ouseley said: "The more realistic assessment is not that he never was
engaged in such activities or that he has changed his mind about their merits;
it is that the effect of the Control Order , including the removal to Leicester,
the temporary experience of custody in Belmarsh, and now the TPIM, have made him
decide to keep a low profile, and to behave more normally for a while.

He added: "There remains a network, his views and determination are unchanged,
he has training, and he has an obvious incentive to behave while a TPIM is in
force."

Among others on Tpims which have either expired or are about to expire are BF,
30, a former train driver, who is alleged to have undergone terrorist training
but has not taken part in funding, recruitment or attack planning

The Security Services assess that BF would travel abroad so as to use
opportunities to engage in terrorism-related activities if he was not subject to
a TPIM.

They also assessed the risk posed by BF has become much more serious as he
entered into an Islamic marriage with V in January 2011 and that she is assessed
as holding extremist views, and is likely to encourage BF to engage in terrorism
related activities.

During a court hearing, the Government disclosed that BF may seek to travel to
Syria to engage in terrorism. The papers say through his "close extremist
associates, BF would seek to engage in terrorism related activity overseas. One
possible destination would be Syria".

The police and MI5 will have the task of monitoring the men without the help of
court restrictions at an estimated cost of up to £20m a year.

James Brokenshire, the security minister, said : "It is not possible to discuss
individual cases, but the police and Security Service have been working for some
time to put tailored plans in place to manage the risk posed by these
individuals once their TPIM restrictions are removed. These plans, which are
similar to those put in place for the release of prisoners who have served their
sentences, are kept under constant review."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 21, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror suspect who 'plotted attack in London' to walk free

BYLINE: Richard Ford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 288 words


A terror suspect feared to have been plotting a Mumbai-style attack in London is
to be free to walk the streets in days despite MI5 warning against lifting
restrictions on his movements. The Security Service said there was a "real risk"
that the man, known as CD, would attempt to revive plans for terror attacks
INBRITAIN if curbs were lifted.

MI5 judged the man, aged 30, to be a leading figure in a group of Islamist
extremists in North London. The intelligence service "strongly assessed" that
CD, who has joint British and Nigerian nationality, attended a training camp in
Cumbria at the same time as four men involved in the failed London Underground
attacks of July 21, 2005. He is also thought to have trained in Syria and to
have sought to buy firearms to carry out a terror attack.

The man is one of seven terror suspects being released as a two-year time limit
on terrorism prevention and investigation measures (Tpims) is lifted. Tpims were
intended to restrict the activies of terror suspects but the two-year limit put
in place by the coalition means the Government is powerless to stop restrictions
on their activities being lifted. Yvette Cooper, Shadow Home Secretary,will call
on the Home Secretary today to tell the country whether CD and the other
suspects who have been released or who are to be freed next weekend remain a
risk to the public.

The police and MI5 will have to monitor the men without the help of court
restrictions, at an estimated cost of up to £20 million a year.

James Brokenshire, the Security Minister, said: "The police and Security Service
have been working for some time to put tailored plans in place to manage the
risk posed by these individuals once their Tpim restrictions are removed."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 22, 2014 Wednesday

Banned terrorist group claims responsibility for attack on Pakistan pilgrims

LENGTH: 164 words


Text of report by Pakistan daily The News website on 22 January

The banned Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LJ) has claimed responsibility for the suicide
attack on the bus of pilgrims in Daringar area of Mastung district, which
claimed 22 lives besides injuring 31 others.

The LJ spokesman Nooruddin Zangi told media on telephone from an undisclosed
location that two suicide attackers carried out the attack with the help of an
explosive-laden vehicle. "Our silence shouldn't be understood as our weakness,"
he said.

"This attack is conducted in revenge for the killing of Muslims in the whole
country," he added. The spokesman said the government should not be silent on
the genocide of Muslims. "We know our enemy well and we will go to the last
extent to wipe out our enemies," Nooruddin said. The spokesman also warned the
media to publish their news of claiming responsibility without modifications,
otherwise they will also be targeted.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 22 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 22, 2014 Wednesday

Iran condemns terrorist attack on Pakistani pilgrims

LENGTH: 136 words


Excerpt from report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news
agency

Tehran, 22 January: Iran on Wednesday [22 January] strongly condemned the
terrorist bomb attack against a group of Pakistani pilgrims which claimed at
least 22 lives, and asked for immediate measures to prevent similar attacks in
future.

[passage omitted: background information on the attack]

In a statement on Wednesday, Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh
Afkham condemned the terrorist act and voice sympathy with the bereaved family
members of the victims.

She also stressed that such moves are "planned and implemented by the enemies of
the Islamic Ummah (community)" and said necessary measures should be taken to
prevent such event in the future.

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 1455 gmt 22 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    January 22, 2014 Wednesday 12:29 PM GMT

Winter Olympics 2014: BOA receives 'non-credible' threat of terrorist attack on
GB athletes;
An email, written in Russian and broken English, was sent to the BOA in the last
fortnight which it concludes does not represent a risk to its delegation

BYLINE: By Ben Rumsby

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 215 words


The British Olympic Association has received what it claims is a non-credible
threat of terrorist attacks against its athletes during the Sochi Games.

The Telegraph has learnt that an email, written in Russian and broken English,
was sent to the BOA in the last fortnight which it concluded did not represent a
risk to its delegation.

A spokesman said on Wednesday morning: "We are not aware of any threats that
have been deemed credible towards our delegation."

It is understood the email was examined by experts, who reassured the BOA to its
satisfaction that the threats in it were not credible.

Asked what was said in the e-mail, the spokesman added: "Organisations like ours
receive e-mail correspondence all the time.

"I'm not going to get into the exact nature of the correspondence but some of it
lacks credibility."

Hungary's Olympic Committee earlier revealed it and other nations had received
threatening e-mails.

Secretary General Bence Szabo told the sports daily Nemzeti Sport that the
message also urged the Hungarian delegation to stay away from the Winter Games,
which run from February 7-23.

Committee President Zsolt Borkai said the threat was being taken seriously and
the International Olympic Committee, the Sochi organizers, and Hungarian
security forces had been informed.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghampost.co.uk

                     January 23, 2014 Thursday 4:46 PM GMT

Putin's purge means terror casts chill over Winter Olympics;
Recent Moscow attacks spark spectre of terrorism for Sochi showpiece

BYLINE: By Dan Kay

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 968 words


Russians enthusiastically supported Vladimir Putin as he rose to power on the
promise of destroying the threat of Chechnya's independence movement.

His blueprint to "rub out the terrorists in the outhouse" with an iron fist was
laid following the devastating Moscow apartment bombings in 1999 that left 293
dead.

However the sickening suicide attacks three weeks ago in Volgograd as well as
high profile attacks on a Moscow theatre and an elementary school have shown
just how Putin has failed to succeed.

And on the eve of the Winter Olympics in Sochi, it is clear terrorism remains a
series threat in Russia.

So much so the US team has now hired a private security firm to have as many as
five aircraft on standby in case they need to be evacuated quickly.

While the US State Department has also issued an alert advising Americans who
plan on attending the Games to do so with caution.

Equally the British Foreign Office has express its concerns saying there is "a
high threat from terrorism" pinpointing the danger posed by Islamist separatists
in the North Caucasus region.

The mountainous land, not far from Sochi, has for generations been a melting pot
for religious and ethnic troubles between native Muslims and Russian forces.

But never before has the eyes of the world been so focused on the region as the
games begin on February 7.

Worryingly, if early intelligence is correct, several terrorists including four
"black widows" have already secreted themselves within "ring of steel".

A friend of mine involved in the games told me about the "unprecedented secure
zone", which is 55 miles long and 27 miles wide.

The Russians, he said, claim they will have near-total surveillance on
residents, visitors and athletes using drones in the skies, speedboats along the
shoreline and sonar in the nearby Black Sea.

Tellingly he added "Nations are still extremely worried" despite Putins recent
reassurances.

Of course Sochi is not the first, nor will it be the last, games to be the
target of attacks.

Ever since the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, when 11 Israeli athletes were
taken hostage and killed by a Palestinian group have the Games been subjected to
terrorism.

And even with the might of the FBI and CIA, security could not be ensured when
during the Atlanta games in 1996 American Eric Rudolph detonated a bomb at the
Olympic Park. The blast resulted in the deaths of two people and injured more
than 100.

It was a credit to London and the UK no such attacks were carried out during the
summer of 2012.

Experts say the biggest threat in Sochi is without question to spectators
travelling to and from the games.

Two of the three recent suicide bombings in Volgograd occurred on buses, and the
third was at a train station.

The attacks have ended all hope of a reconciliation that emerged after Putin
announced his Russian forces would stop their aerial and ground assaults in
Chechnya.

Truth be told I can't think of any country that has successfully eliminated the
threat of terrorism, however where Russia is concerned its failure can only be
attributed to the President's policies.

Ever since 1999 he has justified his brutal tactics coupled with a hugely
expanded security state by believing all Chechens are terrorists.

He has failed to make the distinction between Islamic extremists and those
seeking greater control of the region through dialogue.

It would appear his scorched-earth approach destroyed every last shred of
diplomacy only to leave extremists groups that now threaten to crush the
Olympics.

When it comes to Chechnya, Russia is firmly stuck between a rock and a hard
place.

A complete occupation or total withdraw is unworkable, while further military
operations have no future.

The Olympic spirit of "building a peaceful and better world" through "mutual
understanding with a spirit of friendship, solidarity and fair play" is one
Putin would do well to hold on to long after the torch has gone out.

AN image of Dasha Zhukova, the partner of Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich,
sparked widespread anger in America after she appeared sitting on a chair made
from a half-naked black woman.

The photograph showed the 32-year-old dressed in jeans and a white shirt sat on
cushion supported by a life-like mannequin.

The situation was compounded however as it was published on the day the States
enjoyed Martin Luther King Day, the bank holiday to celebrate the civil rights
leader.

Shortly after it was posted the magazine, Buro 24/7, removed the image and
replaced it with a cropped version where only the legs were visible, while the
model deleted it from her social networking site.

The editor Miroslava Duma has since issued an apology on Instagram saying they
"love, respect and look up to people regardless of their race, gender or social
status".

However what baffles me is how such an idea is sanctioned in the first place,
let alone then used.

Even in the grim, often tasteless, superficial world of high fashion, the image
of a slave chair smacks of racism.

WELL, it was like a red rag to a bull.

Last week I wrote about how early signs of decriminalisation of cannabis in
Colorado had shown promise in terms of health and crime benefits.

But no sooner had I said I had no desire to try marijuana then I was on a plane
heading to the Mile High City itself Denver.

It wasn't that my apathy towards cannabis had in anyway changed, I was just
asked by some readers, clearly who had tried it, to see for myself its effects
and become "more informed".

But unlike Bill Clinton, who confessed to smoking cannabis before famously
claiming he "didn't inhale" - I, on the other hand, took it all the way back.

In all honesty though after smoking a joint and trying out some cannabis-laced
chocolate, I still don't get its appeal.

All it did was leave me starving and with one more thing ticked off the Bucktin
bucket list.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBP


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                           January 23, 2014 Thursday

Disabled pensioner's terror as robbers attack him in his Harwood home

BYLINE: Miranda Newey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 349 words


A DISABLED pensioner was thrown onto a sofa while robbers ransacked his house.

The three men stole jewellery as well as £1,200 in savings from the bungalow in
Links Road, Harwood, on January 14.

The 67-year-old, whose wife was out when the men burst in through an unlocked
back door, said he thought the men may have been watching and noticed when his
wife had gone out.

But he said: "I am not going to let them get the better of me."

During the ordeal, between 6.30pm and 6.50pm, he was shouted at when pleading
with robbers.

He also tried to defend himself. He was kept hostage in the lounge by one of the
men until the other raiders had left. The victim, who asked not to be named,
added: "We had been saving money - £10 here and there to have a dormer built.

"We have been saving for up to 18 months and we were going to get the work
started next month. It annoys me as we had scrimped and saved."

Police are asking jewellers, pawn shops and The Bolton News readers to look out
for the jewellery. Items taken included a distinctive mourning set, which
included a black onyx with a star detail in the middle with a pearl.

It had leaf design on the outside with diamonds.

The set included matching earrings. The jewellery was in a shell-shaped box made
of leather.

It is only thought to be worth about £250 but it previously belonged to the
woman's grandmother.

A white gold diamond cluster ring was taken along with gold and silver chains
and a ring that had been made into a pendant.

A white gold pendant with diamonds in an S shape was also stolen. The robbers
also stole a "14 in one" wrench in its box, new clothes from George and a
Nintendo 3DS.

The couple have now upped security at their home.

People with information can call Astley Bridge police on 0161 856 5761, quoting
the crime reference number 7032G/14 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

One of the men was white, about 6ft tall aged about 20 to 22. He had a blue
scarf covering his face, wore dark clothes and a hood. He had a local accent.

The other two also wore dark clothes. One had a dark zip-up hoody with a thick
red band across the chest.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 23, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Email threat to 'blow up' athletes received by BOA;
WINTER OLYMPICS Alarm caused by messages to national committees IOC acts to calm
fears of terrorist attack in Sochi

BYLINE: Ben Rumsby

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 590 words


The International Olympic Committee moved yesterday to calm fears that athletes
would be "blown up" by terrorists at the Winter Games after several countries,
including Britain, received emails and letters threatening their safety.

The IOC and British Olympic Association moved swiftly to discredit the
legitimacy of the correspondence that they and other national Olympic committees
had received. The messages were dismissed by the IOC as "a random message from a
member of the public".

The German, Italian, Hungarian, Slovenian and Slovakian Olympic associations all
confirmed that they had received the malicious communication, written in both
English and Russian and warning them against travelling to Sochi.

The BOA confirmed that it had received what appeared to be the same threat in an
email in the past fortnight and had concluded it did not represent a risk to its
delegation following discussions with experts.

Asked what was written in the email, a spokesman said: "I'm not going to get
into the exact nature of the correspondence but some of it lacks credibility."

The IOC also refused to disclose the contents of the messages, saying in a
statement: "The IOC takes security very seriously and passes on any credible
information to the relevant security services. However, in this case, it seems
like the email sent to a number of NOCs contains no threat and appears to be a
random message from a member of the public."

Despite the assurances, the correspondence briefly caused alarm and underlined
nervousness over security at the £30billion event on which Russian President
Vladimir Putin's legacy may depend.

Suicide bombers killed at least 34 people in a southern city last month,
Islamist militants have threatened to attack the Winter Games and security
forces are hunting a woman suspected of planning a suicide bombing and of being
in Sochi already.

Zsigmond Nagy, director of international relations at the Hungarian Olympic
Committee, claimed that the letter received by his country said "persons
attending the Olympic Games might be blown up".

Nagy also quoted IOC officials saying that the letters had been sent by someone
living outside Russia who had carried out such hoaxes before, but did not
identify the person.

Officials in Italy, Germany, Slovakia and Slovenia said their national
committees had also received threats and all had passed them on to police.

The IOC has said that it is confident that the Games, opening in Sochi on the
shores of the Black Sea on Feb 7, would be safe, and Putin has put about 37,000
security personnel on combat alert in the resort and increased security
nationwide.

Even so, Moscow has failed to dampen concern that it will not be able to
guarantee visitors' and competitors' safety, despite the most elaborate security
preparations for an Olympics.

It emerged yesterday that US speed skater Tucker Fredricks had asked his family
to stay at home because of security fears, while athletes union UNI Sport PRO
questioned whether anti-doping whereabouts information could fall into the wrong
hands because of the possible mishandling of personal data.

In Sochi, which plans to host hundreds of thousands of visitors during the
Games, security forces are searching for a woman called Ruzanna Ibragimova, 22,
who they suspect may be planning a suicide attack.

A letter from Russia's Federal Security Services to local police said she was
the widow of a slain Islamist militant and was believed to have recently left
her home in Dagestan, in the turbulent, mainly Muslim North Caucasus.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bird's eye view: venues for next month's Winter Games in Sochi
THE ASAHI SHIMBUN VIA GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           January 23, 2014 Thursday

Ban 'strongly condemns' spate of deadly terrorist attacks in Pakistan

LENGTH: 228 words


January 22, 2014

Reiterating deep concern over continued terrorist attacks and sectarian violence
in Pakistan, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today strongly
condemned a spate of deadly violence in the country, including the bombing of a
market earlier this week in Rawalpindi, and a series of attacks against polio
workers.



In a statement issued by his spokesman New York, Mr. Ban deplored the bombing at
a market in Rawalpindi on 20 January that left at least 13 dead, as well as
yesterday's attack in Baluchistan, Pakistan, on a bus carrying Shia pilgrims
returning from Iran, which reportedly killed more than 20 people and injured
many more, including women and children.

"The Secretary-General is also deeply concerned about the recent attacks on
polio workers, which have resulted in several deaths," the statement said,
adding that: "These unacceptable attacks are hampering efforts to eradicate the
disease in Pakistan, one of the last three countries where polio remains
endemic." The number of polio cases in Pakistan increased by 57 per cent last
year, from 58 cases in 2012 to 91 in 2013.

"The Secretary-General expresses his heartfelt condolences to the Government and
the people of Pakistan. He stresses the United Nations' commitment to supporting
the Government in its efforts to combat terrorism and violent extremism," says
the statement.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                           January 23, 2014 Thursday

Mock terrorist attack on Newport tests response

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 317 words


EMERGENCY services converged on Rodney Parade in Newport last night to deal with
a terrorist chemical attack.

Thankfully however, this was not the real thing, but a training exercise to
gauge the effectiveness and co-ordination of the services' response to a major
emergency.

Gwent Police, South Wales Fire and Rescue, and the Welsh Ambulance Services NHS
Trust were among the agencies that took part in the exercise with dozens of
police officers, firefighters and paramedics on the scene.

Police, fire, ambulance and other emergency services, such as the coastguard,
regularly conduct training exercises to ensure they are able to deal with any
scenario requiring an emergency response.

From terrorist threats to natural disasters, a major emergency requires that all
the emergency services and other agencies are prepared and able to deal with any
challenges.

This one is understood to have involved the recovery of a body from the
stadium's Bisley Stand, after all 'casualties' had been taken from the scene.

Personnel sent in to deal with the situation had to wear specialist protective
clothing.

The exercise assessed the services' ability to respond appropriately, from the
handling of the initial emergency call to the control room, to deploying
personnel with the appropriate equipment, dealing with a siege situation, body
recovery, decontamination, crime scene preservation, and a number of other
scenarios.

Superintendent Glyn Fernquest, who led the exercise for Gwent Police, said:
"While always hoping for the best as emergency services, we also plan for the
worst.

"We will use the lessons learnt from the exercise to review and improve our
major emergency plans so in the unlikely event of something like this occurring,
the public of Gwent will get a well prepared and effective response.

"Hopefully the exercise didn't cause residents any major disruption and we are
grateful for their support."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                thejournal.co.uk

                     January 23, 2014 Thursday 4:46 PM GMT

Putin's purge means terror casts chill over Winter Olympics;
Recent Moscow attacks spark spectre of terrorism for Sochi showpiece

BYLINE: By Dan Kay

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 968 words


Russians enthusiastically supported Vladimir Putin as he rose to power on the
promise of destroying the threat of Chechnya's independence movement.

His blueprint to "rub out the terrorists in the outhouse" with an iron fist was
laid following the devastating Moscow apartment bombings in 1999 that left 293
dead.

However the sickening suicide attacks three weeks ago in Volgograd as well as
high profile attacks on a Moscow theatre and an elementary school have shown
just how Putin has failed to succeed.

And on the eve of the Winter Olympics in Sochi, it is clear terrorism remains a
series threat in Russia.

So much so the US team has now hired a private security firm to have as many as
five aircraft on standby in case they need to be evacuated quickly.

While the US State Department has also issued an alert advising Americans who
plan on attending the Games to do so with caution.

Equally the British Foreign Office has express its concerns saying there is "a
high threat from terrorism" pinpointing the danger posed by Islamist separatists
in the North Caucasus region.

The mountainous land, not far from Sochi, has for generations been a melting pot
for religious and ethnic troubles between native Muslims and Russian forces.

But never before has the eyes of the world been so focused on the region as the
games begin on February 7.

Worryingly, if early intelligence is correct, several terrorists including four
"black widows" have already secreted themselves within "ring of steel".

A friend of mine involved in the games told me about the "unprecedented secure
zone", which is 55 miles long and 27 miles wide.

The Russians, he said, claim they will have near-total surveillance on
residents, visitors and athletes using drones in the skies, speedboats along the
shoreline and sonar in the nearby Black Sea.

Tellingly he added "Nations are still extremely worried" despite Putins recent
reassurances.

Of course Sochi is not the first, nor will it be the last, games to be the
target of attacks.

Ever since the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, when 11 Israeli athletes were
taken hostage and killed by a Palestinian group have the Games been subjected to
terrorism.

And even with the might of the FBI and CIA, security could not be ensured when
during the Atlanta games in 1996 American Eric Rudolph detonated a bomb at the
Olympic Park. The blast resulted in the deaths of two people and injured more
than 100.

It was a credit to London and the UK no such attacks were carried out during the
summer of 2012.

Experts say the biggest threat in Sochi is without question to spectators
travelling to and from the games.

Two of the three recent suicide bombings in Volgograd occurred on buses, and the
third was at a train station.

The attacks have ended all hope of a reconciliation that emerged after Putin
announced his Russian forces would stop their aerial and ground assaults in
Chechnya.

Truth be told I can't think of any country that has successfully eliminated the
threat of terrorism, however where Russia is concerned its failure can only be
attributed to the President's policies.

Ever since 1999 he has justified his brutal tactics coupled with a hugely
expanded security state by believing all Chechens are terrorists.

He has failed to make the distinction between Islamic extremists and those
seeking greater control of the region through dialogue.

It would appear his scorched-earth approach destroyed every last shred of
diplomacy only to leave extremists groups that now threaten to crush the
Olympics.

When it comes to Chechnya, Russia is firmly stuck between a rock and a hard
place.

A complete occupation or total withdraw is unworkable, while further military
operations have no future.

The Olympic spirit of "building a peaceful and better world" through "mutual
understanding with a spirit of friendship, solidarity and fair play" is one
Putin would do well to hold on to long after the torch has gone out.

AN image of Dasha Zhukova, the partner of Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich,
sparked widespread anger in America after she appeared sitting on a chair made
from a half-naked black woman.

The photograph showed the 32-year-old dressed in jeans and a white shirt sat on
cushion supported by a life-like mannequin.

The situation was compounded however as it was published on the day the States
enjoyed Martin Luther King Day, the bank holiday to celebrate the civil rights
leader.

Shortly after it was posted the magazine, Buro 24/7, removed the image and
replaced it with a cropped version where only the legs were visible, while the
model deleted it from her social networking site.

The editor Miroslava Duma has since issued an apology on Instagram saying they
"love, respect and look up to people regardless of their race, gender or social
status".

However what baffles me is how such an idea is sanctioned in the first place,
let alone then used.

Even in the grim, often tasteless, superficial world of high fashion, the image
of a slave chair smacks of racism.

WELL, it was like a red rag to a bull.

Last week I wrote about how early signs of decriminalisation of cannabis in
Colorado had shown promise in terms of health and crime benefits.

But no sooner had I said I had no desire to try marijuana then I was on a plane
heading to the Mile High City itself Denver.

It wasn't that my apathy towards cannabis had in anyway changed, I was just
asked by some readers, clearly who had tried it, to see for myself its effects
and become "more informed".

But unlike Bill Clinton, who confessed to smoking cannabis before famously
claiming he "didn't inhale" - I, on the other hand, took it all the way back.

In all honesty though after smoking a joint and trying out some cannabis-laced
chocolate, I still don't get its appeal.

All it did was leave me starving and with one more thing ticked off the Bucktin
bucket list.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTJN


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 24, 2014 Friday

Egyptian political group blames Brotherhood for "terror" attacks

LENGTH: 144 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 24 January: The National Association for Change condemned the terror
attacks that ripped through Cairo and Giza this morning, saying they were
committed by the terrorist Muslim Brotherhood group and its Takfiri allies.

In a statement, the NAC blamed the MB and its Takfiri groups for the attacks,
urging strict and immediate measures against them.

It also called on the Syndicate of Journalists to take measures against
reporters and citizens cooperating with Qatar's "Al-Jazeera" channel in its
dirty war against the Egyptian revolution and state.

The association urged the people to stay cautious and help the army and police
in their war against international terrorism waged by the terror alliance of the
MB, supported by the US, Turkey and Qatar.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1157gmt 24 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                     January 25, 2014 Saturday 10:33 AM GMT

Teacher tells of elephant attack terror;
Woman suffered serious leg injury after being gored by tusk in South Africa

BYLINE: By birminghammail

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 506 words


A Midlands teacher who suffered a serious leg injury when an elephant tore
through her car in South Africa has told how she desperately tried to drive
away.

Sarah Brooks, who works at the Sir John Gleed School in Spalding, Lincolnshire,
and her South African fiancee Jans de Klerk, were attacked by the elephant as
they drove through the Kruger National Park on December 30.

The couple have now returned to England after Miss Brooks spent more than a week
recovering from a pelvis fracture and stitches to her right leg after the
elephant's tusk pierced it.

The pair have received death threats since footage of the attack - which they
say was heavily edited to make it look as if they drove towards the animal -
went viral.

The 30-year-old science teacher saidl she "completely freaked" as the elephant
stormed towards them and in her panic was unable to find reverse in the hire
car.

The couple then resorted to stopping, turning off the ignition and looking at
the ground, but seconds later the elephant rammed into them.

Miss Brooks said: "The next thing I heard was Jans screaming at me: 'Drive!
Drive!'

"I somehow managed to turn the engine on, Jans found reverse, but just as I got
it going, the elephant tipped us up.

"Then he crushed the undercarriage by ramming it with his head, and the key
snapped out of the ignition.

'I remember thinking, 'We're never going to be able to drive away now' - and the
next thing I knew we were rolling.

"At that moment, your life flashes through your head. I thought, 'We've only
been together a year-and-a-half, life's good. Why now? Why the hell now? It just
isn't fair.' I didn't know if either of us would live."

She recalled how the bull elephant twice missed her when his tusks ripped
through the car before one pierced her leg leaving her streaming with the blood.

Mr de Klerk, who was left unhurt, managed to pull her across to his side of the
car, which the elephant finally walked away from only after pushing it up
against a tree smashing the windscreen.

The incident was captured on film by tourists in a car behind, but they drove
off after the attack believing the pair to be dead.

The couple, who feared attacks from other animals, waited for help after phoning
Mr de Klerk's brother but it was 25 minutes before a helicopter landed.

"They took me to a doctor, where I was patched up before being taken to a
hospital to check for internal injuries," Miss Brooks said.

"In the back of the ambulance, I said to Jans: 'I don't want ever to spend
another day apart from you.' He said: 'Marry me then?' I said: 'Yes."'

She said that she pleaded with the tourists not to publish the footage, but days
later an edited version went viral.

The male elephant, who was believed to be a risk to other tourists, was
destroyed after the incident.

The animal had been "on musth", a periodic condition where testosterone levels
rise and elephants become more aggressive, and had fought with another elephant
earlier that day.

The couple said park rangers told them they were "just unlucky" and had done
nothing wrong.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 26, 2014 Sunday

Kenyan security agencies ignored warning of terror attacks - report

LENGTH: 1421 words


Text of report by Andrew Teyie entitled "Security agencies ignored warning of
terrorist attack on two occasions" published by Kenyan newspaper Sunday Nation
on 26 January; subheadings as published

It is now official: security agencies ignored the warning of an impending
terrorist attack two times before the horrific Westgate massacre that killed 67
people and left close to 200 others wounded.

One of the warnings was issued just 19 days to the attack on September 21 last
year, and the other at the beginning of August. Shockingly, police did not move
to secure the identified targets.

It is also official that GSU commandos had managed to corner the terrorists who
struck at the upscale mall and that the change-over to the military bungled the
operation.

These are some of the highlights of a report by two parliamentary committees
which jointly investigated the mid-morning attack at the Westlands mall that
left Kenya and the world in shock.

The report seen by the Sunday Nation says the attack could have been prevented
had security agencies acted on intelligence information in 2012.

Chillingly, an intelligence report warned about an impending attack on Westgate
exactly a year to the day of the attack. The briefing, dated September 21, 2012,
said Somali militants from the al-Shabaab terror group were planning to attack
the Israeli-owned mall.

"Another intelligence briefing in February 2013 warned of attacks like those
that happened in Mumbai in late 2008, where the operatives storm a building with
guns and grenades and probably hold hostages. It is unclear what measures were
put in place to prevent the attacks," says the report.

The warnings just before the attack were filed on August 6 and September 2.

"There was general information on the impending terror attack on all the malls
and other strategic Western interests, especially in Nairobi. The information
was made available to the relevant security officers in Nairobi County on August
6, 2013 and on September 2, 2013," says the report of the Joint Committee of
National Security and Defence and Foreign Relations.

The committee was co-chaired by MPs Asman Kamama and Ndung'u Gethenji, and
tabled the report just before Parliament adjourned in December.

Experts who appeared before the committee said the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF)
soldiers should not have been deployed at the mall because the GSU Recce squad
had already cornered the terrorists by the time soldiers arrived at the scene.

"Involvement of the military should be a last resort decision, especially if
there is external threat to a nation's security. The presidential directive to
have the Inspector-General to take command of the Westgate Mall operation was
proper. The Chief of the Kenya Defence Forces should have ordinarily consulted
with the Inspector-General of Police and should have withheld the deployment of
KDF," experts told the MPs inquiring into the attack.

On Saturday, the Leader of Majority in Parliament, Mr Aden Duale, said the
report will be discussed when Parliament re-opens next month.

"The report was tabled in December. We will ensure the House Business Committee
gives it priority during the first few days of re-opening of Parliament. The
last verdict on the report will be from the House to amend and adopt. I urge
members to think about Kenya during the debate," he said.

New phenomenon

Mr Duale, who is the Garissa Township MP, urged MPs to look at the report with
Kenya's future in mind.

"Terrorism is a new phenomenon. As a country, we must put in place measures and
structures that ensure Westgate does not happen again in Kenya. That is why the
House must look at this report keenly," said Mr Duale in a telephone interview.

The report confirmed earlier claims that when the terror alerts were sounded,
the police were lethargic and unresponsive.

"There was general laxity and unresponsiveness among the police over terror
alerts within Nairobi," says the report.

However, during their investigations, Gigiri police chief Vitalis Otieno told
MPs that he had no prior knowledge of the attacks.

The report states that Mr Otieno discounted claims that any terrorism alerts
were passed on to them.

"The OCPD informed the members that he had no such information and that when he
got posted (to Gigiri) he met the management of the mall over security issues
and was also taken through the mall to carry out security assessments," says the
report.

Last year, intelligence reports that were leaked to the media showed that
Cabinet Secretaries Julius Rotich (Treasury), Joseph ole Lenku (Interior), Amina
Mohammed (Foreign Affairs), Raychelle Omamo (Defence) and KDF chief General
Julius Karangi were warned that al-Shabaab fighters were plotting an attack in
Nairobi.

The parliamentary report says failure to heed the warnings resulted in the
Mumbai-style attack at the mall.

The MPs say that although four terror suspects have been identified, the number
of terrorists who took part in the attack remains unknown.

However, the report confirms the suspects seen on CCTV shooting shoppers as Abu
Baraal, Al Sudani, Omar Naban and Khatab Al Kene.

"On Saturday, September 21, 2013, attackers believed to be about 10 or 15
(number yet to be ascertained) stormed Westgate mall and randomly started
shooting. About five armed attackers burst through one of the main entrances,
guns blazing, while another four entered through an underground parking lot.
Explosives also went off in the building causing some floors to cave in. It is
not clear who between the terrorists and the security forces set off the
explosions," says the report.

The four named suspects are believed to have died in the attack. Naban was a
relative of Saleh Ali Naban, who was killed in 2009 after US commandos raided an
al-Qa'idah hideout in Somalia. Saleh Naban was also involved in the 1998 US
embassy and Kikambala hotel bombings.

The MPs also confirmed earlier reports that the Westgate operation was bungled
from the outset.

"During the siege, the Recce Company from the General Service Unit (GSU) had
contained the terrorists in one corner of the Westgate mall. There was, however,
poor coordination by the multiagency forces during the operation. The
change-over between the Kenya Defence Forces and the police was uncoordinated,
which calls for the establishment of an incident Command Control Protocol," says
the report.

The report also talks about uncoordinated reports emanating from the command
centre in the aftermath of the siege.

"There was a lot of miscommunication surrounding the aftermath of the Westgate
terror attack going by the reports that the terrorists might have used the
underground tunnel reported in the media as the escape route," says the report.

The report upholds claims that KDF soldiers looted businesses at the ruined
shopping mall.

"There was looting of business premises within the mall. Action has already been
taken on three Kenya Defence Forces soldiers, one Administration Police officer,
one Anti-Terror Police Unit officer and one Fire Brigade personnel involved in
the looting incident," details the report.

KDF has flipped-flopped on this issue that soiled its standing in the public
eye. When the reports first emerged, KDF denied the claims. Even Mr Kamama and
Mr Gethenji defended the soldiers and Gen Karangi, dismissing the reports as
false.

Spin doctor

And when CCTV clips of soldiers leaving the smouldering mall with full shopping
bags were broadcast and published, KDF spin doctors claimed the soldiers were
helping themselves to water after a day's work. Under pressure from the public,
KDF retreated and charged some officers in Nakuru.

The report also talks about systemic corruption in the immigration, department
of refugee affairs and registration of persons. The latter is in charge of
issuing identity cards.

"There is nationwide systemic failure on the part of the Immigration Services
Department, Department of Refugee Affairs; and Registration of Persons
Department attributed to corruption at the border control points and
registration centres, mainly in Nairobi, Coast and North Eastern areas," says
the report.

However, it does not say whether the terrorists rented offices at the mall
before the attack.

If adopted by the House, the report is likely to spark debate on the
relationship between the various security agencies and their preparedness to
defend the country.

However, the report does not pin-point individual leaders who may have failed to
execute their mandate before, during or after the attack.

Source: Sunday Nation, Nairobi, in English 26 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                      January 27, 2014 Monday 10:36 AM GMT

Baron Oil Operations Affected By Terrorist Attacks In Colombia

LENGTH: 230 words


LONDON (Alliance News) - Baron Oil PLC Monday says "terrorist attacks" at its
Nancy Burdine Maxine Fields in Colombia have affected production.

The oil and gas exploration and production company, with operations in Latin
America, said the Putumayo region was the scene of a series of terrorist attacks
at the end of 2013, and the NBM field was attacked by guerrillas, causing both
temporary shut down of oil production and damage to equipment.

The company said security has been increased in the area to minimise the risks
of attacks in the future.

Violence has spilled over once again in Colombia in previous months as FARC
rebels continue their ongoing battle with the South American nation's
government.

Baron Oil said the current oil production from the NBM field is in excess of 500
barrels of oil per day, as an average for the last ten days, with the majority
of production coming from the Nancy-1 well, which had an average of 400 barrels
of oil per day over the ten days.

The company also noted that it has formally submitted a proposal to renew the
contract at NBM in late 2013, and the exploration work program at the Rosablanca
site has been formally approved.

Baron Oil shares were down 14% to 1.29 pence, putting it in the top five AIM
losers Monday.

By Tom McIvor; tommcivor@alliancenews.com; @TomMcIvor1

Copyright © 2014 Alliance News Limited. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2014 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 27, 2014 Monday

Increasing terrorist attacks spreading fear in Afghanistan - TV

LENGTH: 491 words


Text of report by Afghan Tolo New TV on 26 January

[Presenter] Kabul has witnessed several terrorist attacks over the past 24
hours. Analysts call on the security forces to take actions against terrorist
attacks and warn that public distrust in the government will go up unless it
takes actions. The people also voice concern about escalating violence in the
country. Sayed Azem Arash has more details.

[Correspondent] Afghanistan is going through a complicated situation.
Apparently, everyone is undergoing terrorist attacks nowadays. It seems
terrorist attacks are taking place every hour rather than every day, week, month
or year. We start talking about a terrorist attack on the Lebanese restaurant in
Kabul in which 13 foreigners and eight Afghans were killed. Last night, a mine
blast took place in the 11th precinct of Kabul city in which some people were
wounded. A few hours later, the capital witnessed two missile attacks. The
people did not heave a sigh of relief from the two earlier attacks when a
suicide attack took place in the city in which four people, including a woman,
were killed and 22 others wounded. These repeated attacks spread concern among
the people.

[Sayed Raza, Kabul resident, captioned, talking to camera] Only poor people are
destroyed in these suicide attacks.

[Rahmatollah, Kabul resident, captioned, talking to camera] The suicide
attackers are spreading concern across Afghanistan. These people are not feeling
safe while going out, eating, sleeping or walking.

[Correspondent] Apparently, these attacks are jeopardizing programmes which have
been prioritized such as the presidential election.

[Nuralhaq Olumi, military analyst, captioned, talking to camera] We are losing
credibility at international level by taking wrong stance. This emboldens armed
opponents of the government and they will step up carrying such attacks whether
we want or not. This will pressure the Afghan people and they will be
demoralized and sons of this country will be killed and destroyed.

[Correspondent] The Interior Ministry, however, has the following the opinion:

[Sediq Sediqi, spokesman for Interior Ministry, captioned, talking to camera]
After every explosion, we are working on our problems and challenges and the
Afghan people should be assured that their security forces are serving them with
all their strength and capability.

[Correspondent] Some figures suggest that at least 50 civilians have been killed
in the country over the past 10 days. Most people believe that all these attacks
and explosions have direct connection to the next election and the Afghan
security forces have to do their utmost to open the way for holding the next
election. Sayed Azem Arash, Tolo News.

[Video shows local people, Interior Ministry's spokesman talking to camera, the
scene of the suicide attack, policemen carrying wounded, the wreckage of a
mini-bus, crowd, areas of Kabul city]

Source: Tolo News, Kabul, in Dari 1330gmt 26 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 27, 2014 Monday

China police says Xinjiang explosions "premeditated terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 231 words


Text of report by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News Agency)

Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Urumqi, 27 January: Xinjiang police on Sunday revealed details of a terrorist
attack that took place on Friday [24 January] in the northwestern region,
involving 17 terrorist suspects.

Police investigation showed that the explosions which happened on Friday in the
seat of Xinhe county, under Aksu Prefecture were organized, premeditated
terrorist attacks.

According to the police, a man named Ibrahim Qahar had organized illegal
religious activities and spread religious extremism since May last year. He
headed a group of 17 terrorist suspects to make explosives in a rented house.

The group rode on three motorcycles to set up explosions at a hair salon and a
vegetable market at about 6:40 p.m. on Friday.

Shortly after the explosions, the police responded and opened fire to fight back
attacks by the group when they were making arrests.

Six suspects were gunned down and six others died in explosions they set off by
themselves.

The police also arrested five people. One policeman was slightly injured and no
bystander casualties were reported during the arrest actions.

The police seized some explosive devices and other devices used to commit
criminal acts.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1813gmt 26 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      January 27, 2014 Monday 12:33 PM GMT

Sochi Winter Olympics: UK warns terrorist attacks 'very likely'

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 355 words


UK officials are warning more terrorist attacks are "very likely to occur" in
Russia either before or during the Winter Olympics in Sochi, which are due to
begin next week.

A threat assessment has named a Caucasus group, Imarat Kavkaz (IK) as causing
the main danger, according to the BBC.

The assessment highlights the IK's leader, Emir Doku Umarov, who called on his
followers to try their hardest to disrupt the Games in July 2013.

However, the document also questions whether the group are capable of targeting
the event within such a narrow time frame, the BBC reports, with the Games
running from 7-23 February.

It also notes that the IK has not attacked non-Russian interests previously and
focuses its fight on Russia, not the West.

Last week Olympic committees in Germany, Hungary, Italy, Slovenia and the UK
received messages threatening their delegations at the Winter Olympics, but
these were dismissed by officials as unfounded.

Meanwhile, Russian authorities have been conducting a manhunt for three women
they fear may be planning suicide attacks targeting the Games. Police leaflets
in Sochi warned that Ruzana Ibragimova, a 22-year-old "Black Widow" of a
militant killed by security forces, was at large in the city.

Security officials also put out wanted posters for Oksana Aslanova, 26, and
Dzhannet Tsakhayeva, 34, saying the women were planning attacks in
Rostov-on-Don, where the Olympic torch procession arrived on 22 January.

But President Vladimir Putin has pledged the Games will be safe, and Russian
authorities are deploying over 37,000 extra law enforcement personnel around
Sochi. As part of their "ring of steel" operation, the city has been closed off
to all vehicles not registered in the city since 7 January.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office is advising all travel to Chechnya,
Ingushetia and Dagestan and the districts of Budyonnovsky, Levokumsky,
Neftekumsky, Stepnovsky and Kursky in Stavropol Krai.

It also advises against all but essential travel to all travel to Chechnya,
Ingushetia and Dagestan and the districts of Budyonnovsky, Levokumsky,
Neftekumsky, Stepnovsky and Kursky in Stavropol Krai.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            January 27, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attacks warning in run-up to Winter Olympics

BYLINE: Nicholas Cecil

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 366 words


BRITONS travelling to the Winter Olympics in Sochi were today warned of a terror
threat.

The Foreign Office updated its advice to urge spectators and competitors to
maintain a "high level of personal security awareness at all times and in all
places".

The travel advice was amended amid reports that Whitehall officials believe that
more terrorist attacks are "very likely" in the run-up to the Games in the
Russian Black Sea resort next month.

"Large-scale public events present an attractive target for terrorists," the
Foreign Office stated. "Travellers at the Sochi Games should expect increased
police presence and enhanced security measures in and around both the Olympic
venues and the wider Sochi area. You should maintain a high level of personal
security awareness at all times and in all places. As well as monitoring this
travel advice, you should monitor local media and follow the advice of local
authorities."

A threat assessment drawn up by Whitehall officials emphasised that the terror
group Imarat Kavkaz was seen as the biggest danger, according to the BBC. The
group has repeatedly signalled a wish to target the Games, which run from
February 7-23.

The British Olympic team will compete against 87 other nations. Tens of
thousands of soldiers, police and other security officials have been mobilised.
A security ring has been thrown around Sochi after a double bomb attack on the
city of Volgograd last month which left 34 people dead. Islamist militants based
in Dagestan claimed responsibility.

The Whitehall assessment emphasises that IK's leader, Emir Doku Umarov, who is
on the run, has urged his supporters to try to disrupt the Winter Games,
according to the BBC's respected security correspondent Frank Gardner.

There are fears that a suspected would-be suicide bomber named as Ruzanna
Ibragimova, the 22-year-old widow of a militant, may already have got through
the security cordon. Russian security forces are said to be trying to track her
down, with reports that there may be three other "black widows", whose insurgent
husbands have been killed and who may be plotting attacks.

Security guards, many dressed all in black, are already guarding the venues for
the Games.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            January 27, 2014 Monday

Egypt: Ban condemns series of terrorist attacks in Cairo

LENGTH: 342 words


January 24, 2014

United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has condemned the wave of terrorist
attacks in Greater Cairo, which reportedly killed at least six people and
resulted in a large number of casualties earlier today -- on the eve of the
third anniversary of the uprising that toppled Hosni Mubarak.



"No cause can justify such acts of terrorism," Mr. Ban said in a statement
issued by his spokesperson, which also conveyed his condolences to the families
of the victims as well as to the Government and people of Egypt.

The statement also called for the perpetrators of what is being reported in the
media as a series of deadly attacks to be brought to justice.

Just yesterday, in a statement marking the third anniversary of Egypt's
revolution, the Secretary-General called on all sides in the country to renew
their commitment to peaceful dialogue and non-violence based on pluralism with
political space for all.

He reiterated the commitment of the UN to support the country in building the
future for all Egyptians, with dignity, freedom, responsible governance and
development that inspired the uprising of 2011, which toppled Mr. Mubarak nearly
three years ago after mass protests.

Last July, renewed protests, in which dozens of people were killed and wounded,
led to the military deposing President Mohamed Morsy and the setting up of an
interim government. A new constitution was adopted in a referendum earlier this
month.

"The Secretary-General encourages Egyptians to rediscover common ground," the
statement said. "In his view, credible parliamentary and presidential elections
in a free and open atmosphere are crucial steps ahead in the transition."

"Protection of human rights -- and the rights and participation of women, in
particular -- is an essential foundation for the future. Political parties must
commit themselves to non-violence," the statement concluded, stressing that a
peaceful and democratic Egypt is what the people of Egypt deserve and is
critical for the entire North Africa, Middle East region and beyond.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 27, 2014 Monday 10:59 PM GMT

Americans should be wary of visiting Sochi, warns State Department as experts
say terror attack is 'very likely'

BYLINE: MEGHAN KENEALLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 790 words



     ·    U.S. government has ordered a travel alert for Russia citing terror
          threats
     ·    British officials say a terrorist attack during the Games is 'very
          likely'
     ·    37,000 extra soldiers formed 'ring of steel' around Sochi Olympic
          venue but biggest targets are outside in more public places like
          hotels and airports
     ·    Russian police hunting suspected 'black widow' Ruzanna Ibragimova
     ·    Top security experts said that while travelers should remain vigilant
          and aware of their surroundings, they should still go and support the
          team


Top security experts have warned travelers that a terrorist attack at the Sochi
Winter Olympics is 'very likely'.

The Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel said that the U.S. has deployed two
American warships to stand guard in the Black Sea during the Games, which start
next weekend, in case they are needed to help evacuate Americans.

The threat of a terrorist attack is being viewed as a very real possibility as
Russian security forces are hunting a woman suspected of planning a suicide
bombing- and she is thought to be in Sochi already.

Still, it is far from clear that Russia would allow U.S. military assets into
its territory following a security incident, and Moscow has made no request for
U.S. security assistance so far.

WILL TWO WARSHIPS BE ENOUGH? HOW MANY AMERICANS ARE HEADED TO RUSSIA

The focus of the Sochi Winter Games and Paralympic Games will inevitably be on
the 230 athletes who will be competing, but they represent just a fraction of
the Americans who will be in Russia.

There are expected to be 270 coaches and support staff who will accompany the
athletes, and a far bigger number of fans in the crowds.

Up to 10,000 spectators are expected to fill the bleachers, putting the best
estimate for Americans in Sochi somewhere around 10,600.

Asked about the matter at a Pentagon news conference, Hagel said only that
proper arrangements would be in place, without saying specifically who might do
the evacuating.

'If we need to extract our citizens, we will have appropriate arrangements with
the Russians to do this,' Hagel said on Friday.

The State Department also issued a travel alert for Americans planning on
attending the Games, but it extends throughout the Russian Federation and not
simply to Sochi.

'Large-scale public events such as the Olympics present an attractive target for
terrorists, and the U.S. government continues to monitor reported threats of
potential terrorist attacks in Sochi or in Russia in general,' the alert  reads.

Americans who decide to travel to Russia between the start of the Games between
February 7 and March 16 'should remain attentive regarding their personal
security at all times'.

British intelligence have said that some reassurance can come from the reports
that an extra 37,000 soldiers and police officers that have been called in to
Sochi in order to boost security have formed a 'ring of steel' around the event,
making it a much harder target.

Many American commentators- from former CIA deputy director Michael Morell to
former Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney- have expressed caution but
said that they would still go and bring their families.

Mr Morell, the former CIA deputy director, agreed and urged Americans to take
care- particularly when they leave the Olympic village.

'I think the venue itself is fairly safe. I'd worry about airports elsewhere in
Russia, I'd worry about Western hotels elsewhere in Russia,' he said on CBS This
Morning.

'I think these are the most dangerous Olympics that I've experienced in my adult
life... because you have a capable, dedicated, determined terrorist group that
has been around for a long time that recently conducted two attacks in Russia
that say that they want to attack during the Games.

'I would go. I would take my family. I would be very careful. I would be very
aware of my surroundings.'

Mr Romney, who organized the Winter Games in Salt Lake City in 2002, told The
Today Show last week that the fact that the Russian organizers have released the
names and photos of suspected terrorists who may be plotting an attack shows
that they have an 'extraordinary intelligence' program.

'There's never been a Games that I know of that has been so targeted for
specific threats as you're seeing at Sochi. At the same time, the level of
security preparations appears to be at an unprecedented level,' Mr Romney said.

'I believe the Games will be safe. That doesn't mean there's a 100 per cent
guarantee anywhere in the world today. But this is, after all, a dangerous
corner of the world.

A twin bomb attack on the city of Volgograd in December killed 34 people before
a militant Islamist group- based in Dagestan- claimed responsibility.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 27, 2014 Monday 2:26 PM GMT

British terror chiefs warn an attack on Sochi Games is 'very likely' as Russian
authorities continue to hunt 'black widow' bombers

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 434 words



     ·    Threat assessment names Caucasus group, Imarat Kavkaz, as biggest
          worry
     ·    The group, led by Emir Doku Umarov, has made repeated threats on Games
     ·    But it also says 37,000 extra soldiers formed 'ring of steel' around
          event
     ·    Russian police hunting suspected white widow Ruzanna Ibragimova


British anti-terror chiefs have warned that a large-scale terror attack on the
Winter Games in Sochi is 'very likely to occur'.

A threat assessment by Whitehall officials names a Caucasus group, Imarat Kavkaz
(IK), as top of the watch-list since it has repeatedly made threats against the
Games in recent months.

The assessment points out that in July 2013 the IK's fugitive leader, Emir Doku
Umarov, called on his followers to do what they can to disrupt the Games.

But with the Winter Olympics scheduled to begin next month, the report questions
whether the group's ability to plan and carry out an attack in such a short time
frame.

A twin bomb attack on the city of Volgograd in December killed 34 people before
a militant Islamist group, based in Dagestan claimed responsibility.

But British intelligence says the 37,000 extra soldiers and police that have
been drafted in to boost security have formed a 'ring of steel' around the
event, making it a much harder target.

The authorities have also been hunting a suspected would-be suicide bomber named
as Ruzanna Ibragimova, the 22-year old widow of a militant.

Authorities fear she, as well as up to three other female suicide bombers known
as black widows, lying low in Sochi ahead of a planned attack on the Games.

She is described as having a limp, a scar on her cheek, and that her left arm
does not bend at the elbow.

The posters say that Russian authorities believe she left Dagestan, a Russian
republic in the Caucasus, earlier this month, and may be headed for the Olympic
city.

The hunt follows the release of a video showing two young men who are believed
to have been bombers in the December 2013 Volgograd attacks.

Posted by group Ansar al Sunah on a militant Chechen site, the two men warned
that as long as President Vladimir Putin occupies the North Caucasus region near
Sochi, Russians and Olympic visitors alike will not be safe, ABC News reported.

'We'll have a surprise package for you,' one of the men said in the video,
according to the ABC report. 'And those tourists that will come to you, for
them, too, we have a surprise. If it happens [the Olympics], we'll have a
surprise for you.

The FCO advises against all travel to Chechnya, Ingushetia and Dagestan and the
districts of Budyonnovsky, Levokumsky, Neftekumsky, Stepnovsky and Kursky in
Stavropol Krai.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      January 27, 2014 Monday 5:02 PM GMT

Sochi Winter Olympics: Terrorist attacks 'very likely to occur' warns British
threat assessment;
UK officials have highlighted a Caucasus group, Imarat Kavkaz (IK), as the main
danger ahead of the Games next week

BYLINE: By Ben Burrows

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 238 words


UK officials have warned that terrorist attacks at the Sochi Winter Olympics are
"very likely to occur".

A threat assessment indicates a Caucasus group, Imarat Kavkaz (IK), pose the
main danger ahead of the Games.

The document, seen by the BBC, apparently points to the IK's leader, Emir Doku
Umarov, calling on his followers to do everything they can to disrupt the Games,
back in July 2013.

However, the assessment does doubt the group's ability to carry out an attack in
such a narrow time frame.

The Games will run between February 7 and February 23.

The document also suggests that increased Russian military operations will make
it more difficult for any attack to take place.

More than 37,000 extra troops and police are being brought in as the host
country look to tighten up security.

The Games will see 88 countries compete and get underway in earnest next week.

Last week, the first picture of the so-called 'Black Widow' suicide bomber
thought to be in hiding in the Winter Olympic Games city of Sochi emerged.

Ruzana Ibragimova has threatened to carry out a terror attack at the Games in
revenge for the death of her Islamic militant husband.

The BOA also received an email last week detailing a potential terrorist attack.

However, the BOA's director of communications Darryl Seibel said the threat
"lacks credibility", and that it will not alter the rigid security arrangements
already in place to protect the Great Britain team.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday

Kazakh tourists asked to stay in resorts to avoid terrorist attacks in Egypt

LENGTH: 123 words


Excerpt from report by state-owned Kazakh news agency Kazinform

Astana, 27 January: The Kazakh people have been advised not to leave resort
areas in Egypt due to acts of terrorism committed in this country.

"The tourism industry committee of the Kazakh Industry and New Technologies
Ministry said that it was necessary to confirm recommendations given earlier to
Kazakh tourists in Egypt to exercise caution, to stay in resort areas and to
avoid visiting big cities and districts where there is a danger of terrorism and
crime," a report by the committee's press service said.

[Passage omitted: a series of terrorist attacks were carried out in Cairo and in
some districts on 24 January]

Source: Kazinform, Astana, in Russian 0154 gmt 27 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday

Afghan spokesman denies president thinks USA involved in "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 324 words


Excerpt from report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 28 January

[Presenter] The [Afghan] Presidential Palace dismisses has dismissed reports,
which perhaps President Karzai has said that the Americans are behind the
terrorist attacks in Afghanistan. Afghan presidential spokesman [Emal Faizi]
also says that US incapable to bring the Taleban to the peace negotiating table,
and US should admit to its incapability in this regard.

[Correspondent] We should expect the message of the White House tonight in
reaction to President Karzai's stance on signing the security agreement.
However, the presidential office here is not concerned about this issue at all
and says the Afghan government is ready to sign the security agreement with
Washington provided the USA meets Afghanistan's conditions.

[Emal Faizi, spokesman for president Karzai, captioned] This is something that
has been published in a foreign newspaper. If you have any questions about this,
you can contact those who have given such information. What is clear thing is
that sometimes the name of the Taleban is used in terrorist attacks taking place
in Afghanistan. Terrorist attacks take place using the name of the Taleban in
the country while outsiders' hands are behind them. They are linked to foreign
intelligence networks and they carry out such terrorist attacks in the country.

[Correspondent] President Karzai's spokesman dismisses a report in Washington
Post saying that President Karzai believes the USA is behind most terrorist
attacks.

[Passage omitted: Emal Faizi reiterates Afghan government's stance over signing
the security pact with the USA]

[Correspondent] The release of nearly 40 Taleban prisoners from Bagram prison
has triggered US anger. However, President Karzai's spokesman warns that
Washington does not have the right to interfere or chastise the Afghan
government over its decisions.

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1315 gmt 28 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

TAXI DRIVER'S TERROR AFTER HORROR ATTACK

BYLINE: PAUL O'DONOGHUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 162 words


A TAXI driver has told of his physical and mental anguish after being punched
and kicked in the head over a (EURO)26 fare.

Fergal MacEoin's attackers James Murphy, 20, of Alerwood Rise, Tallaght, South
Dublin, and 19-year-old Dean Daly, from Maplewood Park, Tallaght, walked free
after being given a three-year suspended sentence.

Judge Mary Ellen Ring said she had to take their youth into account and the fact
neither had any previous convictions.

She described the assault as "shocking and unprovoked". Mr MacEoin, from
Castleknock, West Dublin, had some of his teeth knocked out as well as suffering
fractures around his eye and now has metal plates in his face.

He said: "I'm not the person I was. There's less life in me. It was a very nasty
attack. It was so prolonged.

"I still work the taxi at night but I am afraid to pick up fares."

The taxi driver was attacked after driving the pair to Tallaght.

He was kicked and punched in the head and had his phone and wallet stolen.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BEATEN Fergal MacEoin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 28, 2014 Tuesday 6:01 PM GMT

Hamza Abdullah interview: Former NFL player claims 'we don't know' the facts of
9/11 terror attack;
Former Denver Broncos and Arizona Cardinals safety player was among the most
prominent Muslims in the NFL

BYLINE: Mihir Bose

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 1272 words


Hamza Abdullah, the former Denver Broncos and Arizona Cardinals safety player,
who retired last month, has made headlines recently for expletive-laden rants.
In one, referring to how the NFL has handled player injuries, he called the
organisation a "slave trade" and the League itself a "plantation".

He later took some of the tweets down but I was not sure how he would react when
I met him quite by chance in Doha last month. He was a speaker in Doha Goals
Forum, a much hyped three day event, whose patron is the Emir of Qatar and which
attracted high profile names ranging from politicians like Lord Mandelson and Ed
Vaizey, the minister for Culture, Communications and Creative Industries to
sporting legends: Boris Becker, Ilie Nastase, Nadia Comaneci, Katarina Witt,
Michael Johnson, Kelly Holmes and Jonathan Edwards. Cherie Blair was listed as a
speaker but did not turn up.

But, as we sit down to talk in a hotel, a two minute ride from where these
dignitaries are meeting far from using any expletives Abdullah could not sound
gentler. Indeed he calls me "sir" as he explains what it was like to be a rare
Muslim in the NFL. Brought up by devout parents in Los Angeles he does not
celebrate Christmas or Thanksgiving. "To be honest with you", he says, "I'm kind
of indifferent about it".

The 30-year-old Abdullah is wearing a Kufi, the headgear for devout Muslim men,
as he tells me how he and his brother Husain, who plays for Kansas City Chief,
took the whole of 2012 off to go on the Haj, the obligatory pilgrimage to Mecca.
The trip, he says, made him realise that contrary to propaganda the world's
Muslims do not hate Americans. "They look at you and they love you because
you're American", he says.

9/11, and the events that followed, may suggest this is rather an optimistic
interpretation but then Abdullah has told me that 9/11 "made me appreciate what
I had and made me appreciate my country. I became a patriot, I became more of an
American I would say."

However when I probe how the NFL's most prominent Muslim player feels about 9/11
it soon becomes clear not many of his countrymen would consider his views
remotely American.

So when I ask his views about that atrocity he replies, "That's not for me to
say, you know, I will be judged on me, I can't be judged on someone else,
neither can they be judged on me."

But surely he must think it was a horrific act?

"I think that every man does something in his life that we are afraid of, that
we don't want to come out to the light. So before I go on talking about someone
else's perceived ill intent I have to work on my perceived ill intent."

But does he not think it was an evil act?

"I would say that I have to make sure, whatever I'm doing, I am being a good
example for myself, for my family, for my children, for my society, for my
religion. You know, what happened September 11th changed the course of history,
and everyone will always be forever changed. And what we have to do is we have
to make sure that we are identifying with each other and with ourselves, and we
have to take care of our own home first before we go out and say 'This person
did this and that person did that'."

Surely everyone knows that planes flew into the Twin Towers, killing innocent
people?

"Well," he responds, "We don't even know, we speculate. What 100 per cent facts
are there about what happened that day? We don't know, right?"

Was he saying the plane didn't...?

He cuts me short by replying, "Do we know the people that went into that or do
we know what we were told?"

By this time not knowing quite what to ask I say, "So you think they might not
have been Muslim?"

Abdullah answers, "No, no, I don't know what they were, but if someone just says
'Hey, that guy's Muslim', what if they said that person is a part of your
neighbourhood? Well I don't know, I have never seen that guy."

So what happened on that day?

"I'm not a historian, I'm not a psychic, I'm not a soothsayer, all I am is Hamza
Abdullah, I'm a Muslim, I am a father, I'm a husband, I'm a son, and all I can
do is concern myself with what I can control."

But in some ways his real jaw dropping answer comes when I ask whether he would
not say Hitler was evil. "I would say that 'My name is Hamza Abdullah and the
person that I have to be accountable for is Hamza Abdullah'." He than adds,
"There is only one judge and that's God. So as tough as something may seem,
let's say me and you together, we walk outside and we see someone shoot another
man, what would we both say?  'Whoa!'  Will you say 'That is an evil act', am I
correct?  But we don't know the story behind that."

Given his stance on 9/11, which is not uncommon among some fundamentalist
Muslims, you may expect Abdullah to say his mission is to convert the whole
world into Islam. But when I ask he emphatically makes it clear he has no such
desire, "If God" he says, "wanted us all to be one colour, to be one race, to be
one religion, guess what?  We would all be one race, one colour, one religion,
but we're not." And as for there being people with different religious beliefs
he says, "That's okay."

And he emphasises that the non-profit organisation he has set up to help what he
calls "the transitioning athletes, the professional athletes that are done
playing" will not be sectarian. Having decided to retire, because he says
professional football "was wearing on me mentally and physically", he can be
quite eloquent about what prompted his decision to form the organisation.

"I'm passionate about helping my brothers and helping my sisters and helping my
neighbours, and leaving this world in a better place, because in Islamic culture
that's what you are taught. It's not about how big a house you have, it's not
about what kind of car you drive, it's not about how much money that you have
because you know why? When you meet your maker all that stuff is gone.  The only
thing that stays with you are what? Your good deeds.  So your good deeds should
be the number one thing that you cherish and that's what I cherish."

But will it be open to athletes of all faiths? "Oh, of course," he says.

However his faith has made him so altruistic when I ask about his greatest
sporting moment in a six year career which also saw him play for Tampa Bay
Buccaneers and Cleveland Browns, he talks about his brother's career.

"The number one moment was when my brother called me and said he had made the
team to play in the National Football League.  It was a feeling that I can't
describe. In Islam we are taught to want for your brother what you want for
yourself. So I love the most about being in the NFL was seeing my brother attain
the same achievements that I made and actually even go even further. He's still
paying, so I'm still gaining pleasure just from watching him."

So it is no surprise to hear that not only does he feel Qatar should host the
2022 World Cup but that it can be played in the summer heat. "You can play
whenever, that's the thing about an athlete".

And so impressed is he by what he has seen that he says, "I guarantee you
they're going to have something that people have never seen when it comes to the
World Cup." He has no doubts that the Qataris can fulfil their pledge to build
stadiums to play in the head, "It's not foreign to have a stadium that
accommodates in the heat.  I played in Arizona, Arizona would be 115, 116, 117
every week, but guess what we played in?  70 degree weather. It's the same
thing, it doesn't matter what's going on outside, you can control this element,
these designs, these stadiums that they have now, that's why they cost so much
money, because you're making a level playing field."

@mihirbose

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                      January 28, 2014 Tuesday 5:42 PM GMT

Inquests into Liverpool men killed in Algerian terrorist attack to take place
later this year;
Paul Morgan and Garry Barlow were among 40 hostages killed at the In Amenas
plant in north African country

BYLINE: By John Siddle

LENGTH: 335 words


The inquest into the deaths of two              Liverpoolmen killed when
terrorists laid siege to an Algerian gas plant is expected to take place later
this year.

Paul Morgan, 46, from              Aigburth, and Garry Barlow, 49, from
Allerton, were among 40 hostages who were killed at the In Amenas plant in the
north African country during a four-day stand-off which began on January 16 last
year.

Four other Brits also perished in the atrocity.

Those representing the families of the dead men were told at a pre-inquest
hearing that September and October had been set aside for the full hearing at
the Royal Courts of Justice in London.

Detective Superintendent Jim Stokley, from the Met Police, told the hearing at
Crawley Town Hall that statements still needed to be taken from witnesses in the
United States, France, Indonesia and the United Arab Emirates.

He said a memorial service will be held in Houston, Texas, on February 19 where
witnesses will also have their statements taken.

Lawyers for the family of Carlos Estrada, a BP executive who was originally from
Columbia but lived in London, said his relatives are still in the dark over the
circumstances of his death more than a year on from the atrocity.
He was on his first business trip to the In Amenas plant when he was taken
hostage and killed during his time in captivity.

Clive Garner, of law firm Irwin Mitchell, representing Mr Estrada's family,
said: "This inquest is an opportunity to provide the vital answers that Mr
Estrada's family, and the families of other victims, desperately need.

"It is now over a year since Mr Estrada died and his family still do not know
exactly what happened to him and how this tragedy occurred.

"It is hoped that the inquest will help the families who lost their loved ones
understand exactly what happened so that lessons can be learnt in case of any
similar incidents in future."

A further pre-inquest hearing is expected to take place at Crawley Town Hall on
May 20 at 2pm.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 28, 2014 Tuesday 1:16 PM GMT

Pakistan launch of Taliban shooting victim Malala's book CANCELLED over fears of
terror attack

BYLINE: TED THORNHILL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 396 words



     ·    Malala's book, written with journalist Christina Lamb, details her
          story
     ·    I Am Malala was due to be launched on Tuesday in Peshawar
     ·    Organisers were warned by police that they could not provide security
     ·    Malala was shot in 2012 by the Taliban for supporting women's
          education


author]

The launch of Malala Yousafzai's memoir - I Am Malala - has been cancelled in
her home province in north-west Pakistan amid fears that the event could be
targeted by the Taliban.

The police have reportedly stated that they would not be able to provide
security for the launch in Peshawar.

Malala was shot and wounded in October 2012 after opposing the Taliban's
restrictions on the education of girls.

Malala was treated at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham and has since
made the UK her permanent home.

In her book, written with British journalist Christina Lamb, Malala details her
extraordinary story and her continued role as an activist.

However, she is not universally liked in Pakistan, with some people suspecting
that she is being used as a mouthpiece by the West.

Pressure to cancel the book launch also came from local government ministers,
according to The Daily Telegraph.

Sarfraz Khan, director of the Area Study Centre at the University of Peshawar,
which was to run the launch with the Bacha Khan Education Trust, is said to have
received phone calls from two officials urging him to cancel the launch.

However, Imran Khan, the head of the PTI party, which has control of the
province, said he was dismayed at the decision to cancel Tuesday's event.

He tweeted: 'Am at a loss 2 understand why Malala's book launch stopped in
Peshawar. PTI believes in freedom of speech/debate, not censorship of ideas.'

In October 2013 Malala, accompanied by her father Ziauddin, gave the Queen a
copy of her book during a meeting in the palace's White Drawing Room.

She told her: 'It is a great honour for me to be here, and I wanted to present
you with this book.'

Accepting the gift, the Queen replied: 'That's very kind of you.'

Malala told the Queen she was passionate about every child having a right to an
education, everywhere around the world.

She added: 'Especially in this country as well. I have heard about many children
that can't go to school, and I want to continue our work.'

Malala received the Amnesty International Ambassador of Conscience award for
2013 in recognition of her endeavours.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Malala's book release cancelled to avoid fuel terror attacks - Pakistan official

LENGTH: 961 words


Text of report by Pakistan daily The News website on 29 January

The PTI government's decision to disallow the launch of highly controversial
book "I Am Malala" was meant to avoid fuelling terrorist attacks as the book
contains highly provocative content including a defense for the most hatred
blasphemer Salman Rushdie in the name of freedom of speech.

A PTI government source told The News that they couldn't allow the inauguration
of a book that as it may have caused extreme anger amongst the people since it
contained highly contentious comments about Islam and Pakistan.

The government source said although the PTI leadership had now succumbed to the
pressure of the media, it was a judicious decision not to allow this
particularly in a province that is already the worst target of terrorism.

The book, which is more reflective of Malala's father's experiences and thoughts
than her own, softly talks of the most hatred blasphemer Salman Rushdie and his
sacrilegious book The Satanic Verses.

As has been the view of the West in general, she writes: "My father also saw the
book as offensive to Islam but believes strongly in the freedom of speech."

Muslims all over the world had protested against The Satanic Verses and its
writer but Malala in her book wrote, "Is Islam such a weak religion that it
cannot tolerate a book written against it? Not my Islam." For the protests
against the blasphemous book in Pakistan, Malala shifted all the blame to what
she called a mullah close to our intelligence services to have ignited the
feeling of the people of Pakistan to protest.

Like any western authors, Malala in her book refers to Prophet Muhammad (SAW) on
many occasions but did not use what was considered mandatory for every Muslim to
say/write either Peace Be Upon Him (PBUH) or Sallallu Alaihi Wasallam (SAW).

In the same book, Malala even reflected negatively on Islamic laws. She wrote:
"But General Zia brought in Islamic Laws which reduced woman's evidence in court
to count for only half that of a man's." She also found the Blasphemy Law in
Pakistan as stricter and wrote, "In Pakistan we have something called the
Blasphemy Law, which protects the Holy Quran from desecration. Under General
Zia's Islamisation campaign, the law was made much stricter so that anyone who
defiles the sacred name of the Holy Prophet can be punished by death or life
imprisonment."

"Allowing the launch of such a controversial book, would mean inviting more and
more terrorist attacks," the PTI government source said. He lamented that the
PTI Chief Imran Khan should have understood the real danger attached with the
book instead of having been succumbed to the pressure of the seculars.

As reported earlier by this newspaper, Malala in her book was thought extremely
critical of General Ziaul Haq and his Islamisation; she was positive for General
Musharraf and his policy of enlightened moderation. On pages 78 and 79 of her
book, she says: "In some ways Musharraf was very different from General Zia.
Though he usually dressed in uniform, he occasionally wore western suits and
called himself chief executive instead of chief martial law administrator. He
also kept dogs, which we Muslims regard as unclean."

She added that instead of Zia's Islamisation he began what he called enlightened
moderation. "He opened up our media, allowed new private channels and female
newsreaders, as well as showing dancing on the television. The celebration of
Western holidays such as Valentine's Day and New Year's Eve was allowed. He even
sanctioned an annual pop concert on the eve of Independence Day, which was
broadcast to the nation. He did something which our democratic rulers hadn't,
even Benazir, and abolished the law that for woman to prove she was raped, she
had to produce four male witnesses."

Registering her subtle protest to Zia's policy of preventing sportswomen from
wearing shorts, she writes, "As a nation we have always been good at hockey, but
Zia made female hockey players wear baggy trousers instead of shorts, and
stopped women playing some sports altogether."

About Salman Rushdie and his highly blasphemous book, she wrote (page 36-37),
"It (The Satanic Verses) was a parody of the Prophet's life set in Bombay.
Muslims widely considered it blasphemous and it provoked so much outrage that it
seemed people were talking of little else. The odd thing was no one had even
noticed the publication of the book to start with - it wasn't actually on sale
in Pakistan- but then a series of articles appeared in Urdu newspapers by a
mullah close to our intelligence service, berating the book as offensive to the
Prophet and saying it was the duty of good Muslims to protest. Soon mullahs all
over Pakistan were denouncing the book, calling for it to be banned, and angry
demonstrations were held. The most violence took place in Islamabad on 12
February 1989, when American flags were set a light in front of the American
Centre - even through Rushdie and his publishers were British. Police fired into
the crowd, and five people were killed. The anger wasn't just in Pakistan. Two
days later Ayatollah Khomeini, the supreme leader of Iran, issued a fatwa
calling for Rushdie's assassination."

She added, "My father's college held a heated debate in a packed room. Many
students argued that the book should be banned and burnt and the fatwa be
upheld. My father also saw the book as offensive to Islam but believes strongly
in the freedom of speech. First, let's read the book and then why not respond
with our own book, he suggested. He ended by asking in a thundering voice my
grandfather would have been proud of: Is Islam such a weak religion that it
cannot tolerate a book written against it? Not my Islam!"

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 29 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Del's body back home after Kabul terror attack

BYLINE: Emma Streatfield

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 369 words


THE family of a popular Southampton man killed in an Afghanistan terrorist
attack have brought him back home.

A week after Del Singh died in a restaurant explosion and shooting, his younger
sister Dishi Pangurha and partner Komal Adris have escorted his body back to the
UK.

Neither had visited the wartorn country before and told how glad they were to
have gone despite the potential security risks.

As reported, 39- year-old Del, from St Mary's, was one of 21 people, including
another Briton, who died when the Taliban targeted a restaurant in Kabul on
January 17.

A Labour MEP candidate for the south east, Del had worked in international aid
for more than a decade, managing EU and UN projects as well as for the
Department for International Development in the Middle East.

He also was a well-known figure in Southampton and was working at the time as an
international development consultant for Adam Smith International - a leading
international advisory firm.

When Del, of Northumberland Road, was in Afghanistan he stayed in a large house
with colleagues, including Malaysian adviser Gnana Nagarajah, who was with him
in the restaurant that night and was also killed. Dishi and Komal were not able
to visit the site of the attack that claimed Del's life because it was blocked
off.

However the pair were able to meet people who knew Del and were devastated by
what happened, and they were also able to say prayers for him at the Sikh temple
in the capital.

They also attended a multi-faith memorial service held by the company for
friends and colleagues of Del and Gnana, where people shared their stories and
memories and read from scripture.

Komal, 35, said "We got to understand why he loved Afghanistan, we met his
housemates and colleagues and everybody that was around him. It was really
comforting."

Dishi, 34, said going through Del's belongings had been "heart-wrenching".

She said: "It was hard and it's just something you have to get through, there's
nothing anyone can do to make it better.

"As much as I would wish it, he's not going to come back."

They flew back to the UK with Del last Friday and the family hope to hold the
funeral in Southampton next week.

A further memorial event may take place in London.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                     January 30, 2014 Thursday 1:30 PM GMT

10 boys arrested over Mischief Night trouble;
Boys aged 12, 13 and 14 arrested by police as mum tells of car attack terror

BYLINE: By John Siddle

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 530 words


Boys aged just 12, 13 and 14 were today being quizzed over Mischief Night
disorder where stones and bricks were thrown at moving cars in Liverpool.

Police have made 10 arrests in connection with the trouble in Lodge Lane,
Toxteth, on October 31.

Mum Sara Williams, 34, from Allerton, and her family were among those targeted
by the yobs.

She was in the car with her husband Elis, mum Susan and five- year-old daughter
and 20-month-old son, when a brick was thrown through the back windscreen of the
car, spraying broken glass over her screaming children.

Speaking to the ECHO at the time, Mrs Williams said: "I was dropping my mum home
in Kensington and we were on Lodge Lane and I could see cars starting to queue.
A couple of wheelie bins had been left across the road and the cars were slowing
to get round them.

"Then I noticed about 20 to 30 youths at the side of the road dressed in dark
clothing and hoodies.

"The kids starting throwing rocks and stones at our car.

"Then a youth came out with a plank of wood raised above his head. My husband
got out because he was about to bring it down on our bonnet.

"It all happened so quickly. The next thing, my husband had a bloody nose. Then
they all started to come forward and were kicking and throwing stones at the
car. They grabbed hold of the car door and were trying to rip it off.

"My husband scrambled back into the car and then a brick came through the back
windscreen. My kids were screaming and crying, there was shattered glass all
over them."

The ten male (two aged 16, two aged 17, one aged 12, one aged 14, one aged 13,
one aged 15,  one aged 19, and one aged 20, all from Toxteth) were arrested on
suspicion of violent disorder and searches of their properties were today
ongoing.

Superintendent Clive Howarth, said: "On Wednesday, 30 October last year a number
of cars travelling along Lodge Lane were targeted by a group of youths throwing
stones.

"This was frightening for the drivers and one family in particular who reported
that they had had the rear window of their car smashed by an object that had
been thrown at the car.

"There were two children in the car at the time of the incident and the family
were really affected by the incident.

"Since October we have worked closely with the local community, community groups
and a number of partner agencies, including Liverpool City Council,
Neighbourhood Services, housing associations and registered social landlords, in
relation to anti social behaviour in the Lodge Lane area.

"I would like to thank all of those who have helped us with our inquiries in
relation to this, which has lead to the positive action we have taken this
morning.

"We will not let groups of young people make the lives of our communities a
misery and we will work with our communities to ensure that they can go about
their day-to-day business without fear of groups of youths intent on causing
trouble."

Those arrested this morning have been taken to police stations on Merseyside
where they will be interviewed by detectives.

Anyone having problems with anti social behaviour should call your local police
station on 101 non-emergency phone number, or speak to your local council
representative.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 30, 2014 Thursday 4:42 PM GMT

British athletes told NOT to wear their team kit when they arrive for Russian
Olympics due to terror attack fears

BYLINE: DAVID WILLIAMS, CHIEF REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1108 words



     ·    Athletes warned to keep a low profile due to an increased terror
          threat
     ·    UK intelligence warned that another attack is considered 'very likely'
     ·    Putin has ordered 40,000 extra troops to Sochi to counter the threat
     ·    Man dubbed 'Russia's Bin Laden' considered biggest threat to Games
     ·    Doku Umarov thought to be behind twin bombings in city of Volgograd
     ·    Attack killed 34, with police releasing new information on suicide
          bombers


British athletes travelling to Russia for the Winter Olympics have been advised
not to wear their official team kit with the GB logo on arrival because of fears
of terror attacks.

Officials from the British Olympic Association warned the 56 athletes and 64
other members of Team GB to keep a low profile while in the country for the
showpiece Games in Sochi, particularly while travelling through the capital city
Moscow.

The British team has not received a specific threat of attack in the Black Sea
resort but described the advice as a 'common sense approach' which comes just
days after UK intelligence warned that more deadly terrorist attacks in Russia
are 'very likely' before or during the Winter Olympics.

In a stark assessment, they say that despite the biggest ever security operation
surrounding a Winter Games, more terror attacks such as the twin bombings that
killed 34 people in the city of Volgograd last month can be expected, probably
on the orders of a terror leader dubbed 'Russia's Bin Laden.'

The Caucasus militant Islamist group, Imarat Kavkaz (IK) that claimed those
attacks are identified as the main threat having called on supporters to strike
against the Sochi Games where nearly 40,000 extra troops have been drafted-in on
the orders of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Islamist fighters who have been taking part alongside jihadi groups fighting
government forces in Syria are also identified as posing a potential security
threat.

The United States has given similar advice to its athletes and officials not to
wear official kit while travelling or away from the Olympic sites amid fears
that they and allies like Britain, who have taken part in major military
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, could be prime targets.

Team GB stressed: 'The safety and well being of the Team GB delegation competing
in Sochi remains our number one priority.

'YOU WILL BE DROWNED IN BLOOD' BUSINESSMAN THREATENED OVER CLAIMS PUTIN'S
OFFICIALS DEMAND KICKBACKS FOR OLYMPIC CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS

A Russian businessmen says he was told 'you will be drowned in blood' after
publicly claiming officials working for Vladimir Putin demanded payoffs in
exchange for Olympic construction contracts.

Valery Morozov has fled to Britain fearing for his life in the wake of his
allegations of corruption surrounding the Sochi Games.

Although he says he has no regrets over coming forward, Morozov says he thinks
there will be an attempt on his life after the Olympic Games come to an end in
late February.

Speaking to ABC News, Morosov said he made regular cash deliveries of 'tens of
millions of rubles' for Sochi construction projects.

Morosov, who is now working with Russian prosecutors, said some of the payments
to deputy chief of capital construction Vladimir Leschevsky were recorded on
undercover video tape.

He claims to have been told the money would be shared with other officials by
Leschevsky, who told him: 'I am to bring it upstairs.'

The revelations come amid multiple accusations of corruption surrounding the
Sochi Games.

'While we have not received any information or advice suggesting an increase in
the threat level, we are taking a common sense approach in recommending that
team members wear less overtly branded Team GB kit during their journey to
Sochi.'

More than 2,000 British winter sports fans are said to have booked to be in the
Black Sea resort to support the GB team during the event which Mr Putin hopes
will showcase his Russia.

Scotland Yard detectives as well as British intelligence officials have been
with the British team to advise on security matters and the United States, which
is among the nations to already have emergency evacuation plans in place for its
athletes, is also helping with information on possible threats.

The fear is that with the eyes of the world on Sochi, there will be terror
attacks elsewhere in Russia such as at Volograd.

The security assessment points out that in July 2013 the IK's fugitive leader,
Emir Doku Umarov, called on his followers to do what they can to disrupt the
Games.

A veteran of the wars with Russia in Chechnya, the 49 year-old self-styled 'Emir
of the Caucasus' has survived many attempts to killed him and is now said to be
directing IK's operations.

The Dagestan-based group is said to be linked to Al Qaeda and to have four
so-called 'black widows', whose husbands have been killed by Russian security
officials, targeting the Games which run from February 7-23.

The Russian authorities have also been hunting a suspected would-be suicide
bomber named as Ruzanna Ibragimova, the 22-year old widow of a militant, who it
is feared could already be in Sochi and hiding in a safe house.

Her photograph has been widely circulated around Sochi where a 'ring of steel'
has been imposed at Olympic venues, largely closing them off from public access.

IK is also linked to Ansar al-Sunna, raising fears that veteran fighters from
Iraq and now taking part in Syria may be in Russia planning a 'spectacular'
attack.

Terrorism fears around the Olympics flared after an Islamist group from the
north Caucasus threatened to attack hosts and visitors in an online video.

'If you [Vladimir Putin] hold the Olympics you will receive a present from us
for you and all those tourists who will come over,' the men in the video said.

'It will be for all the Muslim blood that is shed every day around the world -
be it in Afghanistan, Somalia, Syria, all around the world. This will be our
revenge.'

The US is taking security so seriously, it is posting two of its warships
offshore in the Black Sea, offering 'unspecified air assets', deploying FBI
agents and sharing Counter Terrorism intelligence with Russia.

About 6,000 athletes, coaches and officials from around 90 countries will take
part in events at Sochi ranging from Alpine skiing to ice hockey and
snowboarding.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            January 31, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Royal death and terror attack on US

SECTION: CELEBRATING 140 YEARS;FEATURES; Pg. 34,35

LENGTH: 1176 words


1 995 was a particularly good year for two Leicestershire residents - Karen
Taylor and Lee Ryan, after a £6.5 million win in the National Lottery made them
the county's first lotto millionaires, just four months after the competition
was launched. Big wins - and £6.5m was big, before the days of the EuroMillions
- were big news in themselves, but Lottery Lee, as he became known, was back on
the front pages later in the year when sentenced to 18 months in prison for
dealing in stolen cars.He had a Ferrari Testarossa, a helicopter and a mansion
with 40 acres of land, but the last he was heard of was in 2010, having lost all
of his fortune. Also in 1995, Leicester's plans for a £42 million National Space
Science Centre - as it was then called - began to move forward with help from
the Millennium Commission, set up to help communities enter the third
millennium. The following year, in June, it was to get the go-ahead.

The Dunblane massacre in March 1996, which saw 12 children and their teacher
shot dead by gunman Thomas Hamilton, 43, resulted in a Leicestershire security
firm boss paying for two of his staff to patrol his son's primary school -
Danehill Primary School, in Enderby.

That September was the start of a good sporting run in the county, when the
cricket team won their second county championship.

The following March, ecstatic City fans flocked to Filbert Street to see their
conquering heroes after the Foxes won the Coca-Cola Cup, the club's first major
silverware for 33 years being sealed by Steve Claridge in a 1-0 win over
Middlesbrough.

A month later and Tigers had completed their hat-trick of sporting wins, after
scooping up the Pilkington Cup for the third time running.

In May, Leicester Mercury launched a campaign to build a new sporting statue "to
mark a magnificent year of sport in Leicestershire". By September 1997, the
£40,000 target to build the statue had been met. The bronze statue can still be
seen in Gallowtree Gate, Leicester.

In October 1996, an amazing tale unfolded when a Leicester mother was told her
son, whom she thought to be dead, was actually alive. The report said: "A
heartbroken mother who was told her son died after swallowing 43 packets of
heroin in Malaysia has now heard that it was a mistake - and he is alive."

Paul Cunningham, 24, of Oadby, was thought to be dead after a mix-up came when
"drug traffickers doctored" his "passport, which he lost while travelling
abroad" - his passport had been found on the body of another man, who had died
when a heroin-filled condom had burst in his stomach.

T he nation - indeed, the world - was stunned in August, when Diana, Princess of
Wales died in a car crash in Paris, France.

"People packed into Leicester Cathedral for a service to commemorate the death
of Diana, Princess of Wales," the Mercury reported. "Thirty six candles, one to
represent each year Diana lived, were lit at the start of a moving service."

April 1998 saw the closure of six Leicester schools, which were to be replaced
with "super schools" and the extension of nine others.

Soon after, Leicester City revealed plans for a new £25 million stadium at Bede
Island South, which would seat 35,000, and the same year saw Leicestershire
County Cricket Club scoop up another County Championship title.

The next year was spent anticipating the end of the century and entering the
year 2000.

We lived in fear of "the Millennium Bug" - a glitch rumoured to occur when the
turn of the century would lead to all the internal clocks reverting to 0:00.
This was, some said, capable of bringing the world's computers to a standstill,
leading to a global meltdown.

The Mercury reported: "At the stroke of midnight, according to the doom-mongers,
jets would plunge from the sky and Russian warheads would trace a collision
course to your home. "The end of the world really was nigh. And what happened? A
big fat nothing."

That said, Leicester was hit with a very real bug that year when the biggest flu
crisis it had seen in 10 years occurred.

At its height, 100 patients were being admitted to Leicester Royal Infirmary a
day.

After waiting donkey's years to win a trophy, Martin O'Neill's Leicester City
won the Coca-Cola Cup for a second time in three years in February 2000, Matt
Elliott seeing off Tranmere with both goals in a 2-1 win.

As the summer came to an end, residents flew their flags high for their country,
as they watched the nail-biting Sydney Olympics unfold. Great Britain returned
with 28 medals, a landmark for the nation, which included 11 gold.

England won the inaugural rugby Six Nations tournament in 2000 - with Tigers'
Austin Healy part of the triumph.

In September 2001, the world came to a halt, as two planes flew into the World
Trade Centre, in New York, killing more than 3,000 people, as part of a
terrorist attack.

Minutes after, a third hijacked plane smashed into the Pentagon, in Washington.

Everybody across the globe felt the effect of the attack, including Leicester.

The Mercury reported: "Security was being stepped up at some Leicestershire
companies as concern grows that American-owned firms may be terrorist targets."

In 2002, the start of the season saw City finally make the move to their new
35,000-seater Walkers Stadium. But soon after, the club went into
administration, after admitting they had debts of £30million.

Despite their off-field troubles, at the end of the 2002-03 season City were
promoted to the Premier League.

Tigers' legend Martin Johnson then lifted the Webb Ellis trophy for England in
2003, after the team earned their first World Cup win.

City's success lasted a season - in August the following year, the Foxes were
beginning life back in the Championship.

Meanwhile, Leicestershire County Cricket Club won the first T20 competition in
2004.

Disaster struck over Christmas that year, when a huge earthquake off the coast
of Sumatra in the Indian Ocean resulted in a massive tsunami that resulted in
the deaths of more than 230,000 people A Mercury report said: "The death toll
soared above 60,000 and is still rising after the mammoth quake."

The grand-daughter of Leicester's Lord Attenborough was among the dead.

LOOKING BACK TO A FRONT: Terror strikes 1995: The Oklahoma City bombing claims
168 lives and injures 650 people. 1996: Diana, Princess of Wales, and Prince
Charles officially divorce.

1997: Diana dies in a car accident in Paris.

1998: Hundreds are killed in explosions at two US embassies in East Africa. The
attacks were linked to Osama bin Laden.

1999: The Columbine High School massacre in the US sees 12 children and one
teacher murdered. 2000: A Concorde flight crashes in France, killing all 100
passengers and nine crew members. 2001: September 11 - a terrorist attack on the
World Trade Center, in New York City, leaves more than 3,000 dead.

2002: The Euro entered circulation. 2003: The invasion of Iraq, led by the US,
alongside the United Kingdom. 2004: A major earthquake off the west coast of
Sumatra, in Indonesia, which triggered series of tsunamis along the coasts of
the Indian Ocean, leaves more than 200,000 dead.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK ON USA: The evening edition of the Leicester Mercury on
September 11, 2001 brought the shocking news of the terrorist attacks on the
twin towers of the World Trade Center in New York. The atrocity led to 3,000
deaths
IT'S OURS! Matt Elliott with the League Cup after his two goals saw off Tranmere
at Wembley
IN THE MONEY: Karen Taylor and Lee Ryan after their win
FINAL VISIT: Diana, the Princess of Wales, during a visit to Leicester to open
The Richard Attenborough Centre for Disability and Arts on May 27, 1997. Three
months later she was dead

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2014 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 31, 2014 Friday 12:36 AM GMT

PM cites TV spies to justify snooping: Cameron says eavesdropping on mobile and
Internet use is essential to protect citizens from terrorists attacks

BYLINE: IAN DRURY, DEFENCE CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 639 words



     ·    'There's hardly a [TV] crime solved without using... a mobile', PM
          claimed
     ·    But his appearance before Parliamentary security committee was mocked
     ·    Tory MP David Davis: 'You can't derive policy from watching fictional
          crime'


David Cameron yesterday cited the success of fictional television spies as a
reason for reviving the controversial 'snoopers' charter'.

The Prime Minister said he wanted to resurrect plans to allow the police and
security services to eavesdrop on the public's internet and mobile phone use.

The contentious legislation was dropped last year amid a storm of protest from
civil liberties groups and the Liberal Democrats.

But in an extraordinary intervention, Mr Cameron pledged to introduce
'essential' new laws after watching TV shows Spooks, Homeland and US Sherlock
Holmes spin-off Elementary.

The award-winning - but fictional - TV crime dramas all portray police and
intelligence officers using communications data to catch villains.

He told a parliamentary security committee that monitoring private information
was essential to keep citizens safe from terrorist attack and serious criminals.

He said: 'In the most serious crimes [such as] child abduction, communications
data... is absolutely vital - who called who and when, and where was the
telephone at the time. Not the content, but the  communications data.

'I love watching crime dramas on the television. There's hardly a crime drama
where a crime is solved without using the data of a mobile communications
device.'

'We have to explain to people is that... if we don't modernise the practice and
the law, over time we will have the communications data to solve these horrible
crimes on a shrinking proportion of the total use of devices and that is a real
problem for keeping people safe.

'Everybody raises questions about who has access to my data and why but I'm
absolutely convinced that proper rules for communications data is essential.'

But Mr Cameron faced ridicule, including from those in his own party.

Tory MP David Davis, who has opposed the snoopers' charter, said: 'Sadly, you
can't derive policy from watching fictional crime dramas on TV. Policy should be
made using hard evidence, strong arguments and proper data, not the exploits of
fictional crime fighters.'

Lib Dem chairman Tim Farron said: 'Serious policies should be based on evidence,
and after to listening to experts,  and not based on what you saw on Homeland.'

And Emma Carr, of Big Brother Watch, said the proposed snoopers' charter  would
have put every citizen under surveillance 'in a way that the Home Office now
acknowledges went too far'.

She added: 'These are very complex issues with enormous implications for
privacy. Perhaps the Prime Minister should read President Obama's independent
surveillance review rather than relying on television programmes.'

During an appearance before MPs and Peers on the Joint National Security
Strategy Committee, Mr Cameron acknowledged that reviving the unpopular
legislation was 'contentious'.

The new security Bill, which would have forced internet companies to store for a
year details of all Britons' online activity, was blocked last year by Deputy
Prime Minister Nick Clegg.

But Mr Cameron believes action is still needed to reflect the fact criminals are
increasingly using internet phone calls or social media sites such as Facebook
and Twitter to communicate.

The police can already tell when, where and who made a mobile phone call or sent
a text message.

But they cannot always trace the origin of an email, a message sent via instant
messaging or a phone call made over the internet.

Revelations by US whistleblower Edward Snowden, who lifted the lid on the scale
of GCHQ's role with America's National Security Agency in monitoring electronic
communications around the world, have also seen demands for the law drop down
the agenda.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 1, 2014 Saturday

Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in Nigeria

LENGTH: 151 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia) website

[Unattributed report: "Turkey Condemns 'Terror Attacks' in Nigeria"]

ANKARA (AA) -Turkey has condemned 'terror attacks' in Northern Nigeria that
killed at least 80 people and injured numerous others.

The foreign ministry said in a statement Friday [31 January] that Turkey
strongly condemns the attacks and hopes for an end to the "violent approaches"
that shook the country last week.

"We extend our condolences to the families of the the victims and a quick
recovery to the wounded," it stated.

Turkey maintains its solidarity with Nigeria, the ministry added.

Members of the Boko Haram Islamic sect have killed at least 80 people in two
separate attacks in Adamawa and Borno States in Northern Nigeria.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency website, Ankara, in English
1806 gmt 31 Jan 14

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 2, 2014 Sunday

Kenya, Britain say no flights cancelled over rumours of likely terror attacks

LENGTH: 417 words


Text of report by Zadock Angira entitled "No flights cancelled, say Kenya and
Britain" published by Kenyan newspaper Sunday Nation on 2 February; subheadings
as published

Kenya and the UK on Saturday [1 February] dismissed social media rumours of
impending terror attacks and the cancellation of flights from the European
nation to Nairobi.

The British High Commissioner to Kenya, Christian Turner, on Saturday said that
although there was a high threat of terrorism, including kidnapping, the flights
from the UK were operating normally, contrary to reports that they had been
cancelled.

"Rumours that the UK has cancelled flights to Kenya are not true," said Mr
Turner in a statement.

The government has also once again urged Kenyans to be extra vigilant and share
whatever information they have on security matters.

Dismissed reports

The Ministry of Interior and Coordination of National Government on Saturday
dismissed the reports that had been circulating in the social media. "However,
the terror threats are a reality in the country as they are all over the world."

Interior Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo said the government had noted with
serious concern messages circulated on social media and through other forums
about an impending terror attack on Saturday and the cancellation of flights by
the United Kingdom.

"The government wishes to clarify that it has no information about any flights
having been cancelled," he said.

Mr Iringo termed the messages alarming and intended to cause fear and
despondency. "It is worth noting that causing fear and despondency is one of the
tactics used by terror groups to terrify and demoralise innocent citizens," he
said.

Mr Iringo said the country's security agencies were constantly on high alert to
ensure that shopping malls and other vital installations were well guarded.

In Kenya, Britain has advised against all but essential travel to areas within
60 km of the Kenya-Somali border; to Kiwayu and coastal areas north of Pate
Island; to Garissa District; to the Eastleigh area of Nairobi; and to low income
areas of Nairobi, including all township or slum areas.

"The government urges Kenyans to disregard rumours calculated to cause panic but
always remain vigilant," said Mr Iringo.

Normal flights schedule

Kenya Airways Group CEO Titus Naikuni, in a statement sent to newsrooms, also
said that they were operating normal flights to the UK.

In their advice, the UK asked its citizens to be more vigilant.

Source: Sunday Nation, Nairobi, in English 2 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      February 2, 2014 Sunday 4:45 PM GMT

Lebanon simmers by Syria's side: Terror attacks drag Lebanese communities into
civil war next door;
Suicide bombers target Hezbollah strongholds across the porous border

BYLINE: Fernande van Tets

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 964 words


The arched façade of the shopping centre is still blackened with soot and piles
of debris, and building material marks the spot where a suicide bomber detonated
his belt, and his car, two weeks ago.

The explosion killed five people; among the 40 more wounded was Ali Shaheen, a
pharmacist, who was making coffee at the time of the blast. "Everything
collapsed around us," he recalls. The attack has made residents of Hermel, a
"100 per cent Shia" town where Hezbollah reigns supreme, resigned and fearful of
a new threat that seems impossible to stop. "When it comes to suicide bombers,
neither Hezbollah nor the Lebanese army can prevent such an act," said Shaheen,
a father of three.

Although this is its first suicide bombing, it is not the first time the town
has felt the consequences of Hezbollah's role in the Syrian war. Over 150
rockets have rained down on Hermal and its surroundings over the past two years.
Last night, a second suicide bombing hit the town, killing three.

The Hezbollah leader, Hassan Nasrallah, formally announced that the group was
fighting alongside the Syrian army last May, when his forces played a crucial
role in expelling rebels from Qusayr, just across the Lebanese border. Since
then, five suicide bombings have hit Dahiyeh, a Hezbollah stronghold in Beirut's
southern suburbs.

Several of the attacks, including Hermel's suicide bomb, have been claimed by
Jabhat al-Nusra, an affiliate of al Qa'ida that began operating in Lebanon
towards the end of last year. Last Sunday, the group released a statement on
Twitter telling fellow Sunni's to stay out of Hezbollah areas. "Iran's party
[Hezbollah] and all its bases and bastions are legitimate targets for us,
wherever they are," the group said.

Hezbollah has always argued that it entered Syria to prevent Islamist elements
from reaching Lebanon. But far from being a deterrent, the increased violence
has made Hermel residents happy that Hezbollah has entered the fray. Doctor
Hussein, a local anaesthetist who treated a number of victims of the Hermel
blast, was initially against Hezbollah's involvement in Syria. But he has since
reconsidered. "Imagine what would happen here if Hezbollah didn't enter the
conflict," he said.

Residents and officials in Hermel are clear about who is responsible for the
violence: a combination of takfiri (apostates), jihadi's and islamists. And,
they say, the residents of Arsal, a Sunni town 30 minutes down the road, are
harbouring them.

The two villages are a microcosm of the Syrian conflict on Lebanese soil. Hermel
is important as a logistical hub for Hezbollah and an easy access point for its
fighters across the border. The town is known as the "capital of the
resistance".

Arsal fulfils a similar role for the Syrian rebels. It provides a vital supply
route for those still fighting in Qalamoun, just across the border, and around
Damascus.

Family ties here stretch across the porous border and, from the start of the
conflict, Arsal's Sunni residents have been sympathetic to the Syrian rebel
cause. The town has welcomed thousands of refugees, its population of 40,000
swelled by 60,000 Syrians. Informal tented camps dot the town's outskirts, and
every unfinished building now houses more than one family. Hidden among women
and children are the thousands of rebel fighters who come to recuperate.

The town's strategic position allows them to do so. It lies at the end of an
unpaved, rocky road that winds up into the Anti-Lebanon mountain range. The
route, leading first to limestone quarries, continues into Syria and facilitates
the heart of Arsal's economy: the smuggling of fighters, ammunition and weapons.

Syria's air force has noticed, regularly bombing the surrounding area, while
Arsal itself has suffered a barrage of rocket attacks over the past two years.
Following the suicide bombing in Hermel, just such a rocket attack left seven
people dead in Arsal, among them five children.

The residents blame Hezbollah for attacks like these. Arsal is surrounded by
Shia towns, and many fear to leave the safety of their Sunni enclave. "They are
terrorists," says Abed Hasan Hmeil, 24, a quarry worker, who is certain that
making a visit to Hermel would end in arrest or death.

Recently the town has been squeezed by the Lebanese military stepping up its
operations. On Friday, the Lebanese army stopped a large shipment of ammunition
and made several high-profile arrests. Tensions between Arsal and its Shia
neighbours are set to escalate when the rebels' strategic position in central
Syria, Yabroud, comes under attack. A Hezbollah official said that battle would
start "within days".

Clearing Yabroud has become "a top priority" for Hezbollah, as many of the
attacks targeting the group in Lebanon have originated there. "The rebels are
accelerating the ending of the Qalamoun battle," the Hezbollah official said
while sipping coffee in his office. He said it was unclear whether Hezbollah
would allow fighters to leave the battlefield once the fight starts. After the
third week of fighting, a humanitarian corridor was opened, allowing many
fighters to escape. The official admitted that had been "a mistake".

The loss of Yabroud would be "a disaster for Lebanon and Syria", said Alain as
he sat in a makeshift clinic in Arsal. The young man was wounded while fighting
with "an Islamist group" in Yabroud five months ago. He is an English language
graduate, with a professed love of George Bernard Shaw and William Shakespeare,
and who now has a metal pin sticking out of his lower leg.

If defeated - and allowed to leave - the sole place to retreat to, he thinks,
will be Arsal. "The only way is here," he said in the improvised clinic. "The
regime has surrounded the area," he added, before repeating: "The only place is
here."

World News in Pictures

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 3, 2014 Monday

France says ready to grant Lebanon security assistance against terror attacks

LENGTH: 204 words


Text of report by French Foreign Ministry website www.diplomatie.gouv.fr on 3
February

[From the French Foreign Ministry's press briefing of 3 February 2014: "Lebanon
- Attack at Hermel"]

[Question] Has Lebanon asked for particular assistance - in terms of security -
in the wake of the latest attacks in the Land of Cedars?

[Answer] France condemns the assault perpetrated at Hermel on 1 February and
wishes to convey its sympathy to the victims' relatives. It deplores this latest
attempt to destabilize Lebanon.

To date, France is not aware of any request to that effect being made by
Lebanon.

France and Lebanon have for years been building up strong cooperation ties in
the security sphere.

France, which, as you know, is constantly committed to fighting terrorism in all
its forms, may, in that context, see fit to contribute to the efforts that the
Lebanese authorities themselves are making and the battle it is waging in that
sphere.

We are voicing our support for the Lebanese state institutions and for President
[Michel] Sulayman, who is defending the policy of dissociation from the war in
Syria endorsed by all the Lebanese parties in June 2012.

Source: French Foreign Ministry website, Paris, in French 0000 gmt 3 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            February 3, 2014 Monday

Security Council, Ban condemn 'heinous' terrorist attack in northern Lebanon

LENGTH: 457 words


February 1, 2014

United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and the Security Council have
strongly condemned the "heinous" terrorist attack that took place today in
Hermel, Lebanon, a town near the country's northern border, which killed at
least four people and wounded dozens of others.



"The members of the Security Council underline the need to bring the
perpetrators to justice," the 15-member body said in a press statement issued in
New York shortly after the incident, which, according to news reports, was a
suicide bomb attack carried out a gas station in the town, which is near
Lebanon's northern border with Syria.

In the statement, the Council extended its condolences to the families of the
victims and expressed sympathy to all those injured in the heinous act and to
the people and Government of Lebanon.

Reaffirming that terrorism constitutes one of the most serious threats to
international peace and security, Council members also reaffirmed the need to
combat the scourge in all its forms and manifestations "by all means, in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and all obligations under
international law.

Recalling its Presidential Statement of July 10, 2013, the members of the
Council appealed to all Lebanese people to preserve national unity in the face
of attempts to undermine the country's stability and stressed "the importance
for all Lebanese parties to respect Lebanon's policy of disassociation and to
refrain from any involvement in the Syrian crisis, consistent with their
commitment in the Baabda Declaration."

A statement issued by Mr. Ban's spokesperson in New York echoed the Council's
condemnation as well as the 15-member body's call for the "perpetrators of this
crime and all other acts of terrorism" to be brought to justice.

"The recent escalation in acts of terrorism and violence in Lebanon is of grave
concern," said the statement, adding that Mr. Ban reiterates his call on all
Lebanese to rally behind their State institutions, including the army and
security forces, as the best means to confront such unacceptable and
indiscriminate actions and to safeguard their country's security and stability.

Today's incident was the latest in renewed spate of deadly attacks in Lebanon,
the most recent being an explosion in a southern Beirut suburb that killed four
people and wounded a number of others on 21 January. That attack was condemned
by the Security Council, the Secretary-General and the UN Special Coordinator
for Lebanon, Derek Plumbly.

The car bombing, which was the second to strike the suburb of Haret Hreik in
January, was "a further deeply disturbing act of indiscriminate terror," the
Secretary-General said in a statement on that incident issued by his spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      February 3, 2014 Monday 7:36 PM GMT

US Olympians say they feel safe in Sochi, despite promises of attacks by Russian
terrorist groups

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 757 words



     ·    100,000 Russian police officers, security agents and soldiers are in
          Sochi protecting the Olympic facilities
     ·    Groups from Russia's breakaway regions have promised to mar the Winter
          Games with violence
     ·    Security concerns threaten to over-shadow the Olympic events
     ·    Many American athletes say they are satisfied wit the security


Nothing to fear.

That's how a few of the first US athletes to arrive at the Sochi Games feel
after getting their first look at an unprecedented security presence ringing the
Olympics.

With militant groups threatening to attack during the next few weeks, security
and the safety of competitors and visitors to the coastal area and in the nearby
mountains that will host the events has become both heightened and inescapable.

Although the overwhelming forces - an estimated 100,000 police, agents and army
troops are on hand - don't ensure there won't be any problems, the sheer numbers
of security personnel have put some athletes at ease.

'As far as safety over here, I'm looking at it from the standpoint of a
soldier,' said U.S. bobsled member Dallas Robinson, who is also a sergeant in
the Kentucky National Guard.

'A lot of our soldiers are in combat zones where there's hundreds of thousands
of people who don't want them there, people that are headhunting. We're in an
area where there's hundreds of thousands of people protecting us.

'I feel pretty safe.'

So secure, in fact, that on Sunday Robinson and teammate Johnny Quinn ventured
outside the athlete's village on bicycles and rode to the media center to get a
better grasp of the immense security detail.

'We rode to the front door and circled around before four or five guards looked
at us and finally said, "Hey, you can't be here,"' Mr Robinson said. 'But
they've been great. They've been respectful and very professional.

'We've had a lot of fun and I don't anticipate us being in any more harm's way
than going down the mountain in a bobsled at 85 miles per hour.'

In recent weeks, The US State Department warned Americans about traveling to
Sochi and advised US athletes not to wear any team-issued uniform gear outside
the venues, contending it could make them targets.

While American skeleton athlete John Daly is mindful of the advice and will be
careful of his surroundings, the two-time Olympian is not going to hide his
American pedigree.

He intends to dress in the red, white and blue.

'I'm planning on wearing it out around here,' said Daly, from Smithtown, New
York. "Everyone back home kept saying, "Oh, be careful and it's too bad you
can't wear it." But if they were here, they would realize how safe it is.

'It (security) is top notch. I don't think there's going to be an incident at
all and if I didn't feel confident I wouldn't have my family come over. I'm glad
they're here. I know they're safe and I've got full trust in Russia.'

For many athletes, these early days in Russia are a chance to get acclimated to
the change in climate and culture. There are new foods to sample at the 24-hour
buffet, and it's a chance to make new friends from around the globe.

But early Monday morning was devoted to a truly American tradition: watching the
Super Bowl.

Despite a nine-hour time difference, some members of the US contingent gathered
in front of the TV to watch the Seattle Seahawks and Denver Broncos kick off at
3.30am local time.

Well, not everyone.

'I didn't wake up (until) 6 o'clock to watch the last quarter and I was a little
disappointed to come down and see the score,' said USA-1 bobsled driver Steven
Holcomb, alluding to the Seahawks 43-8 blowout win. 'It was a little
surprising.'

Holcomb, a three-time Olympian and the defending gold medalist in four-man,
hopes getting to Sochi early will put he and his teammates ahead of the field
before they get to the track.

'I think right now we're at an advantage,' Holcomb said. 'We're getting used to
the situation.'

The US moguls team also deviated from past scripts, staying in the athletes
village for the games, and reigning Olympic moguls champion Hannah Kearney said
that's another advantage. From there, it's just a short trip for the skiers to
the mountain and they can avoid an additional security check since they're
already inside a secure area.

Any way to be more relaxed helps, Kearney said.

'It's actually a little less stressful here.... It's been wonderful,' Kearney
said.

'Clearly, there have been a lot of questions about security, a lot of focus on
it. I think with that it came in with some expectations that it would be
different or more stressful, and it has not, which is great.'

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 4, 2014 Tuesday

Security agency says terrorist attacks foiled in Afghan capital

LENGTH: 154 words


Text of report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 4 February

The Afghan National of Directorate Security [NDS] says they have prevented a
number of terrorist and suicide bomb attacks, planned by the Haqqani Network, in
Kabul city.

The NDS has said in a statement that the Haqqani Network wanted to carry out a
number of terrorist and suicide bomb attacks during the presidential election
campaign in Kabul but the masterminds of the attacks were identified and
detained before they conducted the attacks. The statement adds that four suicide
vests, a large quantity of arms and ammunition, stored in a house in Chahar
Asiab District of Kabul Province, were seized. The detained men have admitted
that the Haqqani Network sent these arms and ammunition to them from North
Waziristan [Pakistan].

[Video shows arms ammunition, explosive, guns other devices]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 0930 gmt 4 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 4, 2014 Tuesday

One Yemeni soldier killed, 17 others injured in terrorist attack

LENGTH: 106 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

A military bus was attacked on Tuesday [4 February] in Dar Silm area, Sanaa,
leaving an officer dead and 17 soldiers and civilians injured, an official
military source said.

"Five of the injured people are in serious conditions and the remaining
casualties are in different conditions and they are currently receiving
treatment in hospital", the source said.

The source added that the perpetrators of this criminal act will not go
unpunished and will be pursued, arrested and brought to justice.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 1625 gmt 4 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            February 4, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Back behind bars, freed sex beast who tried to rape again;
¦ Woman attacked in M60 subway terror

BYLINE: PAUL BRITTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 414 words


ACONVICTED rapist who subjected a woman to a terrifying sex attack in a motorway
subway has been jailed for 12 years. Phillip Williams, 45, dragged the
20-year-old by her hair into the subway tunnel then brutally battered her.

He warned her that he would stab her if she did not stop screaming then sexually
assaulted her. The woman, who was walking home from visiting her grandma in
Prestwich, Bury, later told police that she feared she would be raped.

She said in a statement that she was 'fighting for her life' and 'would rather
be stabbed than raped'. The attack took place in the subway under Bury New Road
near junction 17 of the M60 in Prestwich in November.

Williams was jailed for a minimum of 12 years and will serve another six on
licence when he is released. Judge Peter Davies said the victim was put in 'fear
and terror' and said Williams, of Kershaw Avenue, Prestwich, posed a significant
risk of offending. Bolton Crown Court was told he was convicted in March 1998 of
raping a woman he dragged into a graveyard and jailed for 10 years. Geoff
Whelan, prosecuting, said the woman was listening to music through headphones
when she was attacked. She emerged from the subway to see Williams, who grabbed
her and hurled her to the ground. Mr Whelan said she desperately tried to dial
999 and adding: "She was doubled over and whilst being dragged by her hair she
was screaming down her mobile, shouting out her location. She was 'She the that
would rather stabbed than thrown to the ground. She was on her back and she
thought she was going to be raped.

was of "He dragged her back up and smashed her head against a concrete
www.wall.be raped' "He punched her and banged her head on the floor. The
defendant put his hand over her mouth but she bit his finger.

He told her that he had a knife and that if she did not stop screaming he would
stab her." The woman was then sexually assaulted. Mr Whelan said: "She was of
the view that she would rather be stabbed than raped." A man on a bike
intervened and Williams ran off with the victim's handbag.

He was arrested two days later. Williams pleaded guilty to attempted rape,
sexual assault, robbery and committing an offence with intent to commit a sexual
offence.

The victim said she suffers from nightmares and has been prescribed sleeping
tablets. Mr Whelan said: "She says in a statement that she does not think she
will ever get over what has happened to her."

'She was of the view that she would rather be stabbed than raped'

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BEAST Phillip Williams dragged his screaming victim into a subway
tunnel before threatening to stab her and attempting to rape her. He has now
been jailed again

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    February 5, 2014 Wednesday 11:17 PM GMT

Former federal official: Attack was terrorism

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 106 words


SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) - Former Federal Energy Regulatory Commission chairman Jon
Wellinghoff says he believes an April attack on Silicon Valley's phone lines and
power grid was terrorism.

&T fiber-optic lines to knock out phone and 911 service. In addition, shots were
fired into a PG&E substation, causing outages.

Wellinghoff made the statement on Wednesday to The Associated Press. His
comments were initially reported by The Wall Street Journal.

The FBI is still investigating but says there is no indication it was an act of
terrorism.

Wellinghoff says he is speaking out because he's concerned the grid is not being
adequately protected.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    February 5, 2014 Wednesday 11:04 PM GMT

Fanatics in Syria vow to bring terror home to UK: Terrorists say they will
attack public transport and financial centres

BYLINE: STEPHEN WRIGHT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 696 words



     ·    Extremists warn of atrocities on London's transport and the White
          House
     ·    Said to be first direct threats of terror strikes in West to emerge
          from Syria
     ·    Hundreds of Britons are among foreign fighters in jihadist rebel
          groups
     ·    Al Qaeda is 'setting up training camps in Syria to school foreign
          recruits'
     ·    British jihadist faction in Syria, Rayat Al-Tawheed, issues series of
          threats


A group of Britons waging jihad in Syria have threatened to carry out terror
attacks in the UK.

The extremists warned of atrocities on London's public transport, at financial
centres and also at the White House in the US.

They are believed to be the first direct threats of terrorist strikes in the
West to emerge from Syria, where hundreds of Britons are among thousands of
foreign fighters who have joined jihadist rebel groups.

They emerged as the head of US intelligence James Clapper told the US Congress
that Al Qaeda has set up training camps in Syria and was schooling foreign
recruits to return to their home countries to carry out terrorist attacks.

British counter-terrorism officials are taking the threats of terror attacks in
the UK 'very seriously', sources said.

In a series of threats issued online by the Rayat Al-Tawheed group, the British
jihadist faction in Syria, one image shows a man inside a vehicle with an
assault rifle as a red London Routemaster bus passes by.

A slogan on the image in English says: 'Sometimes you just got to get up and
go.'

Another appears to make a reference to MI6. It shows a laptop computer with the
barrel of an assault rifle resting on the keyboard and ammunition lined up under
the screen, which displays an image of a hand gun and the phrase: 'You only die
once why not make it martyrdom.'

Another poster-type production shows a gunman standing in a landscape comprised
of destroyed office buildings and the words: 'It wont [sic] be easy but it'll be
worth it.'

'You only die once why not make it martyrdom'

Rayat Al-Tawheed

Yet another shows a man with a rifle wearing an Arabic-style scarf standing in
front of the White House.

A caption reads: 'Wait a while there will come to you mounts carrying lions in
shining armour battalions followed by battalions.'

Last month it emerged brothers Akram and Mohamed Sebah, from Holloway, North
London, were killed waging jihad in Syria.

The Rayat Al-Tawheed group is  believed to be headed by two Islamists from
London.

It operates a number of social networking accounts and two suspected leaders
could be heard speaking with distinct London accents in a video issued online.

An image posted on one such account showed numerous wads of £10, £20 and £50
notes laid out on a table, with the suggestion they were donations from
supporters in the UK.

A caption says: 'And we still stacking for the Big Boyz!'

Other images show suspected  British fighters holding automatic assault rifles
and manning anti- aircraft cannons mounted on the back of pick-up trucks.

One Rayat Al-Tawheed account was operated by an individual  called Umar Siddiq
and another apparent member called himself Mujahid Sayyad.

The latter's profile picture showed him wearing desert-style camouflage fatigues
and a black mask while posing with a rifle in front of a tank.

'Wait a while there will come to you mounts carrying lions in shining armour
battalions followed by battalions'

Rayat Al-Tawheed

He claimed in his biographical information he was from London and was 'a
commando with the brothers'.

One of the group's videos included an appeal for British well-wishers  to send
cash and warned that fighting in Syria was not for the faint-hearted.

Another video issued by the group included a recording of several British
fighters talking about becoming suicide bombers in Syria.

Earlier this week it was reported that another Briton waging jihad in Syria, a
prolific Twitter user known online as Abu Layth al-Khorasani [the Afghan], had
been killed in the north of the country.

He appeared to have enjoyed leadership status among Britons fighting in Syria.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 5, 2014 Wednesday 5:28 PM GMT

Sniper assault on US power station could have been the rehearsal for an 'even
bigger terrorist attack', warns industry expert

BYLINE: LIZZIE PARRY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 921 words



     ·    As many as two gunmen stormed the PG&E Metcalf substation in
          California on April 16 last year
     ·    Former chairman of the Federal Energy commission branded the attack
          'the most significant domestic terrorist assault on the grid'
     ·    Jon Wellinghoff, who stepped down in November, was moved to speak
          publicly for fears over national security
     ·    He and colleagues believe the attack was a 'dress rehearsal' to a much
          larger and more serious incident
     ·    FBI investigating but say they do not believe terrorist group is
          responsible


Experts in the United States have warned an assault on a Californian power
station in April could have been the 'dress rehearsal to a larger terrorist
attack'.

On April 16, last year, as many as two gunmen stormed the PG&E Metcalf
substation in California after severing phone lines and firing several dozen
rounds at transformers.

At least one person, maybe two, went down multiple manholes at the facility in a
San Jose suburb and cut fiber cables leading to the substation.

This knocked out 911 and landline service to the power station, as well as
mobile phone service to the surrounding area.

PG&E employees had no means to call for help when, at 1am, gunmen began their
attack.

More than 100 rounds were fired from high-powered rifles at many transformers -
10 were damaged in one area and three transformer banks in another, a PG&E
spokesperson said at the time.

Cooling oil leaking from at least one transformer bank caused transformers to
overheat and shut down. This led officials to warn locals to conserve energy,
but no major power outages occurred.

Former chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Jon Wellinghoff,
has today called the attack 'the most significant incident of domestic terrorism
involving the grid that has ever occurred'.

He told the Wall Street Journal he has become 'increasingly concerned' that a
larger attack could be being planned, adding he had decided to go public out of
concern that national security is at risk.

GRID IS VULNERABLE TO SABOTAGE

Energy officials in America have been concerned for some time that the country's
electric grid could be vulnerable to sabotage.

The grid is made up of three systems serving different areas of the country.

In the past small glitches, including trees hitting transmission lines, has
wrought havoc on the system, resulting in widespread blackouts.

In 2003 50 million people in eastern states and parts of Canada were left
without power for days after a similar minor incident.

Concerns also focus on the fact many of the most important parts of the network
are out in the open, often in remote locations, protected by little more than
cameras and high fences.

Transmission power stations, like Metcalf, are vital to the grid, making it
possible for electricity to move the vast distances needed to serve the entire
country.

The 64-year-old, who stepped down from his role last November, said he was
involved in a series of high-level private briefings with federal agencies,
Congress and the White House in the aftermath of the attack.

Federal officials took over the investigation from local law enforcement after
fears were raised that the attack was linked to the Boston marathon bombing a
day earlier.

But an FBI spokesman in San Francisco told the WSJ they do not believe last
April's attack is the work of a terrorist group, adding that investigators are
still examining the evidence.

However some of Mr Wellinghoff's colleagues in the utility industry share his
concerns.

A former official at PG&E - who own the Metcalf power station - told an industry
gathering in November that he fear the attack was a 'dress rehearsal' for a
larger, more catastrophic incident.

Retired vice president of transmission for PG&E, Mark Johnson, said: 'This
wasn't an incident where Billy-Bob and Joe decided, after a few brewskis, to
come in and shoot up a substation.

'This was an event that was well thought out, well planned and they targeted
certain components.'

When reached by the WSJ, Mr Johnson said he could not expand on his comments at
the conference.

PG&E spokesman Brian Swanson said the company take all incidents seriously but
would not comment further for fear of giving valuable information to copycat
groups.

He said: 'We won't speculate about the motives (of the attack).'

But he added the group have increased security measures in the wake of the
incident.

In 2009 a report by the Energy Department said that 'physical damage' to certain
parts of the grid, namely transformers, could render the system debilitated,
resulting in prolonged blackouts.

Mr. Wellinghoff said research by the FERC found that it would only take a small
number of substations to be knocked out at once to destablise the grid to such
an extent that a blackout would engulf most of the whole country.

But Gerry Cauley, chief executive of the North America Electric Reliability
Corp, a standards-setting group that reports to the FERC, disagreed.

He said he believes the grid is more resilient.

'I don't want to downplay the scenario he describes,' Mr. Cauley said. 'I'll
agree it's possible from a technical assessment.'

But he said that even if several substations went down, the vast majority of
people would have their power back in a few hours.

A spokesman for Homeland Security said it is the responsibility of utilities
companies to protect the grid.

The department's role in an emergency is to connect federal agencies and local
police and facilitate information sharing, the spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 5, 2014 Wednesday 2:52 PM GMT

Train carrying gas containers explodes as it travels through Russia, sparking
terror attack fears a day before the Sochi Olympics opens

BYLINE: WILL STEWART

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 419 words



     ·    Some 32 wagons derailed and 14 exploded in a massive fireball at a
          railway station in the city of Kirov
     ·    Hundreds of residents were evacuated amid fears of gas poisoning
     ·    Country is on high alert amid threats from terrorist organisations to
          cause mayhem linked to the Winter Olympics


Russia ruled out terrorism today after fire engulfed a huge train carrying gas
in the north of Russia.

Some 32 wagons derailed and 14 exploded in a massive fireball at a railway
station in the city of Kirov, around 500 miles north east of Moscow.

Hundreds of residents were evacuated amid fears of gas poisoning.

Scroll down for video

Officials insisted later there was no risk to life and no injuries from the
inferno.

'People are worried, because they believe that gas is what they may get poisoned
from, but in fact gas condensate is a liquid and there is no danger of
poisoning,' said Kirov regional emergency ministry spokesman Aleksey Neustroyev.



The carriages were carrying gas condensate and the fire was spared by a broken
overhead power line, said Russian authorities.

'As a result of fire 32 wagons derailed and gas condensate spilled,' said the
Russian Investigative Committee, equivalent of the FBI.

'Dwellers of neighbouring houses and workers at a bakery were evacuated. No
people were hurt in the incident', the committee said.

A probe is underway based on health and safety violations on the railway.

As many as 700 residents had to be evacuated, according to reports from the
scene.

The fire engulfed several timber buildings and there were reports that a five
floor apartment block was totally destroyed.

The incident began at 4.44 am today and took firefighters five hours to get it
under control, though the fire continued to burn.

Evacuated locals were provided with food and psychological counselling in a
local school.

Officials discounted terrorism as a cause of the blaze.

The country is on high alert amid threats from terrorist organisations to cause
mayhem linked to the Winter Olympics in Sochi, which open on Friday.

Experts have warned that attacks are more likely in other locations that Sochi
which has "ring of steel" security.

'A team of detectives and operatives are working at the incident site,' said a
spokesman.

A total of 57 wagons on the train were cordoned off today as emergency workers
fought for many hours to extinguish the flames.

Thirteen long-distance passenger trains were delayed over the incident,
disrupting traffic on the Trans-Siberian railway.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 6, 2014 Thursday 12:10 AM GMT

Former federal official: Attack was terrorism

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 453 words


SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) - Former Federal Energy Regulatory Commission chairman Jon
Wellinghoff said Wednesday an April attack on Silicon Valley's phone lines and
power grid was terrorism - despite repeated FBI statements that it had found no
indications to back that up.

&T fiber-optic lines to knock out phone and 911 service, and firing shots into a
PG&E substation, causing outages.

"This is the most sophisticated and extensive attack that's ever occurred on the
grid to my knowledge," Wellinghoff told The Associated Press. Similar statements
were published on Tuesday by The Wall Street Journal.

FBI spokesman Peter Lee said Wednesday that at this point "we don't believe it's
an act of terror, international or domestic."

The FBI is the lead agency in the investigation, and Lee said the agency has
specific definitions of terrorism that involve motive, intent and political
ideology. He said the investigation is ongoing and urged people not to jump to
conclusions.

Wellinghoff said he was speaking out on the issue now because he's concerned the
grid isn't being adequately protected.

He said he didn't know what the motivation was for the sabotage, "but I don't
know what the definition of terrorism is other than when an extremely
well-trained group attacks a major piece of infrastructure in an expertly
planned attack."

His concerns underscored earlier statements from high-ranking officials about
the incident.

In October, former CIA director Jim Woolsey said in a Commonwealth Club
appearance that video from the incident showed a group of three or four men, in
a "disciplined military fashion," had conducted the attacks. He provided details
about how they systematically fired their weapons, and said they "quickly and
professionally disposed of everything they had."

"This wasn't hooliganism," he said. "This was a systematic attempt to take down
the electric grid."

In December, during an oversight hearing, U.S. Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif.,
described "an unprecedented and sophisticated attack on an electric grid
substation with military-style weapons. Communications were disrupted. The
attack inflicted substantial damage."

He said he would withhold details of the incident to avoid harming the
investigation but added he had been in touch with the FBI about it.

Last April, a day after the Boston Marathon bombings, millions of people in
Santa Clara County were asked to conserve energy after power lines were damaged.

&T fiber optic cables, temporarily knocking out 911 service and phone service.

&E substation, damaging at least five transformers and causing an oil leak, she
said.

&E substation."

She said the attacks could be described as "sabotage."

___

Follow Martha Mendoza at https://twitter.com/mendozamartha

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 7, 2014 Friday

Ukrainian interior minister says radical groups plotting terrorist attack

LENGTH: 131 words


Text of report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 7 February: The Ukrainian Interior Ministry possesses intelligence about
radical right groups plotting a terrorist attack, ministry head Vitaliy
Zakharchenko has reported.

"Radical right groups are planning to disrupt peace once again, they will think
nothing of resorting to a terrorist attack," reads Zakharchenko's statement
which was posted on the Interior Ministry's website on Friday morning [7
February]. "This is evidenced both by our intelligence and the recent explosion
in the Trade Unions House [occupied by anti-government Euro-Maydan protesters].
It cannot be ruled out that [the explosion occurred] during the putting-together
of an explosive device."

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 0645 gmt 7 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 8, 2014 Saturday

Power outage in Syria's Aleppo, Idlib blamed on "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 72 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

A terrorist attack on two high voltage power lines in the Central Region caused
power outage in the provinces of Aleppo and Idlib, a source at the Ministry of
Electricity told SANA.

The source stressed that the repair workshops are working to fix the damage to
restore electricity as soon as possible.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 8 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           February 8, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THREAT OF ACID ATTACK IN RAID;
TERROR: VIOLENT GANG BURST INTO FAMILY HOME DURING DAY Father and son threatened
by a gang of violent raiders ; BEHIND BARS: BURGLAR CAUGHT OUT BY CCTV AND DNA
ON SCARF

BYLINE: ADRIAN TROUGHTON ; SUZY GIBSON

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 674 words


A father and son have told how they feared for their lives when a masked gang
burst into their home and they were threatened with acid.

Ashok and Rajeev Gosai spoke out after Peter David Gilheaney, pictured, was
jailed for seven-and-a-half years for his part in the raid. The terrifying
burglary happened at the Gosai family home in Evington, one early afternoon in
May last year.

Rajeev, 23, was watching television when two of the men burst into his bedroom.

They threatened him with acid, hit him with a metal pole and ripped a gold ring
off his finger.

"They had black scarves round the lower part of their faces and I was
terrified," he said.

"One was wearing a knuckle-duster and carrying a white can. He said: 'Don't
panic or I will hurt you. There is acid in here.'" Rajeev said he was marched to
his par-ents' bedroom, where his father, who works shifts, was still in bed. He
said: "The two men kept saying: 'Where are the drugs? Where is the money? Where
is the gold? Where is the safe? "We had no idea what they were talking about."
Ashok, 57, who works in a sorting office for Royal Mail, said he was due to wake
at 2pm after a late shift. "I was woken by a man who told me to stay in bed or
he would beat me with the metal pole he was holding," he said. "I could not
believe what was happening. I thought I was still asleep and having a nightmare.
"They kept yelling about drugs and money, but we could tell them nothing.
GET-AWAY DRIVER "When one of them hit my son with the pole, I feared for our
lives." The men left after ransacking the entire house during a 30- minute
ordeal. Leicester Crown Court was told how the four-man gang arrived at the
Gosai home in a stolen black Mercedes, at 1.30pm on May 10. Gilheaney (21) and
an unknown group member broke into the property, while another man kept watch
outside. The get-away driver stayed in the car. Alan Murphy, prosecuting, said
Gilheaney's accomplice was wearing a knuckle-duster and holding the white
canister, which he said contained acid. Rajeev was forced into his father's
bedroom, where the intruders demanded gold, money and drugs, and wanted to know
where the safe was kept. When told there was no safe, Gilheaney's accomplice
pro- ACID FROM FRONT PAGE duced a metal pole and struck Rajeev. The raiders
searched the bedroom for 15 minutes - in which time they were joined by the
look-out - before making off with £1,000 worth of jewellery and cash. As they
left, Gilheaney told Rajeev and his father: 'Stay there, don't follow us or make
any sudden movements'."

CCTV cameras from a nearby premises filmed the raiders entering and leaving.
Gilheaney's DNA was found on a scarf left in the getaway car, stolen during an
earlier burglary and later found burnt out. A distinctive red top he wore during
the raid matched one he was filmed wearing at a probation office appointment in
Loughborough earlier the same day. Sentencing Gilheaney, Judge Simon Hammond
said: "It must have been a terrifying ordeal, especially with the son fearing
acid was going to be chucked into his face. "This was clearly carefully planned
and their house targeted. It wasn't just a coincidence. "They were hoping to get
valuables and they'd taken weapons. Threats were made and violence used. "No-one
should minimise the distress suffered by that father and son, who will never
forget it." Gilheaney, of Armitage Drive, Rothley, admitted aggravated burglary.

Carl Gaskell, mitigating, told the court Gilheaney did not know there would be
acid involved. "He bitterly regrets his involvement," Mr Gaskell said. "He had
no weapon in his possession and offered no violence, although it was a joint
offence. "When he was on drugs he agreed to participate in the offence and
claims he has no recollection of it. "Although he knew there were weapons, he
didn't know there was going to be acid, although it was not used." The court
heard another person was recently due to stand trial but the judge in the case
rejected the identification evidence going before a jury. The prosecution then
offered no evidence.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RANSACKED: Burglars spent 30 minutes searching the home
VIOLATED: The ransacked home after the burglars went through it, looking for the
"gold, cash, drugs and the family safe'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2014 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 9, 2014 Sunday

Syrian information minister calls for exposing perpetrators of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 588 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus - Information Minister, Omran al-Zoubi [Umran al-Zu'bi], stressed that
exposing the identities of masterminds and perpetrators of the terrorist attack
having targeted the building of the Public Authority for Radio and Television
indicates that this criminal evil and terrorist aggression against Syria will be
finished along with its masterminds, perpetrators and funders.

"Syria, the state, the people, the culture and civilization, will ever remain,
and no side or power in the world could erase it," al-Zoubi clarified in an
interview with al-Ikhbariya TV on Saturday [8 February] evening.

"We commend the efforts of the relevant intelligence circles, which have been
able to arrest the armed terrorist gang behind the bombing," he added.

A number of Al-Qa'idah-linked Jabhat al-Nusra terrorists on Saturday confessed
the blowing up of two car bombs near the building of the Public Authority for
Radio and Television in Damascus on 13 October 2013.

Al-Zoubi stressed that all areas in Syria have the same degree of priority for
the Syrian government that cooperates in this regards with the coordinator of
United Nations activities in Syria, pointing out that this issue has started in
Homs and will move to other areas in the country.

"The coalition delegation had information regarding arrangements of the time
executive plan between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the UN related to
evacuating civilians from the old city in Homs, so it posed the issue of Homs in
Geneva to score an achievement for itself," the Minister clarified. He added
that the delegation of the Syrian Arab Republic will head to Geneva once again
with a collective spirit and a nationalistic responsibility for creating a
political track that would lead to concrete outcomes that make all sides
satisfied.

"We headed to Geneva despite we had not taken part in formulating Geneva1
Communique, and we attended with high seriousness and credibility...we wanted to
go ahead with the other delegation despite it represents neither the coalition
nor other factions of the opposition, and that is because we called for a common
ground...the other delegation, nonetheless, rejected all the national
principles," al-Zoubi clarified.

The minister stressed that the higher national interests of Syria will remain
governing the behaviour of the Syrian official delegation, as pursuit should
remain available for producing an inter-Syrian dialogue under Syria's leadership
that, in turn, comes out with a solution that could be applied in Syria with a
Syrian will and in accordance to the Syrian people's referendum.

"We insist on the political process and the political track, which is not an
easy task, but we will exert great efforts to leave the door open for producing
such a political solution," he added.

Al-Zoubi stressed that Saudi Arabia funds, arms and supports terrorists of all
world's nationalities, as it also hosts and finances media channels that incite
terrorism and acts of killing.

"Saudi Arabia has centres in Jordan supervised by Emirs who reside there to feed
terrorism in Syria...if it does not stop doing such acts, its tendency to punish
Saudis heading to fight abroad will be meaningless," he clarified.

The Minister considered the Saudi decision as an attempt to beautify what is
deformed regarding the Kingdom's role in supporting terrorism all over the
world, particularly in Syria.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 9 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                      February 9, 2014 Sunday 7:50 AM GMT

Scottish independence could mean 'border checks' for crossing Geordies;
Sources from "the highest levels of the MoD" have reportedly advised that border
controls are a "high probability" to guard against the threat of terrorist
attacks, according to Scotland Institute founder Dr Azeem Ibrahim

BYLINE: By Neil Preston

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 343 words


Northerners crossing into bonny Scotland are "more than likely" to be subject to
border controls if Scotland goes independent, it has been claimed.

Sources from "the highest levels of the MoD" have reportedly advised that border
controls are a "high probability" to guard against the threat of terrorist
attacks, according to Scotland Institute founder Dr Azeem Ibrahim.

His claims have been dismissed as "hysterical scaremongering" by Dr John
MacDonald, director of a second think tank, the Scottish Global Forum.

Their statements will be aired in a new BBC documentary which will feature a
poll showing defence is a relatively low priority for most people in deciding
how to vote in the referendum.

In line with many other polls, the economy is top of people's concerns alongside
pensions, welfare, Scotland's relationship with the rest of the UK and currency.

Defence comes behind immigration and energy in the poll, and ahead of Scotland's
relationship with the European Union and broadcasting.

An MoD spokeswoman said it "has no contingency plans for a yes vote in the
referendum", and referred the issue of border posts to the Home Office.

The Scottish Government said "there will be no need for border checks" as
Scotland would remain part of the existing common travel area between the UK and
the Republic of Ireland.

Scotland's Top Ten Battlegrounds will be screened on BBC Two Scotland on
Tuesday, and features a poll of 1,008 people in Scotland by TNS.

In the programme, Dr Ibrahim said: "There is a high probability that there will
be a border constructed between Scotland and England and there will be border
checks and this has been articulated to me from the highest levels of the MoD.

"Actually a former secretary of defence told me that is more than likely to
actually happen because the rest of the UK simply cannot be open to any sort of
vulnerabilities if there are huge intelligence gaps between Scotland and
England." But Dr MacDonald said: "The idea of manned border posts is the most
hysterical scaremongering. I consider it grossly irresponsible."

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            February 9, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

TERRORVISION;
FAMILY'S FIFTH GUN ATTACK

BYLINE: EAVAN MURRAY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 499 words


Sunday, February 9, 2014 GANGLAND thugs caught on camera shooting a man and his
girlfriend have returned to try to finish the job.

The Irish Sun revealed how dad-of-three Thomas Powers and his innocent young
family endured four gun attacks on their home last year.

And now a FIFTH hit attempt has been made to kill Thomas - who has a '20,000
price on his head.

Six weeks ago we told how Thomas was shot trying to fight off a gunman who
attacked him and partner Leanna Daly.

And just last week an armed team of would-be assassins were disturbed as they
launched yet another attack.

In December both Thomas and Leanna were shot in front of two of their children.
And speaking from their home in Tullamore, Co Offaly, terrified Leanna told the
Irish Sun her every waking moment is consumed with terror.

She told us: "It's a miracle one of the children hasn't been killed. We need to
be protected and nobody, absolutely nobody is doing anything for us." This paper
obtained footage of the exact moment the family were targeted.

Now we have the chilling footage of a previous attack in July 2013 showing the
sickening split second two hooded gunman sprayed their home with an AK47 assault
rifle.

In a scene reminiscent of RTE's Love/Hate, the footage of both incidents - which
can be seen in full on our website - shows gunmen peppering the home with
bullets.

The latest images also show a wellbuilt hooded thug blasting a sawnoff shotgun
through the front door. The two-man hit squad can be seen riddling the lower
floor of the house with bullets.

As our exclusive pictures show, a sleeping child narrowly escaped death after
one of the shots went up through the floorboards of the bedroom.

Speaking to the Irish Sun from their bullet-riddled home, a devastated Thomas
called on the men who want him dead to please think of his children.

With tears streaming down his TERRORVISION I TERRORVISION I face, the distraught
dad said: "They won't be happy until me or Leanna or one of children are in the
ground." In the December attack, Thomas, 32, was shot in the back while Leanne
suffered a shoulder injury.

The would-be assassin is filmed jumping out of the car, running to the door and
pulling the trigger.

Thomas told us: "What if I had the baby in my arms?" The first shot hits Leanne
in the shoulder before Thomas tackles the would-be assassin, throwing himself at
the gunman.

The startled shooter fires off two more rounds - hitting Thomas in the back -
before fleeing at speed.

The sickening attacks are linked to an ongoing local feud.

We revealed last week how the gun used to shoot Thomas was the same one used in
a brutal murder.

Detectives hunting the killers of dad-of-six Christy Daly made the link after a
major breakthrough in their investigation.

The body of Christy Daly, 47, was found dumped in a drain close to a bog in
Clara, Co Offaly, on January 8 - he had been blasted eight times with a handgun.

Forensic tests showed it was the same weapon used to target Thomas.

Watch the footage at www.thesun.ie

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Assassin ... thug fires at door with kids asleep inside
Living in fear . . Leanne & Thomas
Madness ... estate has seen five murder bids
Cold blood . . thug opens up as Thomas runs
Hit ... gunman exits car in last murder bid

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Worksop Guardian

                           February 11, 2014 Tuesday

Gainsborough: Event to help businesses cope with a terrorist attack

LENGTH: 293  words


Gainsborough businesses are being urged to sign up for a free event to learn how
to deal with a major incident or terrorist attack.

Project ARGUS is a National Counter Terrorism Security Office (NaCTSO)
initiative to help people prevent, handle and recover from a major incident.

The event is aimed at managers or assistant managers and is supported by the
Lincolnshire Resilience Forum, the multi-agency group responsible for
co-ordinating emergency management in the county.

During the three-hour session, businesses will be taken through a realistic
terrorist attack using a multi-media simulation.

Then in small groups with other local business representatives, people will be
faced with a series of questions and challenges they will have to resolve.

Paula Danville, Senior Emergency Planning Officer at Lincolnshire County
Council, said: "It will help business managers to look at what plans they
already have in place, and also get them to think about how they would keep
their business up and running should the worst happen."

Chris Allen, head of Public Protection at West Lindsey District Council, is
urging local businesses to take advantage of the event.

He said: "It is vital that our businesses are equipped to cope with a major
incident, such as a terrorist attack or severe weather."

The session will be held in the Trent Rooms of the Guildhall in Gainsborough on
Tuesday 18th March.

People taking part are asked to arrive at 1.20pm for a 1.30pm start. It will
finish at 4.30pm.

Places must be reserved in advance and invitations will be sent out to
businesses in Gainsborough and the surrounding area.

To reserve a place, email the details of nominees together with the company
represented and contact telephone numbers to kim.leith@west-lindsey.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NWGU


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 12, 2014 Wednesday

Ukrainian right-wing group denies plotting terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 208 words


Text of report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 12 February: The [right-wing] Right Sector movement has said it has no
plans to stage terrorist attacks, but warned about the possibility of such a
scenario on the part of the uniformed agencies.

"The Right Sector officially states that it is not plotting any terrorist
attacks. The mere thought of using terrorist attacks which could harm innocent
people is unacceptable for us. Not only are we saying that such 'fighting
methods' are unethical, they also have nothing to do with the strategy of
national revolution," a statement by the movement's central staff, posted by
Right Sector leader Dmytro Yarosh on his Facebook page, read.

The Right Sector said it feared that uniformed agencies would stage acts of
provocation aimed at smearing the movement.

"We have received reports from several sources that we cannot rule out a number
of imminent terrorist attacks, which seek to smear the Right Sector and other
combat structures of the Maydan [anti-government protest camp in Kiev's
Independence Square], spread panic in society, increase separatist tendencies
and create a basis for expansion of repression," Yarosh wrote.

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 0754 gmt 12 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                    February 12, 2014 Wednesday 3:44 AM GMT

Stormont department fined £185k for selling filing cabinet containing
information about victims of a terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Adrian Rutherford

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 418 words


A Stormont department has been fined £185,000 after a filing cabinet containing
personal information about victims of a terrorist attack was sold at an auction.

It is the third serious data breach involving the Department of Justice in under
two years.

The latest incident involved files on the injuries suffered, family details and
compensation offered, as well as confidential ministerial advice.

According to the Information Commissioner's Office, the incident occurred when
the Compensation Agency Northern Ireland, which falls under the control of the
DoJ, moved offices in February 2012.

Staff did not realise the locked cabinet contained sensitive information, and it
was earmarked for auction. It was sold, without a key, to a member of the public
in May 2012.

When the buyer forced the lock he found papers dating from the 1970s through to
2005.

The buyer contacted the PSNI, which returned the papers.

ICO assistant commissioner for Northern Ireland Ken Macdonald said: "The
distress that could have been caused to victims and their families had this
fallen into the wrong hands is self-evident."

The £185,000 fine was reduced to £148,000 for early payment.

Justice Minister David Ford said his department took the security of personal
data very seriously and the incident "should not have happened".

Further reading

Data on Northern Ireland MLA staff 'breached'

Medical records from Waterside Hospital found dumped in woman's garden

Boxes collapse led to data breach

Patient data blunder as woman is emailed private details of eight other people

Security blunder identifies RUC post applicants

Belfast councillors' bank details blunder cost almost £65k

Data leak fiasco deepens: Recipient of councillors' details defiant as
injunction granted

Belfast city councillors' bank details disclosed in data foul-up

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                          February 12, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Course to deal with terror attack;
In Brief

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 165 words


MARKET Rasen businesses are being urged to sign up for a free event to learn how
to deal with a major incident or terrorist attack.

Project Argus is a National Counter Terrorism Security Office initiative to help
people prevent, handle and recover from a major incident.

The event is aimed at managers or assistant managers and is supported by the
Lincolnshire Resilience Forum, the multi-agency group responsible for
co-ordinating emergency management in the county.

During the three-hour session, businesses will be taken through a realistic
terrorist attack using a multi-media simulation.

Chris Allen, head of public protection at West Lindsey District Council, said:
"It is vital that our businesses are equipped to cope with a major incident,
such as a terrorist attack or severe weather."

The session will be held in the Committee Rooms at Festival Hall, Caistor Road,
Market Rasen, on Thursday, March 20, from 10am.

Places must be reserved in advance by e-mailing kim.leith@west-lindsey.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GRT


                        Copyright 2014 Grimsby Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 14, 2014 Friday

Pakistan minister says Taleban peace talks cannot go alongside terror attacks

LENGTH: 544 words


Text of report published by Pakistan newspaper The Express Tribune website on 14
February

Karachi: Thursday's attack on the police in Karachi has created doubts about the
Tehreek-e-Taliban's sincerity towards the ongoing dialogue process, according to
Interior Minister Chaudhry Nisar, who reiterated that peace talks cannot run
parallel to such acts of war.

Speaking with the media at Karachi's airport, he condemned the latest atrocity
and said, "We had communicated to the Taliban that there will be no war during
the negotiations. But the attack on the police and the group's subsequent claim
of responsibility has created doubts about their sincerity."

He added, "We have asked the negotiating team to convey the message that these
kinds of attacks are not tolerable." The minister said the prime minister,
during his speech in the National Assembly, had emphasised that these attacks
must cease -- or peace talks would be impossible. Referring to PTI chief Imran
Khan's meeting with the then-army chief General Ashfaq Kayani and Nawaz Sharif,
Nisar said, "I was also present at the time and the army chief did not say that
there was a 40 per cent chance of success of a military operation against
terrorists at that time -- Imran Khan is misquoting him."

Nisar is in the city to meet with the chief minister to discuss Karachi's law
and order situation. He announced that the federal government will provide
bomb-proof vehicles to the Sindh Police. He decided this after jointly chairing
a meeting with Chief Minister Qaim Ali Shah at the CM House on Thursday.

The meeting decided to form a committee comprising officials of the provincial
and federal government to improve coordination and yield better results in the
ongoing operation. The interior minister was informed that the government has
decided to increase the salary package for policemen at sensitive police
stations, recruitment of 400 investigation officers in Sindh Police.

Sindh Chief Minister Qaim Ali Shah appreciated the federal government's support
to continue the targeted operation against terrorists with full force. During
the meeting, the chief minister briefed Chaudhry Nisar about the problems the
province was facing.

But after the Sindh Assembly passed the Sindh Emergency Procurement Act 2014,
the urgent procurement of bullet-proof vehicles, jackets and helmets was in
process, he said. These will not only protect the police force but also make
them strong enough to meet the challenges of terrorism, he added.

The meeting was informed about the establishment of five new Anti-Terrorism
Courts that will help in shifting hardened prisoners to other provinces and
transfer sensitive cases to other cities within the province for effective
prosecution.

Officials pointed out the issue of illegal SIM cards and said the streamlining
mechanism for the verification of illegal SIMs needs to be expedited by the
Ministry of Interior.

"We have encircled the terrorists in Karachi, which is why we are getting this
reaction from the other side," the CM said. Shah said in addition to the latest
equipment, explosive-detecting gadgets and vehicles, effective training is also
needed for the Sindh Police and the provincial government.

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 14 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 14, 2014 Friday

China says 11 terrorists killed in Xinjiang attack, one suspect detained

LENGTH: 188 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

URUMQI, 14 February - Eight terrorists were killed by police and three others by
their own suicide devices during a terrorist attack Friday [14 February]
afternoon in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, police said.

Two civilians and two police officers were injured in the attack in Wushi county
of Aksu Prefecture. One suspect was captured, police said. The terrorists,
riding motorbikes and cars, attacked a team of police on patrol at around 4 p.m.

The terrorists were armed with explosive devices and knives, police said. Five
police vehicles were damaged or destroyed in the attack. Order has resumed in
the area and the case is being investigated. Six terrorists were shot down by
police during an attack against a police station on Jan. 24 in the county seat
of Xinhe in the Aksu Prefecture. Some 190 terrorist attacks were recorded in
Xinjiang in 2012, increasing by a significant margin from 2011, according to the
regional public security department.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1216gmt 14 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 14, 2014 Friday

Azeris view 13 February blasts as terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 526 words


Four blasts in various parts of Azerbaijan on 13 February have left many
wondering if they were terrorist attacks or just a coincidence.

Two of the explosions took place in the capital, Baku, one in southern Bilasuvar
District, which is situated at the  border with Iran, and one in northern Saki
District.

Nobody was killed in the explosion near a metro station in Baku in the morning,
while two were killed in a blast at a petrol station in the city in the evening.
One person was killed as a Kamaz lorry later blew up in Bilasuvar, and nobody
was killed in an explosion at an electricity substation in Saki, the Baku-based
opposition daily Yeni Musavat reported on 14 January. [1]

The newspaper quoted the head of the press service of the Prosecutor-General's
Office as saying that legal proceedings had been launched into the two blasts in
Baku.

The newspaper added that reasons for the blasts in Saki and Bilasuvar are
"unknown".

In late January, Yeni Musavat reported: "Two armed terrorist groups - the Forest
Brothers and Jayshullah - have announced they have started armed operations
against the Azerbaijani authorities."

The "Forest Brothers" reportedly has ties with the insurgency in Russia's North
Caucasus, while Jayshullah is known as a pro-Iranian group.

Official statement

In the meantime, the Azerbaijani Interior Ministry has said in a statement that
the blast in an incomplete building near the metro station in Baku was caused by
a gas leak, and the blasts involving the petrol station and the Kamaz lorry took
place as welding work was under way on petrol tanks. The ministry did not
comment on the blast in Saki. [2]

Web user reactions

A lot of web users have said the blasts were acts of terrorism. Few said they
were caused by carelessness.

The following comments were posted on the "Azarbaycan Xabarlari" ("Azerbaijan
News") Facebook page. [3]

User "Akif Eyyubi" said: "This seems to be a warning from Wahhabi scum."

"Ad Soyad": "This could be an act of terrorism, and they [authorities] are not
aware of that."

"Vugar Ismaylov": "This looks like sabotage!!! [Blasts] in three locations on
the same day. Somebody is sending a message to the authorities."

"Yusif Qasimov": "Something must be going on. Consequences will come later."

"Penah Isaqov": "This all happened according to a scenario."

Twitter user @NihadHuseynov said: "Whatever the Forest Brothers do or will do,
that harms us, the people." [4]

"Bakili Balasi" said: "One hundred per cent, that [one of the blasts] was
[caused by] the welder's carelessness."

Terrorism or coincidence?

Security expert Ilham Ismayil sees no elements of terrorism in the blasts and
says people are too sensitive.

"Society is concerned about developments around us and in the world and are
trying to link these consecutive events [blasts]. There are no elements of
terrorism in these processes. Because those who seek to commit terrorist attacks
target the government and the state," Ismayil said in an interview with Yeni
Musavat. [1]

Sources:

1. Yeni Musavat, Baku, in Azeri 14 Feb 14

2.  APA news agency, Baku, in Azeri 1008 gmt 14 Feb 14

3. http://tinyurl.com/q6n5x6a

4. http://tinyurl.com/orc3hoy

Sources as listed

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 14, 2014 Friday

China says 11 terrorists killed in Xinjiang attack

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

URUMQI, 14 February - Several terrorists were shot dead by police during a
terrorist attack Friday [14 February] afternoon in northwest China's Xinjiang
Uygur Autonomous Region, police said.

The terrorists, riding motorbikes and cars, attacked a team of police who were
gathering before the gate of a park for routine patrol at around 4 p.m. in Wushi
County in the Aksu Prefecture.

Police said the terrorists had unknown number of LNG cylinders in their car
which they had attempted to use as suicide bombs.

Several terrorists were shot dead at the scene.

The case is under further investigation.

Six terrorists were shot down by police during an attack against a police
station on Jan. 24 in the county seat of Xinhe in the Aksu Prefecture,

Some 190 terrorist attacks were recorded in Xinjiang in 2012, increasing by a
significant margin from 2011, according to the regional public security
department.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1142gmt 14 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            February 14, 2014 Friday

Several terrorists killed in Xinjiang attack

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 28 words


URUMQI - Several terrorists were shot dead by police during a terrorist attack
Friday afternoon in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, police
said.

Related

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      February 14, 2014 Friday 2:35 PM GMT

Chinese police kill 'terrorists' in attack in west

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 473 words


BEIJING (AP) - Chinese security forces on Friday fatally shot eight people who
attacked police with machetes and drove cars that carried gas cylinders they
detonated as bombs in the restive western Xinjiang region, state media said.

Three other assailants died as they exploded the bombs in the attack in the
county of Wushi in Aksu prefecture, injuring four people, according to the
Tianshan news portal, which is run by the regional branch of the Communist
Party.

The reports did not identify the ethnicity of the assailants, but it was the
latest in a series of attacks pointing to growing unrest in the sprawling
region. Xinjiang is home to a simmering rebellion against Chinese rule among
parts of the native Turkic Uighur (pronounced WEE'-gur) population who want more
autonomy from Beijing. Recent clashes, including an attack on police last month,
have left dozens of people dead.

The official Xinhua News Agency said the assailants rode motorbikes and drove
cars that carried liquefied natural gas cylinders they intended to use as
suicide bombs.

They attacked a team of police who had gathered at the gate of a park for a
routine patrol in Wushi, Xinhua said, calling the assailants "terrorists."

The Chinese government typically calls such incidents terrorist attacks linked
to radicals based overseas, although Beijing has provided little concrete
evidence to back its claim. Activists say despair over economic and social
discrimination and cultural and religious restrictions are fueling anger among
Uighurs.

An exiled Uighur activist accused Beijing of labeling the attackers terrorists
in order to justify the authorities' use of armed force against them.

"The cause of the Uighur struggle is China's armed forces' use of violent raids
and provocations," said Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the German-based World
Uyghur Congress. "No one can continue to bear China's provocations and its
systematic police of repression."

Police fatally shot eight of the machete-wielding assailants and caught one of
them, the Tianshan report said.

Two bystanders and two police officers were injured in the attack, while five
police patrol vehicles were damaged, the report said. Photos posted by Tianshan
showed a military police jeep and a troop transporter that were heavily damaged,
their windows shattered and fronts burned out.

An official from the Xinjiang government who refused to give his name confirmed
the Xinhua report, but said he had no more details to offer. Calls to Aksu
prefecture's Communist Party propaganda department and Wushi county's party
committee and police all rang unanswered, as did calls to Xinjiang's police and
party departments.

Aksu was also the site of an attack last month in which assailants threw
explosives at police in Xinhe county. Six people died in the explosions and six
others were shot dead by police.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 14, 2014 Friday 11:47 AM GMT

China: Police kill 'terrorists' in attack in west

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 184 words


BEIJING (AP) - Chinese police killed several "terrorists" who launched an attack
Friday in the latest spate of violence in Xinjiang, a restive region in the
country's far west, state media said.

The assailants were riding motorbikes and driving cars that carried liquefied
natural gas cylinders they intended to use as suicide bombs, the official Xinhua
News Agency said.

They attacked a team of police who gathered at the gate of a park for a routine
patrol in Aksu, a prefecture in Xinjiang, and police fatally shot several of
them, Xinhua said.

An official from the Xinjiang government who refused to give his name confirmed
the Xinhua report, but said he had no more details to offer.

Calls to the region's police and Communist Party propaganda department rang
unanswered.

It was the latest in a series of attacks pointing to growing unrest in the
sprawling region of Xinjiang, home to a simmering rebellion against Chinese rule
among parts of the native Muslim Uighur population who want more autonomy from
Beijing. Recent clashes, including an attack on police last month, have left
dozens of people dead.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 14, 2014 Friday 11:32 AM GMT

Xinhua: Police kill 'terrorists' in attack in west

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 110 words


BEIJING (AP) - China's official Xinhua News Agency says police have killed
"terrorists" in an attack in the latest spate of violence in Xinjiang, a restive
region in the country's far west.

Xinhua did not provide any more details in its one-sentence report Friday.

An official from the Xinjiang government who refused to give his name confirmed
the Xinhua report, but said he had no more details to offer.

Calls to the region's police and Communist Party's propaganda department rang
unanswered.

Xinjiang is home to a low-intensity insurgency by ethnic minority Uighurs
against what they see as discrimination and religious suppression by China's
majority Han people.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           February 15, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Family hit in blazing bin terror;
'ATTACK' ON HOUSE

BYLINE: KIERAN DINEEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 184 words


AN INNOCENT mum and her two teen daughters were rescued from a blaze
deliberately set at their home.

The Kelly family were asleep in the terrace house when the inferno flared in
their front hallway in the early hours.

It is understood a rubbish bin was pushed towards the front door and set alight
- with the fire then spreading into the home.

A source said: "This was an attempted murder and the mother and her kids are
lucky to have escaped as the main exit was blocked." Six units of the fire
brigade were called to the scene at Moatview Avenue, in Coolock, Dublin, to
battle the inferno.

Shaken Patricia Kelly and her girls were rescued from an upstairs bedroom by
firefighters. They were taken to Beaumont Hospital and treated for smoke
inhalation.

A neighbour said: "We got a knock on the door to tell us there was a fire and to
get out. So I woke the kids up and we ran out as fast as we could. I saw the
fire brigade helping the mother out of the top bedroom window. Luckily, nobody
was hurt."

Forensics officers carried out an examination of the scene, focusing on the
rubbish bin.

kieran.dineen@the-sun.ie

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                               February 16, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SHOOTING VICTIM HITS OUT AT UVF;
MURDER BID MEN SURVIVE ATTACK Pals reveal his anger and say terror gang don't
scare him

BYLINE: Ciaran Barnes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 545 words


THE VICTIM of a UVF murder bid in Bangor has branded his would-be killer a "wee
boy" and says he does not fear the terror gang.

Self-confessed ex-drug dealer James 'Hammy' ' Hamilton was shot in the leg by a
masked gunman as he sat in a car in the Eastway area of the Whitehill estate
during the early hours of last Monday.

The 33-year-old, who the UVF blamed on trying to kill its east Belfast boss
Stephen 'Mackers' ' Matthews in 2012, signed himself out of hospital that night.

Hammy''s pal - a 24-year-old man known as 'Murph' - ' - was shot three times in
the chest by the same gunman. Despite his injuries he too left hospital early.

Criminal sources told Sunday Life that both men feared they could be attacked in
their sickbeds by the UVF.

The terror gang has vowed to kill Hammy, who until the attempt on his life last
Monday had a 'gentleman's agreement' with the east Belfast UVF to stay out of
each others way.

A friend of the gun victim said: "After Hammy was accused of trying to kill
Mackers they reached a truce. Hammy would stay out of east Belfast, but the UVF
Judased him and now all bets are off."

In the lead up to last week's shooting Hammy had been making regular visits to
his mother's house in Bangor to check on the property while she was on holiday.

UVF figures in the town picked up on this and tipped-off terror bosses who set
up the murder bid.

"Murph stopped the car as he was leaving Hammy's ma's house to show him a text
on his phone and the gunman ran over and fired seven shots through the driver's
window.

"Three hit Murph in the chest and one hit Hammy in the leg.

"Hammy has been saying that whoever fired the shots must have been a wee boy,
because he missed an easy chance to kill them both.

"He's not afraid of the UVF."

LUCKY

Loyalist insiders have described Hammy as "a lucky boy" and believe the UVF will
try to kill him again. "The guy has more lives than a cat," said a source,
referring to previous failed attempts on the his life.

Hammy''s problems with the east Belfast UVF began in 2011 when he fell out with
its bosses in a row over money.

The terror gang accused him of selling cocaine on their patch and not handing
over a cut of the profits. When the UVF sent some of its men to confront Hammy
the meeting descended into a fist-fight which he won.

In the wake of the punch-up he was forced to flee the Sydenham area of east
Belfast after coming under a death threat.

In February 2012 the UVF''s east Belfast boss Mackers survived a murder bid
outside his Pansy Street home when his attacker''s gun jammed. The loyalist
godfather accused Hammy of being behind the attempt on his life. A week later
the UVF threw a blast bomb at his father Willie''s home, blowing the front door
off its hinges.

Hammy fled east Belfast after the attack and in November 2012 was jailed for 18
weeks on motoring and drugs offences. Since getting out of jail last year he has
been lying low in the Craigavon area.

But the hardman has been making regular visits to the home of a seriously ill
relative living in Bangor - something that has not gone unnoticed by UVF figures
in the area.

During the early hours of last Monday morning they ambushed Hammy as he sat in a
car. But he survived the second UVF attempt on his life in as many years.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MURDER BID: Scene of the shooting
BOMB ATTACK: Hammy's dad's house
FEUD: Stephen 'Mackers' Matthews
SHOT IN THE LEG: James 'Hammy' Hamilton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2014 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 16, 2014 Sunday 8:07 PM GMT

Mohammed Morsi's lawyers walk out at start of Egypt trial;
Lawyers for Mohammed Morsi walk out of Cairo court at start of his trial on
charges of espionage and carrying out 'terror attacks'

BYLINE: By Richard Spencer Cairo, Egypt

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 521 words


The Egyptian military-backed authorities attempted to silence the deposed
President Mohammed Morsi yesterday by surrounding the dock of the court where he
is facing espionage charges with thick glass.

The opening day of the trial for the third and most serious set of charges he
faces ended in farcical scenes, as his lawyers walked out and the defendants and
their supporters chanting slogans.

Previous court hearings were overshadowed by Mr Morsi's barking at the judges,
refusing to recognise them and insisting that he remained the legitimate
president.

This time his principal lawyer, Mohammed Salim al-Awa, said he was withdrawing
from the case as his client could not hear what was happening.

Mr Morsi himself was briefly heard, shouting: "This is a farce. All this because
you are afraid of me - you are afraid that the president is speaking."

He turned to Mr Awa and said: "If this farce continues, don't come to the
court."

This set of charges accuses Mr Morsi and other Brotherhood leaders of espionage
and plotting against the country with foreign powers - mainly Hamas, the
Gaza-based Palestinian group which is an offshoot of the Brotherhood.

The prosecution have described the "plot" as the biggest criminal conspiracy in
Egypt's history.

It claims that from 2005 the Brotherhood conspired with Hamas, militant jihadist
groups, Hizbollah and even Iran to seize power. The Brotherhood has rejected all
the allegations.

The charges can carry the death penalty.

It was in 2005 that the Brotherhood won its biggest success in parliamentary
elections, even though it was still formally banned, an outcome that sent a
shock-wave through the then regime of President Hosni Mubarak.

Mr Morsi's first court appearance - his first appearance of any sort in public
since his overthrow by the army last July - also ended in chaotic scenes in
November as he railed from the caged dock at the judges, who suspended and then
postponed the hearing.

That was in his trial for inciting the murder of protesters while he was in
office.

On the current charges, he is accused alongside the Brotherhood's top
leadership, including the supreme guide, Mohammed Badie, and Khairat al-Shater,
his deputy and the group's most powerful and charismatic individual.

While the first case is aimed at ending Mr Morsi's individual career, this one
is clearly intended to destroy the Brotherhood in its current incarnation
altogether.

Among the co-defendants are aides seized at the same time as Mr Morsi who have
not been seen since, such as Essam el-Haddad, his foreign policy adviser who
became a familiar face in foreign capitals.

Of the 36 defendants, 17 are being tried in absentia, including another deputy
supreme guide, Mahmoud Ezzat, who is known to have fled the country and has been
seen in London.

The soundproof dock was fitted with earphones so the occupants and the judge
could communicate with each other, but the judge controlled the volume and
members of the defence team inside the cages said it was not turned up high
enough.

The court adjourned the case to February 23, and ordered a new team of lawyers
to be appointed for the defendants.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 16, 2014 Sunday 6:48 PM GMT

Egypt terror attack targets Christian pilgrims in Sinai;
Bombing of bus threatens a return to campaign targeting foreign tourists at Red
Sea resorts

BYLINE: By Richard Spencer Cairo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 492 words


Four people including three believed to be South Korean Christian pilgrims were
killed on Sunday by a bomb that tore through their bus near Egypt's border with
Israel in the Sinai peninsula.

The bus was heading to the Taba border crossing after taking the pilgrims to
visit St Catherine's Monastery, at the foot of Mount Sinai, when its front half
was engulfed in an explosion.

The bombing, said by the authorities to be most likely the work of terrorist
insurgents based in the Sinai, marked a dramatic shift in their current campaign
against the Egyptian regime, which to date has targeted the military and police.

Tour companies including those that take thousands of British visitors to
Egypt's Red Sea beaches every year will fear it heralds a return to previous
bombing campaigns targeting them. In 2004, 31 people were killed when a bomb,
one of three planted at the same time in the peninsula, exploded at the Taba
Hilton Hotel less than a mile from the point of Sunday's attack.

Hundreds of police, soldiers, militants and civilians have been killed in recent
months in northern Sinai, particularly since a major counter-insurgency
offensive by the army began in September. But while the campaign, led by a
militant Islamist group called Ansar Beit al-Maqdis or Supporters of Jerusalem,
has moved to the mainland, the group's statements have said it targets the
security forces.

Sunday's attack however was clearly aimed at tourists. The occupants of the bus
were said to be of different nationalities, but the South Korean foreign
ministry confirmed that at least two of its citizens were among the dead.

The South Sinai governor, Khaled Fouda, said a third Korean was killed, along
with the bus driver, who was Egyptian. At least 13 people were injured.

Pictures from the scene in the aftermath showed flames shooting out of the
brightly-painted yellow bus. The Israeli authorities sent rescue services to the
border, which was otherwise closed immediately. It is a route many Israeli
holiday-makers heading for the Sinai resorts take.

The authorities blame the upsurge in violence partly on the Muslim Brotherhood,
which they now regularly denounce as a "terrorist organisation" despite its
insistence that it is a peaceful and democratic organisation. It released a
statement condemning the bombings, though its message was diluted by its
referring to the victims as "Zionists" in one Arabic-language tweet.

"The Muslim Brotherhood strongly condemns in the strongest possible terms the
cowardly attack on a tourist bus," its English-language statement, issued from
its London office, said. It said the attack was further evidence of the
negligence of the military, which overthrew the Brotherhood's President Mohammed
Morsi in July, and which it describes as a "junta".

"It is sad to note that the military backed authorities have, once again, failed
to uphold their duty of protection and care towards visitors and Egyptian
citizens alike," it said.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 16, 2014 Sunday 1:29 PM GMT

Mohamed Morsi in court on Egypt spying and 'terror attacks' charges;
Egyptian former president Mohamed Morsi in Cairo court on charges of espionage
and carrying out 'terror attacks'

BYLINE: By AFP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 340 words


Deposed Islamist president Mohamed Morsi was on Sunday facing charges of
espionage and carrying out "terror attacks" in Egypt, as a third trial against
him was due to get under way.

The latest court case is part of a relentless government crackdown targeting
Morsi and his Islamist supporters since he was ousted by the military on July 3.

Morsi and 35 others, including former aides and leaders of his Muslim
Brotherhood, are accused "of spying for the international organisation of the
Muslim Brotherhood, its military wing and the (Palestinian) Hamas movement".

They are also charged with "carrying out terror attacks inside the country
against state property, institutions and their employees to spread chaos".

If found guilty, the defendants could face the death penalty.

Morsi, who was ousted by the military after a single year of turbulent rule, is
already on trial for his alleged involvement in the killing of opposition
protesters in December 2012.

Along with 130 others, including dozens of members of Hamas and Lebanon's Shiite
militant movement Hizbollah, Morsi is separately being tried on charges linked
to a jailbreak during the 2011 uprising that toppled strongman Hosni Mubarak.

The ousted leader is also to be tried separately for "insulting the judiciary".
A date for that has yet to be set.

During Morsi's short-lived presidency, ties between Cairo and Hamas, a
Palestinian affiliate of the Muslim Brotherhood which rules the neighbouring
Gaza strip, had flourished.

But since July, Egypt's military-installed government has accused Hamas of
backing Morsi and his Brotherhood and carrying out terrorist attacks inside
Egypt.

The army has destroyed several hundred tunnels used to ferry crucial supplies,
including fuel, into the blockaded Gaza Strip.

Since Morsi's ouster, his supporters have faced a relentless crackdown by
Egypt's government that has left more than 1,400 people dead according to
Amnesty International, and seen thousands more arrested.

Edited by Barney Henderson

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 17, 2014 Monday

China police reveal details of Xinjiang "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 327 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Urumqi, 16 February: Police in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous
Region on Sunday [16 February] revealed details of a terrorist attack that took
place on Friday [14 February], involving 13 terrorist suspects.

Investigation showed that the attack in the seat of Wushi county, in Aksu
Prefecture, was "organized, premeditated terrorist assault targeting the
police," said an official statement from Xinjiang police.

Eight terrorists were killed by police and three others by their own suicide
devices during the attack.

According to the police, a man named Mehmut Tohti started to spread religious
extremism three years ago. He headed a group of 13 terrorist suspects since
September 2013.

They listened to audio products and watched videos of terrorism content, and
carried out physical training. They purchased vehicles, made explosive devices
and hacking knives since January and did trial explosions several times to
prepare for attacks on police vehicles, according to the police.

The terrorists, riding motorbikes and cars, carried explosive devices and knives
and attacked a team of police on patrol at around 4 pm on Friday.

Two civilians and two police officers were injured in the attack. Five police
vehicles were damaged or destroyed, according to the police.

Police seized dozens of explosive devices and hacking knives at the scene.

South Xinjiang's Hotan, Kashgar and Aksu are areas overseas separatism forces
intend to penetrate most, where the majority of the population are Muslim
Uygurs.

Six terrorists were shot down by police during an attack against a police
station on 24 January in the county seat of Xinhe in the Aksu Prefecture.

Some 190 terrorist attacks were recorded in Xinjiang in 2012, increasing by a
significant margin from 2011, according to the regional public security
department.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1434gmt 16 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 17, 2014 Monday

Yemeni authorities thwart "terrorist" attack on oil refinery

LENGTH: 176 words


Text of report by Yemeni Armed Forces news website 26 September on 17 February

[Unattributed "exclusive" report: "Attempt to Target Aden Oil Refineries Foiled;
27 Al-Qa'idah Members Arrested"]

Brigadier General Najib al-Mughlis, Aden's deputy security director, has said
that security services foiled at dawn on 15 February a terrorist attack by
elements affiliated to the Al-Qa'idah Organization against the Aden Oil
Refinery.

In an exclusive statement to 26 September Net, Al-Mughlis added that security
services, in coordination and collaboration with the military units of the 4th
Military Zone in Al-Burayqah District, foiled the attack when they apprehended
six armed terrorists in a Toyota Hilux vehicle driving to the refinery.

Al-Mughlis noted that several other elements of the organization were
apprehended, raising the total number of those who were apprehended in the
operation to 27, including a number of leading figures in the organization who
are currently being interrogated.

Source: 26 September website, Sanaa, in Arabic 0000 gmt 17 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 17, 2014 Monday

Report highlights security challenges facing Nigeria after terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 1342 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper Vanguard website on 17 February;
subheadings as published

[Report by Emeka Mamah, Soni Daniel, Ben Agande and Ndahi Marama: "100 Massacred
in Fresh Borno Attacks; Soldiers Playing Safe in N-East -Military Sources;
Prayers, Saving Grace for Nigeria -Jonathan; FG Under Pressure To Re-Open
Negotiation With B-Haram"]

No fewer than 100 people were, weekend, killed in separate attacks in Baga and
Izge villages of Kukawa and Gwoza local government areas of Borno State, by Boko
Haram insurgents, who also reportedly wounded several others and destroyed
property worth millions of Naira. This came as President Goodluck Jonathan said
in Lagos, yesterday, that the security challenges facing the country would have
been worse without prayers from religious groups across the country.

It has also emerged that the Federal Government may be under pressure to open
fresh negotiations with the terrorist group.

President Jonathan, who spoke at the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Olive
Tree Parish, in Banana Island, Lagos thanked Christians and other religious
groups for their prayerful intercessions for the country. He said, but for their
prayers, Nigeria would have been worse than it is in terms of the security
challenges.

However, the Military High Command has now suspended further rotation of troops
deployed to the North East region to fight the Boko Haram terrorists over
alleged discovery that troops now play hide and seek to avoid being killed by
the terrorists. The order banning further rotation of troops every six months
came into effect on February 3.

Aside the weekend attacks, investigations by Vanguard showed that the Boko Haram
terrorists had killed over 200 people within the last few weeks as well as
inflicting severe wounds on residents who lost property worth billions of naira
in Konduga, Gwoza and Kukawa council areas of Borno State.

Vanguard gathered from reliable sources that the attack in Baga village
bordering the Chad Republic Friday evening, claimed 10 lives, while the Izge
massacre at the Cameroon border with Borno State yesterday morning also left 90
people dead.

The Baga attacks

On the Baga incident, sources said that the gunmen numbering over 100 invaded
the village at about 7pm with sophisticated weapons, including Improvised
Explosive Devices, IED's, and wreaked havoc on innocent citizens before fleeing
without being arrested.

A resident, Mallam Ali Yakubu said the gunmen succeeded in killing several
people after dislodging some security operatives in the area. He added that the
gunmen arrived in Toyota Hilux and several other vehicles and motorcycles while
dressed in military camouflage, chanting Allahu Akbar (God is great) and shot at
anyone on sight before setting houses ablaze.

"As I am talking to you now, all the dead bodies are still lying on the streets
as we can't get the opportunity of burying them because of fear that the
terrorists were still around in the nearby bushes of Izge.

"I thank God for sparing my life yesterday, because I thought my days in this
world were over when we started hearing sounds of gunshots and explosions all
over Izge in the night. God really had mercy on me. We ran into the bush without
being hurt by the insurgents, although, I lost all my belongings," he added.

The Police Commissioner, Mr Lawal Tanko confirmed the incidents in a telephone
interview with Vanguard, when contacted yesterday.

He said: "Yes there were separate attacks in Baga Village located on an island
of Lake Chad where about eight or nine people were killed on Friday, while the
terrorists attack on Izge villages of Gwoza Local Government Area on Sunday
(yesterday), led to the death of innocent civilians.

"I have already directed the Divisional Police Officer, DPO, in-charge of the
area to feed me back with details, I will let you know, but as at now, I do not
have details on the number of casualties," Tanko said.

Prayers helping Nigeria - Jonathan

Meanwhile, President Jonathan said in Lagos, yesterday: "I thank Christians and
other religious groups that pray for this country especially at the period the
whole world is facing a lot of challenges.

"You will agree with me that whenever you tune your television especially the
international news centres like CNN, Aljazeera or Sky news you always see
breaking news.

"All the breaking news are always negative, you hardly see any positive breaking
news all over the world.

"In Nigeria too, we have been having our own fair share of these negative news
brought about by the Boko Haram killing people at will. But we believe that God
knows it all.

"Without your prayers, probably it would have been worse than this. God has
always been faithful to Nigerians. God will continue to hear our prayers so that
our country will get out of these challenges of terror and other related crimes"
he said.

The President thanked members of the Redeemed church for 100 days of fasting and
prayers they have embarked upon saying "even to keep faith with the orthodox 40
days fasting during the lent period which I also participate in is not easy. To
fast for 100 day is not an easy task.

"You are fasting not because of your personal interest, but for the country. I
have to thank the General Overseer and all of you who have been fasting. God
will hear our prayers" he said.

The first Lady of Lagos State, Mrs Abimbola Fashola; the Deputy Governor of the
state, Mrs Adejoke Adefulire and the Minister of State for FCT and the
Supervisory Minister of Police Affairs, Oloye Olajumoke Akinjide were also at
the service.

However, the Military High Command suspended further rotation of troops deployed
to the North East region to fight the Boko Haram terrorists every six months
following alleged discovery that troops now play hide and seek to avoid being
killed.

Soldiers playing safe in N-East areas -Military

The authorities believe that, the "mentality of troops deployed to the North
East is to play safe pending when they will be rotated. In view of that, there
would be no further rotation till the war is brought to a favourable
conclusion."

According to military sources, the only way the new rule would be relaxed and
"troops deployed to the North East, unit are rotated will be when they suffer
heavy casualty."

Sources told Vanguard that the Nigerian troops who were circumspect that the
Boko Haram insurgents were better equipped than they had resorted to playing
safe to avoid being killed in the war against terror.

The sources who confided in Vanguard gave example with last week's killing of
nine soldiers in a border village of Izge in Adamawa State.

The source said that the Boko Haram insurgents travelled from the Sambisa Forest
which was over 50 kilometres away from where the troops were stationed to launch
the attack on them.

"They arrived Izge in two Armoured Personnel Carriers, APCs, among other heavy
military hardware without hindrance. Although the Nigerian troops fought
gallantly and killed some of the Boko Haram terrorists, including the 'gunner'
in one of the armoured vehicles but the attackers re-grouped and came back the
second time and killed the troops as well as wounding one of the officers due to
lack of reinforcement.

"Apart from the two APCs, the terrorists came with several other vehicles which
enabled them to escape after inflicting such casualties on us. They were even
able to carry away their dead or wounded colleagues.

"It is a known fact that the Boko Haram terrorists have their cells at Sambisa
Forest, where they get logistics supply from helicopters that fly to the forest
from time to time."

Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State was apparently lamenting over the
situation when he said at Konduga, in the state last week that members of the
Boko Haram sect were better motivated to carry out attacks on innocent people
than the Nigerian security agents. Shettima spoke in an interview with newsmen
shortly after inspecting the magnitude of the destruction carried out by Boko
Haram insurgents at Konduga, Tuesday evening.

Source: Vanguard website, Lagos, in English 17 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            February 17, 2014 Monday

S.Korea censures terrorist attack in Egypt

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 270 words


SEOUL -- South Korea on Monday strongly censured a deadly terrorist attack on a
tourist bus carrying its nationals in southern Sinai, Egypt, vowing to do
everything to take care of the victims.

Seoul's Foreign Ministry said in a spokesman's statement that it strongly
condemns the suicide bombing against its nationals, noting that it cannot
repress fury and astonishment against such anti-human crime.

The ministry conveyed its deepest condolences to the victims and their bereaved
families, promising to provide all possible supports to deal with the situation.

According to the ministry, the bus carrying 31 South Korean churchgoers, two
South Korean tour guides and one Egyptian driver was struck by a terrorist
attack Sunday afternoon.

The blast killed one female South Korean tourist, the two South Korean tour
guides and the Egyptian driver along with the suicide bomber, injuring 15 other
South Korean tourists.

A bomb exploded in the front part of the bus, which was preparing to cross into
Israel in the southern Sinai town of Taba.

The team of South Korean sightseers, who came from one of the country's
Presbyterian churches, had been on a pilgrimage since last week to Turkey, Egypt
and Israel.

It was the first attack on tourists in Egypt since the ouster of President
Mohamed Morsi by the Egyptian army in July sparked civil unrest and a spate of
attacks across the country that have mainly targeted security forces.

The South Korean foreign ministry issued a special travel warning against the
Sinai Peninsula, calling on its people to immediately withdraw from the region
and not to visit the area.

Related readings:

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            February 17, 2014 Monday

UN chief slams deadly terrorist attack in Egypt

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 181 words


UNITED NATIONS -- UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on Sunday strongly condemned
a deadly terrorist attack on a tourist bus in southern Sinai, Egypt, calling for
the perpetrators to be brought to justice.

A bus in the southern Sinai town of Taba was struck by a terrorist attack
Sunday, which reportedly killed four people, including three tourists from the
Republic of Korea (ROK), and injured many others.

In a statement issued by Ban's spokesman, the secretary-general "conveys his
condolences to the families of the victims and to the governments of Egypt and
the Republic of Korea," the statement said. Ban also "calls for the perpetrators
to be brought to justice."

A bomb exploded in the front part of the bus carrying ROK sightseers near Taba
border crossing with Israel in southern Sinai. Three tourists and an Egyptian
driver were killed in the attack, reports said.

It was the first attack on tourists since the ouster of President Mohamed Morsi
by the Egyptian army in July sparked civil unrest and a spate of attacks across
the country that have mainly targeted security forces.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      February 17, 2014 Monday 5:27 PM GMT

Lebanon simmers by Syria's side: Terror attacks drag Lebanese communities into
civil war next door;
Suicide bombers target Hezbollah strongholds across the porous border

BYLINE: Fernande van Tets

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 961 words


The arched façade of the shopping centre is still blackened with soot and piles
of debris, and building material marks the spot where a suicide bomber detonated
his belt, and his car, two weeks ago.

The explosion killed five people; among the 40 more wounded was Ali Shaheen, a
pharmacist, who was making coffee at the time of the blast. "Everything
collapsed around us," he recalls. The attack has made residents of Hermel, a
"100 per cent Shia" town where Hezbollah reigns supreme, resigned and fearful of
a new threat that seems impossible to stop. "When it comes to suicide bombers,
neither Hezbollah nor the Lebanese army can prevent such an act," said Shaheen,
a father of three.

Although this is its first suicide bombing, it is not the first time the town
has felt the consequences of Hezbollah's role in the Syrian war. Over 150
rockets have rained down on Hermal and its surroundings over the past two years.
Last night, a second suicide bombing hit the town, killing three.

The Hezbollah leader, Hassan Nasrallah, formally announced that the group was
fighting alongside the Syrian army last May, when his forces played a crucial
role in expelling rebels from Qusayr, just across the Lebanese border. Since
then, five suicide bombings have hit Dahiyeh, a Hezbollah stronghold in Beirut's
southern suburbs.

Several of the attacks, including Hermel's suicide bomb, have been claimed by
Jabhat al-Nusra, an affiliate of al Qa'ida that began operating in Lebanon
towards the end of last year. Last Sunday, the group released a statement on
Twitter telling fellow Sunni's to stay out of Hezbollah areas. "Iran's party
[Hezbollah] and all its bases and bastions are legitimate targets for us,
wherever they are," the group said.

Hezbollah has always argued that it entered Syria to prevent Islamist elements
from reaching Lebanon. But far from being a deterrent, the increased violence
has made Hermel residents happy that Hezbollah has entered the fray. Doctor
Hussein, a local anaesthetist who treated a number of victims of the Hermel
blast, was initially against Hezbollah's involvement in Syria. But he has since
reconsidered. "Imagine what would happen here if Hezbollah didn't enter the
conflict," he said.

Residents and officials in Hermel are clear about who is responsible for the
violence: a combination of takfiri (apostates), jihadi's and islamists. And,
they say, the residents of Arsal, a Sunni town 30 minutes down the road, are
harbouring them.

The two villages are a microcosm of the Syrian conflict on Lebanese soil. Hermel
is important as a logistical hub for Hezbollah and an easy access point for its
fighters across the border. The town is known as the "capital of the
resistance".

Arsal fulfils a similar role for the Syrian rebels. It provides a vital supply
route for those still fighting in Qalamoun, just across the border, and around
Damascus.

Family ties here stretch across the porous border and, from the start of the
conflict, Arsal's Sunni residents have been sympathetic to the Syrian rebel
cause. The town has welcomed thousands of refugees, its population of 40,000
swelled by 60,000 Syrians. Informal tented camps dot the town's outskirts, and
every unfinished building now houses more than one family. Hidden among women
and children are the thousands of rebel fighters who come to recuperate.

The town's strategic position allows them to do so. It lies at the end of an
unpaved, rocky road that winds up into the Anti-Lebanon mountain range. The
route, leading first to limestone quarries, continues into Syria and facilitates
the heart of Arsal's economy: the smuggling of fighters, ammunition and weapons.

Syria's air force has noticed, regularly bombing the surrounding area, while
Arsal itself has suffered a barrage of rocket attacks over the past two years.
Following the suicide bombing in Hermel, just such a rocket attack left seven
people dead in Arsal, among them five children.

The residents blame Hezbollah for attacks like these. Arsal is surrounded by
Shia towns, and many fear to leave the safety of their Sunni enclave. "They are
terrorists," says Abed Hasan Hmeil, 24, a quarry worker, who is certain that
making a visit to Hermel would end in arrest or death.

Recently the town has been squeezed by the Lebanese military stepping up its
operations. On Friday, the Lebanese army stopped a large shipment of ammunition
and made several high-profile arrests. Tensions between Arsal and its Shia
neighbours are set to escalate when the rebels' strategic position in central
Syria, Yabroud, comes under attack. A Hezbollah official said that battle would
start "within days".

Clearing Yabroud has become "a top priority" for Hezbollah, as many of the
attacks targeting the group in Lebanon have originated there. "The rebels are
accelerating the ending of the Qalamoun battle," the Hezbollah official said
while sipping coffee in his office. He said it was unclear whether Hezbollah
would allow fighters to leave the battlefield once the fight starts. After the
third week of fighting, a humanitarian corridor was opened, allowing many
fighters to escape. The official admitted that had been "a mistake".

The loss of Yabroud would be "a disaster for Lebanon and Syria", said Alain as
he sat in a makeshift clinic in Arsal. The young man was wounded while fighting
with "an Islamist group" in Yabroud five months ago. He is an English language
graduate, with a professed love of George Bernard Shaw and William Shakespeare,
and who now has a metal pin sticking out of his lower leg.

If defeated - and allowed to leave - the sole place to retreat to, he thinks,
will be Arsal. "The only way is here," he said in the improvised clinic. "The
regime has surrounded the area," he added, before repeating: "The only place is
here."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      February 17, 2014 Monday 4:49 PM GMT

Sochi Winter Olympics: UK warns terrorist attacks are 'very likely' to occur;
Whitehall officials have warned attacks could occur during the Games

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 368 words


UK officials are warning more terrorist attacks are "very likely to occur" in
Russia either before or during the Winter Olympics in Sochi, which are due to
begin next week.

A threat assessment has named a Caucasus group, Imarat Kavkaz (IK) as causing
the main danger, according to the BBC.

The assessment highlights the IK's leader, Emir Doku Umarov, who called on his
followers to try their hardest to disrupt the Games in July 2013.

However, the document also questions whether the group are capable of targeting
the event within such a narrow time frame, the BBC reports, with the Games
running from 7-23 February.

It also notes that the IK has not attacked non-Russian interests previously and
focuses its fight on Russia, not the West.

Last week Olympic committees in Germany, Hungary, Italy, Slovenia and the UK
received messages threatening their delegations at the Winter Olympics, but
these were dismissed by officials as unfounded.

Meanwhile, Russian authorities have been conducting a manhunt for three women
they fear may be planning suicide attacks targeting the Games. Police leaflets
in Sochi warned that Ruzana Ibragimova, a 22-year-old "Black Widow" of a
militant killed by security forces, was at large in the city.

Winter Olympics 2014: Race to find Sochi 'bomber' casts chill over Sochi Games

Security officials also put out wanted posters for Oksana Aslanova, 26, and
Dzhannet Tsakhayeva, 34, saying the women were planning attacks in
Rostov-on-Don, where the Olympic torch procession arrived on 22 January.

But President Vladimir Putin has pledged the Games will be safe, and Russian
authorities are deploying over 37,000 extra law enforcement personnel around
Sochi. As part of their "ring of steel" operation, the city has been closed off
to all vehicles not registered in the city since 7 January.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office is advising all travel to Chechnya,
Ingushetia and Dagestan and the districts of Budyonnovsky, Levokumsky,
Neftekumsky, Stepnovsky and Kursky in Stavropol Krai.

It also advises against all but essential travel to all travel to Chechnya,
Ingushetia and Dagestan and the districts of Budyonnovsky, Levokumsky,
Neftekumsky, Stepnovsky and Kursky in Stavropol Krai.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 18, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

IRA: WE SENT BOMBS TO 7 ARMY OFFICES;
Attacks will continue, say terror group

BYLINE: PIERS EADY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 359 words


FEARS of a new Irish terror campaign in Britain grew yesterday after the IRA
admitted it sent seven letter bombs to Army careers offices. The group claimed
responsibility for the devices in a message to an Irish newspaper, using a
recognised codeword, with a warning of more attacks to come.

The Irish News said the statement read: "The IRA claims responsibility for the
explosive devices that were sent to British armed forces recruitment centres in
England. Attacks will continue when and where the IRA see fit."

Three explosive devices were sent to Army careers offices in Reading and
Chatham, Kent, on Tuesday and Aldershot, on Wednesday last week.

Four more were found in Oxford, Brighton, Canterbury and the Queensmere shopping
centre in Slough on Thursday. Royal Mail staff and personnel at military bases
have been warned to stay on high alert. And screening procedures for mail sent
to armed forces offices are also being reviewed.

Scotland Yard said yesterday that the claim was received on Saturday "by a
Northern Irish media outlet using a recog- nised codeword. The claim was
allegedly made on behalf of the IRA".

One of the packages had a postmark from the Republic of Ireland and the devices
were said by the Government to have "the hallmarks of Northern Irelandrelated
terrorism".

The revelation came as bomb disposal units rushed to HMS Collingwood, the Royal
Navy's largest training centre, yesterday after reports of a suspicious package
at the base. However, the incident at the base near Portsmouth turned out to be
a false alarm.

The IRA - also known as the New IRA - was formed in 2012 after former members of
the Real IRA joined forces with a vigilante group called Republican Action
Against Drugs. Hard-line members of the original IRA established the Real IRA
after opposing their leaders' decision to declare a ceasefire in 1997.

Their last victim was David Black, a Northern Ireland police officer, who was
ambushed and shot on Northern Ireland's M1 motorway in November 2012.

Scotland Yard is urging the public to remain vigilant and report anything
suspicious via the Anti-Terrorist Hotline on 0800 789 321.

piers.eady@trinitymirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGETED Brighton office

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           February 18, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

IRA: We sent 7 bombs to Army career offices;
Attacks will continue, warn terror splinter group

BYLINE: PIERS EADY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 241 words


FEARS of a terror campaign in Britain grew yesterday when dissident Irish
Republicans admitted sending letter bombs to seven Army careers offices. A group
calling themselves the IRA, but known as the New IRA, claimed responsibility for
the devices in a message to a nationalist newspaper in Belfast, using a
recognised codeword, with a warning of more attacks to come.

The Irish News said the statement read: "The IRA claim responsibility for the
explosive devices that were sent to British armed forces recruitment centres in
England.

"Attacks will continue when and where the IRA see fit."

Three devices were sent to Army careers offices in Reading and Chatham on
Tuesday and Aldershot on Wednesday last week.

Others were found in Oxford, Brighton, Canterbury and Slough on Thursday. Royal
Mail staff at military bases have been warned to stay on high alert.

Three packages had Republic of Ireland postmarks and the devices were said by
the Government to have "the hallmarks of Northern Ireland-related terrorism".

Bomb disposal units rushed to HMS Collingwood near Portsmouth yesterday after
reports of a suspicious package but it turned out to be a false alarm.

The New IRA were formed in 2012 after experienced former members of the Real IRA
joined forces with paramilitary vigilantes Republican Action Against Drugs.

Hardline members of the Provisional IRA established the Real IRA after opposing
their leaders' decision to declare a ceasefire in 1997.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           February 18, 2014 Tuesday

Republic of Korea Citizens Killed and Injured in Terror Attack in Egypt

LENGTH: 57 words


February 17, 2014

Jen Psaki, Department Spokesperson , Washington, DC - We extend our deepest
condolences to the families of the Republic of Korea citizens killed and injured
in yesterday's terror attack in Egypt. We condemn this cowardly attack on
innocent tourists. Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their loved
ones.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                          February 19, 2014 Wednesday

Terrorist Attack On Refinery Averted

LENGTH: 92 words


News: Security forces in the Yemeni port city of Aden have foiled an attack on
the Gulf of Aden oil refinery after arresting 27 suspected Al Qaeda militants.
According to a statement by the defence ministry, citing Aden Security deputy
chief Brigadier Najeeb Moughles, the police force and Yemeni soldiers had
arrested six armed men in a car who were about to carry out the attack on
February 15. A further 21 militants were subsequently arrested, including senior
members of the group, in follow-up operations around the port city, the
statement added.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2014 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    February 19, 2014 Wednesday 4:13 PM GMT

UK Foreign Office issues new advice on travel to Egypt in wake of terror attack
on tourist bus;
FCO now advises against all non-essential visits to South Sinai province, except
within Sharm el Sheikh resort

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words


The UK foreign office has warned holidaymakers to avoid non-essential travel to
some parts of Egypt after a tourist bus was targeted in a terrorist attack on
Sunday, killing four people.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) issued new travel advice for the
country which suggested avoiding South Sinai, except for the areas within the
popular Sharm el Sheikh resort.

It warned that there was "a high threat from terrorism" and that "terrorists
continue to plan attacks" in the wake of the incident in Taba, close to the
Israeli border, when three South Korean tourists were killed and 12 others
seriously wounded.

The FCO said: "Attacks could be indiscriminate and occur without prior warning.
Terrorists could target protesters and the Egyptian authorities.

"Attacks targeting foreigners cannot be ruled out. Attacks have mainly been
aimed at the security forces, their facilities and other government buildings.
You should take great care near these buildings."

While Sharm el Sheikh is protected by "enhanced security measures", the FCO said
it now advises against all but essential travel to the Governorates of Beni
Suef, Minya, Asyut and Sohag and the Governorate of South Sinai. It said it
continued to advise against absolutely all travel to North Sinai, which sees
regular skirmishes between militants and security personnel.

The change to FCO advice also comes after unrest surrounding the trial of former
President and Muslim Brotherhood leader Mohamed Morsi.

Morsi was ousted by the military when protesters demanded he step down after
just one year in power. He, together with leaders of his Muslim Brotherhood, now
face four separate trials on a range of charges, some of which carry the death
penalty.

The recent political problems in Egypt have had a devastating knock-on effect on
its tourist industry, a major contributor to the country's economy.

The FCO's advice for the rest of the country remains the same, meaning tourism
visits can still be encouraged. The agency added that "there were no violent
protests in the South Sinai resorts during recent disturbances in Egypt".

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          February 19, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

TV DOC:YOB BIT OFF MY EAR;
CASUALTY STAR TERROR ; Actor Clive's hotel attack 'by Scots pair'

BYLINE: ROBIN PERRIE

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 73 words


CASUALTY'S Clive Mantle wept yesterday as he told a court how a hotel drunk bit
off a chunk of his ear.

Mantle, 56 - surgeon Mike Barrett in the Beeb drama - claimed he was left
disfigured in a savage attack by Philip McGilvray, 33, and Alan French, 32.

The 6ft 5½ins star said he was punched by the boozy pair, from Hamilton, before
McGilvray sank his teeth in. Mantle said: "I told him, 'You're biting my f**king
ear'."

Full Story - Pages 4&5

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                   February 19, 2014 Wednesday 11:23 AM  EST

FOREIGN OFFICE MINISTER CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN BEIRUT

LENGTH: 155 words


LONDON, Feb. 19 -- The United Kingdom Foreign & Commonwealth Office issued the
following press release:

Hugh Robertson condemns terrorist attack in Beirut and says such attacks cannot
be allowed to destabilise Lebanon.

Following this morning's terrorist attack in southern Beirut which killed at
least five people and injured many more, Minister of State for the Middle East
Hugh Robertson said:

"I strongly condemn the terrorist attack near the Iranian Cultural Centre in
southern Beirut today and send my condolences to the families of those killed
and injured, and to the people of Lebanon. Such criminal and callous attacks
cannot be allowed to destabilise the country and the wider region. The UK is
strongly committed to working with the new Lebanese government in support of
peace and stability." For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2014 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 20, 2014 Thursday

Minister says threat of terror attacks looming over Pakistan

LENGTH: 569 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 20 Feb

Islamabad: The interior ministry warned on Wednesday [19 Feb] that the threat of
terror attacks was looming large over the country and said that infiltration of
terrorists and supply of arms from across eastern and western borders were
continuing unabated.

In a presentation before the National Assembly's Standing Committee on Interior,
Director General of National Crisis Management Cell of the Interior Ministry
Tariq Lodhi said Punjab faced threats from the Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan (TTP),
Lashkar-i-Jhangvi (LJ) and other outlawed organisations and Sindh from
sub-nationalists, Al Qaeda, TTP and LJ, ethnic terrorism, targeted killings and
crime syndicates.

He said Balochistan was threatened by Al Qaeda, TTP, LJ and about a dozen Baloch
militant groups, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas
by TTP, Al Qaeda, LJ and foreign-sponsored terrorism, Gilgit-Baltistan by TTP
and sectarian groups, including LJ, and Azad Jammu and Kashmir by
India-sponsored terrorism.

He said Islamabad had become an 'extremely dangerous' city because of the
presence of banned outfits and other factors. The capital city was at a high
risk. It has sleeper cells of members of banned organisations, including Al
Qaeda, TTP and LJ.

The National Crisis Management Cell described cross-border crime syndicates,
presence of ISAF and Nato troops and instability in Afghanistan, US drone
strikes in Pakistan's territory, cross-border terrorism by hostile foreign
agencies, covert Indian intelligence elements in Afghanistan and Indian cold war
in response to the Kashmir issue as some of the factors aggravating the law and
order situation in the country.

The NA committee was informed that 6,788 people, most of them facing serious
criminal charges, were on the Exit Control List.

An official said in response to a question that the data had not been shared
with any foreign agency and the laid-down procedure was followed for any
intelligence-sharing.

Minister of State for Interior Baleeghur Rehman told the meeting that the
national security policy which was yet to be approved focused on proactive and
pre-emptive measures, instead of retaliatory approach. He said it provided for a
mechanism for instant information-sharing among around two dozen intelligence
agencies for a prompt action wherever required.

He said law and order was the responsibility of the provinces and the federation
always supported them when required.

Acting Director General of the Federal Investigation Agency Ghalib Bandish
informed the committee that about 1,200 sanctioned posts were lying vacant in
the FIA.

The agency has been facing shortage of arms and ammunition. It has only 80
sub-machine guns against its requirement of 400 and 35 9mm pistols against the
requirement of 500.

The FIA is also facing financial problems. It requires 356.863m rupees for the
current financial year but only 169.86m rupees been allocated.

The meeting suddenly became tense when Nabeel Gabol of the MQM said the
situation required proclamation of emergency in the country. There was an
exchange of hot words when Tehmina Daultana of the PML-N rejected his proposal
and criticised MQM chief Altaf Hussain for living in a foreign country.

Mr Gabol hit back and said: "Your leader had also gone to Saudi Arabia after
striking a deal."

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 20 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                           February 20, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EX-SOLDIER JAILED FOR STABBING PAL IN EYE;
Drunk attacker thought victim was terrorist

BYLINE: GARY STEWART

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 473 words


A FORMER soldier who served his country with distinction was jailed after
stabbing a man in the eye with a broken bottle while suffering from delusions
that he was a terrorist.

Mark Davies, 34, had taken a cocktail of alcohol and drugs when he attacked his
drinking buddy Matthew Clarke with the bottle and then kicked him in the face.

Liverpool. Crown Court heard how Davies had invited his victim around to his
mum''s house in Prenton, but after drinking Join us twitter @all day, forgot and
attacked him when he turned up with wine and chocolates for Davies's mum.

Lianne Birkett, prosecuting, told the court how Davies turned up at his mum's on
June 16 last year in an "agitated" state saying he was perturbed by "the code".

He said people were trying to get him adding: "I'm dead mum. If I go home
they'll blow my car up."

"  Davies told her "Matty" was coming round for a drink and some time later she
heard voices outside and saw her son on top of Mr Clarke whotwitter was covered
in blood.

Mr Clarke recalled being hit and falling to the tarmac and then Davies pushing a
broken bottle into his right eye and kicking him in the face, breaking his nose.

Davies was shouting: "Don't threaten my mother, terrorist!" His mum called the
police and when they arrested him Davies replied: "You just fell down didn't you
mate? Is he alive?" Mr Clarke, who later had to have his eye removed surgically,
said he still experienced constant pain and was left dizzy by the painkillers he
had to take.

In a statement he said: "I have a vision of the bottle coming towards my eye
which I have regularly and keeps me awake for days when it happens. It's
horrible."

Davies, of Mather Road, Prenton, pleaded guilty to wounding with intent on what
would have been the first day of his trial Trevor Parry-Jones, defending, said
Davies had served in the Army and later as a private military contractor where
in Somalia he saw his friends killed by a bomb.

He said: "He has experienced events which hopefully none of us will ever
experience.

"Most of us will have no concept of what he has experienced."

Mr Parry-Jones said Davies fell into a pattern of drinking and "going on
benders" to deal with the post traumatic stress and if this attack hadn't
happened he probably would have killed himself.

Judge Clement Goldstone, QC, jailed Davies for nine years, telling him: "You
have served your country with bravery and distinction yet by your attack on
Matthew Clarke you have shown yourself to be a Jekyll and Hyde character capable
of calculated indescribable violence.

"What you did was to pick up a bottle which you deliberately smashed.

"You forced it into Matthew Clarke's right eye and struck him repeatedly to the
face. You have in short ruined his life."

He agreed that Davies was suffering from post traumatic stress though not to the
extent that it was a disorder.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIOLENCE: Mark Davies assaulted his friend Matthew Clarke

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2014 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    February 20, 2014 Thursday 11:45 AM GMT

Egypt bombing: New Foreign Office advice to UK holidaymakers in wake of terror
attack

BYLINE: TRAVELMAIL REPORTER

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 864 words


British holidaymakers heading to Egypt have been warned against all but
essential travel to South Sinai - with the exception of Sharm el Sheikh - in a
security update by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO).

The change in advice comes after four people were killed in a bomb blast on a
tourist bus in Taba on Sunday. The FCO said it believes there is a high threat
from terrorism and terrorists continuing to plan attacks.

It means Britons are now prevented from travelling to Red Sea resorts including
Taba, Nuweiba and Dahab, and are advised against taking excursions to historic
sites including St Catherine's Monastery and Petra in Jordan.

Enhanced security measures are in place in Sharm el Sheikh resort areas, and
Egyptian military have been deployed to check-points around Sharm el Sheikh, at
its international airport, and throughout South Sinai, the FCO said. Its advice
for other areas of Egypt remains the same, including warning against visiting
North Sinai.

The update from the FCO comes a day after Egypt's prime minister Hazem
el-Beblawi admitted the Sinai Peninsula-based Ansar Beit al-Maqdis - the
militant group behind the attack - was a threat to tourists. In a statement, the
Egyptian Minister of Tourism, Hisham Zaazou, said he expressed his 'deep sorrow'
for the 'tragic incident'.

'We, at the ministry of tourism, are ensuring that all security bodies are
undertaking the necessary precautionary measures to guarantee that such an
incident to the extent possible will not occur again,' he said.

'The perpetrators and the guilty will be detained and prosecuted. Justice will
be served. Law and order will prevail.'

It comes just days after MailOnline Travel reported two of the UK's biggest
holiday companies had suspended excursions to St Catherine's Monastery on
Egypt's Sinai Peninsula following a bomb near the historic site three days ago.

Thomas Cook and Tui Travel - which owns Thomson and First Choice - halted their
day trips to the UNESCO World Heritage site from the nearby Sharm El Sheikh. Tui
said in a statement: 'As a precaution however we have cancelled excursions to St
Catherine's Monastery.

'Customer safety is of paramount importance to us and we continue to work
closely with the FCO and the British Consulate to monitor the situation. Egypt
remains a popular destination for us and customers are enjoying their holidays
as normal.'

Red Sea Holidays and Hayes and Jarvis have also cancelled their excursions to St
Catherine's Monastery.

The attack occurred on Sunday in the Red Sea resort of Taba as an Egyptian
tourist bus carrying more than 30 people was waiting near a border crossing with
Israel at Eliat.

The driver and two South Koreans got out of the bus and checked the cargo hold.
As they were re-boarding, the suicide bomber pushed through the open door into
the bus and detonated his explosives, Interior Ministry spokesman Hani
Abdel-Latif said.

Three passengers and the Egyptian driver were killed in the blast.

Militant group Ansar Beit al-Maqdis, Arabic for Champions of Jerusalem, said in
a statement posted on militant websites on Monday that one of its 'heroes'
carried out the bombing.

The statement criticised the intensified Egyptian military operations in the
Sinai Peninsula along the border with Israel targeting the militants' hideouts
and vehicles.

The Al Qaeda-inspired group has claimed responsibility for previous attacks, but
until now they have targeted primarily police and the military.

It is a new blow to the country's struggling tourist industry, which has
suffered as a result of three years of political turmoil. After hopes of a
rebound, last year saw the fewest visitors yet since the 2011 uprising that
toppled autocrat Hosni Mubarak.

In 2010, more than 14.7 million tourists visited the country generating $12
billion (£7 million) in revenue but last year those visitor numbers had dropped
to 9.5 million.

The new attack threatens the beach resorts of the Red Sea - a region that has
kept Egypt's tourism ticking over during the downturn.

On its website, the FCO has updated its travel advice to UK holidaymakers
travelling to Egypt to read: 'We are now advising against all but essential
travel to the Governorates of Beni Suef, Minya, Asyut and Sohag and the
Governorate of South Sinai, with the exception of the area within the Sharm el
Sheikh perimeter barrier - which includes the airport and the areas of Sharm el
Maya, Hadaba, Naama Bay, Sharks Bay and Nabq.

'We also continue to advise against all travel to the Govenorate of North Sinai.

'We believe there is a high threat from terrorism and terrorists continue to
plan attacks. Attacks could be indiscriminate and occur without prior warning.
Terrorists could target protesters and the Egyptian authorities.

'Attacks targeting foreigners cannot be ruled out. Attacks have mainly been
aimed at the security forces, their facilities and other government buildings.
You should take great care near these buildings.'

It added: 'Routine security checks are being performed on entry into the airport
and the police are carrying out vehicle checks in Sharm el Sheikh. There were no
violent protests in the South Sinai resorts during recent disturbances in
Egypt.'

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     February 20, 2014 Thursday 2:15 AM GMT

Arsonist sets FIVE fires in airplane toilet during one flight;
Terrified passengers on the Etihad flight from Australia to United Arab Emirates
feared there had been as terrorist attack as smoke poured from under the door of
the WC

BYLINE: By Don Mackay

SECTION: NEWS,WEIRD NEWS

LENGTH: 444 words


An arsonist set FIVE fires in the toilets of a passenger jet, it was revealed
yesterday.

Terrified passengers on the Australia to United Arab Emirates flight feared
there had been a terrorist attack as smoke poured from under toilet doors
setting off fire alarms.

The Melbourne to Abu Dhabi flight was diverted to Indsonesia's Jakarta with 254
passengers on board after three fires broke out in the toilets in the economy
section.

Passengers were searched and then told by security staff they had to reboard the
same Boeing 777-300ER due to immigration issues.

But two hours after the Etihad Airways flight took off again, two more fires
broke out.

Flight EY461 to Abu Dhabi left Melbourne about 11pm on Monday, but was diverted
to Jakarta after smoke was seen coming from two of toilets on the plane.

After security checks at the Indonesian capital the passengers were told
immigration issues meant they had to re-board the plane, and just two hours from
their destination in Abu Dhabi, another fire broke out.

One passenger who didn't want to be named, said: "The plane after landing in
Jakarta had all economy class passengers disembark for a security check - the
fires were in the economy section of the plane.

"All passengers were then put back on the plane," one passenger, who asked not
to be named, said.

"The plane should never have been allowed to leave Jakarta with the culprit or
terrorist whoever he was allowed back on the plane.

"The Indonesian authorities did not act in the interests of passenger safety and
Etihad's decision to fly onto Abu Dhabi needs to be questioned.

"Lives were placed at risk, particularly when a third fire started about 4 hours
into the flight from Jakarta."

The first fire is believed to have broken out about three to four hoursputting
into the flight, when most passengers were asleep.

Another passenger said flames were coming from the toilet and smoke filled the
cabin.

"It was extinguished and there was an announcement reminding us all smoking was
strictly prohibited," the woman said.

"The second fire was in the rear toilet, not far from where I was sitting.

"I could see the flames and cabin filled with smoke."

It took two fire extinguishers to put out the blaze, she said.

An Etihad Airways spokesman said the captain decided to divert the aircraft as a
"precautionary measure" and to allow Indonesian authorities to assist him to
conduct a security assessment of the situation.

"It remained on the ground for two-and-a-half hours as all economy class
passengers had to disembark and go through a security check.

"The flight resumed after a security search of the aircraft, passengers and
their carry-on luggage," the spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                            February 21, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WOMAN'S TERROR AT 'CHEMICAL ATTACK';
Victim's face splashed with substance

BYLINE: ROB PATTINSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 462 words


A CHEMICAL alert was declared after a woman's face was splashed with a
suspicious substance.

The victim was in a house in Birkenhead when the strong smelling substance was
poured through a window.

Police, fire crews and the service's specialist Hazmat (Hazardous Materials)
unit descended on Dundonald Street.

The road was sealed off and residents were told to stay inside, close their
doors and windows and not light cigarettes while buses running along adjoining
Laird Street were diverted.

Police were today continuing their hunt for the person responsible for the
incident.

The alarm was raised at around 8.40pm on Tuesday and it was three hours before
the alert was over. Join the conversation on our Facebook page
www.facebook.com/poolecho Experts who examined the substance said that it did
not appear to be hazardous.

The victim, a woman in her 40s, was given a check up and was not injured but
very shaken by the incident.

One resident, Rebecca Culpin, told how she wasn't able to see her six-month-old
son Jacob-Stephen - who was only over the road at her mum's house - for three
hours.

The 24-year-old said: "The first we saw was when police pulled up and told us
not to light a cigarette and to get inside.

"Then another came, the fire brigade turned up and a big hose was laid out in
the street as a precaution. There were about a dozen cars in the end.

theliver "Forensics teams with plastic bags on their feet were also there and
guys in Hazmat suits.

"They told us some kind of chemical substance had been sprayed in someone's
face.

"The air stunk, it was like an eggy, wet dog.

"We were very scared, I thought it was carbon monoxide or something and my son
was over the road with my mum."

Another young mum, Siobhan Thomas, told how she feared for her nine-month-old
son's safety.

She said: "Oliver-Jo has chronic lung disease and is on oxygen. I was concerned
for his health, we didn't know what was going on."

Merseyside fire service group manager Rob Pritchard said: "We do not believe the
liquid was harmful. It was a mixture that included a substance with a strong
stench.

"This type of act must have been distressful for the people involved and it also
tied up a number of our appliances to deal with it."

Police were conducting house-to-house enquiries since and a full investigation
is underway. DI Justin Danher said: "Incidents such as this are very rare and we
are working to establish the person responsible so we can bring them to justice.

"This was a frightening incident for the victim and acts such as this are
totally unacceptable.

"We ask anyone with information about this incident to come forward in case it
can help our enquiries."

." ? Anyone with any information is asked to call Wirral CID on 0151 777 2260,
or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEALED OFF: Dundonald Street, Birkenhead, after a chemical was poured
through a window

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2014 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      February 21, 2014 Friday 8:43 PM GMT

Southampton star Victor Wanyama draws on last year's Kenyan terrorist attack for
inspiration;
Several of the Saints midfielder's close friends were killed in the attack on a
shopping centre in Nairobi last year

BYLINE: By Alex Crook

SECTION: SPORT,FOOTBALL,NEWS

LENGTH: 128 words


Memories of last year's Kenyan terrorist attack have inspired Victor Wanyama to
become a Premier League success.

Wanyama is still haunted by the devastating shopping centre siege in his home
city of Nairobi in which 67 people, including close friends, were killed.

The Southampton midfielder, the only Kenyan ever to play in the English top
flight, said: "It was a really tough moment. I have some friends who were
involved in it.

"They were working for local radio and some of them were injured and some lost
their lives.

"When you are on the pitch you want to forget everything and do what you love
doing. I try to forget what happened.

"People in Kenya love the Premier League and support Southampton.

"Hopefully my performances can make them forget what happened before."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      February 21, 2014 Friday 7:05 PM GMT

Team GB curler David Murdoch dedicates Olympic silver to Lockerbie - town where
he witnessed 1988 terrorist atrocity;
Aged just 10, he was 300 yards away when Pan Am flight 103 was downed there in
1988 - the deadliest terrorist attack on British soil

BYLINE: By Louie Smith

SECTION: SPORT,OTHER SPORTS

LENGTH: 744 words


Men's Curling Final - Winter Olympics - Sochi 2014

Great Britain's curling stars settled for silver today after being brushed aside
in the Sochi final - and proud skip David Murdoch dedicated his team's runner-up
spot to the town of Lockerbie.

Aged just 10, he was 300 yards away when Pan Am flight 103 was downed there in
1988 - the deadliest terrorist attack on British soil.

His medal means we have now equalled our best ever Winter Olympics tally - set
90 years ago at the first Games.

Lizzy Yarnold won gold in the skeleton while our two bronzes came from Jenny
Jones in snowboard slopestyle and the women's curlers, led by Eve Muirhead.

The women's side beat Switzerland 6-5 in their third-place playoff on Thursday.

David has pledged to parade his medal through Lockerbie to thank residents for
supporting him. Hundreds gathered at Lockerbie's ice rink to cheer him on today
while watching on a big screen.

Murdoch's team beat Sweden in a dramatic semi-final before taking on Canada.
Hopes were high for a gold medal - but the Brits started badly and ended up
losing 9-3.

After the final David said: "They really came at us hard.  We had a chance or
two and got caught out a bit.

"It feels so disappointing not getting gold. But the silver is cool - I will
appreciate it in about five or 10 minutes."

Both David's mum Marion and dad Matt, a farmer, are talented curlers.

Marion, who is in Sochi, believes sibling rivalry helped her son reach the
Olympic final.

Speaking to the Mirror, she said: "David has put in a tremendous amount of work,
he's really dedicated his life to curling.

"He was probably about nine or 10 when he threw his first stone.

"He had quite a desire to curl and do well because he has an older brother and
sister. He was five and a hlalf years younger so he had a big desire to keep up
with them.

"David wants to give something back to Lockerbie and the town itself has been
buzzing.

"It's good to see Lockerbie in the news for such a happy reason - he wanted to
win for the people there.

"We are so, so proud of him. Any medal at the Olympics is a huge achievement."

The medal was Britain's first at a winter Games in men's curling for 90 years.

Our last success came at the inaugural Winter Olympics of 1924 when William
Jackson's team won gold in Chamonix, France.

Murdoch's team - who all hail from Scotland - have become known as the
"housewives favourites". And they are the first British men to win an Olympic
medal at the Winter Games for 16 years.

Our four-man bobsleigh team claimed bronze at the 1998 Nagano Games in Japan.

David, 35, revealed he witnessed the Lockerbie disaster in a recent interview.
He said: "I was about 300 yards away and I saw it come down.

"I was in the car driving back home and we were on an adjacent street."

He had just taken up curling but his hobby was put on hold as the town's ice
rink served as a temporary mortuary for the 270 dead.

Coached by his mum Marion, he has dedicated his life to curling, winning 2006
and 2009 world championship gold medals.

This was David's third Olympic Games but his first medal after narrowly missing
out in 2006 and 2010.

His Canadian wife Stephanie, 26, watched the final in Scotland while looking
after the couple's puppy Mr Darcy.

And David revealed that they will now go on honeymoon - two years after getting
married.

He said: "We married two years ago but haven't had a honeymoon.

"It's long overdue. I think put my feet up in the Caribbean and enjoy some rays.

"We spend a lot of time indoors and it would be nice to get a suntan."

Twenty-five years on from Lockerbie, David has not forgotten his roots.

Michael Stevenson, Chairman of Lockerbie Ice Rink, said: "David is very fond of
the place and he wants to bring the medal back here and parade it along the high
street.

"When most people hear the name Lockerbie they think of the disaster so it's
nice when the town is mentioned in a more positive light.

"Curling is a huge sport here - we have a slot for primary schools to come in
once a week.

"Some of the secondary schools in the area here have more than one team, it's
pretty much part of the curriculum."

Vice captain Greg Drummond, 25, grew up in Forfar and was coached by the father
of Team GB curling bronze medallist Eve Muirhead.

Scott Andrews, 24, and Michael Goodfellow, 25, complete the medal-winning team.
Tom Brewster, 39, of Aberdeen, was the team's 'alternate' or substitute.

All of the group live in Stirling - which is the main training headquarters of
British curling.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 22, 2014 Saturday

Somali presidential palace attack exposes weak counter-terrorism policy

LENGTH: 929 words


Text of report in English by Somali pro-Puntland government Garoweonline website
on 22 February

Mogadishu, Somalia, 22 Feb 2014: Somalia's Al-Qa'idah-linked Al-Shabab group
launched a deadly assault on the heavily fortified presidential compound of
Villa Somalia, killing senior government officials in the pre-planned attack,
Garowe Online reports.

Eleven people including nine attackers died in the deadly incident that captured
the attention of the international community and the members of the public whose
ambition of witnessing greater progress in various key areas including the
security dashed.

Muhammad Hirsi Abdulle (Idha Ase) and Gen Nur Shirbow, a secretary at Prime
Minister Abdiweli Shaykh Ahmad Muhammad's office and the former Deputy Chief of
National Intelligence and Security Agency respectively were among the victims of
the coordinated terror attack in the presidential palace.

According to witnesses, a suicide bomber in a vehicle packed full of explosives
targeted the compound gate, followed by a gun battle after Al-Shabab gunmen in
military uniform at the time of bombing wadded through the plumes of black smoke
over the scene of the attack.

The bold challenge was aimed at killing high-ranking government officials
including President Hasan Shaykh Mahmud who Friday prayers arrive at the mosque
under tight security but the president survived the pre-planned heinous attack.

Reacting to the frailty of security apparatus and his administration weak
counter-terrorism policy, President Mahmud told a news conference at Mogadishu
Presidential Compound that he warns media representatives against exaggeration.

"I would remind everyone that all our misguided enemies will achieve short-lived
media headlines," said Mahmud in pursuit of stable Mogadishu.

Shortly before President Mahmud held the press conference, national security
minister and presidential aide, Abdikarim Husayn Guled denied reports of death
and said on Mogadishu-based radio station that Al-Shabab aims to spread its
rampage through the media.

Despite tight security near the presidential palace, Al-Shabab operations
spokesman Abdiasis Abu Mus'ab claimed credit for attack, unveiling that special
Al-Shabab militants forced their way into Villa Somalia.

"Our special forces today attacked the so-called Presidential Palace and they
killed senior government officials," noted Al-Shabab official.

Federal govt ill-equipped to deter scale of challenges ahead

The terror attack came a day after the commissioner of Mogadishu's Huriwaa
District, Umar Abdulle Ja'fan called on Somalia Federal Government to dislodge
Al-Shabab fighters from the district amidst rising concern over the volatile
security situation in Mogadishu.

At least three attacks on African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom) and Somali
government military bases in Huriwaa District were so far confirmed to Garowe
Online News Agency. Late on Wednesday night, residents woke up to the sounds of
heavy gunfire which broke out when suspected Al-Shabab militants ambushed
intelligence and military bases simultaneously.

As a result of looming threats of instability, the US State Department issued a
travel warning to Americans going out on trip to Somalia on 7 February 2013.
"Terrorist operatives and armed groups in Somalia have demonstrated their intent
to attack Somali authorities, the African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom), and
other non-military target," the statement from the US government revealed.

Meanwhile, the US director of national intelligence, James clapper disclosed
that persistent political infighting, weak leadership from President Hasan
Shaykh Mahmud, ill-equipped government institutions and pervasive technical
shortfalls threatened the credibility and the effectiveness of federal
government of Somalia.

Corruption deals blow to offensives against Al-Shabab

The country's highest money authority is recovering from years of corruption
allegations as foreign diplomats expressed displeasure about the large scale
theft of government funds.

According to emerging reports of corruption woes, President Hasan Shaykh Mahmud
had a falling out with his first Prime Minister Abdi Farah Shirdon who was
ousted in parliamentary no-confidence vote in December 2013. The political
infighting commenced after Yusuf Abrar, former Central Bank governor resigned in
a letter dated 30 October 2013 and sent from Dubai to President Mahmud.

"From the moment I was appointed, I have continuously been asked to sanction
deals and violate my fiduciary responsibility to the Somali people as head of
the nation's monetary authority," Abrar said in her resignation letter.

Independent sources in Mogadishu tell Gorowe Online website that meager
financial resources dealt blow to the military offensives against Al-Shabab
fighters. Somali National Army (SNA) Commander-In-Chief Gen Dahir Khalif Elmi
(Indho Qarsho) declared at media briefings in Mogadishu on 4 February the
sacking of 700 soldiers from the army, citing incompetence and ineffectiveness
in the job.

Disabled army veterans who have been receiving monthly support services staged a
protest in front of Villa Somalia Presidential compound. They said Somalia
government halted their regular salary and food and no government official
publicly responded to their demands.

The weak counter-terrorism policy of President Mahmud's government Friday
exposed security lapse and at the same time demonstrated the magnitude of
attacks on the highly fortified zones such as the presidential compound and the
other key structures by Al-Shabab.

Source: Garoweonline.com in English 22 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     February 22, 2014 Saturday 5:19 AM GMT

Al-Qaeda rebels carry out terror attack on Somalia's government

BYLINE: Tony Bonnici

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 406 words


Somalia's Al-Qaeda-linked Shebab rebels carried out an audacious suicide
"commando" attack against the presidential palace in Mogadishu - leaving at
least 14 dead.

The building, home to the country's internationally-backed government, was hit
by a massive car bomb followed by a raid by gunmen, police said.

Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, the country's president, said he was unharmed. He branded
the Shebab "a marginal group on the brink of extinction" and vowed Somali and
African Union forces would "eliminate" the group.

However the terror group claimed it had seized control of parts of the building.

Sheikh Abdul Aziz Abu Musab, a Shebab military spokesman for the rebels, said:
"Our commandos have attacked the so-called presidential palace in order to kill
or arrest those who who are inside. The enemy had suffered a great deal of harm.

"We are still holding some of the buildings and the fighting is continuing. The
commandos wanted to seize all of it."

He added the purpose the raid was to show "that no place is safe for the
apostate government".

Describing the attack Hussein Isa, an eye-witness, appeared to confirm Shabab's
claims, saying the attackers were fighting inside the presidential compound.

He said: "A suicide bomber rammed a car full of explosives into the perimeter
wall of the presidential palace and another one with heavily armed men
penetrated the area where the first one hit.

"There is heavy exchange of gunfire continuing inside the building but we cannot
tell what is happening."

Mohamed Ali, a police officer, said: "There is a large attack on the
presidential palace. Initial reports are that a suicide car bomber hit the gate
and exploded, then men with guns followed."

The sound of intense gunfire and sporadic explosions could be heard coming from
the presidential complex.

President Mohamud vowed that the attack would have no impact on the government's
effort to stabilise the Horn of Africa nation.

"I would remind everyone that all our misguided enemies will achieve are
short-lived media headlines, here one day and gone the next. What they will not
achieve, however, is any noticeable impact on the work of our government as we
seek to rebuild Somalia after decades of war," he said.

"An act of terrorism, however unspeakable, does not hide the truth that this is
a marginal group on the brink of extinction. The military campaign we are
fighting with brave Somali and AMISOM soldiers will eliminate our enemies."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 23, 2014 Sunday

Some regional countries behind "terror attacks" in Lebanon - Iran MP

LENGTH: 169 words


A member of the Iranian Majlis's (parliament) National Security and Foreign
Policy Commission, Esma'il Kowsari, has said that the terror attacks in Lebanon
were carried out with the support of the "arrogance" and financial aid from some
Persian Gulf states, Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) reported this morning.

"All the people of Lebanon and the Islamic Ummah (community) know that the
global arrogance is seeking to create problems in Syria and Lebanon through
Saudi Arabia's oil revenues," Kowsari said in an interview with IRNA.

Kowsari added: "The support of the resistance front for the Syrian people has
caused severe concerns among the global arrogance and some regional countries,
so they have planned terrorist acts in Lebanon to deviate the public opinion
from their failures."

"The Zionist regime has hand in these [terrorist] acts more than any other
country and gets benefit out of these fratricides," Kowsari further added.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 0629gmt 23 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 24, 2014 Monday

Iran condemns "terrorist attack" near consulate in Pakistan

LENGTH: 128 words


Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham has strongly condemned
"terrorist suicide attack" in front of the Iranian consulate in the
north-western Peshawar Province of Pakistan, IRNA reported on 24 February.

According to the report, referring to the spread of terrorism and violence in
the region especially against diplomatic premises, Afkham expressed the need for
close cooperation of all the countries to combat the menace of extremism and
sectarian violence.

The report added that the suicide attack in front of the Iranian consulate in
Peshawar on 24 February left three people dead and several others injured. All
the Iranian diplomatic staff of the mission are reportedly safe.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 1425 gmt 24 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 25, 2014 Tuesday

Bosnian analyst describes attacks on buildings during protests as terrorism

LENGTH: 1249 words


Text of report by Bosnian Croat Mostar-based daily Dnevni list, on 21 February

[Interview with terrorism expert Vlado Azinovic by A. Mrkonjic, in Sarajevo;
date not given: "Attacks on Presidency, Canton Buildings May Be Seen as
Terrorism!"]

[Passage omitted: recap of interview]

[Mrkonjic] B-H Federation Police Administration Director Dragan Lukac confirmed
that his agency had submitted to the B-H Prosecutor's Office a report for the
criminal act of terrorism in connection with an attempt to undermine
constitutional order at the events in Sarajevo on 7 February. In your opinion,
was this an act of terrorism and attempted state coup?

[Azinovic] Before I give a direct answer to your question, I think that it
should be said first, for the sake of basic correctness, that social unrest in
Bosnia-Hercegovina had been anticipated for years and it had been a matter of
time before it happened. The local political quasi-elites have shown a
terrifying absence of responsibility and merciless arrogance, with which they
have turned the citizens into parasites and have profited from politics in order
to fulfil their personal interests, and not to increase the general welfare. In
combination with the difficult economic position of a growing number of people,
they have expended this seemingly bottomless reserve of civic patience. I will
not get into a deeper analysis of the cause for rebellion. I, however, would
like to make a clear distinction between how and why all of this started and
what it subsequently turned into in some places, especially in Mostar and
Sarajevo. The justified and, if you will, belated citizens' rebellion turned
into violence and vandalism in some places.

I witnessed in part the events in Sarajevo, and it seems to me that I can talk
about them with a somewhat higher level of credibility. With regard to your
question about the description of 7 February violence as an act of terrorism, I
would like to remind your readers that, along with political motivation, the key
traits of terrorism are forethought, premeditation, and organization. There
nearly are no spontaneous acts of terrorism. They are always prepared in advance
and are a consequence of a rational choice, not of some random or irrational
improvisation.

Based on what I saw first hand, as well as in video clips and photographs, there
is no doubt in my mind that the attacks on the seat of the Sarajevo Canton and
the B-H Presidency were coordinated and organized, and were not some spontaneous
outburst of long repressed anger of the citizens over the situation in the
society. What is very obvious is that the socially vulnerable categories of the
population, which had started the rebellion, did not take part in the attacks on
the police or the seats of the government institutions. Those citizens simply
stepped back and stood away from the people who looked like the hooligans that
we have been seeing for years in our soccer stadiums. They now moved their
regular weekend clashes with the police to the streets, additionally encouraged
by the impression that this time around they were resorting to violence on
behalf of the humiliated, disenfranchised, and cheated citizens. In addition to
that, it was obvious that these groups were steered; that they were being
directed to specific targets; and that they were logistically supported with
supplies of Molotov cocktails and other fire starting materials.

The police are trying to document and submit to the Prosecutor's Office evidence
about the perpetrators and organizers of these attacks. The prosecutors in
charge will decide whether this is enough to press charges, including charges
for terrorism and attempted overthrow of constitutional order. In my opinion,
there were elements to characterize some of the criminal acts committed in
Sarajevo on 7 February as acts of terrorism.

[Mrkonjic] How did, in your opinion, the police act during these events?

[Azinovic] Talking about the protests, I think that we can recognize that they
happened in very different contexts. Neither the protestors' demands nor the
police's behaviour were the same in Tuzla, Bihac, Zenica, Mostar, or Sarajevo.
Generally, what has been shown again is that there are no developed scenarios or
standard operating procedures for taking action in crisis situations.

This was vividly illustrated a couple of years ago with the attack on the United
States Embassy in Sarajevo. We at the time expected the identified flaws to be
corrected and replaced with good solutions. This did not happen, and we are
still held hostage by the incompletely implemented police reform. The current
situation with the police allows anyone to obstruct effective policing and
justify his lack of willingness to act with reasons of formal nature, like
unclear jurisdiction and so on.

During the protests, the police acted as ordered. In some cases the police were
ordered to act like sitting ducks and guard the buildings and property without
the use of force. Under those circumstances the buildings and property were not
saved, and dozens of badly equipped police officers were injured when trying to
avoid the rocks hurled at them. Besides, the term of office of most top
officials in the police agencies at all levels will soon end, so I cannot escape
the impression that what they had on their minds when thinking about how to act
in a crisis situation was their future and careers, at least as equally as the
interests and safety of citizens.

I think that, generally speaking, the police found themselves in a paradoxical
role, getting hurt while protecting the property and jobs of the politicians,
who then condemned the actions of this very same police and hurried to side with
the protestors with the basest populism.

[Mrkonjic] What, in your opinion, will be the fate of the protests?

[Azinovic] I deeply believe that the citizens' plenums are the places where the
ownership of the protests can be restored, after it was temporarily hijacked
with the escalation of violence and attempted political manipulation of the
citizens' revolt. The citizens' demands being formulated in these plenums should
be used to constantly exert pressure on the authorities and to finally establish
the principle of political accountability.

Of course, this practice of direct democracy is still new for us, and we are
still trying to find our way through it. There is no doubt that many things need
to be changed, but in this phase it would be good to focus on what is realistic
and what can really be done to mitigate the situation. I also think that it
would be good if the plenums were to abandon the demand to absolve from criminal
prosecution the people for whom it is proven that they had taken part in
violence. For the sake of principles, if for nothing else.

We cannot, on the one hand, demand to try the people who carried out a criminal
privatization of companies and factories, and demand at the same time not to
punish those who had burned down buildings in Mostar or Sarajevo. Selective
justice cannot be a part of the democratic society. Besides, once the police
reveal the identities of these people and their previous criminal records -
which include convictions for larceny, violent behaviour, violation of general
safety, and other criminal acts - this will show that it is necessary to
distance ourselves from them in a timely fashion, and save the civic character
of the protests from such people and those who had steered them.

Source: Dnevni list, Mostar, in Bosnian 21 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 25, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Football must know its place in life;
United's visit to Olympiakos is poignant reminder of tie called off in 2001
after the Twin Towers terrorist attack

BYLINE: HENRY WINTER

SECTION: SPORT;SPORT; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 777 words


Manchester United playing at Olympiakos will always be a fixture that places
football in its proper perspective. On the first occasion this wildly-supported
side here in Piraeus, a club claiming four million of the 11 million Greek
populace, sought to host United, the Champions League tie planned for Sept 12,
2001 was eventually postponed because of the acts of barbarism inflicted on
Manhattan's Twin Towers a day earlier. "Football is nothing," stated Uefa's
match referee in explaining why the game was off, as if he needed to explain.

Such sentiments flooded back when returning here for the rearranged game a month
later, for another meeting the following season and also for tonight's match.
Passing through Athens' peaceful airport on Monday, the mind rewound to a period
when United visited five times in three years and five days at the start of the
new millennium, facing both Olympiakos and Panathinaikos twice, but it was the
date they did not play on that reverberates most.

It was all poignant, bizarre, scrambled. Sir Alex Ferguson, David Beckham, Ryan
Giggs and company had just landed when news came through of the first plane
crashing into the North Tower of the World Trade Centre. Nobody knew then that
terrorists had hijacked the plane. United officials, reporters and a few fans
were standing around the carousel, discussing whether it could have been some
terrible pilot error. Ferguson, finding a quiet corner, held his usual pre-match
briefing, talking at length about Juan Sebastian Verón's qualities.

United's manager was then unaware of the enormity of events in New York, a
vibrant, polyglot city he has a real affinity to. When Ferguson and his players
reached their Athens hotel, they flicked on their televisions to find a
rolling-news loop of the second plane crashing into the South Tower. For 24
hours, Uefa was uncertain how to react. In the present social-media age when the
information stream does not simply flow gently like the Hudson but drops in like
Niagara, Uefa would never have played those 2001 ties. Back then, Uefa was
determined for the show to go on. Briefly.

So, following a respectful period of silence, English clubs awkwardly kicked off
their Uefa games. Arsenal faced Real Mallorca. They lost but nobody really
cared. Liverpool were held by Boavista. Gérard Houllier, a coach more insightful
of global events than most, concurred with one reporter's conclusion that a draw
was right. It would have felt wrong for anyone to celebrate.

Back in Piraeus, Olympiakos laid on an evening function down by the harbour. It
all felt very hollow, following the numbing footage from New York. The following
morning, Uefa finally, and fully, appreciated the gravity of the situation.
Publicly, the game was postponed out of respect for those who died. Privately,
Uefa feared an escalation of the terrorist threat. As Uefa's Gerhard Aigner
said: "The scale of this tragedy and the pain and sorrow which it brings should
cause us all to reflect."

Indeed. To think of those who lost loved ones. To pay respect to the murdered.
To place football in its rightful context, a reality too often forgotten.
Football can provide succour, distraction, but it must know its place. That
"life and death" Shanklyism was always a sack-load of discredited, deflated
balls.

Obsessed with football, Olympiakos were unimpressed by the delay, commenting
they were "very upset". Fortunately, the referee Kim Milton Nielsen, Beckham's
nemesis from France 98, sensibly saw the bigger picture, voicing his frustration
that "terrorists have shown they can stop football in the whole of Europe" but
stating that "football is nothing" when so many people "have been killed".

Football is quixotic, self-absorbed yet www.compassionate.No sport, no other
sphere of society can be as crass as football yet no sport, no other sphere of
society can respond to tragedy as sensitively as football. Football's need to
balance properly escapism and realism continues with the distressing scenes from
Kiev where the fondly remembered vibrant fanzone of Euro 2012 is now stained
with the blood of local protesters.

Without professing an iota of the intelligence or sophistication of the many
columnists opining on such serious issues, any football reporter who strolled
there two years ago, who mixed with the England, Ukrainian and Swedish fans as
they swapped chants in the sun, standing close to the group campaigning for the
release of Yulia Tymoshenko, will ultimately have been made aware that football
must always know its place in life's firmament.

"No sport, no other sphere of society can be as crass as football yet respond to
tragedy as sensitively

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Greek history: Juan Sebastián Verón in action for Manchester United in
the rescheduled match against Olympiakos in October 2001
SHAUN BOTTERILL/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Oxford Mail

                           February 25, 2014 Tuesday

Shop staff learn how to prepare for terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 63 words


Shop workers are better prepared if the town ever became the target of a terror
attack.

Twenty staff from shops across Bicester attended the first training session by
the South East Counter terrorism Unit.

It was organised by Kym Curtis, above, co-ordinator of the Cherwell Crime
Partnership, who is concerned Bicester could be seen as a 'soft' target because
of its military links.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 26, 2014 Wednesday

Iran condemns terrorist attack on boarding school in Nigeria

LENGTH: 110 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 26 February: Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham on Wednesday
(26 February) condemned terrorist attacks by Boko Haram militants on a boarding
school in Yobe State, north-east Nigeria that killed 58 students.     Afkham
said based on its principled and usual policy, the Islamic Republic of Iran
condemns any kind of violence, extremism and terrorist act, especially recent
inhumane act in Yobe state in Nigeria.

Iran wants peace, calm and security for the Nigerian nation, she added.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1255 gmt 26 Feb
14

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Carmarthen Journal

                               February 26, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Masked men held guns in our faces';
Couple relive holiday gun attack terror ; 'My life flashed before me, I feel
lucky to be alive'

BYLINE: Rebecca Jones

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 128 words


A CARMARTHEN couple have said they are lucky to be alive after being ambushed by
masked robbers armed with machine guns while on a dream holiday.

Pauline and Stuart Jones were left fearing for their lives when their holiday to
Antigua turned into a nightmare. They were travelling in a taxi with friends on
the way back to the hotel one night when they were attacked at gunpoint.

The taxi was pushed off the road by the gunmen travelling in a van behind.

Pauline told the Journal: "I was really in shock. He put the gun in my face. I
thought that was it. My life flashed before my eyes.

"Then moving on to Stuart, the masked man began shouting for money.

"He gave him half the money and after searching and finding more money the men
began hitting him."

?Full story - see page 9

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PARADISE LOST: A Carmarthen couple have warned people of the dangers of
travelling abroad after being held at gunpoint in Antigua.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CRJ


                       Copyright 2014 Carmarthen Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    February 26, 2014 Wednesday 11:26 AM GMT

Hyde Park bombing: Northern Ireland Police Federation 'appalled at grubby secret
deal' that granted John Downey immunity;
Downey had been wanted by police over the terrorist attack which killed four
soldiers in 1982

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 369 words


The chairman of the Northern Ireland Police Federation has described the amnesty
given to 187 IRA suspects in 2007 as a "grubby secret deal", after it emerged
that a man accused of the Hyde Park bombing had accidentally been granted
immunity from prosecution.

The letter sent by the Northern Ireland Office to John Downey, 62, was described
in the High Court yesterday as a "catastrophic failure" on the part of police
and officials, who had missed the fact that a 30-year-old arrest warrant was
still outstanding for the 1982 IRA attack.

Mr Downey was arrested at Gatwick Airport in May last year despite receiving a
written assurance from the Government in 2007 that he was not wanted for
prosecution under a deal, struck as part of the Northern Ireland peace process,
which gave protection to 187 "On The Run" wanted IRA suspects.

NI Police Federation chair Terry Spence today blamed the Government for what he
calls a "grubby, secret deal" that was offered despite the fact officers in
Northern Ireland were aware of the Old Bailey arrest warrant.

He told the BBC: "None of us knew of the existence of this administrative scheme
or what it entailed or the number of on-the-runs involved. There is a crying
need for clarity as well as some honesty and decency.

"The government owes it to Police families to tell them, without any
double-speak, that there is now no chance of them ever seeing justice being done
in cases involving their relatives.

"There were 211 unsolved murders of RUC officers prior to the Good Friday
Agreement and it looks from this grubby, secret deal that they are to remain
unsolved."

The four victims of the Hyde Park bombing - Lieutenant Anthony Daly, Corporal
Roy Bright, Lance Corporal Jeffrey Young and Trooper Simon Tipper - were killed
when a car bomb exploded as 16 members of the Household Cavalry Blues and Royals
were passing for a Changing of the Guard ceremony. The blast also killed seven
horses and injured 31 people. Mr Downey has always denied involvement in the
Hyde Park Bombing.

Read more: Hyde Park bomb suspect walks free after 'reckless' errorJohn Downey:
'Supporter of peace process' - & convicted IRA memberFormer Northern Ireland
secretary Peter Hain on Downey's arrest

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    February 26, 2014 Wednesday 8:55 AM GMT

Hyde Park bombing: Northern Ireland Police Federation 'appalled at grubby secret
deal' that granted John Downey immunity;
Downey had been wanted by police over the terrorist attack which killed four
soldiers in 1982

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 358 words


The chairman of the Northern Ireland Police Federation has described the amnesty
given to 187 IRA suspects in 2007 as a "grubby secret deal", after it emerged
that a man accused of the Hyde Park bombing had accidentally been granted
immunity from prosecution.

The letter sent by the Northern Ireland Office to John Downey, 62, was described
in the High Court yesterday as a "catastrophic failure" on the part of police
and officials, who had missed the fact that a 30-year-old arrest warrant was
still outstanding for the 1982 IRA attack.

Mr Downey was arrested at Gatwick Airport in May last year despite receiving a
written assurance from the Government in 2007 that he was not wanted for
prosecution under a deal, struck as part of the Northern Ireland peace process,
which gave protection to 187 "On The Run" wanted IRA suspects.

NI Police Federation chair Terry Spence today blamed the Government for what he
calls a "grubby, secret deal" that was offered despite the fact officers in
Northern Ireland were aware of the Old Bailey arrest warrant.

He told the BBC: "None of us knew of the existence of this administrative scheme
or what it entailed or the number of on-the-runs involved. There is a crying
need for clarity as well as some honesty and decency.

"The government owes it to Police families to tell them, without any
double-speak, that there is now no chance of them ever seeing justice being done
in cases involving their relatives.

"There were 211 unsolved murders of RUC officers prior to the Good Friday
Agreement and it looks from this grubby, secret deal that they are to remain
unsolved."

The four victims of the Hyde Park bombing - Lieutenant Anthony Daly, Corporal
Roy Bright, Lance Corporal Jeffrey Young and Trooper Simon Tipper - were killed
when a car bomb exploded as 16 members of the Household Cavalry Blues and Royals
were passing for a Changing of the Guard ceremony. The blast also killed seven
horses and injured 31 people. Mr Downey has always denied involvement in the
Hyde Park Bombing.

Read more: Hyde Park bomb suspect walks free after 'reckless' errorJohn Downey:
'Supporter of peace process' - & convicted IRA member

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Sheerness Times Guardian

                               February 26, 2014

Rider's terror as horse bolts after dog attack

LENGTH: 573  words


by Emma Grove

egrove@thekmgroup.co.uk

@EmmaG_KM

A rider says she's amazed no one was killed after her horse was attacked by a
dog before bolting across several busy roads.

Jo Stolworthy was out hacking with her friend Sue Ganderton when an English bull
terrier launched itself at her welsh cob JD.

They had left stables in Elm Lane, Minster, on Saturday morning and the incident
happened in Scrapsgate at about 10.20am.

The 43-year-old said the dog escaped from a house in the road and came running
at them before attaching itself to her horse's front legs.

JD panicked and the dog released itself before attacking the horse's back legs.

Fortunately JD was wearing protective brushing boots, which Miss Stolworthy said
were ripped to shreds.

She tried to get the terrier off, but the horse was bucking and rearing and came
down, landing on Mrs Ganderton who fell off hers, and both animals bolted, with
the dog still attached to JD.

Miss Stolworthy, of Imperial Avenue, Minster, said: "JD went into someone's
drive and jumped over a car with the dog still attached to him."

Both horses fled side by side, followed by the dog which eventually released
itself but gave chase.

The three went along Marina Drive, to Kent Avenue, shot across The Broadway,
went along Abbeyview Drive and Glenwood Drive and out onto Minster Road.

Took flight

The friends were given a lift by a witness from Scrapsgate and caught up with
the animals after the chase, which lasted about 20 minutes, in Harps Avenue,
where three passers-by had managed to stop them and had hold of the terrier.

The mum-of-three said: "The dog was in pursuit the whole time which scared them
and they took flight.

"It was out of control - what if that was a child on a horse? It could have been
so [much more] serious.

"It's unbelievable they didn't collide with anyone and I'm so grateful nobody
was hurt.

"It was very scary and something that will stay with me for ever. We are quite
traumatised."

Eleven-year-old JD suffered claw marks on its front legs, is on antibiotics and
has damaged knees but Miss Stolworthy says she is more worried about the
psychological damage and that it will have caused her pet to have an
irreversible fear of dogs.

She is appealing for witnesses to come forward or anyone who has had a similar
incident before to contact her as she's concerned it will happen again. The
attack was entirely unprovoked, she said, and she wants to make sure a dog with
that sort of nature is secured at all times.

She said often dogs will chase after horses, but if you turn to face them they
will usually back off, but on this occasion it didn't work and she said the
animal was set on attacking.

Miss Stolworthy thanked the three women who managed to catch the horses and held
onto the dog until the police arrived, as well as the man who gave them a lift.

A police spokesman said: "We were called to a report a dog had scared two
horses.

"Patrols attended and spoke to both the riders and the owner of the dog and it
was agreed it would be handled as a civil matter as no criminal action had
occurred."

A Swale council spokesman said: "We will speak to those involved in this
incident to establish the circumstances.

"Dog owners must be clear, it is their responsibility to ensure their dogs are
kept under control at all times.

"Think of others and the safety of your dog. Be responsible." If you saw what
happened or would like to speak to Miss Stolworthy about it, phone her on
07794555268.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 27, 2014 Thursday

Afghan paper urges effective policy to counter terror attacks in future

LENGTH: 530 words


Text of report by state-run Afghan daily Anis on 25 February

Twenty one children of this land were martyred in an anti-Afghan and inhuman
conspiracy yesterday. The holy blood of these martyrs asks the political and
military systems' official to answer what they have done and will do regarding
this incident?

Twenty one soldiers of army lost their beloved lives in a coward, inhuman and
anti-Islamic and anti-Afghan conspiracy in Ghaziabad of Konar yesterday. These
faithful guardians of the country who safeguarded the borders to prevent the
entrance of terror into their country and to save the prosperous lives of the
country's women and children lost their lives in a coward attack. The incident
in Ghaziabad revealed the vulnerability of the security institutions, something
which should be taken seriously by the officials.

The Ghaziabad incident showed that our intelligence institutions still have
their problems and require capacity building. Meanwhile, experts believe that
effective coordination did not exist among the security institutions, as the
scene of the attack was about three or four kilometres away from the district
center and the backup forces could have easily reached to the scene. Also, the
security measure inside the posts was not satisfactory.

Lack of equipment, weaponry and standard training of security forces has led to
such an incident. The authorities should take these shortcomings into
consideration and find more resources for equipping, armament and training of
Afghan security forces.

The blood of twenty one martyrs, who lost their lives while away from their
families and with a love for their homeland, humanity and Islam, on Konar
borders where the expert terrorists own safe hideouts, ask the military and
political system's officials how they treat them and what measure do they take
to prevent the occurrence of similar incidents in the future.

Experts believe that we cannot achieve anything merely through sympathy, regret
and condolence. Also, all the existing problems in our country stem from outside
of the country borders, as the official themselves stated that the conspiracy of
attack on our soldiers in Ghaziabad was planned outside the country.

Now, it is seriously needed that diplomatic system of the country should be more
active in reflecting the existing realities of the region through referral of
the issues to credible international organizations. People of the world should
be more informed about terrorist elements' existence that operates under the
dictation of the neighbouring countries' intelligence organizations. It should
not be forgotten that some specific elements in the region, who are the agents
and supporters of international terrorism, try to devolve their own
responsibilities to other in order to have the world sympathy. While Afghan
people respect the blood of its people, shed in Ghaziabad and other places,
where they as guardians defend the country, they hope that official take more
and efficient steps for their protection so that the rest of terrorists who are
working for others' interests are unable to shed the blood of another young
person and an Afghan son.

Source: Mandegar in Dari 24 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Bury Times

                           February 27, 2014 Thursday

Bus attack terror after window is smashed by mystery missile

BYLINE: Tui Benjamin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 554 words


A "MISSILE attack" has left a woman scared to get on a bus after she was sprayed
with broken glass on her way home from work.

Amanda Newham, aged 25, of Seddon Close, Radcliffe, was on a Metrolink
replacement bus service on Friday when an object was smashed through a window.

Ms Newham said she feared for her life as was hit by shards of glass as the
missile smashed through the window, narrowly missing her head as it flew across
the bus.

The attack happened in Queen's Road at its junction with Woodlands Road in
Cheetham Hill at around 6.30pm, when there were around 30 people on board.

Ms Newham, a pensions administrator, got on the bus at Piccadilly Gardens and
was left shaken after s glass hit her face, scalp and hand.

She said: "In different circumstances I could have been killed, or one of us
could have been seriously injured.

"At first I thought a glass bottle had smashed. But everyone on the bus was
saying there had been a shot.

People were screaming.

"Glass was all over me and I was crying and in shock.

"If it had been just a few inches lower, it would have hit me or the man sitting
next to me."

Ms Newham said a couple with a baby in a pram had been stood where the glass
smashed but had got off the bus moments before the attack.

An ambulance was called but Amanda she says that when a police officer phoned to
check on its location he was told she was a "low priority"

case and that a wait could be up to three hours.

Ms Newham made her own way to accident and emergency and spent 90 minutes there
as doctors removed glass from her scalp with tweezers.

Several days later she discovered a tiny shard lodged in her cheek under her
eye.

Ms Newham added: "I was on the side of the road crying, my legs shaking like
jelly.

"I thought it was disgusting I was forced to make my own way to A&E because I
was considered too low a priority.

"The whole thing has made me really nervous about sitting near windows and I
would be scared to get a bus again.

"It has mentally scarred me, it is just lucky the glass didn't.

"I want young people who might do something like this to realise how serious it
could be and think twice."

Police confirmed they were called at 6.25pm and said no one had been arrested
but that investigations suggested it was a brick which had been thrown.

A spokeswoman for North West Ambulance Service said an initial call from Ms
Newham was logged at 6.33pm and a second call from her to cancel the ambulance
was recorded at 7.17pm.

She said all 999 calls are categorised based on the caller's information to
prioritise patients on the basis of medical need.

North West Ambulance Service aim to answer the most life-threatening incidents
within eight minutes, serious calls within 19 minutes and attend to less serious
cases in between 20 minutes and four hours.

The spokeswoman said: "There is nothing on our logs to suggest there was a
follow up call from a police officer.

"However we would not do a complete check unless a formal complaint had been
lodged by the person concerned.

"We fully understand waiting for an ambulance can be distressing and we
encourage patients to contact us directly to discuss concerns."

Work on the refurbishment of the Manchester Victoria Metrolink stop meant
between Friday (February 21) and Sunday (February 23) services were replaced
with buses from Abraham Moss on the Bury line.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 28, 2014 Friday

Over 32 Nigerians killed in three attacks by terrorist sect in northeast

LENGTH: 407 words


Text of report by US-based Nigerian news site Huhu Online on 27 February

[Unattributed report: "Adamawa: 32 killed in three Boko Haram attacks"]

At least 32 people have been murdered in three separate attacks in northeastern
state of Adamawa in Nigeria. According to authorities, the attacks, which
included one on a theological college, occurred very late on Wednesday [26
February] - a day after the attack on the federal government college, Buni Yadi,
Gujba Local Government Area of Yobe State, which resulted in the death of 43
people.

Chairman of Madagali Local Government, Maina Ularamu said a large number of
militants carried out three separate attacks on Shuwa and Kirchinga (which are
located in his local government) and on Michika in neighbouring Michika
district. "The gunmen divided themselves into three groups and separately
attacked the three locations," Ularamu said, adding that several buildings
-among which were a Christian theological college and a secondary school
building -were burnt in Shuwa.

A resident, Kwaje Bitrus confirmed that a total of 20 people, including three
from the seminary, were murdered; while another resident, Samuel Garba said the
gunmen in Kirchinga disguised themselves in military uniform to kill eight
people in the village and burnt many houses.

The Military subsequently issued a statement to confirm the attacks, but claimed
that only one soldier and three civilians were killed, while the soldiers killed
six suspected Islamists. "The militants, in desperation for money and food,
looted and burnt banks and shops, and also tried to escape across the Cameroon
border", the statement said. The Army had ordered the closure of the state's
border with Cameroon to block the sect's exit routes.

Residents who narrated their experiences said the fled to nearby hills when the
assailants arrived in trucks and on motorcycles, at about 9:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, armed with rocket-propelled grenades and explosives that they threw
sporadically at houses and public buildings. They said the attack went on for
more than four hours, the attackers razing four banks, several shops, a police
station, government buildings and many houses.

More than 100 people have been killed this year alone in renewed acts of
terrorism in the northeast, while the United Nations said on Thursday that
almost 300,000 people, half of whom are children, had been displaced by the
killings.

Source: Huhuh Online in English 27 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            February 28, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Carer in egg attack terror

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5 words


PAGE 5 Carer in egg attack terror

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            February 28, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SQUIT-BOMB STARLINGS NIGHT-SKY TERROR BLITZ;
Street under attack from Hitchcock flock

BYLINE: JIMMY McCLOSKEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 233 words


A STREET was under dirtybomb attack from 50,000 starlings last night.

The huge flock blitzes families with their droppings before roosting in trees
nearby.

Residents in besieged Macmillan Close, Hereford, are comparing their plight to
Alfred Hitchcock's chilling 1963 movie The Birds.

But even master of suspense Hitchcock held back from screening the poo-bombs
that pepper the area daily.

Resident Steve Payne said: "The starlings are quite a sight - but it's just
awful for us.

"The street and pavements are covered in bird muck, which is a safety hazard if
people slip on it.

"You can't put washing out and we are having to clean cars every day.

"Last night I even had to take an umbrella out with me."

His neighbour Walter Bloomfield, 71, added: "When you go outside you have to
wear a hat or a hood."

71, added: "When you go outside you have to wear a hat or a hood."

Some residents cannot sleep because of the noise from the starlings as they
roost in a giant leylandii hedge on the Bulmer's cider plant nearby.

The flock arrived last month from Scandinavia. They have stayed longer than
usual because of the UK's mild winter.

Herefordshire Council said: "Starlings are protected wild birds so we will not
take action."

Heineken, which owns the cider factory, said it may cut the hedge.

UP to eight inches of snow could hit parts of the UK, including the West
Country, today.

jimmy.mccloskey@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STARTLING: The flock above the street and car damage. Left, Jessica
Tandy in hit flick The Birds
Pictures: SOUTH WEST NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 1, 2014 Saturday

Eighteen Syrian injured in "terrorists attack" in Damascus

LENGTH: 219 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Eighteen citizens injured in terrorist attack in Bab Sharqi, Damascus" SANA
Headline.

Damascus, 28 February (SANA) -- Eighteen citizens, most of them women and
children, were injured by a terrorist attack in the area of Bab Sharqi in
Damascus on Friday [28 February].

A source at the police command told SANA that terrorists fired two mortar shells
which landed at Al-Baytara roundabout tunnel and near Bab Sharqi gate, causing
the injury of 18 civilians, including 8 women and 5 children ages between four
and seven.

The source said that the attack caused injures of varying severity to the
victim, with one little girl in a critical condition, adding that the attack
also caused material damage in the area and cars.

A relative of one of the injured women, who accompanied the victim to Damascus
Hospital, said that she and her husband, child and other relatives were sitting
in a park near the tunnel when the mortar round fell, and a piece of shrapnel
injured her relative and her two children.

The victim herself, who was injured in her leg by the shrapnel, said her
seven-year-old twin sons were also injured, and that she often comes to this
area on Friday as do many families.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English  28 Feb 14

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 1, 2014 Saturday 6:40 PM GMT

At least 27 killed in China after 'terrorist attack' by knife-wielding men at
Kunming train station;
Several of the attackers 'shot by police' with 162 people injured

BYLINE: Agency

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 300 words


At least 27 people have been killed in a "violent terror attack" at a train
station in the southwestern Chinese city of Kunming by a group of unidentified
people brandishing knives, state media said today.

Another 162 were injured, the official Xinhua news agency added. It said the
attack had taken place late on Saturday evening.

State television said on its official microblog that the incident had been
deemed a "violent terror attack".

Xinhua, citing one of its reporters on the scene, said that several suspects had
been detained.

Kunming resident Yang Haifei told Xinhua that he was buying a ticket when he saw
a group of people mostly wearing black rush into the station and start attacking
bystanders.

"I saw a person come straight at me with a long knife and I ran away with
everyone," he said. Those who were slower were caught by the attackers. "They
just fell on the ground."

Graphic pictures on the Twitter-like microblogging service Sina Weibo showed
bodies covered in blood lying on the ground at the station.

There was no immediate word on who was responsible.

State television's microblog said domestic security chief Meng Jianzhu was on
his way to the scene.

The attack comes at a particularly sensitive time as China gears up for the
annual meeting of parliament, which opens in Beijing on Wednesday and is
normally accompanied by a tightening of security across the country.

China has blamed similar incidents on Islamist extremists operating in the
restive far western region of Xinjiang, though such attacks have generally been
limited to Xinjiang itself.

China says its first major suicide attack, in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in
October, involved militants from Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people,
many of whom chafe at Chinese restrictions on their culture and religion.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 1, 2014 Saturday 10:26 PM GMT

China: Train station attack an act of terrorism

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 686 words


BEIJING (AP) - More than 10 knife-wielding attackers slashed people at a train
station in southwestern China late Saturday in what authorities called a
terrorist attack, and police fatally shot five of the assailants, leaving 28
people dead and 113 injured, state media said.

The attackers, most of them dressed in black, stormed the Kunming Train Station
in Yunnan Province and started attacking people in the late evening, witness
Yang Haifei, told the official Xinhua News Agency in an interview from a
hospital where he was being treated for chest and back wounds.

"I saw a person come straight at me with a long knife and I ran away with
everyone," he told Xinhua, adding that people who were slower ended up severely
injured. "They just fell on the ground," Yang said.

Xinhua did not identify who might have been responsible for the attack, but said
authorities considered it to be "an organized, premeditated violent terrorist
attack."

In an indication of how seriously authorities viewed the attack - one of China's
deadliest in recent years - the country's top police official, Politburo member
Meng Jianzhu, was on route to Kunming, the Communist Party-run People's Daily
reported.

The violence in Kunming came at a sensitive time as political leaders in Beijing
prepared for Wednesday's opening of the annual meeting of the nominal
legislature where the government of President Xi Jinping will deliver its first
one-year work report.

Xi called for "all-out efforts" to bring the culprits to justice.

A Xinhua reporter on the scene in Kunming said several suspects had been
"controlled" while police continued their investigation of people at the train
station. The reporter said firefighters and emergency medical personnel were at
the station and rushing injured people to hospitals for treatment.

The authorities said five suspects were shot dead but that their identities had
not yet been confirmed, Xinhua reported. Overall, 28 people were confirmed dead
and 113 injured, it said.

State media outlets did not immediately cite a motive for the attack or say what
group might be behind it, but they typically use the phrase "terrorist" for
attacks blamed on separatists from the far western region of Xinjiang, home to a
simmering rebellion against Chinese rule among parts of the Muslim Uighur
(pronounced WEE'-gur) population.

Most attacks blamed on Uighur separatists take place in Xinjiang, but Saturday's
assault took place more than 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) to the southeast in
Yunnan, which has not had a history of such unrest. However, a suicide car
attack blamed on Uighur separatists that killed five people at Beijing's
Tiananmen Gate last November raised alarms that militants may be aiming to
strike at targets throughout the country.

More than 60 victims of Saturday's attack were taken to Kunming No. 1 People's
Hospital, where at least a dozen bodies also could be seen, according to Xinhua
reporters at the hospital.

At a guard pavilion in front of the train station, three victims were crying.
One of them, Yang Ziqing, told Xinhua that they were waiting for a train to
Shanghai when a knife-wielding man suddenly came at them.

"My two town-fellows' husbands have been rushed to hospital, but I can't find my
husband, and his phone went unanswered," Yang sobbed.

Footage in China's state broadcaster CCTV showed a heavy police presence near
the station and plainclothes agents wrapping a long knife in a plastic bag as
investigators collected evidence following the attacks.

Pictures on Sina Weibo, the Chinese equivalent of Twitter, showed bodies covered
in blood at the station.

The Security Management Bureau under the Ministry of Public Security called the
incident a "severe violent crime" at its official Sina Weibo account.

"No matter what motives the murderers hold, the killing of innocent people is
against kindness and justice. The police will crack down the crimes in
accordance with the law without any tolerance. May the dead rest in peace," it
read.

The Kunming Railway Station, located in the southeastern area of the city, is
one of the largest railway stations in southwest China.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 1, 2014 Saturday 8:28 PM GMT

China: Train station attack an act of terrorism

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 563 words


BEIJING (AP) - Knife-wielding assailants attacked people at a train station in
southwestern China on Saturday in what authorities called a terrorist attack and
police fatally shot five of the assailants, leaving 28 people dead and 113
injured, state media said.

China's official Xinhua News Agency did not identify who might have been
responsible for the late-evening attack at the Kunming Railway Station in Yunnan
province, but said authorities considered it to be "an organized, premeditated
violent terrorist attack."

In an indication of how seriously authorities viewed the attack, one of China's
deadliest in recent years, the country's top police official, Politburo member
Meng Jianzhu, was on route to Kunming, the Communist Party-run People's Daily
reported.

The violence in Kunming came at a sensitive time as political leaders in Beijing
prepared for Wednesday's opening of the annual meeting of the nominal
legislature where the government of President Xi Jinping will deliver its first
one-year work report.

A Xinhua reporter on the scene in Kunming said several suspects had been
"controlled" while police continued their investigation of people at the
station. The reporter said firefighters and emergency medical personnel were at
the station and rushing injured people to hospitals for treatment.

The authorities said five suspects were shot dead but that their identities had
not yet been confirmed, Xinhua reported. Overall, 28 people were confirmed dead
and 113 injured, it said.

A dozen bodies could be seen at Kunming No. 1 People's Hospital, where more than
60 victims of the attack had been taken by midnight, according to Xinhua
reporters at the hospital. A doctor at the hospital said medical personnel were
so busy treating the injured that they were still not sure of the exact number
of casualties.

Yang Haifei, a Yunnan province resident who was being treated at the hospital
for wounds to his chest and back, told Xinhua that he was buying a ticket when
he saw a group of people, most of them dressed in black, rush into the station
and start attacking people.

"I saw a person come straight at me with a long knife and I ran away with
everyone," he told Xinhua, adding that people who were slower ended up severely
injured. "They just fell on the ground," Yang said.

At the guard pavilion in front of the station, three victims were crying. One of
them, Yang Ziqing, told Xinhua that they were waiting for a train to Shanghai
when a knife-wielding man suddenly came at them.

"My two town-fellows' husbands have been rushed to hospital, but I can't find my
husband, and his phone went unanswered," Yang sobbed.

Pictures on Sina Weibo, the Chinese equivalent of Twitter, showed bodies covered
in blood at the station. Other Weibo users urged people to stop circulating
bloody photos on the Internet lest it encourage the attackers and spread panic.

The Security Management Bureau under the Ministry of Public Security called the
incident a "severe violent crime" at its official Sina Weibo account.

"No matter what motives the murderers hold, the killing of innocent people is
against kindness and justice. The police will crack down the crimes in
accordance with the law without any tolerance. May the dead rest in peace," it
read.

The Kunming Railway Station, located in the southeastern area of the city, is
one of the largest railway stations in southwest China.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 1, 2014 Saturday 7:42 PM GMT

China: Train station attack an act of terrorism

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 520 words


BEIJING (AP) - A group of knife-wielding assailants assaulted people at a train
station in southwestern China on Saturday in what authorities described as a
"terrorist attack" in which at least 27 people were killed and 109 others
injured, China's official Xinhua News Agency reported.

Xinhua did not identify who might have been responsible for the attack that city
police said began around 9 p.m. at the Kunming Railway Station in Yunnan
province. But the news agency said authorities considered it to be "an
organized, premeditated violent terrorist attack."

China's top police official, Politburo member Meng Jianzhu, was en route to
Kunming, the Communist Party-run People's Daily reported, an indication of how
seriously authorities view what is one of the deadliest attacks in China in
recent years.

It was not immediately clear how many people were killed by the assailants.
Local television station K6 said that several of the attackers were shot by
police.

A Xinhua reporter on the scene said several suspects have been "controlled"
while police continued their investigation of people at the station. The
reporter said firefighters and emergency medical personnel were at the station
and rushing injured people to hospitals for treatment.

A dozen bodies could be seen at Kunming No. 1 People's Hospital, where more than
60 victims of the attack had been taken by midnight, according to Xinhua
reporters at the hospital. A doctor at the hospital said doctors were so busy
treating the injured that they were still not sure of the exact number of
casualties.

Yang Haifei, a Yunnan province resident who was being treated at the hospital
for wounds to his chest and back, told Xinhua that he was buying a ticket when
he saw a group of people, most of them dressed in black, rush into the station
and start attacking people.

"I saw a person come straight at me with a long knife and I ran away with
everyone," he told Xinhua, adding that people who were slower ended up severely
injured. "They just fell on the ground," Yang said.

At the guard pavilion in front of the station, three victims were crying. One of
them, Yang Ziqing, told Xinhua that they were waiting for a train to Shanghai
when a knife-wielding man suddenly came at them.

"My two town-fellows' husbands have been rushed to hospital, but I can't find my
husband, and his phone went unanswered," Yang sobbed.

Pictures on Sina Weibo, the Chinese equivalent of Twitter, showed bodies covered
in blood at the station. Other Weibo users urged people to stop circulating
bloody photos on the Internet lest it encourage the attackers and spread panic.

The Security Management Bureau under the Ministry of Public Security called the
incident a "severe violent crime" at its official Sina Weibo account.

"No matter what motives the murderers hold, the killing of innocent people is
against kindness and justice. The police will crack down the crimes in
accordance with the law without any tolerance. May the dead rest in peace," it
read.

The Kunming Railway Station, located in the southeastern area of the city, is
one of the largest railway stations in southwest China.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 1, 2014 Saturday 6:30 PM GMT

China: Train station attack an act of terrorism

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 144 words


BEIJING (AP) - China's official Xinhua News Agency says authorities consider the
attack by a group of knife-wielding assailants at a train station in
southwestern China in which at least 27 people died to be an act of terrorism.

Xinhua did not identify who might have been responsible for the Saturday evening
attack at the Kunming Railway Station in Yunnan province. But the news agency
said authorities considered it to be "an organized, premeditated violent
terrorist attack."

Local television station K6 said that several of the attackers were shot by
police and that victims were transported to local hospitals. Xinhua says 27
people were killed and 109 others injured.

The Communist Party-run People's Daily reports that China's top police official,
Politburo member Meng Jianzhu, is en route to Kunming, an indication of how
seriously authorities view the attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 1, 2014 Saturday 8:07 PM GMT

Knife-wielding terrorists kill 28 and injure over 160 in Chinese train station
attack;
Travellers in China have been attacked with knives by a gang of terrorists at a
train station, killing 28 and injuring over 160

BYLINE: By Harry Alsop

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 760 words


At least 28 people have been killed, and 162 others injured, in a knife attack
at a train station in south-western Chinese city of Kunming.

The incident "was an organised, premeditated violent terrorist attack" carried
out by "unidentified knife-wielding people", according to state media.

The attack took place late in the evening.

Police shot dead at least five of the alleged perpetrators at the train station
in south-western Yunnan province, according to local television station K6.

Police officers sealed off a wide area around the station, and were questioning
people at the site.

Ambulances took the victims to hospitals around the city.

One local hospital has reportedly declared a shortage of blood supplies.

Victims described attackers dressed in black bursting into Kunming railway
station and slashing at people indiscriminately.

A victim named Yang Haifei, who was wounded in the chest and back, said he had
been buying a train ticket when he saw a group of people, mostly wearing black,
rush into the station and start attacking bystanders.

"I saw a person come straight at me with a long knife and I ran away with
everyone," he said, while others "simply fell on the ground".

Some who had escaped were looking for missing loved ones.

"I can't find my husband, and his phone went unanswered," Yang Ziqing said.

She had been waiting for her train to Shanghai "when a knife-wielding man
suddenly came at them".

Photos posted on Chinese social media site Sino Weibo showed bloodstains across
the station floor and medical staff attending to the injured, although the
authenticity of the images could not be verified.

Weibo users took to the service to describe details of what happened, but many
of those posts were quickly deleted by government censors, especially those that
described the attackers, two of whom were identified by some as women.

Some reports suggested the women were wearing masks.

Others Weibo users condemned the attack.

"No matter who, for whatever reason, or of what race, chose somewhere so crowded
as a train station, and made innocent people their target - they are evil and
they should go to hell," wrote one user.

China's top security official Meng Jianzhu is reported to be travelling to
Kunming in response to the attack, an indication of how seriously authorities
view the events.

Yunnan has no history of terrorist attacks, and the motive for the stabbings was
not immediately clear.

Authorities have not identified who they believe to have carried out the attack.

The attack comes ahead of China's annual meeting of parliament, which opens in
Beijing on Wednesday.

The party leadership is expected to lay out specific measures for economic
reform.

The meeting is normally accompanied by a tightening of security across the
country.

China has blamed similar incidents on Islamist extremists operating in the far
western region of Xinjiang, though such attacks have generally been limited to
Xinjiang itself.

Last month, police shot eight people in Xinjiang who they accused of planning to
set off bombs made from gas cylinders.

China says its first major suicide attack, in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in
October, involved militants from Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people.

Many Uighurs believe China represses their traditional culture and customs.

Activists have accused China of importing Han Chinese, the majority ethnic
group, into Uighur areas to reduce the minority group's influence.

Uighurs make up around 46 per cent of Xinjiang's 21.8 million residents, and
many Uighurs say the Han Chinese influx has cost them land, jobs and business.

Hu Xijin, editor of the influential Global Times newspaper, published by the
ruling Communist Party's official People's Daily, wrote on his Weibo account
that the government should say who it suspected of the attack as soon as
possible.

"If it was Xinjiang separatists, it needs to be announced promptly, as hearsay
should not be allowed to fill the vacuum," he said.

Chinese President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang have sent condolences to the
victims and their families.

China suffered a spate of uncoordinated knife and cleaver attacks targeting
schoolchildren in 2010.

At least 25 children were killed and over 100 injured in the attacks.

A number of measures, including a requirement to register with their national ID
cards when buying knives, were introduced at the time.

Security guards were also posted in schools throughout the country.

The previous attacks were thought to be unrelated and blamed on the mentally ill
rather than political terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 1, 2014 Saturday 7:36 PM GMT

Dozens killed and over 100 injured in China knife attack;
The incident at a train station "was an organized, premeditated violent
terrorist attack" carried out by "unidentified knife-wielding people", according
to state media

BYLINE: By Harry Alsop

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 550 words


At least 27 people have been killed, and 162 others injured, in a knife attack
at a train station in south-western Chinese city of Kunming.

The incident "was an organized, premeditated violent terrorist attack" carried
out by "unidentified knife-wielding people", according to state media.

Police shot dead a number of the alleged perpetrators at the train station in
south-western Yunnan province, according to local television station K6.

Police officers sealed off a wide area around the station, and were questioning
people at the site.

Ambulances took the victims to hospitals around the city.

Victims described attackers dressed in black bursting into Kunming railway
station and slashing at people indiscriminately.

A victim named Yang Haifei, who was wounded in the chest and back, said he had
been buying a train ticket when he saw a group of people, mostly wearing black,
rush into the station and start attacking bystanders.

"I saw a person come straight at me with a long knife and I ran away with
everyone," he said, while others "simply fell on the ground".

Some who had escaped were looking for missing loved ones.

"I can't find my husband, and his phone went unanswered," Yang Ziqing said.

She had been waiting for her train to Shanghai "when a knife-wielding man
suddenly came at them".

Photos posted on Chinese social media site Sino Weibo showed bloodstains across
the station floor and medical staff attending to the injured, although the
authenticity of the images could not be verified.

Weibo users took to the service to describe details of what happened, but many
of those posts were quickly deleted by government censors, especially those that
described the attackers, two of whom were identified by some as women.

Others condemned the attack.

"No matter who, for whatever reason, or of what race, chose somewhere so crowded
as a train station, and made innocent people their target - they are evil and
they should go to hell," wrote one user.

China's top security official Meng Jianzhu is reported to be travelling to
Kunming in response to the attack.

Yunnan has no history of terrorist attacks, and the motive for the stabbings was
not immediately clear.

Authorities have not identified who they believe to have carried out the attack.

The attack comes ahead of China's annual meeting of parliament, which opens in
Beijing on Wednesday and is normally accompanied by a tightening of security
across the country.

China has blamed similar incidents on Islamist extremists operating in the far
western region of Xinjiang, though such attacks have generally been limited to
Xinjiang itself.

China says its first major suicide attack, in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in
October, involved militants from Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people.

Hu Xijin, editor of the influential Global Times newspaper, published by the
ruling Communist Party's official People's Daily, wrote on his Weibo that the
government should say who it suspected of the attack as soon as possible.

"If it was Xinjiang seperatists, it needs to be announced promptly, as hearsay
should not be allowed to fill the vacuum," Hu wrote.

China suffered a spate of knife and cleaver attacks targeting school children in
2010.

Chinese President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang have sent condolences to the
victims and their families.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 2, 2014 Sunday

Kenyan paper calls for vigilance against terror attacks in region

LENGTH: 287 words


Text of editorial entitled "Region must not relax vigilance against terror"
published by Kenyan newspaper The EastAfrican website on 1 March

After a lull of almost one year, Somalia is slipping back into violence with the
once limping Al-Shabab back with a bang.

The concern in east Africa is that Al-Shabab seems to be regaining lost ground
and may have the capacity to carry out fresh terrorist attacks on any country in
the region.

After a daring attack on the Presidential Palace on 21 February with car bombs
that managed to penetrate the perimeter wall, Al-Shabab followed up with another
attack on Thursday at a Mogadishu restaurant in which 12 people died.

All the while, the government of President Hasan Shaykh Mahmud has been waxing
optimistic, promising to drive out Al-Shabab from its remaining strongholds
across the country by the end of 2014.

In light of the increased attacks, this kind of optimism appears hollow; it is a
major concern that Al-Shabab, who had been completely driven from major cities
of Mogadishu, Kismaayu and Baidoa, now have the nerve to operate freely in these
areas.

Recent revelations by United Nations investigators that some elements in the
Somali government have been involved in diverting weapons meant for security
forces to foreign arms traffickers, criminals and terrorists, are shocking.

The Government of Somalia must take seriously its responsibility of contributing
towards security in the region.

Amisom [African Union's Mission in Somalia] must also evaluate its operations
because the one-year break without a serious ground offensive against the
militants has given them time to regroup and emerge with fresh vigour.

Source: The EastAfrican website, Nairobi, in English 1 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 2, 2014 Sunday

Panchen Lama condemns Kunming terrorist attack

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 146 words


BEIJING - The 11th Panchen Lama on Sunday condemned the mass stabbing at a train
station in Southwest China's Kunming city that left 29 civilians dead.

"Claiming the lives of oneself, or others, or any living creatures is bound for
severe punishment for generation after generation," he said to Xinhua.

More than 10 terrorist suspects attacked people at the crowded square and ticket
hall of Kunming Railway Station at 9:20 p.m. Saturday, leaving at least 29
civilians killed and over 130 injured.

Evidence at the crime scene showed that the terrorist attack was orchestrated by
Xinjiang separatist forces.

The 11th Panchen Lama, Bainqen Erdini Qoigyijabu, one of the two most revered
living Buddhas in Tibetan Buddhism, is in Beijing to attend the annual session
of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative
Conference, China's top political advisory body.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 2, 2014 Sunday

Deadly terror attacks 2011-2013

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 294 words


There have been a series of deadly terrorist attacks in China over the past
three years, most occurring in Xinjiang Uygur autonomous province. Saturday's
stabbing spree in Kunming, Yunnan province, was believed to have been carried
out by Xinjiang separatists.

July 18, 2011- Terrorists attack local police station in Hetian County, Xinjiang
Uygur autonomous region, in which the terrorists held hostages and set fire.

July 31, 2011 - Terrorists attack a crowd in the Kashgar area of Xinjiang.

Dec 28, 2011 - A group of terrorists hold two hostages and fight with police in
Pishan County, Xinjiang.

Feb 28, 2012 - Organized terrorists attack people with knives and axes on the
streets of Yecheng County, Xinjiang, leaving 13 people dead and 16 injured.

April 24, 2013 - Terror attack in Bachu County, Xinjiang.

June 27, 2013 - Terrorists attack local police station and local government
office in Shanshan County, Xinjiang.

June 28, 2013 - Terrorists attack in Hetian County, Xinjiang.

August, 20, 2013 - Local authorities clash with terrorists in Kashgar, Xinjiang,
leaving one police officer died.

October 28, 2013 - Terrorists drive a jeep into a crowd of people in Beijing's
Tiananmen Square.

Nov 16, 2013 - Nine terrorists with knives and axes attack local police station
in Bachu County, Xinjiang.

Dec 15, 2013 - Policemen are attacked by terrorists in Shufu County, Xinjiang.

Jan 24, 2014 - Six terrorists detonate suicide bombs in Xinhe County, Xinjiang.

Feb 14 - Eight terrorists killed by police and three others by their own suicide
devices during a terrorist attack in Wushi County of Aksu Prefecture, Xinjiang.

March 1 - Group of knife-wielding terrorists from Xinjiang attack crowd in
Kunming, Yunnan province, leaving at least 29 people dead and 130 wounded.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 2, 2014 Sunday

Steps to follow when encountering a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Yang Yang

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 360 words


The terrorist attack in Kunming on Saturday was carried out with knives and
machete-like blades, some reaching 60cm in length. Yet terrorist attacks can be
carried out in many other ways, such as using bombs or firearms.

In general, people should be alert at all times. Be on the lookout for people
wearing extremely bulky or unseasonal clothing, for example, clothes that are
very loose or too thick in hot weather.

Also be on the watch for people who hide their hands cautiously in the clothes
for long periods of time, or intentionally avoid the police's surveillance.

If you identify such people, contact the nearest security guards or call the
police.

Here are some steps to follow should you encounter a terrorist attack:

1. Bomb attack

Explosives are sometimes planted in iconic buildings or locations where many
people are present, like theaters, stadiums, shopping malls, bus or train
stations, airports, schools and other public places. If a bomb goes off, stay
calm, get down, and find a place to hide. Observe your surroundings to determine
if there will be another attack, and how best to avoid it.

2. Gunfight

Stay calm, get down on the ground, and find something to shelter yourself from
stray bullets, such as walls, pillars, thick trees, tires and the front end of
vehicles. Do not hide behind wooden or glass doors, garbage cans, bushes,
counters, chairs, doors or the rear end of vehicles.

3. Hijack

Stay calm and do not resist. Never look into the hijackers' eyes or talk to
them. Lie on the floor face down and move slowly. Hide and mute your cell phones
and find a chance to send message to the police about your position. If you can
reach help, be sure to include the number of terrorists and how many passengers.

4. Chemical attack

If you smell an unusual odor like garlic or bitter almonds, or feel sick or
experience a tightening in the chest or have a rash, it might be a chemical
attack. Cover your body, mouth and nose to avoid further contact or inhalation
of any toxic substances. Find the exit and leave as quickly as possible.

Source: Guidebook for Citizens in Case of Terrorist Attack, published by the
Ministry of Public Security in 2008

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 2, 2014 Sunday

China to severely punish terrorist attackers: spokesman

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 269 words


- China will severely punish suspects responsible for a terrorist attack that
left at least 29 civilians dead and over 140 injured in the southwestern city of
Kunming, a spokesman told reporters on Sunday.

"This serious violent terrorist attack was planned and organized by separatist
elements from  and this incident was the most cruel atrocity," said Lyu Xinhua,
spokesman for the second session of the National Committee of the Chinese
People's Political Consultative Conference.

"This ruthless indiscriminate killing of innocent people by violent and
terrorist elements from Xinjiang fully exposed their anti-human and anti-social
nature," he said.

The suspects will be punished to the full extent of the law, said Lyu a day
ahead of the annual session of the country's top political advisory body.

More than 10 terrorist suspects attacked people at the square and ticket hall of
the Kunming Railway Station at 9:20 p.m. Saturday.

to investigate and solve the case of Kunming terrorist attack with all-out
efforts and punish the terrorists in accordance with the law.

Violent terrorist attacks have been increasing since 2009 and have become the
biggest security threat to Xinjiang.

Some 190 terrorist attacks were recorded in Xinjiang in 2012, increasing by a
significant margin from 2011, according to the regional public security
department.

have crossed the border of Xinjiang and the terrorists are aiming to cause
bigger fear after an attack in Tian'anmen, an iconic place in the capital
Beijing. Five people died and another 40 were injured after a car slammed into
the Tian'anmen Square on October 28 last year.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 2, 2014 Sunday

No foreigners among Kunming terror attack victims

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 76 words


KUNMING - There were no reports that foreigners were killed or injured in the
deadly terrorist attack in Southwest China's Yunnan province as of 2:30 pm
Sunday, the foreign affairs office of the Yunnan provincial government said.

No Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macao compatriots were among the victims, said the
office.

As of 8:00 am Sunday, 29 people died and more than 130 were injured in the
Kunming Railway Station terrorist attack that happened on Saturday night.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              March 2, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

doctors urged to grass on 'terror' patients;
GPs attack 'mindless' plan

BYLINE: KEITH PERRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 291 words


DOCTORS are being told to report patients they think might be potential
terrorists.

Surgeries are being ordered to appoint a member of staff to inform on suspects.

Angry medics have attacked the plan, saying it threatens doctor-patient
confidentiality.

Dr John Glasspool said: "I don't see what role a GP should play in preventing
radical Islam.

"We will lose the trust of our Muslim patients and it raises the issue of
patient confidentiality."

The Southampton-based GP added: "It is just mindless, mindless bureaucracy with
no sense of proportionality."

Clinical commissioning groups (CCGs), which fund surgeries, are making the
demand under the Government's anti-extremist "Prevent" plan. Surgeries are being
told they must appoint a "Prevent lead" before they can offer extra services
under the GPs' contract.

Dr Robert Morley of the British Medical Association said the requirement was "an
enormous bureaucratic hoop". He added: "The contract is not fit for purpose and
yet practices are being told they cannot provide enhanced services until they
sign."

Former British Medical Association General Practitioners Committee chairman Dr
Laurence Buckman said: "This a gimmick. I see no value in asking people who know
nothing about something extremely serious to do this.

RIDICULOUS "It is so silly and ridiculous I can't believe NHS England are
requiring this or making CCGs responsible for it."

Southampton City clinical commissioning group said: "Prevent is a national
multiagency strategy developed in the wake of events such as the Exeter bombing.
It is important NHS professionals know how best to respond in the event that
concerns are raised about any individuals who may be involved in or
contemplating terrorist activity."

scoops@sundaymirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                              March 2, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

STAB GANG KILL 27;
162 hurt in knife terror attack at station

BYLINE: Ben Blanchard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 226 words


At least 27 people were knifed to death yesterday at a train station in Kunming,
south-west China.

The official Xinhua news agency said another 162 were injured in the incident,
which has been deemed a "violent terror attack".

Kunming resident Yang Haifei told Xinhua he was buying a rail ticket when he saw
a group of people, mostly wearing black, rush into the station and start
attacking bystanders.

He added: "I saw a person come straight at me with a long knife and I ran away.

"Those who were slower were caught by the attackers. They just fell on the
ground."

Several suspects were said to have been detained and others shot dead. China's
domestic security chief Meng Jianzhu was on his way to Kunming last night.

Graphic pictures posted on the Chinese microblogging service Sina Weibo showed
bodies covered in blood lying on the ground at the station.

There was no immediate word on who was responsible.

The attack comes at a particularly sensitive time as China gears up for the
annual meeting of parliament, which opens in Beijing on Wednesday and is
normally accompanied by a tightening of security across the country.

China has blamed similar incidents on Islamist extremists operating in the far
western region of Xinjiang.

A suicide attack in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October involved militants
from Xinjiang, which is home to the Muslim Uighur people.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DITCHED Bags left behind in the panic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


             Copyright 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        March 2, 2014 Sunday 1:49 PM GMT

'Violent terror attack' at busy Chinese train station by knife-wielding
assailants leaves 33 dead, 143 injured;
'Dressed all in black', over 10 stabbed and slashed at random. Four of the
attackers, including one woman, was shot dead by police at the scene

BYLINE: Tomas Jivanda

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 553 words


Over 10 knife-wielding assailants stormed through a railway station in
south-west China on Saturday, killing 29 and injuring 143, in what officials
said was a terrorist attack by ethnic separatists from the far west of the
country.

Four of the group were shot dead by police and a fifth was captured after the
group stabbed and slashed people at random late on Saturday at the Kunming train
station in Yunnan province. The remainder are being searched for.

The Chinese President Xi Jinping promised a harsh response to the attack, saying
"all-out efforts" are being exerted to "severely punish in accordance with the
law the violent terrorists and resolutely crack down on those who have been
swollen with arrogance."

The country's top police official Meng Jianzhu arrived in the city early on
Sunday and officers have been rounding up members of the city's small Uighur
community, believed to number no more than several dozen, for questioning about
the attack and assailants.

Chinese 'terror attack' in Kunming

Eyewitnesses said the attackers were dressed all in black and were wielding long
knives. State broadcaster CCTV said at least two of the attackers were women -
one of the dead and the captured one, who was later taken to a hospital for
treatment.

The attackers' identities have not been confirmed, but the municipal government
said evidence at the scene showed that it was " a terrorist attack carried out
by Xinjiang separatist forces," according to the official Xinhua News Agency.

Graphic photographs surfacing on Sina Weibo, the Chinese equivalent of Twitter,
showed a row of bloody bodies on the station concourse and at the Kunming No 1
hospital.

Qiao Yunao, a 16-year-old student, was waiting for a train at the station when
the attack happened. He said he saw people crying out and running, and then a
man cut another man's neck, drawing blood.

"I was freaking out, and ran to a fast food store, and many people were running
in there to take refuge," she told The Associated Press via Sina Weibo. "I saw
two attackers, both men, one with a watermelon knife and the other with a fruit
knife. They were running and chopping whoever they could."

The Security Management Bureau, under the Ministry of Public Security, said the
attack was a "severe violent crime" in its own message on Sina Weibo, adding:
"No matter what motives the murderers hold, the killing of innocent people is
against kindness and justice. The police will crack down the crimes in
accordance with the law without any tolerance."

There is a simmering rebellion against Chinese rule by some members of the
Muslim Uighur population in Xinjiang province, located in the extreme west of
China where the country borders central Asia. The government has responded with
heavy-handed security.

Clashes between Uighurs and members of China's ethnic Han majority are frequent
in Xinjiang, Saturday's attack however happened more than 620 miles to the
southeast in Yunnan, which has not had a history of such unrest.

The assault was the deadliest incident attributed to Uighur-Han conflict since
2009, when a Uighur mob first attacked and killed Han people, included women and
children, at random on the streets of Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang. A few
days later, Han vigilante mobs attacked Uighurs in the same city. In total,
nearly 200 people died.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 2, 2014 Sunday 11:55 AM GMT

'Violent terror attack' at busy Chinese train station by knife-wielding
assailants leaves 33 dead, 143 injured;
'Dressed all in black', over 10 stabbed and slashed at random. Four of the
attackers, including one woman, was shot dead by police at the scene

BYLINE: Tomas Jivanda

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 465 words


Over 10 knife-wielding assailants stormed through a railway station in
south-west China on Saturday, killing 29 and injuring 143, in what officials
said was a terrorist attack by ethnic separatists from the far west of the
country.

Four of the group were shot dead by police and a fifth was captured after the
group stabbed and slashed people at random late on Saturday at the Kunming train
station in Yunnan province. The remainder are being searched for.

Eyewitnesses said the men were dressed all in black and were wielding long
knives. State broadcaster CCTV said at least two of the attackers were women -
one of the dead and the captured one, who was later taken to a hospital for
treatment.

The attackers' identities have not been confirmed, but the municipal government
said evidence at the scene showed that it was "a terrorist attack carried out by
Xinjiang separatist forces," according to the official Xinhua News Agency.

Chinese 'terror attack' in Kunming

Graphic photographs surfacing on Sina Weibo, the Chinese equivalent of Twitter,
showed a row of bloody bodies on the station concourse and at the Kunming No 1
hospital.

Qiao Yunao, a 16-year-old student, was waiting for a train at the station when
the attack happened. He said he saw people crying out and running, and then a
man cut another man's neck, drawing blood.

"I was freaking out, and ran to a fast food store, and many people were running
in there to take refuge," she told The Associated Press via Sina Weibo. "I saw
two attackers, both men, one with a watermelon knife and the other with a fruit
knife. They were running and chopping whoever they could."

The Security Management Bureau, under the Ministry of Public Security, said the
attack was a "severe violent crime" in its own message on Sina Weibo, adding:
"No matter what motives the murderers hold, the killing of innocent people is
against kindness and justice. The police will crack down the crimes in
accordance with the law without any tolerance."

There is a simmering rebellion against Chinese rule by some members of the
Muslim Uighur population in Xinjiang province, located in the extreme west of
China where the country borders central Asia. The government has responded with
heavy-handed security.

Clashes between Uighurs and members of China's ethnic Han majority are frequent
in Xinjiang, Saturday's attack however happened more than 620 miles to the
southeast in Yunnan, which has not had a history of such unrest.

The assault was the deadliest incident attributed to Uighur-Han conflict since
2009, when a Uighur mob first attacked and killed Han people, included women and
children, at random on the streets of Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang. A few
days later, Han vigilante mobs attacked Uighurs in the same city. In total,
nearly 200 people died.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        March 2, 2014 Sunday 9:25 AM GMT

'Violent terror attack' at Chinese train station by knife-wielding men leaves 33
dead, 113 injured;
Five assailants 'dressed all in black' shot dead by police officers

BYLINE: Richard Osley

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 247 words


A group of knife-wielding attackers stormed through a railway station in
south-west China on Saturday, stabbing people at random in an incident which
left 33 dead and at least 113 others injured.

Police said five of those who died at Kunming Train Station in Yunnan province
were assailants shot dead by officers.

More suspects had been "controlled" at the scene, according to local media
reports.

Eyewitnesses said the men, dressed all in black, had attacked people
indiscriminately with long knives.

Graphic photographs surfacing on Sina Weibo, the Chinese equivalent of Twitter,
showed a row of bloody bodies on the station concourse and at the Kunming No 1
hospital. Other users of the network suggested that the pictures should be taken
down, for fear of encouraging copycat killings.

Chinese 'terror attack' in Kunming

The attacks were described by Chinese authorities as a terrorist attack that had
been "pre-meditated", although no specific motive was given.

The Security Management Bureau, under the Ministry of Public Security, said the
attack was a "severe violent crime" in its own message on Sina Weibo, adding:
"No matter what motives the murderers hold, the killing of innocent people is
against kindness and justice. The police will crack down the crimes in
accordance with the law without any tolerance."

The attack came ahead of the National People's Congress in Beijing on Wednesday,
where leading government figures meet to discuss the country's progress over the
past year.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 2, 2014 Sunday 12:12 AM GMT

China: Train station attack an act of terrorism

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 769 words


BEIJING (AP) - More than 10 knife-wielding attackers slashed people at a train
station in southwestern China late Saturday in what authorities called a
terrorist attack by Uighur separatists, and police fatally shot five of the
assailants, leaving 34 people dead and 130 others injured, state media said.

The attackers, most of them dressed in black, stormed the Kunming Train Station
in Yunnan Province and started attacking people in the late evening, witness
Yang Haifei, told the official Xinhua News Agency in an interview from a
hospital where he was being treated for chest and back wounds.

"I saw a person come straight at me with a long knife and I ran away with
everyone," he told Xinhua, adding that people who were slower ended up severely
injured. "They just fell on the ground," Yang said.

Evidence found at the scene of the attack showed that it was "a terrorist attack
carried out by Xinjiang separatist forces, the municipal government said,
according to Xinhua. The report could not be verified. Xinhua said authorities
considered it to be "an organized, premeditated violent terrorist attack."

The far western region of Xinjiang is home to a simmering rebellion against
Chinese rule by separatists among parts of the Muslim Uighur (pronounced
WEE'-gur) population.

Most attacks blamed on Uighur separatists take place in Xinjiang, but Saturday's
assault took place more than 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) to the southeast in
Yunnan, which has not had a history of such unrest. However, a suicide car
attack blamed on Uighur separatists that killed five people at Beijing's
Tiananmen Gate last November raised alarms that militants may be aiming to
strike at targets throughout the country.

In an indication of how seriously authorities viewed the attack - one of China's
deadliest in recent years - the country's top police official, Politburo member
Meng Jianzhu, was on route to Kunming, the Communist Party-run People's Daily
reported.

The violence in Kunming came at a sensitive time as political leaders in Beijing
prepared for Wednesday's opening of the annual meeting of the nominal
legislature where the government of President Xi Jinping will deliver its first
one-year work report.

Xi called for "all-out efforts" to bring the culprits to justice.

Most attacks blamed on Uighur separatists take place in Xinjiang, but Saturday's
assault took place more than 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) to the southeast in
Yunnan, which has not had a history of such unrest. However, a suicide car
attack blamed on Uighur separatists that killed five people at Beijing's
Tiananmen Gate last November raised alarms that militants may be aiming to
strike at targets throughout the country.

A Xinhua reporter on the scene in Kunming said several suspects had been
"controlled" while police continued their investigation of people at the train
station. The reporter said firefighters and emergency medical personnel were at
the station and rushing injured people to hospitals for treatment.

The authorities said five suspects were shot dead but that their identities had
not yet been confirmed, and police were hunting for the remaining attackers,
Xinhua reported. The news agency said 29 people described as "civilians" were
confirmed dead and 130 injured.

More than 60 victims of Saturday's attack were taken to Kunming No. 1 People's
Hospital, where at least a dozen bodies also could be seen, according to Xinhua
reporters at the hospital.

At a guard pavilion in front of the train station, three victims were crying.
One of them, Yang Ziqing, told Xinhua that they were waiting for a train to
Shanghai when a knife-wielding man suddenly came at them.

"My two town-fellows' husbands have been rushed to hospital, but I can't find my
husband, and his phone went unanswered," Yang sobbed.

Footage in China's state broadcaster CCTV showed a heavy police presence near
the station and plainclothes agents wrapping a long knife in a plastic bag as
investigators collected evidence following the attacks.

Pictures on Sina Weibo, the Chinese equivalent of Twitter, showed bodies covered
in blood at the station.

The Security Management Bureau under the Ministry of Public Security called the
incident a "severe violent crime" at its official Sina Weibo account.

"No matter what motives the murderers hold, the killing of innocent people is
against kindness and justice. The police will crack down the crimes in
accordance with the law without any tolerance. May the dead rest in peace," it
read.

The Kunming Railway Station, located in the southeastern area of the city, is
one of the largest railway stations in southwest China.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                 March 2, 2014

China horrified by gang's knife rampage at railway station: Beijing blames
Xinjiang militants after 'violent terror attack' on crowded ticket hall leaves
at least 28 people dead and 113 injured

BYLINE: Barry Neild

SECTION: OBSERVER WORLD NEWS PAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 739 words


China was last night reeling from what was described as a "violent terror
attack" in which a knife-wielding gang stabbed 28 people to death and left
scores more injured at a railway station.

State media blamed the killings at Kunming in Yunnan province, south-west China,
on militants from Xinjiang in the country's restive north-west. "Evidence at the
crime scene showed that the Kunming railway station terrorist attack was carried
out by Xinjiang separatist forces," the Xinhua news agency said, quoting
officials in the city.

Reports said five attackers were shot dead by police following the incident on
Saturday evening and another five were being hunted. Unverified photographs
circulating on social media appeared to show the blood-soaked bodies of victims
lined up on the floor. Other images showed distraught people running away from
the station and crowds gathering among police officers and ambulances.

Chinese President Xi Jinping ordered a full-scale manhunt to find those
responsible for what was one of the deadliest attacks in the communist country
in recent years.

"Severely punish in accordance with the law the violent terrorists and
resolutely crack down on those who have been swollen with arrogance," he said,
according to Xinhua. "Understand the serious and complex nation of combating
terrorism. Go all out to maintain social stability."

Chinese TV said the country's top police official, Meng Jianzhu, was last night
on his way to the scene.

Yang Haifei, who was wounded in the chest and back, told Xinhua he had been
buying a train ticket when the attackers approached and he had tried to escape
with the crowd. "I saw a person come straight at me with a long knife and I ran
away with everyone," he said. Others "simply fell on the ground".

Some who escaped were desperately searching for missing family. "I can't find my
husband, and his phone went unanswered," said Yang Ziqing, who had been waiting
to catch a train to Shanghai when the knife gang struck.

Eyewitnesses were quoted by the China News Service, saying the attackers,
dressed in black, "burst into the train station plaza and the ticket hall,
stabbing whoever they saw".

Xinhua said at least 113 people were injured in the "organised, premeditated"
attack. The victims were taken by ambulances to hospitals around the city.

Weibo users took to the social network to explain what happened, though many of
those posts were quickly deleted by government censors, especially those that
described the attackers, two of whom were identified by some as women. Others
condemned the attack.

"No matter who, for whatever reason, or of what race, chose somewhere so crowded
as a train station, and made innocent people their target - they are evil and
they should go to hell," wrote one user.

The website of the state-run People's Daily newspaper said the gang struck at
9pm local time on Saturday, hacking into victims who it said were "passersby".
It said the station had been cordoned off and more than 120 police, firefighters
and security officers deployed to the scene. TV images showed police wrapping a
long, sword-like knife in a plastic bag, amid the heavy security at the station.

Kunming, about 1,300 miles southwest of Beijing, is a bustling university town
and major commercial hub on trade routes linking southern China to neighbouring
Vietnam.

The attack comes at a particularly sensitive time as China gears up for the
annual meeting of parliament, which opens in Beijing on Wednesday and is
normally accompanied by a tightening of security across the country. China has
blamed similar incidents in the past on extremists operating out of Xinjiang,
though such attacks have generally been limited to Xinjiang itself. China says
its first major suicide attack, in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October,
involved militants from Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people, many of whom
resent Chinese restrictions on their culture and religion.

In July 2008, the city was hit by two explosions on board separate public
transport buses, leaving two dead. Officials did not classify the blasts as acts
of terrorism and later dismissed reports that they were claimed by a Xinjiang
separatist group.

Captions:

Police guard the railway station in Kunming, south-west China, above, where 28
people were stabbed to death and many others left injured by attackers said to
be Xinjiang militants. Blood-stained luggage lay strewn around afterwards.
Imago/Barcroft Media


LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                              March 2, 2014 Sunday

China: Terrorist' knife attack kills 29

BYLINE: Maxim Duncan And James Pomfret

LENGTH: 466  words


WITNESSES to chilling violence at a Chinese train station placed under heavy
security yesterday recalled moments of fear and chaos after at least 29 people
were killed in what authorities called a terrorist attack.

Officials said a group of knife-wielding "terrorists" from the restive Xinjiang
region launched a premeditated attack at the Kunming railway station in
south-weat China on Saturday night. More than 130 people were wounded.

Armed riot police stood guard as people streamed into the station yesterday only
hours after the attack, one of the worst of its kind in China in recent memory.

Standing near shops about 50 metres from the site, a parking attendant surnamed
Chen said he could not believe what was happening when he saw the attackers.

"I walked out and I saw a person with a knife this big", Chen said, spreading
his arms wide.

"Then I saw five or six of them. They all had knives and they were stabbing
people madly."

Police shot four of the attackers dead and captured one, the state news agency
Xinhua reported. About five others are on the run, it added.

Xinhua quoted the Kunming city government as saying evidence at the crime scene
showed the attack was carried out by Xinjiang separatist forces.

The attack comes at a sensitive time as China gears up for the annual meeting of
its parliament, which opens in Beijing on Wednesday and is normally accompanied
by a tightening of security across the country.

Word of the violence spread quickly, with graphic pictures that showed bodies
covered in blood posted to the Twitter-like microblogging service Sina Weibo -
posts that were later deleted by the government censors.

Shop and restaurant workers said hundreds had fled into their stores seeking
refuge.

"Last night everyone ran over into my supermarket. The supermarket was full of
people, including two passengers who had been stabbed," Ren Guangqin said inside
his supermarket.

"I was terrified. They were killing people. How could I not be scared?"

Scores of patients from the attack spilled into corridors from overflowing wards
at Kunming's No. 1 People's Hospital where they were being treated.

In the neurosurgery department, several patients had head injuries.

A 20-year-old university student, Wu Yuheng, said the attackers had tried to
target people's heads. One had lashed out with his knife and nicked him on the
scalp.

"I was terrified ... they attacked us like crazy swordsmen, and mostly they went
for the head and the shoulders, those parts of the body to kill," he said from a
hospital bed.

China's domestic security chief, Meng Jianzhu, vowed those responsible would be
brought to justice.

"This brutal attack on defenceless, innocent people by violent terrorists devoid
of conscience exposes their inhuman and anti-social nature," Xinhua quoted Mr
Meng as saying.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        March 2, 2014 Sunday 5:48 AM GMT

China's security chief vows justice after terror attack in train station leaves
at least 29 dead;
After knife-wielding "terrorists" launched a "premeditated" attack at the
Kunming Railway Station, killing at least 29 and injuring over 130, Chinese
officials blame militants from Xinjiang and say those responsible will face the
"severe punishment of the law".

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 540 words


China will spare no effort to seek justice for a "terrorist attack" at a crowded
train station, its domestic security chief said, after militants from the
restive region of Xinjiang were blamed for chilling violence that killed at
least 29 people.

Authorities said a group of knife-wielding "terrorists" launched a
"premeditated" attack at the Kunming Railway Station late in China's southwest
on Saturday night. More than 130 people were also wounded.

Police shot four of the attackers dead and captured one, state news agency
Xinhua reported. It quoted the Kunming city government as saying evidence at the
crime scene showed the attack was carried out by "Xinjiang separatist forces".

About five others were on the run, it said, after one of the worst attacks of
its kind in China in recent memory.

"This brutal attack on defenceless, innocent people by violent terrorists devoid
of conscience exposes their inhuman and anti-social nature," Xinhua quoted
security chief Meng Jianzhu as saying.

"They inevitably will face the severe punishment of the law. We must mobilise
all resources and adopt all means to break this case," Mr Meng said, echoing
comments made by Chinese President Xi Jinping.

Mr Meng, who is also a member of the ruling Communist Party's elite 25-member
Politburo, made an emergency trip to Kunming, where he visited wounded victims
in hospital and went to the train station where the attack occurred.

The attack comes at a sensitive time as China gears up for the annual meeting of
its largely rubber-stamp parliament, which opens in Beijing on Wednesday and is
normally accompanied by a tightening of security across the country.

It also marked a major escalation in the simmering unrest that had centred on
Xinjiang, a heavily Muslim region in China's far west strategically located on
the borders of Central Asia.

It is the first time people from Xinjiang have been blamed for carrying out such
a large-scale attack so far from their homeland, and follows a smaller incident
in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October that shook the Communist Party
leadership.

China stepped up security in Xinjiang after a vehicle ploughed into tourists on
the edge of Tiananmen Square, killing the three people in the car and two
bystanders. China labelled it a suicide attack by militants from Xinjiang.

Xinjiang is home to the Muslim Uighur people, many of whom chafe at Chinese
restrictions on their culture and religion.

Kunming, the capital of Yunnan province, is hundreds of miles from Xinjiang and
has little connection to the recent violence there that has killed more than 100
people in the past year.

China bristles at suggestions from exiles and rights groups that the unrest is
driven more by unhappiness at government policies than by any serious threat
from extremist groups who want to establish an independent state called East
Turkestan.

One senior member of an advisory body to the soon-to-convene parliament said
such attacks in China had foreign links.

"The well-planned attack was not an issue of (ethnicity) or religion, it was an
issue of terrorism with links to the terrorist forces out of the country,"
Xinhua quoted PLA Navy Rear Admiral Yin Zhuo as saying.

Edited by Steve Wilson

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       March 2, 2014 Sunday 11:11 AM GMT

China says terrorists behind knife gang attack

BYLINE: Leo Lewis, Beijing

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 725 words


China has blamed "separatist forces" from the northwestern region of Xinjiang
for an orchestrated knife attack that left 29 dead and more than 112 wounded.

The slaughter took place at a railway station in the laid-back southern city of
Kunming on Saturday night. Ten attackers, including women, were understood to
have been involved.

Police said that they had shot dead four of the gang and had another in custody.
At least four others are believed to have escaped.

Kunming is not a city previously associated with this type of violence: it is
far from the volatile Xinjiang region in the far west, where China's Uighur
ethnic group is concentrated.

Victims were being taken to hospitals throughout the southwest of China.

Yang Haifei was buying a ticket when he saw a group of people mostly wearing
black rush into the station and start attacking bystanders.

"I saw a person come straight at me with a long knife and I ran away with
everyone," he said.

Witnesses described scenes of panic and gore as the killers moved through the
busy station crowds, who stampeded for safety. Those who were slower were caught
by the attackers. "They just fell on the ground," Mr Yang said.

Wang Dinggeng, a college student who was caught up in the attack, said that he
saw two women wielding long knives stabbing people.

"When I ran out, I saw a middle-aged man lying on the square with a knife
stabbed in his back," he told the Beijing News. "The knife was buried really
deeply, and I could only see the handle."

As pictures of the station, with bodies strewn around and puddles of blood
visible, emerged on the Sina Weibo - China's equivalent of Twitter - Chinese
reacted with fury at the slaughter.

"No matter who, for whatever reason, or of what race, chose somewhere so crowded
as a train station, and made innocent people their target - they are evil and
they should go to hell," wrote one user. State censors tried to remove pictures
and commentary from Weibo.

Despite the shocking death toll, the Chinese state media appeared to temper its
coverage in an attempt to play down the political significance of the attack.

If the attack was carried out by members of the Uighur Muslim minority
concentrated in China's far west, it represents an escalation in a long and
unhappy history of anti-Beijing protests and violence.

Over the past year there have been numerous, often deadly, clashes between
Uighurs and police in Xinjiang cities. Friction centres on what many Uighurs see
as the repression of their culture and religion by the Han-dominated Government
in Beijing.

The rampage took place as Beijing prepares for the opening of its parliament on
Wednesday this week, an event of supreme political sensitivity that triggers an
annual crackdown on dissidents, bloggers, activists, rights lawyers and other
perceived troublemakers.

Last week Ilham Tohti, an internationally prominent economist at one of
Beijing's leading universities, was arrested.

The mild-mannered scholar, who is ethnically Uighur and has previously mounted
quiet criticism of Beijing's policies in the far northwest, was held on
suspicion of "separatism", a charge that could carry the death penalty and is
viewed by rights lawyers and diplomats as trumped up by Beijing to silence a
calm and measured critic.

Xi Jinping, in final preparations for his leadership-defining parliament as
President, called on the country to "go all out to maintain stability". He has
vowed to "resolutely crack down on those who have been swollen with arrogance".

Xinjiang, along with Tibet, is among a small number of regions of China that
have been particular targets of a massive build-up of domestic Chinese security.
House searches, detentions and other heavy-handed tactics, say Uighur groups,
have helped to stoke resentment.

The immediacy with which state media blamed the Kunming attack on Xinjiang
separatism suggests high levels of disquiet among the Beijing leadership. It is
the first time that people from Xinjiang, whose travel is often very tightly
restricted, have been blamed for mounting such an assault so far from the region
itself.

Last October a family of Uighurs managed to drive a car into crowds of tourists
in Beijing's Tiananmen Square. The vehicle burst into flames, suggesting that a
crude explosive device had been detonated. The attack killed five and left
dozens injured.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        March 2, 2014 Sunday 4:50 AM GMT

China says terrorists behind knife gang attack

BYLINE: Leo Lewis, Beijing

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 830 words


China today blamed "separatist forces" from the restive north-western region of
Xinjiang for an orchestrated knife attack that left 29 dead and more than 112
wounded.

What appeared to be a coldly-planned eruption of savagery and bloodshed took
place at a railway station in the laid-back southern city of Kunming on Saturday
night. The attack is thought to have involved a group of around 10.

Kunming is not a city previously associated with this type of violence: it is
far from the volatile Xinjiang region in the far west where China's Uighur
ethnic group is mostly concentrated.

Victims were being taken to hospitals around southwestern China.

Kunming resident Yang Haifei told Xinhua that he was buying a ticket when he saw
a group of people mostly wearing black rush into the station and start attacking
bystanders.

"I saw a person come straight at me with a long knife and I ran away with
everyone," he said.

Eyewitnesses described scenes of panic and gore as the killers moved through the
busy station crowds, who stampeded for safety. Those who were slower were caught
by the attackers. "They just fell on the ground," said Mr Haifei.

Wang Dinggeng, a college student who was caught up in the attack, said that he
saw two women wielding long knives stabbing people.

"When I ran out, I saw a middle aged man lying on the square with a knife
stabbed in his back," he told the Beijing News. "The knife was buried really
deeply, and I could only see the handle."

As pictures of the station, with bodies strewn around and puddles of blood
visible, emerged on the Sina Webo microblogging platform, many Chinese reacted
with fury at the slaughter.

"No matter who, for whatever reason, or of what race, chose somewhere so crowded
as a train station, and made innocent people their target - they are evil and
they should go to hell," wrote one user.

Despite the ferocity of the attack, the shocking death toll and the massive
sense of trauma in Kunming, Chinese state media appeared to temper its coverage
in an attempt to play-down the political significance of the attack.

The murderous rampage took place as Beijing prepares for the opening of its
Parliament on Wednesday this week - an event of supreme political sensitivity
which triggers an annual crackdown on dissidents, bloggers, activists rights
lawyers and other perceived trouble-makers.

The attack follows last week's arrest of Ilham Tohti, an internationally famous
economist at one of Beijing's most prestigious universities. The mild-mannered
scholar, who is ethnically Uighur and has previously mounted quiet criticism of
Beijing's policies in the far northwest, was arrested on suspicion of
"separatism" - a charge that could carry the death penalty and is viewed by
rights lawyers and diplomats as entirely confected by Beijing to silence a calm
and measured critic.

Xi Jinping, in final preparations for his first, leadership-defining Parliament
as President, called on the country to "go all out to maintain stability". He
has vowed to "resolutely crack down on those who have been swollen with
arrogance".

As photographs and eye-witness accounts of the carnage began to pour onto
China's social media equivalent of Twitter state, censors snapped into action -
removing pictures and commentary in a battled to contain a narrative that
challenges the Communist Party's claims of a stable, unified society.

Police said on Sunday morning that they had shot dead four of the gang and had
another in custody. At least four others are believed to have made their escape.

The attackers - immediately labeled "terrorists" in Chinese state media reports
of the carnage - are thought to have included women.

If police analysis is accurate, and the attackers are indeed members of the
Uighur Muslim minority concentrated in China's far west, the Kunming attacks
represent a startling escalation in a long and unhappy history of anti-Beijing
protests and violence.

Over the past year there have been numerous, often deadly clashes between
Uighurs and police in Xinjiang cities. Friction centres on what many Uighurs see
as the repression of their culture and religion by the Han-dominated government
in Beijing.

Xinjiang, along with Tibet, is among a small number of regions of China that
have been particular targets of a massive build-up of domestic Chinese security.
House-searches, detentions and other heavy-handed tactics, say Uighur groups,
have helped stoke resentment.

The immediacy with which state media blamed the Kunming attack on Xinjiang
separatism suggests high levels of disquiet among the Beijing leadership. It is
the first time that people from Xinjiang, whose travel is often very tightly
restricted, have been blamed for mounting such an assault so far from the region
itself.

Last October, a family of Uighurs managed to drive a car into crowds of tourists
in Beijing's Tiananmen Square: it rapidly burst into flames, suggesting a crude
explosive device had been deployed. The attack killed five and left dozens
injured.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Kenyan paper urges ties with foreign agencies to curb future terror attacks

LENGTH: 349 words


Text of editorial entitled "Team work vital in fight on terrorism" published by
Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 3 March

One of the lessons that Kenyan security forces can learn from the ongoing
international investigation into the Westgate terror attack is the need for
strengthening cross-border collaboration to curb future attacks.

Although there have been instances when the country has been warned about an
impending attack, not all such warnings have been taken seriously and this can
have far-reaching implications, especially when security is compromised.

What is emerging from the ongoing efforts to crack down on terrorism is that
there is a need to take every tip-off and bit of information available seriously
to ensure that important steps that can be taken to save lives or forestall
attacks are taken in good time.

Kenya has many installations, businesses, and other investments that are by
their very nature attractive targets of terrorist attacks.

As such, the country's security forces cannot afford to let down their guard or
ignore the need for collaboration with foreign agencies that might help them to
improve security for the citizenry.

The other lesson they need to learn is that they have to invest substantially in
information-gathering because this is key to pre-empting attacks, profiling
possible suspects, and tracking down those who have committed atrocities in the
past.

Information-gathering remains one of the most critical aspects in the war on
terrorism. This is what has given foreign agencies the edge in cracking down on
terrorism.

Kenya can become part of that broader effort, not just by giving information,
but also by seeking it so that it can equip its counter-terrorism unit and other
agencies with the relevant knowledge that can help them to track down suspects
and make the country safer.

The bottom line is to ensure that the country remains safe for its citizens,
foreigners, and investors while making it an unattractive destination for
terrorists and their sympathisers.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 3 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Iran condemns "terrorist" attack in China

LENGTH: 176 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 3 March: Foreign Ministry Spokesman Marziyeh Afkham on Monday [3 March]
strongly condemned terrorist attack at a train station late Saturday night in
Kunming, the capital of southwest Chinas Yunnan Province. A number of people
were stabbed to death and dozens of others were seriously injured.

She condoled with the bereaved families and prayed to God Almighty to bestow
patience on them and immediate recovery of those injured.

The Islamic Republic of Iran as one of the victims of terrorism expresses
indignation at such terrorist moves which might happen in different forms, she
said.

Some 29 Chinese people were stabbed to death in cold-blood murder.

The knife-wielding criminals injured 113 others in the terrorist attack.

Fifteen members of the United Nations Security Council issued a statement to
condemn the terrorist attack in China and called for bringing to justice the
criminals.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1245 gmt 3 Mar
14

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

SAfrica condemns in "strongest possible terms" terrorist attack in China

LENGTH: 192 words


Text of report by website of South African Department of International Relations
on 3 March

[Media statement issued by the Department of International Relations and
Cooperation: "SA Condemns Terrorist Attack in the People's Republic of China"]

03 March 2014

The South African Government condemns in the strongest possible terms the
terrorist attack which took place at the Kunming Railway Station in the People's
Republic of China on 01 March 2014 which claimed the lives of 29 innocent people
and left more than 130 people injured.

The South Africa Government condemns all forms and manner of terrorism. We
believe that terrorism in any form and from whichever quarter cannot be
condoned.

The South African government sends it deepest condolences to the government and
the people of the People's Republic of China, and in particularly to the
families of the deceased and wish the injured speedy recoveries.

Enquiries: Mr Clayson Monyela, 082 884 5974

ISSUED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AND COOPERATION

OR Tambo Building

460 Soutpansberg Road

Rietondale

Pretoria

0084

Source: Department of International Relations website, Pretoria, in English 3
Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Tajik president condemns terrorism, knife attack in China

LENGTH: 133 words


Text of report by privately-owned Tajik news agency Asia-Plus website

Tajikistan's president [Emomali Rahmon] has sent a telegram of condolences to
his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, over an act of terrorism in the city of
Kunming which left numerous casualties, the Tajik president's press service
reports.

Rahmon strongly condemned the attack and said that "this tragedy has once again
demonstrated that the fight against terrorism is becoming an important and joint
task for the entire humanity".

"We in Tajikistan are ready to do our utmost, jointly with the world community,
to eliminate this evil," the telegram underlines.

Rahmon also expressed his sincere and deep sympathy to the relatives and
families of the killed.

Source: Asia-Plus news agency website, Dushanbe, in Russian 0630 gmt 3 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Experts sent to treat Kunming terror attack victims

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 110 words


BEIJING - A total of 27 medical experts have been dispatched to southwest
China's Kunming to treat victims of a deadly terror attack on Saturday, the
National Health and Family Planning Commission said Sunday.

The experts were recruited from 12 hospitals in Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu,
Guangzhou and other cities.

More than 10 terrorist suspects stabbed and slashed passengers with long-bladed
knives at the square and ticket hall of Kunming Railway Station at 9:20 p.m.
Saturday, killing 29 people and injuring more than 130 others.

The experts will be tasked with helping treat the wounded and provide
psychological assistance to them, according to the commission.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

EU condemns terrorist attacks in China

SECTION: TOP NEWS

LENGTH: 175 words


BRUSSELS - EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton on Sunday condemned the
Kunming terrorist attacks and sent condolences to the victims' families.

"The High Representative is appalled by the reports she has received of the
significant loss of life and the many casualties caused by a mass knife attack
that took place at Kunming train station in China yesterday," Ashton's spokesman
Sebastien Brabant told Xinhua.

"There is never any justification for such heinous crimes," said the spokesman.

"The High Representative wishes to extend her condolences and sympathy to the
families who have suffered death and injury as a consequence," he said.

Twenty-nine civilians were confirmed dead and more than 140 others wounded after
a group of knife-wielding militants attacked the railway station in Kunming, the
capital of Yunnan province, on Saturday.

The authorities said that it was an organized, premeditated violent terrorist
attack.

Evidence at the scene showed that the attack was carried out by Xinjiang
terrorists, said the municipal government of Kunming.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Manhunt after terror attack

BYLINE: Guo Anfei in Kunming Cui Jia, Hu Yongqi and He Na in Beijing

SECTION: COVER STORY

LENGTH: 407 words


Total death toll in Kunming assault rises to 29; at least 130 injured

As the death toll from Saturday's terrorist attack at Kunming Railway Station in
Yunnan province rose to 29 and the number of injured topped 130, the search for
the perpetrators continued.

On Sunday, Kunming's government said evidence at the scene indicated that the
attack was committed by terrorists from the  Uygur autonomous region. If so, it
would be the latest in a string of attacks related to the autonomous region,
including incidents in January and February.

More than 10 masked people, dressed in identical black outfits and wielding
large knives, stabbed and slashed passengers in the station's square and ticket
hall. The attack began at 9:20 pm on Saturday and lasted about 12 minutes,
according to China Central Television.

Police killed four of the assailants at the scene. Their identities have yet to
be established. One woman was arrested.

There was a heavy police presence at the station on Sunday. The bloodstains had
been washed away and passengers had returned to the busy transport hub. Flowers
had been laid at the base of a bronze sculpture in the center of the square.
Police had placed unclaimed luggage in a corner of the station, but some of the
owners will never reclaim their belongings.

President  called for intensive efforts to crack down on violent factions and
said the attackers would be punished in accordance with the law. He also praised
the work of the police and medical workers, and he paid tribute to the victims
of the attack, according to Xinhua News Agency.

Shortly after the attack, Xi assigned officials - including Meng Jianzhu, head
of the Commission for Political and Legal Affairs of the Communist Party of
China Central Committee, and Guo Shengkun, minister of public security - to go
to Yunnan to guide the operations and visit the injured and relatives of the
dead.

Guo said the police will conduct a thorough investigation and will also crack
down on the possession of knives and firearms to reduce the risk to the public.

Premier  urged police across China to strengthen public security measures at all
levels.

'Anti-human, anti-social'

On Sunday, Lyu Xinhua, spokesman for the Second Session of the 12th National
Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, told a
media briefing that the attack exposed the "anti-human and anti-social" nature
of the perpetrators and said they will be severely punished.


LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Int'l community slams terrorist attack in Kunming

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 450 words


The United Nations Security Council said in a statement on Sunday that the
15-nation UN body condemned in the strongest terms the terrorist attack on
Saturday evening in the Kunming train station.

"The members of the security council extended their deepest sympathy and
condolence to the victims and their families who suffered from such most heinous
terrorist attack, as well as to the people and the government of the People's
Republic of China," the statement said.

"The security council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable regardless of their motivation, wherever and whenever and by
whomsoever committed," the statement said.

The UN body reiterated its determination to combat all forms of terrorism, in
accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations,
stressing the need to bring perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of
this terrorist attack to justice.

The mass knife attack in the Kunming train station on Saturday night has left at
least 28 innocent civilians dead and 113 others injured.

The authorities said the brutal attack was an organized, premeditated violent
terrorist attack, and was orchestrated by Xinjiang separatist forces.

Appalled by the reports of the significant loss of life, European Union foreign
policy chief Catherine Ashton extended condolences and sympathy to the families
who have suffered death and injury.

"There is never any justification for such heinous crimes," Ashton's spokesman
Sebastien Brabant told Xinhua.

Germany on Sunday also strongly condemned the brutal attack on innocent
civilians conducted by a group of knife-wielding militants in the well-known
tourist city.

"This act cannot be justified," the German Foreign Ministry said in a statement.

Stressing that the Pakistani people fully understand and share the pain of the
people of China, Pakistan said Sunday that terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security.

"We are ready to extend all possible cooperation to China in combating this
menace," Pakistan's Foreign Ministry said in a statement, adding that "our
prayers and thoughts are with the families of the victims of this terrorist
attack."

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas' Fatah party on Sunday also denounced the
terrorist attack in Yunnan and sent deep condolences to the Chinese people and
their leadership, saying that they believed China will recover from this ordeal
and is able "to confront anyone who tries to target the stability of our friend
China."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Terrorist group in Kunming attack busted

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 61 words


The last three suspects who were at large from the terrorist attack in Kunming
have been captured by police, the Ministry of Public Security announced on
Monday night.

The terrorist group includes six male and two female members. Four were shot
dead and one was arrestedred-handed from Saturday night's attack which left at
least 29 dead and 143 injured, said police.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Cambodia condemns terrorist attack in Kunming

SECTION: ASIA PACIFIC

LENGTH: 173 words


PHNOM PENH - Cambodia on Monday strongly condemned the deadly terrorist attack
in , capital of Southwest China's Yunnan province on Saturday and voiced support
for China's measures to crackdown on all forms of terrorist activities, said a
statement released by the spokesman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

"The Royal Government of Cambodia is deeply shocked to learn of the terrorist
attack in  City on March 1 that left 29 dead and 130 wounded," the statement
said.

A group of knife-wielding assailants indiscriminately killed and injured those
civilians late Saturday at the railway station of.

"Cambodia strongly condemns these cruel crimes," it said. "The Cambodian
government fully supports measures taken by the government of the People's
Republic of China to suppress and prevent all forms of terrorist acts, and hopes
all the attackers will be brought to the court of law for the sake of justice
for the innocent victims."

The statement also extended condolences and sympathy to the bereaved families
and those wounded in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Afghan govt condemns terror attack in China

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 157 words


KABUL -- The government of Afghanistan while strongly condemning the recent
terror attack in China would not allow any terrorists to receive training in
Afghan soil, Interior Ministry spokesman Sediq Sediqi said Monday.

"The attack on civilians by knife wielding assailants in China is a terrorist
attack and the worse terrorist attack and we condemn it in its strongest term,"
Sediqi told Xinhua.

He also rejected the reports those who committed the coward offensives had
received training in Afghanistan, saying the government would not allow anyone
to receive training in Afghan soil.

A group of terrorists armed with knifes attacked civilians at a railway station
in Yanan province of China on Saturday killing 29 persons and injuring 143
others.

"We are committed to fighting against terrorism and since 2001 we have been
fighting against Taliban, al-Qaida and other terrorists," the official went on
to say, adding Afghan police are vigilant.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

South Africa condemns terrorist attack in China

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 203 words


CAPE TOWN -- South Africa on Monday condemned "in the strongest possible terms"
the terrorist attack at the Kunming Railway Station in China's Yunnan province.

"The South Africa Government condemns all forms and manner of terrorism. We
believe that terrorism in any form and from whichever quarter cannot be
condoned," said Clayson Monyela, spokesperson for the Department of
International Relations and Cooperation.

"The South African government sends it deepest condolences to the government and
the people of the People's Republic of China, and in particularly to the
families of the deceased and wish the injured speedy recoveries," said Monyela.

Chinese police said Monday three suspects involved in the terrorist attack in
the southwestern city of Kunming had been captured.

The Ministry of Public Security said in a statement that the terrorist gang of
eight members led by Abdurehim Kurban was responsible for the attack.

Police shot and killed four of them and captured an injured female at the scene
on Saturday night, the statement said.

The knife-wielding attackers slashed frantically at crowds at a railway station
in Kunming of southwest China's Yunnan Province on Saturday, killing 29 people
and injuring 143.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Kunming restores order after deadly terror attack

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 485 words


KUNMING - Order has been restored in Kunming, capital of southwest China's
Yunnan Province, where a deadly terrorist attack on Saturday night left 29 dead
and more than 130 injured.

At the train station where the attacked happened, train arrivals resumed on
Sunday after three trains with 3,000 passengers were affected on Saturday night,
said station officials.

Meanwhile, 60,000 passengers are expected to leave the station on Sunday, higher
than the 59,000 on Saturday.

Part of a major road in front of the railway station is still under traffic
control and a waiting area on a square east of the station is cordoned off.

With a heavy police presence, normal operations have resumed and passengers can
walk into and out of the station with no new restrictions.

Security screening of passengers and luggage is being carried out and staff are
maintaining order in more crowded areas.

In a ticket hall, people were seen queuing to buy train tickets. Some chatted
with each other while others were playing cards.

Security has been beefed up at the city's Changshui International Airport, with
increased security personnel and tougher scrutiny of passengers and luggage.

The municipal government said on Sunday that evidence at the crime scene showed
that the Kunming Railway Station terrorist attack was orchestrated by Xinjiang
separatist forces. No details have been given.

The foreign affairs office of the Yunnan provincial government said there were
no reports that foreigners were killed or injured in the attack as of 2:30 p.m.
Sunday. Neither are Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macao compatriots among the victims,

Chinese President Xi Jinping has ordered law enforcement agencies to strike out
with full forces and bring those accountable to justice as as soon as possible.

Xi urged the greatest efforts to treat the injured and help those who have lost
their loved ones.

Chinese Premier Li Keqiang has ordered police forces nationwide to beef up
security, particulary at public places of big crowds.

Senior Chinese security official Meng Jianzhu arrived in Kunming at 5:30 a.m. to
oversee the situation.

Separately, the city's education authorities said all local middle and primary
schools will open as normal on Monday but with enhanced security.

School officials will be on duty before and after class and police officers will
be patrolling school campuses and surrounding areas.

Kunming's citizens have been eager to help. More than 2,000 Kunming citizens
have donated 560,000 milliliters of blood as of Sunday, the city's blood center
said.

As of 9:00 p.m., people were still lining up at a blood donation shuttle parked
around commercial district in downtown.

A total of 27 medical experts have been dispatched to Kunming to help the
treatment of victims, the National Health and Family Planning Commission said
Sunday.

The experts were recruited from 12 hospitals in Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu,
Guangzhou and other cities.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Terrorist group in Kunming attack busted

SECTION: TOP NEWS

LENGTH: 513 words


Chinese police said Monday three suspects involved in the terrorist attack in
the southwestern city of Kunming had been captured.

The Ministry of Public Security said in a statement that the terrorist gang led
by Abdurehim Kurban was responsible for the attack.

Police shot and killed four of them and captured an injured female attacker at
the scene on Saturday night, the statement said.

The knife-wielding attackers slashed frantically at crowds at a railway station
in Kunming in southwest China's Yunnan Province on Saturday, killing 29 people
and injuring 143.

The health authority said 20 of the 143 injured in Kunming are still in critical
condition.

Soon after the terrorist attack, Chinese President Xi Jinping ordered law
enforcement agencies to strike out with full forces and bring those accountable
to justice as soon as possible.

Xi urged the greatest efforts to treat the injured and help those who have lost
their loved ones.

Chinese Premier Li Keqiang ordered police forces nationwide to beef up security,
particulary at public places of big crowds.

Senior Chinese security official Meng Jianzhu arrived in Kunming at 5:30 a.m.
Sunday to oversee the situation.

Order was restored in Kunming on Sunday, with train arrivals resumed after three
trains with 3,000 passengers were affected on Saturday night. About 60,000
passengers left the station on Sunday, higher than the 59,000 on Saturday. All
local middle and primary schools opened as normal on Monday, with enhanced
security.

Chinese leaders and political advisors Monday paid silent tribute to the victims
of the terrorist attack at the opening of the annual session of the National
Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC).

Du Qinglin, vice chairman of the CPPCC National Committee, condemned the
terrorists behind the attack and conveyed condolences to the victims.

"The violent terrorist attack in Kunming on March 1 has caused great losses to
people's lives and property," said Du.

The carnage has shocked and outraged the international community. United Nations
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon condemned the terror attack.

"Terrorist attacks cannot be justified under any circumstances and under any
reasons," stressed Ban. "This was unacceptable. The perpetrators must be brought
to justice."

Ban conveyed his "most sincere condolences and sympathies to those families of
the victims" and wished those injured a speedy recovery.

"The international community has suffered too much, [and] too long by these
terrorist attacks here and there. We must be united to fight against terrorism,"
Ban said.

Germany strongly condemned the mass stabbing at the train station soon after the
bloody attack.

"We condemn the brutal attack on innocent civilians at a train station in
Kunming in southwest China in the strongest terms," a German foreign ministry
spokesman said in a statement. "This act cannot be justified."

Other countries, including France, Russia, the United States, Britain,
Australia, and Afghanistan, all expressed condemnation of the brutal violence
that caused heavy casualties.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              March 3, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Judges and lawyers killed in Islamabad terror attack

BYLINE: Michael Howie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 206 words


TWO judges and at least nine other people were killed today when a group of
terrorists, including two suicide bombers, stormed a court building in
Pakistan's capital Islamabad.

Several gunmen burst into the complex, opening fire at people and throwing hand
grenades. As police stormed the building, at least two men wearing vests packed
with explosives blew themselves up, one outside the office of the lawyers' union
president and the other outside a judge's office.

Islamabad police chief Sikander Hayat said: "It was certainly an act of
terrorism."

Lawyer Murad Ali said he saw several attackers walking towards a courtroom.
"They had automatic weapons. They had hand grenades," he said. "I saw them
shooting a female lawyer."

A senior doctor at the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences, where the bodies
were taken, said the dead included two judges and five lawyers. He added that 25
people had been wounded and that five of them were critically www.ill.No one has
claimed responsibility for the attack, which has shocked the city that has
avoided the bombings and shootings prevalent in other cities.

The government is trying to negotiate a peace settlement with militants in the
north-west of the country who have waged war for years.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Atrocity: a grieving woman outside a hospital mortuary in Islamabad
today

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Security Council condemns terrorist attack at Chinese train station 'in the
strongest terms'

LENGTH: 177 words


March 2, 2014

The Security Council on Sunday strongly condemned the terrorist attack that took
place on 1 March at the train station in Kunming, China, and underlined the need
to bring those responsible to justice.



In a statement issued to the press, the 15-member body extended its deepest
sympathy and condolence to the victims and their families suffering as a result
of this "most heinous" terrorist attack, as well as to the people and the
Government of China.

According to media reports, some 29 people were killed and at least 130 wounded
after a group of attackers, dressed in black, burst into the train station in
the south-west Chinese city and began stabbing people at random.

"The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of this terrorist attack to justice, and
urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law
and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with all
relevant governments in this regard," said today's statement.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                        March 3, 2014 Monday 1:10 PM GMT

Pakistan court bombing: Judges and lawyers killed in terror attack in Islamabad

BYLINE: Michael Howie

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 206 words


Two judges and at least nine other people were killed today when a group of
terrorists, including two suicide bombers, stormed a court building in
Pakistan's capital Islamabad.

Several gunmen burst into the complex, opening fire at people and throwing hand
grenades. As police stormed the building, at least two men wearing vests packed
with explosives blew themselves up, one outside the office of the lawyers' union
president and the other outside a judge's office.

Islamabad police chief Sikander Hayat said: "It was certainly an act of
terrorism."

Lawyer Murad Ali said he saw several attackers walking towards a courtroom.
"They had automatic weapons. They had hand grenades," he said. "I saw them
shooting a female lawyer."

A senior doctor at the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences, where the bodies
were taken, said the dead included two judges and five lawyers. He added that 25
people had been wounded and that five of them were critically ill.

No one has claimed responsibility for the attack, which has shocked the city
that has avoided the bombings and shootings prevalent in other cities.

The  government is trying to negotiate a peace settlement with militants in the
north-west of the country who have waged war for years.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        March 3, 2014 Monday 1:30 PM GMT

Chinese police 'solve' Kunming massacre;
Chinese police capture four suspects of a terror attack in the south western
city of Kunming as fresh accounts emerge of how bystanders tried to defend
themselves against 'calm' attackers

BYLINE: By Tom Phillips Kunming

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 859 words


Two days after attackers dressed in black slashed 29 people to death at
Kunming's railway station, Chinese police said they had caught the surviving
suspects and solved the case.

Xinhua, the state news agency, reported that a terrorist gang of six men and two
women from the Uighur ethnic minority had been responsible for the atrocity.

As the news broke, fresh details emerged of how those caught up in the attack
desperately tried to defend themselves with rods, fire extinguishers and metal
parasols.

At least 29 civilians died and more than 140 were injured on Saturday night when
a group of at least 10 extremists stormed the bustling station in southwest
China and set upon men, women and children with knives.

"Two men were killed right in front of me, one had his throat cut, the other
[was stabbed] in the chest. There was blood everywhere," recalled shop-keeper
Liu Guilin, 28, who said he had armed himself and six or seven other men with
metal parasols in a desperate and successful attempt to deter the attackers.

The Spring City Evening News, a local tabloid, said another man, Mr Li, had used
a steel rod to challenge the knife-wielding assailants. The 6ft2 man, whose
nickname is Big Buffalo, then helped police corner four gang members who were
shot at and fell to the ground. Finally, he struggled with an attacker before
chasing him away.

Two witnesses told The Telegraph they had seen female attackers wearing face
veils and Mr Liu, the shop owner, said he was "quite positive" that the attacker
he had seen belonged to Xinjiang's largely Muslim Uighur ethnic group.

"He didn't wear a mask. He appeared to be quite calm," he said. "He just placed
his machete against people's throats and slit them, effortlessly."

Three separate witnesses claimed attackers had spared the life of Han Guojun, a
local restauranteur, because he was wearing a white cap which identified him as
a member of China's Muslim Hui people.

Reached by telephone an audibly uncomfortable Mr Han rejected that version of
events and said he had "already told police everything." He declined to
elaborate.

Beijing has vowed to respond to "China's 9/11" with "iron fists" and those
promises have found widespread support among Chinese who are appalled at the
perpetrators' viciousness.

"In my view, we should kill them all. They are not human," said Mr Liu, the shop
keeper,as he returned to work on Monday and brandished the 4ft metal pole he had
used to defend his stall.

But the apparent link to Xinjiang has also fanned fears of a backlash against
China's Uighur population, which activists say is already treated with great
suspicion, discrimination and at times hostility.

Those concerns appeared to be validated after a police notice was posted on
Chinese social media, urging residents in one provincial capital to
"immediately" inform security authorities "if anyone discovers people from
Xinjiang living, doing business or travelling here."

Witnesses to the Saturday's killing spree also spoke in unflattering terms about
Uighurs, suggesting the attack will further strain pre-existing tensions.

"I was always a bit scared of Xinjiang people," said Li Dongmei, 46, who arrived
at the station minutes after the attack to find corpses scattered outside her
supermarket. "They look quite ferocious. I've never really talked to them much."

"I didn't trust Xinjiang people in the past," said Wang Hongying, 39, another
witness. "Now, it is even worse."

The Chinese government had been "too nice" to the Uighurs, "giving them better
policies and treatment [than Han Chinese]," complained Mr Liu.

On Monday, heavily armed police units, including SWAT teams, occupied the
entrances to Dashuying, a rundown, low-income neighbourhood that is home to
Kunming's small and, locals say, transient Uighur community.

At one entrance The Telegraph counted twenty marked police vehicles, including
buses filled with riot gear and SUVs and saloon cars with bullet-proof vests
splayed out on the dashboards.

"This has never happened before," said a local man who asked to be named only as
Mr Ma. "Never in my whole life have I seen such a heavy show of police force in
this area."

Mr Ma said rumours were circulating that police had taken large numbers of
Uighurs into custody "for interrogation".

Ulaemen, a 22-year-old from Kashgar in Xinjiang's far west, said police had come
to check the ID cards of Uighur residents on Sunday.

"I heard about the attack but I can't comment on it at the moment," said a
26-year-old Uighur who gave his name as Shukulati and, like many residents, is
originally from the city of Yili.

Abuliz, the 62-year-old owner of Dashuzhong's Xinjiang Supermarket, rejected the
idea that locals had been involved in the attack. "Nothing bad goes on around
here," he said. "The police came but it doesn't worry us. Why should it?"

Amid rising tensions, Xu Xin, a legal scholar with more than 6 million followers
on social media, called for calm. "Inciting ethnic hate is exactly what
terrorists aim to do," he wrote, according to the South China Morning Post.
"Instead of igniting more hatred we ought to reflect on what generates terrorism
in order to more effectively contain it."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 4, 2014 Tuesday

Bahraini official condemns Al-Daih terror attack

LENGTH: 221 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Bahrain News Agency

Manama: March 4 - (BNA): Adviser of HM the King, His Highness Shaykh Khalid bin
Muhammad bin Salman Al Khalifah, has condemned the terrorist attack which led to
the martyrdom of three security men who were on duty dispersing terrorist gangs
in Daih district.

His Highness said that this heinous terrorist crime won't discourage Bahraini
offspring from their noble goals, but will consolidate their upholding of their
sanctimonious national unity and will always remain loyal and allegiant to the
leadership of HM the King, the Government and HRH the Crown Prince in order to
consolidate noble values and principles inherited from the fathers and
forefathers.

His Highness Shaikh Khalid bin Mohammed bin Salman Al Khalifa has expressed
sincere condolences and sympathy to the Interior Minister and to the bereaved
families of the martyrs, praying to Allah the Almighty to accommodate the Duty
Martyrs in His vastest paradises and to bestow patience and consolation upon
their families and to bestow a fast healing and wellness upon those injured and
to preserve the Kingdom of Bahrain and perpetuate the graces of security,
stability and safety upon the Kingdom of Bahrain. (IY)

I.Y

BNA 0738 GMT 2014/03/04

NNNN

Source: Bahrain News Agency, Manama, in English 0810 gmt 4 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 4, 2014 Tuesday

US condemns terror attack in Pakistan capital

LENGTH: 758 words


Text of report by Karachi-based moderate, privately-owned Express Tribune
newspaper website

US condoles Pakistan over deadly Islamabad court attack

Text of report by Pakistani newspaper The Express Tribune Website on 4 March

Islamabad : US Principal Deputy Special Representative on Afghanistan and
Pakistan Beth Jones said on Monday [3 March] that however Pakistan chooses to
deal with the issue of militancy -- through negotiations or the use of force --
it remains an 'internal' issue and the United States is primarily concerned with
curbing the menace of terrorism in both Pakistan and Afghanistan.

Jones, who is also her country's ambassador to Pakistan, said Washington is
'supportive of the Pakistani government's efforts in counter-terrorism'. When
asked how Washington views the dialogue with the Tehreek-i-Taleban Pakistan
(TTP), Jones said the US 'does not take sides'. Jones expressed her condolences
over Monday's twin attack in Islamabad's district courts and said, "We are very
much in support of counter-terrorism."

In September 2011, a period when diplomatic relations between Washington and
Islamabad dipped to their lowest levels yet, US military officer Admiral Mike
Mullen described the Haqqani network as 'a veritable arm of Pakistan's
Inter-Services Intelligence Agency'. However, two years later, Jones calmed the
waters by terming the statement a personal one: "he [Mullen] was not speaking
for the US government," she said, "he was speaking for himself." The ambassador
added, "What is inside Pakistan is the government of Pakistan's internal matter
to deal with."

She hinted that the US will continue its financial commitment to the Pakistani
military under the Coalition Support Programme but did not elaborate on the
scale of future reimbursements or a timeline for the payments. "We would like to
continue the CSF," she said, "It is in the interest of the US as well as
Pakistan." In the last decade, Pakistan has received roughly 12bn dollars as
part of the programme, 60 per cent of which is slated for the military.

While Jones said there had been no substantial progress in reconciliation
efforts in Afghanistan, she added that the US appreciated the role Pakistan was
playing. With regards to the lingering Bilateral Strategic Agreement between the
US and Afghanistan, she said the US wished to finalise the agreement as soon as
possible to aid plans of a drawdown of troops in the country. However, as the
outgoing Afghan President Hamed Karzai has refused to sign the treaty, she said
the US is considering a 'variety of options' regarding the presence of its
troops in the country in the future. In a phone conversation with Karzai, she
said President Barack Obama had informed the Afghan president that if the BSA
were not signed, the US would have no legal basis to keep troops in the country
after 2014. She explained that Nato defence ministers have taken note of
Karzai's hesitation to sign the BSA, deciding that there would be 'zero troops'
in Afghanistan after 2014, but with contingency plans set in place. Jones added
that Afghan security forces would be able to hold their own in the absence of
residual US troops in the country, saying their training and political will
would help them face threats. Many areas vacated by the International Security
Assistance Force were being successfully retained by Afghan forces, she said,
adding, "We believe that negotiated settlement is the way to go."

Commenting on the Iran-Pakistan gas pipeline project, Jones said the sanctions
hold firm and Pakistan would face the implications of any progress made in the
project prior to a final agreement on Iran's nuclear programme.

She added that she was hopeful of progress made in strategic dialogue between
Pakistan and the US, saying areas of 'convergence' have been identified and
meetings of five working groups were under way. She said a working group on law
enforcement would meet once the interior minister scheduled a trip to
Washington. Responding to a question on the possibility of Pakistan-US civil
nuclear cooperation modeled on the US-India deal, she said significant progress
has been achieved by the working group on energy cooperation; however, she did
not identify if cooperation on nuclear technology was part of the group's
agenda. She added that the US had allocated funds for major hydel power projects
enabling Pakistan to enhance its electricity generation and the US would assist
Pakistan in the construction of a dam in Bajaur Agency.

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 04 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 4, 2014 Tuesday

US envoy extends condolences to families of Pakistan terror attack - paper

LENGTH: 145 words


Text of report by Pakistan daily The Nation website on 4 March

On behalf of the American people, U.S. Ambassador to Pakistan Richard G. Olson
today extended his deepest condolences to the families and friends of the
victims of the dreadful act of terrorism that took place at Islamabad's District
Court Complex in F-8 sector yesterday.

The Ambassador wished the injured a full and speedy recovery. He further stated
US strongly condemns this brutal act. With this attack on innocent civilians,
terrorists have again demonstrated a blatant disregard for life. The United
States remains committed in its pledge to the people of Pakistan in their
efforts to counter terrorism and build a peaceful future.

We are ready to provide any appropriate aid to assist authorities in
investigating this tragic attack, he concluded.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 04 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 4, 2014 Tuesday

China's Kunming city holds memorial service for terror attack victims

LENGTH: 60 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Kunming, 4 March: Municipal authorities in southwest China's Kunming city held
memorial service on Tuesday night [4 March] for the victims of the deadly
terrorist attack at the city's train station on Saturday.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1303gmt 04 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             March 4, 2014 Tuesday

Terror attack survivors recount nightmare

BYLINE: Yang Wanli in Kunming

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 541 words


The events of Saturday night in Kunming are deeply engraved in the mind of Xie
Qiming, who narrowly escaped death in the terrorist attack at the city's railway
station.

The 48-year-old policeman intervened to stop the butchering of unarmed
civilians, saving many from death and injury, but he was injured in the process.

Lying in a hospital bed, his head and nose marked by serious hacking wounds -
one more than 20 centimeters long - Xie recounted his actions on the day he
describes as a nightmare.

"I shot at them but fell to the ground during the fighting. After the shots, the
terrorists turned their attention to the police and several of them surrounded
me and stabbed me like crazy," he said. "There is no humanity in them."

Xie is from the Beijinglu Police Station, the closest to the attack, and four
police officers from the station were the first to respond. He survived because
he was wearing a bulletproof vest, which was damaged by the attackers.

When the officers arrived, the attackers were running out of the ticket hall,
attacking people with long knives.

Xie and his colleagues tried to stop the attack, which is when Xie was injured.
In addition to the deep cuts, his skull was fractured, and at the time of
writing he was awaiting further surgery.

"A wave of fierce anger rose up in my mind, and we all forgot to think about the
possible danger to us," said Hu Zhe, 23, a police officer trainee at the
Beijinglu Police Station.

Having no firearm, he fought the terrorists with a wooden baton, but it got
broken in the fighting. He sustained a 6-centimeter wound to his left eyebrow.

Wan Weiqing, a neurosurgeon from Beijing Tiantan Hospital, learned of the attack
at 2 am on Sunday and took the first flight to Kunming, where he has been
helping the victims.

He said that 71 victims are being treated at the Kunming First People's
Hospital, most of them with severe multiple injuries.

"There is one victim whose rib, breastbone, lung and even heart were all injured
in one chopping action. The attackers had obviously prepared and practiced for a
long time," he said.

Zhou Hongmei, director of the Medical Reform Office at the Yunnan Health
Department, said a team of medical experts including 29 doctors had arrived in
Kunming by Monday night. They have been working at the five hospitals treating
victims of the attack.

Chen Min, a Neurology Department nurse at Kunming First People's Hospital, said
the department usually had seven nurses in the daytime and three at night. "But
all the other nurses who were not on duty returned to the hospital voluntarily
on Saturday night," she said.

In the past three days, none of them had more than 10 hours of rest.

"The crucial factor in saving lives in such incidents is treatment without
delay," said Chai Wenzhao, associate director of the Intensive Care Unit in the
Peking Union Medical College Hospital. Chai has participated in many emergency
rescue efforts.

He said that the victims will need psychological counseling once their physical
injuries have been dealt with, because the emotional impact of such an incident
can be severe.

Four psychologists from Anding Hospital in Beijing have begun treating some of
the victims.

Li Yingqing in Kunming contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             March 4, 2014 Tuesday

Int'l condemnation grows in wake of Kunming terror attack

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 714 words


BEIJING - A storm of condemnation from the international community on the knife
attack in Southwest China's Kunming train station on Saturday, which killed 29
people, continued to grow as more countries extended condolences and voiced
support of anti-terrorist fight.

In contrast to the previous reports of several US media outlets who had placed
terrorists under quotation marks in their coverage, the United States on Monday
called the attack "an act of terrorism" and extended its condolences for the
loss of life.

"Based on the information reported by the Chinese media, this appears to be an
act of terrorism targeting random members of the public, so we are calling this
an act of terrorism," State Department Spokeswoman Jen Psaki told a press
briefing.

"We acknowledge that China has characterized the incident as a terror act,"
Psaki said.

The United States extends its condolences for the loss of life, said Psaki,
adding that the country opposes terrorism "in all of its forms."

"We deplore violence intentionally directed at innocent civilians in any case
regardless of the cause," Psaki said.

The Turkish Foreign Ministry also issued a statement on Monday, sharply
condemning Saturday's terrorist attack at the Kunming train station and extended
sympathy and condolences to the victims and their families, hoping that the
wounded will recover as soon as possible.

Turkey said it has always stressed that terrorist attacks targeting innocent
civilians is unacceptable, adding that those who are responsible for the attacks
must be brought to justice.

South Korean Deputy Foreign Minister Lee Kyung-soo on Monday denounced the
terror attack, during a meeting with Chinese ambassador Qiu Guohong.

"South Korea sent its deep condolences and sympathies to innocent victims and
those injured or who have lost their families in the attack," said Lee.

On the same day, Iran slammed the terrorist attack that killed at least 29
people, Press TV reported quoting Iranian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Marzieh
Afkham as saying.

"The Islamic Republic of Iran, as a victim of terrorism, expresses its
opposition to terrorist acts in any forms," Afkham said, expressing sympathy
with the families of the victims of the incident.

Singaporean Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman, in response to media queries
on the attacks at the Kunming train station, strongly condemned the violent
attacks and expressed deepest condolences to the victims and their families and
wish those injured a quick recovery.

"Such attacks on innocent civilians cannot be pardoned or justified under any
circumstances," said the spokesman.

Cambodia on Monday condemned the chilling attack and backed China's measures to
crackdown on all forms of terrorist activities, said a statement released by the
country's Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

In a statement issued on Monday, the Hungarian Foreign Ministry said it
condemned all forms of terrorism and deemed all violent acts targeting innocent
civilians unacceptable.

Indian External Affairs Ministry also issued a statement on Monday, condemning
the March 1 terror attack in Kunming.

"New Delhi opposes terrorism in all its forms and manifestations," the statement
said.

President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev also extended his condolences on
Monday in a message to his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping, according to the
country's presidential press office.

"I want to emphasize that there are no excuses for crimes against humanity,"
Nazarbayev said in his message. "The international community must work together
to neutralize these threats."

At the opening of the annual session of the National Committee of the Chinese
People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) on Monday, Chinese leaders
and political advisors paid silent tribute to the victims of the incident.

"The CPPCC supports the law enforcement departments to crack down on all
violent, terrorist and criminal activities in accordance with law," said Du
Qinglin, vice chairman of the CPPCC National Committee.

Chinese police said on Monday three suspects involved in the terror attack had
been captured.

The Ministry of Public Security said the terrorist gang led by Abdurehim Kurban
was responsible for the attack.

The health authorities said 20 of the 143 injured in the attack were still in
critical condition.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             March 4, 2014 Tuesday

SCO secretary-general condemns Kunming terror attack

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 145 words


- The Secretary-General of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Dmitry
Mezentsev condemned Saturday's terrorist attack in Kunming, the capital city of
Southern China's Yunnan province.

According to a statement on Monday, the SCO also expressed deepest sympathy and
condolences to the victims and their families, as well as to the Chinese people
and government.

All forms of terrorism and violence against civilians are criminal. The
international community should further cooperate to combat terrorism and
extremism in any form, the statement said.

On Saturday evening, several black-clad assailants wielding long knives, stabbed
and slashed at passengers at the square in front of Kunming Railway Station and
ticket hall, killing 29 civilians and injuring 143 others.

Many countries and leaders around the world have condemned the terrorist attack,
calling for justice.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             March 4, 2014 Tuesday

Impact of terror attack on Yunnan tourism limited

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 253 words


KUNMING -- The terrorist attack in southwest China's Kunming on Saturday has had
and will have a limited impact on tourism in Yunnan province, the provincial
tourism authority said on Tuesday.

Signs that tourism in the province had been affected emerged on Monday, when six
domestic tour groups canceled their trips to the city, accounting for one
percent of total Kunming-bound tour groups on that day, according to Yu Fan,
deputy director of the Yunnan tourism development committee.

There have also been cancellations of Kunming-bound trips from overseas tour
groups, Yu said, without specifying the number.

Yunnan is a major tourist province in China.

Yu added that no cancellation requests were made after police arrested three
suspects involved in the terrorist attack on Monday night.

The committee said no trip cancellations have been reported for groups traveling
to other parts of the province.

Officials statistics show that the number of tourists at ten major scenic spots
in the province slid 5.49 percent on Monday but began to recover on Tuesday.

Yu said tourism authorities in Yunnan had started emergency response mechanism
immediately after the attack and offered special care to injured tourists.

In the future, the province's tourism industry shall need to prepare itself for
terrorist attack, which will involve necessary trainings for employees, Yu said.

A group of veiled men and women slashed at people frantically at Kunming's
railway station on Saturday night, killing 29 civilians and injuring 143 others.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 5, 2014 Wednesday

Tanzania condemns terror attack in China

LENGTH: 264 words


Text of unattributed report entitled "JK sends condolences to Chinese president"
published by Tanzanian newspaper The Guardian website on 5 March

President Jakaya Kikwete has sent a condolence message to the Chinese President,
Xi Jinping, following a terrorist attack that killed 28 people and injured over
130 others.

According to a statement availed to The Guardian yesterday by the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, President Kikwete said:

"I have received with great shock and sadness, the devastating news on the
terrorist attack that occurred on the 1 March, 2014, at the square and ticket
hall of the Railway Station of Kunming, Capital of China's South West Yunnan
Province, killing at least 28 civilians and injuring more than 130 others."

He said the Tanzania government strongly condemns the attacks and calls for the
perpetrator to be brought to justice to face the crimes committed.

"In this tragic moment and ordeal, I wish, on behalf of the government and
People of Tanzania, and indeed on my own behalf, to convey our deepest
condolences to Your Excellency, and through you, to the Government and People of
China, especially the family of the victims who have lost their loved ones and
who have been severely injured by the attacks," he said, adding:

"During this period of mourning, we share with you, your pain over this
irreparable loss and pray to the Almighty God to comfort the bereaved families
and grant the people of China courage and fortitude to carry on with their daily
lives".

Source: The Guardian website, Dar es Salaam, in English 5 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 5, 2014 Wednesday

Religious leaders condemn "terrorist" attack in southwest China

LENGTH: 364 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Kunming, 5 March: Religious leaders in southwest China's Yunnan Province on
Wednesday [5 March] condemned Saturday night's terrorist attack in the
provincial capital of Kunming, which resulted in civilian casualties.

Ma Ligu, deputy dean of the Institute of Islamic Theology in Kunming, said Islam
is a religion that opposes any kind of terror. The Prophet Muhammad said "the
first cases to be adjudicated between people on the Day of Judgement will be
those of bloodshed."

Ma said the terrorists' killing of defenseless civilians and incitement of
horror in the hearts of people are detestable acts according to Islam and
Muslims, and they have aroused anger among the 70,000 Muslims in the province.

The terrorists do not represent any ethnic group or religion. They have
challenged minimum standards of civilized society and humans, according to Ma.

Master Chunfa, vice chairman of the provincial Buddhist Association, said that
Theravada Buddhism strongly condemns the Kunming terrorist attack.

Jing Jiuwei, chief of the Yunnan Christian Council, said that religious doctrine
promotes peace and harmony and is against terrorism and war.

"We support the government in fighting terrorism to protect civilians. We
advocate distinguishing the terrorists from ethnicity and religion, as well as
defusing hatred with love."

Liao Dongming, chairman of the Yunnan Daoist Association, condemned the
terrorists' "slaughtering of innocent people, which is in defiance of nature and
is a loss of one's humanity."

Yang Zexiong, vice president of the Yunnan Islamic Association, announced a
statement to represent Yunnan religious circles.

"The acts of the terrorists completely deviate from religious doctrine. The
slaughter of innocents contradicts the consensus of human beings. Their terror
acts are against society, humanity, civilization and religion," the statement
said.

"Only through striking terrorism with action and resolution can we comfort our
fellow people," it said. "May the deceased rest in peace and we are praying for
the injured."

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1301gmt 05 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            March 5, 2014 Wednesday

Attack prompts strengthened anti-terrorism legislation

SECTION: TOP NEWS

LENGTH: 374 words


BEIJING - Legislators and political advisors have proposed improving legislation
to counter terrorism following the deadly terrorist attack that killed 29
civilians and injured 143 others.

"We advise the National People's Congress (NPC) to make a special arrangement
for anti-terrorism legislation," said Zhou Hanmin, a legal expert and a
political advisor.

Zhou suggested the country's top legislature make a decision to improve laws
against terrorism and work out a timetable to advance the agenda. Local
legislatures could make their own regulations accordingly, he added.

The NPC's standing committee passed a decision to improve anti-terrorism work in
October 2011, but it was never made into a law.

Zhou said it is international practice to strengthen anti-terrorism efforts at
the legal front. George W. Bush signed into law the Patriot Act 45 days after
the September 11 terrorist attack.

Another political advisor, Zhu Yilong, said China already has a legal framework
for the effort against terrorism based on the Constitution, the Criminal Code
and the extradition law, but much more needs to be done.

Dilnar Abdulla, a Uygur NPC deputy said improving anti-terrorism legislation is
definitely necessary, adding that she hopes people would realize terrorists'
"ulterior secessionist motive and the destructive nature of their acts."

A group of knife-wielding attackers slashed people at the square in front of a
train station in Southwest China's Kunming city on Saturday.Police shot to death
four of them at the square and had captured the four others as of Monday.

Nurlan Abdumankin, a political advisor from the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous
region, also urged the nation's top political advisory body to conduct in-depth
study on the issue of religious extremism.

"The rise of religious extremist activities has instigated ethnic secessionist
thought and terrorist acts. Such thought has been used to radicalize people to
commit crimes of terror," Abdumankin said.

Many advisors say one of the lessons the nation must learn from the tragedy in
Kunming is that citizens should be better prepared against such acts of terror
with knowledge and skills. Compiling brochures on anti-terrorism can be a good
place to start empowering citizens, they said.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            March 5, 2014 Wednesday

Sri Lanka condemns Kunming terror attack

SECTION: ASIA PACIFIC

LENGTH: 105 words


COLOMBO - Sri Lanka-China Friendship Association (SLCFA) has vehemently
condemned a deadly terrorist attack in Kunming, capital of Southwest China's
Yunnan province, the organization said in a statement on Wednesday.

"The SLCFA extends its condolences to the members of victims families and
denounces any form of terrorist activities in China or elsewhere," Sri
Lanka-China Friendship Association General Secretary Sumathi Dharmawardena said
in the statement.

The terrorist attack that occurred on Saturday night at the train station in
southwest China's Kunming city left at least 29 innocent civilians dead and more
than 130 injured.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            March 5, 2014 Wednesday

Religious leaders condemn terrorist attack in Kunming

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 335 words


KUNMING -- Religious leaders in Southwest China's Yunnan province on Wednesday
condemned Saturday night's terrorist attack in the provincial capital of
Kunming, which resulted in civilian casualties.

Ma Ligu, deputy dean of the Institute of Islamic Theology in Kunming, said Islam
is a religion that opposes any kind of terror. The Prophet Muhammad said "the
first cases to be adjudicated between people on the Day of Judgement will be
those of bloodshed."

Ma said the terrorists' killing of defenseless civilians and incitement of
horror in the hearts of people are detestable acts according to Islam and
Muslims, and they have aroused anger among the 70,000 Muslims in the province.

The terrorists do not represent any ethnic group or religion. They have
challenged minimum standards of civilized society and humans, according to Ma.

Master Chunfa, vice chairman of the provincial Buddhist Association, said that
Theravada Buddhism strongly condemns the Kunming terrorist attack.

Jing Jiuwei, chief of the Yunnan Christian Council, said that religious doctrine
promotes peace and harmony and is against terrorism and war.

"We support the government in fighting terrorism to protect civilians. We
advocate distinguishing the terrorists from ethnicity and religion, as well as
defusing hatred with love."

Liao Dongming, chairman of the Yunnan Daoist Association, condemned the
terrorists' "slaughtering of innocent people, which is in defiance of nature and
is a loss of one's humanity."

Yang Zexiong, vice president of the Yunnan Islamic Association, announced a
statement to represent Yunnan religious circles.

"The acts of the terrorists completely deviate from religious doctrine. The
slaughter of innocents contradicts the consensus of human beings. Their terror
acts are against society, humanity, civilization and religion," the statement
said.

"Only through striking terrorism with action and resolution can we comfort our
fellow people," it said. "May the deceased rest in peace and we are praying for
the injured."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 5, 2014 Wednesday 1:30 PM GMT

Crippling smog, terrorist attacks and rampant corruption... but it's all smiles
and theatre at Chinese Communist Party's annual gathering

BYLINE: BEN ENDLEY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 575 words



     ·    The National People's Congress (NPC) in Beijing is attended by 3,000
          Communist Party delegates
     ·    Outside in Tiananmen Square, delegates from China's ethnic minorities
          showed off their traditional attire
     ·    On the agenda was tackling pollution, government corruption and
          terrorism


As China's most senior politicians gathered  in Beijing's imposing Great Hall of
the People to discuss the most serious and destructive issues affecting the
country's 1.35billion residents, outside, a carnival was in full swing.

The opening session of China's annual National People's Congress (NPC) saw 3,000
Communist Party delegates from across the country meet to

address long-running issues of choking smog, the new threat of terrorism and how
to promote unity among the country's ethnic minorities.

But outside in Tiananmen Square stewardesses jumped for joy while delegates
posed for photographers in their traditional regional dress at the start of the
event - which has been described as China's political theatre.

Before the meeting started delegates paused to observe a moment of silence for
the 29 people killed and 143 wounded in a terrorist attack at a train station in
Kunming last week.

In his first annual policy speech, Premier Li Keqiang vowed to move more people
into the middle class, cut government waste and fight rampant official
corruption.

Li also promised to address issues of pollution that has seen stifling smog
spread across China fouling of the country's air, water and soil.

He said: The government will work harder to reduce pollution by shutting more
coal-fired furnaces and controlling the tainting of rivers.'

Li did not specifically mention Saturday's attack in his policy report, but said
China would toughen its controls on public order, 'crack down hard on violent
crimes of terrorism, safeguard China's national security, create good public
order and work together to ensure public security in China.'

Chen Fengxiang, a delegate from Hubei, said during the session that the
government would take stronger preventative measures following the attack by
black-clad assailants wielding large knives.

He went on: 'They lost their senses, and we must crack down harshly and take
strict measures in preventing the violence.

Li also outlined plans to make the world's second-largest economy more open and
competitive while increasing military spending by 12.2 per cent to $132 billion.

In a further show of worsening diplomatic relations between China and Japan Li
accused Tokyo of renewed militarism and referenced the country's history as an
aggressor during World War II.

'We will safeguard the victory of World War II and the postwar international
order, and will not allow anyone to reverse the course of history,' Li said.

The increase follows a nearly unbroken 20-year run of double-digit hikes in the
Chinese defence budget, which is now second only to the United States in size.

'This is worrying news for China's neighbours, particularly for Japan,' said
Rory Medcalf, a regional security analyst at the Lowy Institute in Sydney.

Those who thought China might prefer to concentrate on domestic development over
military expansion in a slowing economy had "underestimated the Chinese
determination to shape its strategic environment", he added.

Within hours of the announcement, officials in Japan and Taiwan questioned the
absence of any details on how Beijing will spend the money - concerns long
echoed in Washington with China's defence budgets.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 6, 2014 Thursday

Saudi foreign minister terms Bahrain "terrorist" attacks "unacceptable"

LENGTH: 399 words


Excerpt from report by London-based newspaper Al-Hayat website on 6 March

[Report by Ahmad Ghallab in Riyadh: "Sa'ud al-Faysal: What Bahrain Is Witnessing
Are Criminal Actions"]

Saudi Arabia has reiterated its stand on the terrorist incidents in the Arabian
Gulf region and Foreign Minister Prince Sa'ud al-Faysal said in a statement to
Al-Hayat that the incidents in Bahrain "are utterly criminal actions."

He clarified in response to an Al-Hayat question about the security situations
in Bahrain and the killing of three security mean, one of them an Emirati, on
Monday that the kingdom considers these incidents "utterly criminal and
terrorist actions and cannot be unacceptable to any person who has an atom of
faith and Islamic brotherhood."

On his part, Bahraini Foreign Minister Sheikh Khalid Al Khalifah said "the
Iranian role has become clear from the increase in the terrorist actions" in his
country and pointed out that "the government is dealing with all the matters it
faces with open-mindedness except terrorism." He told Al-Hayat that his country
"is now suffering from an increase in terrorist actions and the regional role in
them is big and clear. We have issued a statement listing three organizations on
the terror list and will be in contact with the world about this matter."

In reply to a question about the opposition's aim from undermining security, he
said "terrorism is one thing and political action is something else. What we are
facing in Bahrain is clear terrorist action and the Bahraini Government is
dealing with all political matters with open-mindedness except terrorism." After
pointing out that his country was not the only one concerned with these attacks
but the Gulf countries too he said "the danger fully concerns the Gulf countries
and not just Bahrain" and asserted that "like the kingdom's stand, the United
Arab Emirates one is clear and firm against terrorism. The Gulf countries are
one body in this."

The Arabian Gulf countries condemned last night the security incidents in
Bahrain in which three security men were killed, one of then an Emirate, and
said in a statement that "this criminal and cowardly act was carried out by a
group of terrorist killers for the purpose of undermining the country's security
and region's stability. [Passage omitted citing SPA report on statement by OIC
chief]

Source: Al-Hayat website, London, in Arabic 6 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        March 7, 2014 Friday 1:55 PM GMT

Rare footage of 9/11 terror attacks shot from space to be shown on British TV

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 343 words


<em class="bold">DRAMATIC unseen video footage of the aftermath of the 9/11
terror attacks captured from space will be shown on British TV for the first
time later this month.</em>

The video, which shows a gigantic plume of smoke soaring into the sky indicating
the site of the devastated World Trade Centre towers, was shot from the
International Space Station by astronaut Frank Culbertson.

Tragically, hours after shooting the incredible footage, Culbertson discovered
his friend Chic Burlingame was one of the pilots killed after al-Qaida
terrorists hijacked his plane and flew it into one of the twin towers.

Channel 4's Live From Space season next week will feature documentaries about
astronauts, building up to a two-and-a-half-hour live broadcast from the ISS and
Mission Control in Houston, Texas, which will feature a full 90-minute orbit of
earth.

The live programme, Live From Space: Lap Of the Planet, will be screened on
Sunday 16 March, presented by Dermot O'Leary and veteran astronaut Mike
Massimino, whose achievements have included fixing the Hubble telescope.

Tom Brisley, creative director of the Channel 4 project

Short clips from the film of the attacks on New York were released by Nasa to
mark the tenth anniversary in 2011, but the film has not been seen in full with
Culbertson's commentary and his bugle call.

The creative director of the Channel 4 project, Tom Brisley, said: "Not every
frame has been seen before, so every frame that was shot on that day is in the
show."

Executive producer Sally Dixon said: "It's the first time we have had it in that
form with Frank talking us through it. If that had been in a movie you'd have
gone, 'oh come on, that guy's got a trumpet?'. But reality is stranger than
fiction sometimes."

It will feature in the documentary Astronauts: Houston We Have A Problem for
which programme-makers have been given access to Nasa footage of some of the
difficulties in space over the years.

ASTRONAUTS: LIVING IN SPACE will be shown on Wednesday, 12 March, 9pm, Channel 4

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        March 7, 2014 Friday 8:43 PM GMT

America sends warship to the Black Sea as Putin and Obama fail to solve their
differences and new Ukrainian prime minister's jet is boarded by police after
terror attack alert

BYLINE: WILL STEWART IN MOSCOW and JAMES RUSH

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3656 words



     ·    Pentagon insists 'routine' deployment has nothing to do with Russia's
          effective seizure of Crimea
     ·    Russian newspaper claims Viktor Yanukovych is in 'grave' condition
          after a heart attack in Moscow
     ·    Vladimir Putin dismissed report earlier this week that Yanukovych had
          died
     ·    SWAT teams boarded plane carrying Ukraine's new PM following
          'terrorist threat'
     ·    Speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament today said there will be
          no war between Russia and the Ukraine
     ·    She also said Crimea's parliament has the right to hold a referendum
          on the region's future status
     ·    French foreign minister has said second round of sanctions against
          Russia could follow if first do not succeed
     ·    Austrian foreign minister calls Ukraine's repeal of a law making
          Russian a recognised language in some regions an 'absolute mistake'


An American warship arrived in the Black Sea south of Crimea today, as the row
between the White House and the Kremlin over Ukraine descended into gun-boat
diplomacy.

Guided-missile destroyer USS Truxton was seen heading north through Istanbul,
Turkey, along the Bosphorous Strait, as Washington rushed to reassure allies
over Russia's seizure of the peninsula.

The Crimean port of Sevastopol is home to Russia's Black Sea fleet, which
includes 24 warships, two submarines and 16,000 sailors and marines.

Scroll down for video

The dramatic escalation came as the new Ukrainian prime minister's jet was
boarded SWAT teams in Austria responding to a threatened terror attack.

Austria's Interior Ministry said the team boarded the plane following its
scheduled landing in Vienna last night after it received a security warning from
German flight controllers. Nothing out of the ordinary was found.

Mr Yatsenyuk, who was making his way home after addressing European Union
leaders in Brussels, then took his scheduled connection to Kiev.

German flight control spokeswoman Kristina Kelek said the initial warning came
from Belgian police and her agency had passed on the information to Austria.

It was a vague warning that 'there was possibly a terrorist attack planned', she
said.

The USS Truxton's passage through the Bosphorous and into the flashpoint Black
Sea region was a 'routine' deployment scheduled well before the current crisis
erupted in Ukraine, U.S. military officials insisted.

But it came only a day after the Pentagon announced plans to station more U.S.
fighter jets in the Baltics for Nato air patrol missions along Russia's western
border.

The hike in tensions over the Ukraine crisis came amid reports in Russian media
that the country's ousted president, Viktor Yanukovych is in a Moscow hospital
after suffering a suspected heart attack.

His condition was said to be 'grave', according to the Moskovsky Komsomolets
newspaper, known as MK, citing unofficial sources.

Russian president Vladimir Putin dismissed a report earlier this week that
Yanukovych had died from a heart attack in the Russian city of Rostov-on-Don.

On Tuesday, the Kremlin leader said his former ally was 'alive and healthy', and
that he had met him several days earlier.

However, Yanukovych has not been seen in public since giving a press conference
in Russia one week ago.

Putin also claimed  the former leader would have been killed if not for his
rescue in Sevastopol by Russian forces.

Russian paper Moskovsky Komsomolets (MK) said today: 'According to an MK source,
Yanukovych may have had a heart attack. His condition is assessed as grave.'

The name of the Moscow hospital was not given.

'So far there has been no official confirmation,' stated the newspaper.

Yanukovych is the subject of a formal request by the authorities in Kiev for
extradition to face an investigation for ordering his security forces to shoot
unarmed protesters in Kiev last month. He denies the allegations.

Russia believes Yanukovych remains the legal president of Ukraine. Putin agreed
to give him sanctuary after he was toppled.

'The legitimate president, purely legally, is undoubtedly Yanukovych,' said
Putin on Tuesday.

Russia now has 30,000 troops in Ukraine's Crimea region, Ukrainian border guards
said on Friday, nearly twice the previous figure given by the government in
Kiev.

Serhiy Astakhov, aide to the head of border guards service, told Reuters the
figure was an estimate and included both troops that had arrived since last week
and Russia's Black Sea Fleet, permanently based in the Crimean port of
Sevastopol.

Russia, whose forces occupied the isolated peninsula last week, says the only
troops it has there are those based in Sevastopol. The Russian troops that have
occupied positions across Crimea wear no insignia on their uniforms but drive
vehicles with Russian military plates.

Ukraine says thousands of extra troops have arrived and have fanned out across
the occupied peninsula in violation of the treaty governing the base. Earlier
this week Ukraine said there were a total of 16,000 Russian troops in Crimea.

Leading Ukranian politician Yulia Tymoshenko today said there was a danger of
guerrilla war in Crimea should it be incorporated into Russia.

She said a Russian takeover of the Crimean peninsula would create long-term
dangers for the whole region  and appealed to Germany and others for immediate
economic sanctions against Moscow.

Speaking to Reuters after a meeting with German chancellor Angela Merkel,
Tymoshenko said international measures against Russia had so far been
ineffective and called for immediate action to prevent a 'flashpoint'.

Demonstrators who have remained encamped in Kiev's central Independence Square
to defend the revolution that ousted Yanukovich said they did not believe Crimea
would be allowed to secede.

'We are optimists. Crimea will stand with us and we will fight for it,' said
Taras Yurkiv, 35, from the eastern city of Lviv. 'How we will fight depends on
the decisions of our leadership. If necessary, we will go with force. If you
want peace, you must prepare for war.'

Alexander Zaporozhets, 40, from central Ukraine's Kirovograd region, put his
faith in international pressure.

'I don't think the Russians will be allowed to take Crimea from us: you can't
behave like that to an independent state. We have the support of the whole
world. But I think we are losing time. While the Russians are preparing, we are
just talking.'

Elsewhere, military observers from the Organisation for Security and Cooperation
in Europe (OSCE) have, for the second day in a row, been unable to enter
Ukraine's Crimea Peninsula, the body said in a post on Twitter.

'Military assessment visitors from OSCE States denied entry into Crimea on
Friday, heading back to Kherson to plan next steps,' it said.

It has also been revealed the Turkish Air Force scrambled six F-16 fighter jets
after a Russian surveillance plane flew parallel along its Black Sea coast, the
military has today said.

The incident, the second of its kind reported this week, occurred on Thursday.
The Russian plane remained in international airspace, according to a statement
on the website of the military General Staff.

Ukraine's Crimea peninsula, which juts into the north of the Black Sea, is at
the centre of the current standoff between Russia and Ukraine's new pro-Western
government. Nato member Turkey forms the southern coastline of the Black Sea.

Meanwhile, the speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament has today dismissed
suggestions there would be war between Russia and Ukraine after President Putin
said he had the right to invade if the situation in Ukraine worsened.

'It's complete nonsense, it absolutely does not reflect our intentions, the
feelings of empathy and the pain we feel for the Ukrainian people,' said
Valentina Matviyenko, head of the Russian Federation Council.

'We are absolutely sure that there will never be a war between the two brotherly
nations.'

She also said Crimea's parliament has the right to hold a referendum on the
region's future status.

The parliament in Ukraine's southern Crimea region said on Thursday it would
hold a referendum on whether the region should join Russia on March 16.

Ms Matviyenko said: 'Yesterday we learned about the historic decision taken by
the Crimean parliament to hold a referendum on accession, on entry into the
Russian Federation.

'Without a doubt, the Crimean parliament, as a legitimate authority, has that
right... The sovereign right of the people to determine their future.'

Earlier today, France's foreign minister said if a first round of sanctions did
not succeed against Russia in the wake of its military intervention in Ukraine,
a second could follow, targeting Russian businesses and people close to
President Vladimir Putin.

European Union leaders have urged Putin to enter direct talks with the Ukrainian
government, warning of 'far-reaching consequences' for relations with Moscow if
there is any further escalation.

At emergency talks in Brussels, leaders of the group of 28 states agreed on a
limited package of sanctions to take immediate effect with the threat of further
measures - including asset freezes and travel bans - unless there was swift
action to end the stand-off.

French foreign minister Laurent Fabius today told France Info Radio: 'If there
are not very swift results, there will be new measures aimed at those
responsible and Russian businesses. It could be freezing assets, it could be
cancellations, it could be refusing visas,' he added, without elaborating.

Mr Fabius called the situation in Ukraine 'a serious crisis, maybe one of the
most serious since the Cold War'.

Fabius said any new move by Russia to bring Crimea, which has an ethnic Russian
majority, formally under its control could have 'grave consequences' for
relations between Russia and Europe.

'There will be no more international stability if a region... because it's
solicited by a neighbouring country, can decide to change its borders and attach
itself to its neighbour,' Mr Fabius added.

Any deterioration of economic ties between Russia and its trading partners could
be a 'very big blow' to Moscow, Mr Fabius said, adding that any new sanctions
could target Putin's inner circle.

Russia has today accused the European Union of taking an 'extremely
unconstructive position' by freezing talks on easing visa barriers and on a
comprehensive agreement that would govern ties between Moscow and the EU over
Ukraine.

'Russia will not accept the language of sanctions and threats' and will
retaliate if sanctions are imposed, the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a
statement about the agreements reached at the emergency EU summit on Thursday.

President Obama has already ordered sanctions against figures the U.S. holds
responsible for the military intervention in Ukraine, including travel bans and
a freezing of their assets in the country, although a U.S. official said Putin
was not on the list.

'IT IS TIME TO CALL PUTIN'S BLUFF': FORMER WORLD CHESS CHAMPION GARRY KASPAROV

Former world chess champion Garry Kasparov (right) has said it is time to call
President Vladimir Putin's 'bluff'.

The Russian former chess grandmaster turned human rights activist has claimed
the Kremlin leader will go 'as far as he's allowed to go' as he said the West's
response had been 'better than nothing' but 'not enough'.

Mr Kasparov, the chairman of the Human Rights Foundation, was speaking on
America's News Headquarters on Fox News.

He said: 'He has a weak hand, but he knows how to raise the stakes and he knows
how to bluff. And it's time to call his bluff.'

Mr Kasparov also claimed any sanctions imposed should not exclude 'a
demonstration of military might'.

Putin has said Russia and the U.S. still stood far apart over Ukraine, but the
two countries should not sacrifice relations over a disagreement on an
individual, albeit very important, international problem.

A statement issued by the Kremlin said that the Russian leader told Obama in a
telephone call yesterday that Ukraine's new leaders had imposed 'absolutely
illegitimate decisions on the eastern, southeastern and Crimea regions'.

'Russia cannot ignore calls for help in this matter and it acts accordingly, in
full compliance with the international law,' Putin said.

'(He) stressed the paramount importance of Russian-American relations to ensure
stability and security in the world. These relations should not be sacrificed
for individual differences, albeit very important ones, over international
problems.'

In the one-hour call, Obama urged Putin to accept the terms of a potential
diplomatic solution to the crisis, which has triggered the worst crisis in
U.S.-Russian relations since the end of the Cold War.

Putin has stridently defended Russia's moves in Ukraine, a country he calls a 'a
brotherly nation', saying Moscow was not behind the seizure of Crimea, home of
Russia's Black Sea Fleet.

He has denied western accusations that his troops have captured state buildings
there, saying the armed men were members of local self-defence units.

He says Russia is willing to cooperate with western powers but any solution to
the crisis must be based on an EU-brokered agreement signed on February 21 by
ousted leader Viktor Yanukovich, who Putin has said is Ukraine's legitimate
president.

Putin said he agreed with Obama that Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and U.S.
Secretary of State John Kerry should continue 'intensive contacts' on Ukraine.

Putin's spokesman today said the Russian leader's efforts to de-escalate the
crisis in Ukraine are being misunderstood.

'Regardless of all the efforts of our president, his readiness to explain
Russia's position practically on a daily basis, we still hit a wall of no
understanding,' Peskov said in comments due to broadcast on state television
Rossiya 24 on Sunday.

'It is rather sad and what is worse is that it is very bad from the point of
view of possible repercussions.'

He added Moscow was not orchestrating events in Ukraine. 'Quite the opposite,'
he said.

Russia's Foreign Ministry has said NATO's decision to curb its cooperation with
Moscow showed a 'biased and prejudiced approach' over Ukraine.

'We see as extremely dangerous attempts to bring in the "NATO factor" to
Ukraine, where the situation is complex and delicate as it is, as it creates
additional tension and undermines the prospects for settling the situation,' the
ministry said in a statement.

Patriotic feelings are running high in Russia, with 65,000 people today
gathering in Moscow's Red Square in support of their government's actions,
chanting 'Crimea is Russia!'

On Wednesday, NATO announced a full review of its cooperation with Russia and
said it would suspend planning for a joint mission linked to Syrian chemical
weapons.

Ukraine meanwhile has decided against boycotting the Winter Paralympics in
Sochi.

The head of Ukraine's Paralympic Committee says the country's athletes will stay
and compete in Sochi despite Russia's military moves in Crimea.

The decision was announced a few hours before Friday's opening ceremony.

Russian news agency R-Sport quoted Valeriy Sushkevich, the president of
Ukraine's National Paralympic Committee, as saying 'we are staying at the
Paralympics'.

PUTIN 'UNLIKELY TO TAKE NOTICE OF THE WEST' CLAIMS EXPERT IN INTERNATIONAL LAW

One of Europe's leading experts in international law says President Putin is
unlikely to take any notice of the West because of empty threats in the past.

Dr James Summers, Director of the Centre for International Law and Human Rights
at Lancaster University and author of the book, 'Peoples and International Law',
believes Western powers lack the appetite for imposing meaningful sanctions
against Russia over its intervention in Ukraine.

He said the Russian President has dealt with it all before and probably sees the
West as 'toothless'.

'Putin has seen a lot of threats from Western powers in the past, particularly
in Georgia,' explained Dr Summers. 'He now may be thinking, "Why should I pay
attention this time?"

'If the West are going to make threats, then they should make decisions they can
actually follow through with and that they can stand behind.'

He pointed out the reaction of Russia's other close neighbours could play more
of a key role in dissuading President Putin from annexing it or declaring its
independence under a puppet government.

However, he added: 'I don't know to what extent the team can focus on the result
now.'

Also today, foreign ministers from central Europe, the Baltics and Nordics
condemned Russia's military intervention in Ukraine and the planned referendum
on Crimea's breakaway, calling for the EU to send an observation mission to
Kiev.

The group of countries, many of them sharing land borders with Russia or the
Ukraine and living with the memory of Soviet rule, have taken a tough line in
the face of Moscow as the crisis has escalated.

'Nordic and Baltic countries and the Visegrad countries' foreign ministers
condemned today... the attack on Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial
integrity, and also condemned the illegal referendum on the joining of Crimea
with Russia,' the ministers said in joint statement from the meeting.

Foreign ministers from Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, known as
the Visegrad Four, and from the Nordics and Baltics met at the Estonian town of
Narva on the Russian border.

Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski said the European Union needed to
strengthen its defence policy and upgrade crisis management capabilities in the
wake of the events on its borders.

'It is a challenge we did not wish for, but is knocking at our doors,' he said.

The Council of Europe, the pan-European human rights watchdog, is offering to
investigate violence and the treatment of minorities in Ukraine to try to defuse
mounting tensions between Kiev and Russia, Austria has said.

Sebastian Kurz, the foreign minister of Austria, which holds the revolving chair
of the 47-member Council until May, told Reuters on Friday that he and the
Council's secretary general would visit Kiev on Monday to offer its services in
the conflict.

Both Russia and Ukraine are members of the Council of Europe, which Mr Kurz said
had credibility and expertise in supporting minority rights. He called the
Ukrainian parliament's repeal of a law making Russia a recognised language in
some regions 'an absolute mistake'.

Asked how Russia had reacted so far to the mediation offer, Mr Kurz said: 'At
least there have been no negative voices in the Council of Europe from the
Russian side.'

Outside of Europe, Japan endorsed the Western position that the actions of
Russia constitute 'a threat to international peace and security', after Obama
spoke to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.

China, often a Russian ally in blocking Western moves in the U.N. Security
Council, was more cautious. It said economic sanctions were not the best way to
solve the crisis, but avoided comment on the legality of a Crimean referendum on
secession.

Syrian president Bashar Assad meanwhile said Russia's military takeover of
Crimea reflects President Vladimir Putin's 'wise policy' and his efforts to
restore 'security and stability' in Ukraine after an 'attempted coup.'

In a letter addressed to the Russian president, Assad claims Putin's move in
eastern Ukraine prevented 'terrorist extremists' from taking power in Kiev.

Russia has been an adamant supporter of Assad through the three-year-old Syrian
civil war that has claimed at least 140,000 lives. Assad says his troops are
fighting Islamic extremists who want to destroy Syria.

UKRAINE'S NEW LEADERSHIP TURNS TO THE OLIGARCHS FOR HELP

In a surprising move, Ukraine's new leadership has reached out to oligarchs for
help - appointing them as governors in eastern regions where loyalties to Moscow
are strong.

With their wealth, influence and self-interest in preventing further conflict,
the oligarchs could be the key to calming tensions and maintaining Ukraine's
control in areas where pro-Russian activists have stoked separatist tensions.

But the decision to appoint the country's richest men as regional administrators
has its risks. Some believe the oligarchs, who have a history of manipulating
governments, may become too entrenched in their new jobs and could use their
posts for personal gain.

The unexpected move drew instant ire from Russian President Vladimir Putin, who
called one of the oligarchs, Ukraine's third-richest man, Ihor Kolomoisky, a
'swindler'.

'They name oligarchs, billionaires as governors of eastern regions,' Putin said
during a news conference earlier this week. 'Naturally, people don't accept
that.'

Under Ukrainian law, governors are appointed by the country's president instead
of being elected.

After President Viktor Yanukovych fled for Russia last month in the wake of mass
protests against his government and deadly clashes with police, acting President
Oleksandr Turchynov fired Yanukovych's appointees and replaced them with his
own.

Kolomoisky, a metals, banking and media tycoon, was named governor of his native
region of Dnipropetrovsk, while Serhiy Taruta, the country's 16th-richest man,
according to Forbes Ukraine, was named governor of his home Donetsk region. Both
oligarchs are seen as pro-European and Kolomoisky's media have provided
sympathetic coverage of the pro-Western protests.

The move comes after other top oligarchs, including the country's richest man
and a key backer of Yanukvoych's Party of Regions, Rinat Akhmetov, called for
preserving Ukraine's unity.

Experts said the appointments demonstrated that despite its strong ties to
Russia, industry leaders in eastern Ukraine who provide jobs to tens of
thousands of Ukrainians are against a split-up.

'The oligarchs taking on this responsibility is a demonstration of their
commitment to an independent, sovereign and territorially integrated Ukraine,'
former U.S. Ambassador John Edward Herbst told The Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        March 7, 2014 Friday 7:14 PM GMT

EXCLUSIVE: Watch dramatic footage of 9/11 unfolding from SPACE filmed by
astronaut whose friend was killed in terror attack

BYLINE: JESSICA JERREAT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 769 words



     ·    American Frank Culbertson was above New York at time of attacks
     ·    His images show plume of smoke streaming from World Trade Center
     ·    Program includes film of Culbertson playing Taps on his bugle in space
          in tribute to his friend Chic Burlingame who died in the attacks


This poignant footage from space shows smoke rising from New York's Twin Towers,
moments after two planes smashed into them in the terror attack which killed
thousands of people.

The haunting photos and video, shown in full for the first time today on
MailOnline, were shot by American astronaut Frank Culbertson as he looked down
helplessly on New York on September 11, 2001.

He said his first instinct was to grab a camera - and hours later he would
discover a close friend, a pilot at the controls of one of the hijacked planes,
was one of the dead.

The images emerged as part of research for a television series about astronauts
and will be shown for the first time in the UK as part of Channel 4's Live From
Space season.

Culbertson made the recording as the huge plume of smoke from the towers drifted
across the city, only learning a few hours afterwards that his friend, Chic
Burlingame, had been one of the pilots killed that day when his plane was flown
into the Pentagon.

He responded by playing the Taps bugle call - which signals the end of the day
for US military personnel - on a trumpet in a poignant tribute to his friend.

In a public message to his countrymen, he wrote the following day: 'It's
horrible to see smoke pouring from wounds in your own country from such a
fantastic vantage point.

'The dichotomy of being on a spacecraft dedicated to improving life on the Earth
and watching life being destroyed by such wilful, terrible acts is jolting to
the psyche, no matter who you are.'

Culbertson explained that upon learning of the attacks he rushed around the
station until he found a window that would give him a view of New York and
grabbed the nearest camera.

He said: 'It's difficult to describe how it feels to be the only American
completely off the planet at a time such as this. The feeling that I should be
there with all of you, dealing with this, helping in some way, is overwhelming.'

The channel's Live From Space season next week will feature documentaries about
astronauts, building up to a two-and-a-half-hour live broadcast from the ISS and
Mission Control in Houston, Texas, which will feature a full 90-minute orbit of
Earth.

Short clips from the film of the attacks on New York were released by Nasa to
mark the tenth anniversary in 2011, but the film has not been seen in full with
Culbertson's commentary and bugle call.

Creative director of the Channel 4 project, Tom Brisley, said: 'Not every frame
has been seen before, so every frame that was shot on that day is in the show.'

Executive producer Sally Dixon said: 'It's the first time we have had it in that
form with Frank talking us through it.

'If that had been in a movie you'd have gone, "oh come on, that guy's got a
trumpet?". But reality is stranger than fiction sometimes.'

It will feature in the documentary Astronauts: Houston We Have A Problem for
which program-makers have been given access to Nasa footage of some of the
difficulties in space over the years.

They include film of Italian astronaut Luca Parmitano, who was close to drowning
when his helmet filled with water during a space walk, causing colleagues to
fear for his life.

During other filming for the documentary - to be screened on March 13 - there
was a real-life emergency on the station when a cooling system failed, forcing
the crew to make two space walks to fix it.

Dixon said: 'Suddenly a valve went on a coolant pump outside and they had to
shut down power to half the station to power down a lot of equipment, so we were
there filming our general stuff and they let us in on meetings of all these
various teams.

'They work out how will they do the space walk, people are practicing in the big
pool with a model of the space station underwater because it's very like
microgravity.

'It was just an amazing coincidence that we happened to be filming - no space
walks were filmed for Rick [Mastracchio], Koichi [Wakata] and Mike's [Hopkins]
mission. It was incredible to see the teamwork that went on to work out what
needed to be done and how they would do it.

The live program, Live From Space: Lap Of the Planet, will be screened on March
16, and presented by Dermot O'Leary and veteran astronaut Mike Massimino, who
helped fix the Hubble telescope.

The Live from Space Season airs on Channel 4 from Wednesday March 12 at 9pm.
More information at channel4.com/space.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        March 7, 2014 Friday 5:02 PM GMT

Ousted Ukrainian president Yanukovych is 'gravely ill' after heart attack as
plane carrying country's new leader is boarded by SWAT team after terrorist
attack alert

BYLINE: WILL STEWART IN MOSCOW and JAMES RUSH

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3468 words



     ·    Russian newspaper claims Viktor Yanukovych is in 'grave' condition
     ·    Vladimir Putin dismissed report earlier this week that Yanukovych had
          died
     ·    SWAT teams boarded plane carrying Ukraine's new PM following
          'terrorist threat'
     ·    Speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament today said there will be
          no war between Russia and the Ukraine
     ·    She also said Crimea's parliament has the right to hold a referendum
          on the region's future status
     ·    French foreign minister has said second round of sanctions against
          Russia could follow if first do not succeed


Deposed president of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych is in a Moscow hospital after
suffering a suspected heart attack, it was reported in Russia today.

His condition was said to be 'grave', Moskovsky Komsomolets newspaper, known as
MK, has claimed, citing unofficial sources.

Austrian authorities meanwhile have said SWAT teams boarded a plane carrying
Ukraine's new Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk after receiving a threat that a
terrorist attack was planned.

Austria's Interior Ministry has said today the team boarded the plane following
its scheduled landing in Vienna on Thursday night after it received a security
warning from German flight controllers. Nothing out of the ordinary was found.

Mr Yatsenyuk, who was making his way home after addressing European Union
leaders in Brussels, then took his scheduled connection to Kiev.

German flight control spokeswoman Kristina Kelek said the initial warning came
from Belgian police and was then relayed by her office to Austrian authorities
because the plane was already almost out of German airspace when it was
received.

She says it was a vague warning that 'there was possibly a terrorist attack
planned'.

Vladimir Putin dismissed a report earlier this week that Yanukovych had died
from a heart attack in the Russian city of Rostov-on-Don.

On Tuesday, the Kremlin leader said his former ally was 'alive and healthy', and
that he had met him several days earlier.

However, Yanukovych has not been seen in public since giving a press conference
in Russia one week ago.

Putin also claimed  the former leader would have been killed if not for his
rescue in Sevastopol by Russian forces.

Today the newspaper said: 'According to an MK source, Yanukovych may have had a
heart attack. His condition is assessed as grave.'

The name of the Moscow hospital was not given.

'So far there has been no official confirmation,' stated the newspaper.

Yanukovych is the subject of a formal request by the authorities in Kiev for
extradition to face an investigation for ordering his security forces to shoot
unarmed protesters in Kiev last month. He denies the allegations.

Russia believes Yanukovych remains the legal president of Ukraine. Putin agreed
to give him sanctuary after he was toppled.

'The legitimate president, purely legally, is undoubtedly Yanukovych,' said
Putin on Tuesday.

'I think he has no political future - I told him that. As for playing a role in
his fate, we did that purely from humanitarian reasons.'

Russia now has 30,000 troops in Ukraine's Crimea region, Ukrainian border guards
said on Friday, nearly twice the previous figure given by the government in
Kiev.

Serhiy Astakhov, aide to the head of border guards service, told Reuters the
figure was an estimate and included both troops that had arrived since last week
and Russia's Black Sea Fleet, permanently based in the Crimean port of
Sevastopol.

Russia, whose forces occupied the isolated peninsula last week, says the only
troops it has there are those based in Sevastopol. The Russian troops that have
occupied positions across Crimea wear no insignia on their uniforms but drive
vehicles with Russian military plates.

Ukraine says thousands of extra troops have arrived and have fanned out across
the occupied peninsula in violation of the treaty governing the base. Earlier
this week Ukraine said there were a total of 16,000 Russian troops in Crimea.

Leading Ukranian politician Yulia Tymoshenko has today said there was a danger
of guerrilla war in Crimea should it be incorporated into Russia and appealed to
Germany and others for immediate economic sanctions against Moscow.

She said a Russian takeover of the Crimean peninsula would create long-term
dangers for the whole region.

Speaking to Reuters after a meeting with German chancellor Angela Merkel,
Tymoshenko said international measures against Russia had so far been
ineffective and called for immediate action to prevent a 'flashpoint'.

A U.S. Navy destoyer, which is heading to the Black Sea for what the military on
Thursday described as a 'routine' deployment that was scheduled well before the
crisis in Ukraine, was today passing through Istanbul's Bosporus straits.

The Navy destroyer USS Truxtun is participating in exercises with Romania and
Bulgaria and is expected to be in the Black Sea for several days.

Demonstrators who have remained encamped in Kiev's central Independence Square
to defend the revolution that ousted Yanukovich said they did not believe Crimea
would be allowed to secede.

'We are optimists. Crimea will stand with us and we will fight for it,' said
Taras Yurkiv, 35, from the eastern city of Lviv. 'How we will fight depends on
the decisions of our leadership. If necessary, we will go with force. If you
want peace, you must prepare for war.'

Alexander Zaporozhets, 40, from central Ukraine's Kirovograd region, put his
faith in international pressure.

'I don't think the Russians will be allowed to take Crimea from us: you can't
behave like that to an independent state. We have the support of the whole
world. But I think we are losing time. While the Russians are preparing, we are
just talking.'

Elsewhere, military observers from the Organisation for Security and Cooperation
in Europe (OSCE) have, for the second day in a row, been unable to enter
Ukraine's Crimea Peninsula, the body said in a post on Twitter.

'Military assessment visitors from OSCE States denied entry into Crimea on
Friday, heading back to Kherson to plan next steps,' it said.

It has also been revealed the Turkish Air Force scrambled six F-16 fighter jets
after a Russian surveillance plane flew parallel along its Black Sea coast, the
military has today said.

The incident, the second of its kind reported this week, occurred on Thursday.
The Russian plane remained in international airspace, according to a statement
on the website of the military General Staff.

Ukraine's Crimea peninsula, which juts into the north of the Black Sea, is at
the centre of the current standoff between Russia and Ukraine's new pro-Western
government. NATO member Turkey forms the southern coastline of the Black Sea.

Elsewhere, the speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament has today dismissed
suggestions there would be war between Russia and Ukraine after President Putin
said he had the right to invade if the situation in Ukraine worsened.

'It's complete nonsense, it absolutely does not reflect our intentions, the
feelings of empathy and the pain we feel for the Ukrainian people,' said
Valentina Matviyenko, head of the Russian Federation Council.

'We are absolutely sure that there will never be a war between the two brotherly
nations.'

She also said Crimea's parliament has the right to hold a referendum on the
region's future status.

The parliament in Ukraine's southern Crimea region said on Thursday it would
hold a referendum on whether the region should join Russia on March 16.

Matviyenko said: 'Yesterday we learned about the historic decision taken by the
Crimean parliament to hold a referendum on accession, on entry into the Russian
Federation.

'Without a doubt, the Crimean parliament, as a legitimate authority, has that
right... The sovereign right of the people to determine their future.'

Earlier today, France's foreign minister said if a first round of sanctions did
not succeed against Russia in the wake of its military intervention in Ukraine,
a second could follow, targeting Russian businesses and people close to
President Vladimir Putin.

European Union leaders have urged Putin to enter direct talks with the Ukrainian
government, warning of 'far-reaching consequences' for relations with Moscow if
there is any further escalation.

At emergency talks in Brussels, leaders of the group of 28 states agreed on a
limited package of sanctions to take immediate effect with the threat of further
measures - including asset freezes and travel bans - unless there was swift
action to end the stand-off.

'IT IS TIME TO CALL PUTIN'S BLUFF': FORMER WORLD CHESS CHAMPION GARRY KASPAROV

Former world chess champion Garry Kasparov (right) has said it is time to call
President Vladimir Putin's 'bluff'.

The Russian former chess grandmaster turned human rights activist has claimed
the Kremlin leader will go 'as far as he's allowed to go' as he said the West's
response had been 'better than nothing' but 'not enough'.

Mr Kasparov, the chairman of the Human Rights Foundation, was speaking on
America's News Headquarters on Fox News.

He said: 'He has a weak hand, but he knows how to raise the stakes and he knows
how to bluff. And it's time to call his bluff.'

Mr Kasparov also claimed any sanctions imposed should not exclude 'a
demonstration of military might'.

French foreign minister Laurent Fabius today told France Info Radio: 'If there
are not very swift results, there will be new measures aimed at those
responsible and Russian businesses. It could be freezing assets, it could be
cancellations, it could be refusing visas,' he added, without elaborating.

Fabius called the situation in Ukraine 'a serious crisis, maybe one of the most
serious since the Cold War'.

On Thursday, the local parliament of the Crimea region voted to leave Ukraine
and ask to join Russia in a direct challenge to Ukraine's new government in
Kiev.

Fabius said any new move by Russia to bring Crimea, which has an ethnic Russian
majority, formally under its control could have 'grave consequences' for
relations between Russia and Europe.

'There will be no more international stability if a region... because it's
solicited by a neighbouring country, can decide to change its borders and attach
itself to its neighbour,' Fabius added.

Any deterioration of economic ties between Russia and its trading partners could
be a 'very big blow' to Moscow, Fabius said, adding that any new sanctions could
target Putin's inner circle.

Russia has today accused the European Union of taking an 'extremely
unconstructive position' by freezing talks on easing visa barriers and on a
comprehensive agreement that would govern ties between Moscow and the EU over
Ukraine.

'Russia will not accept the language of sanctions and threats' and will
retaliate if sanctions are imposed, the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a
statement about the agreements reached at the emergency EU summit on Thursday.

U.S. President Barack Obama has, meanwhile, ordered sanctions against figures
responsible for the military intervention in Ukraine, including travel bans and
a freezing of their assets in the United States, although a U.S. official said
Putin was not on the list.

Putin has said Russia and the United States still stood far apart over Ukraine,
but the two countries should not sacrifice relations over a disagreement on an
individual, albeit very important, international problem.

In a statement issued by the Kremlin on Friday, the Russian leader told U.S.
President Barack Obama in a telephone call on Thursday that Ukraine's new
leaders had imposed 'absolutely illegitimate decisions on the eastern,
southeastern and Crimea regions'.

'Russia cannot ignore calls for help in this matter and it acts accordingly, in
full compliance with the international law,' Putin said.

'(He) stressed the paramount importance of Russian-American relations to ensure
stability and security in the world. These relations should not be sacrificed
for individual differences, albeit very important ones, over international
problems.'

In the one-hour call, Obama urged Putin to accept the terms of a potential
diplomatic solution to the crisis, which has triggered the worst crisis in
U.S.-Russian relations since the end of the Cold War.

Putin has stridently defended Russia's moves in Ukraine, a country he calls a 'a
brotherly nation', saying Moscow was not behind the seizure of Crimea, home of
Russia's Black Sea Fleet.

He has denied western accusations that his troops have captured state buildings
there, saying the armed men were members of local self-defence units.

He says Russia is willing to cooperate with western powers but any solution to
the crisis must be based on an EU-brokered agreement signed on February 21 by
ousted leader Viktor Yanukovich, who Putin has said is Ukraine's legitimate
president.

Putin said he agreed with Obama that Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and U.S.
Secretary of State John Kerry should continue 'intensive contacts' on Ukraine.

Putin's spokesman has today said the president's efforts to de-escalate the
crisis in Ukraine are met with no understanding.

'Regardless of all the efforts of our president, his readiness to explain
Russia's position practically on a daily basis, we still hit a wall of no
understanding,' Peskov said in comments due to broadcast on state television
Rossiya 24 on Sunday.

'It is rather sad and what is worse is that it is very bad from the point of
view of possible repercussions.'

He added Moscow was not orchestrating events in Ukraine. 'Quite the opposite,'
he said.

Russia's Foreign Ministry has said NATO's decision to curb its cooperation with
Moscow showed a 'biased and prejudiced approach' over Ukraine.

'We see as extremely dangerous attempts to bring in the "NATO factor" to
Ukraine, where the situation is complex and delicate as it is, as it creates
additional tension and undermines the prospects for settling the situation,' the
ministry said in a statement.

On Wednesday, NATO announced a full review of its cooperation with Russia and
said it would suspend planning for a joint mission linked to Syrian chemical
weapons.

PUTIN 'UNLIKELY TO TAKE NOTICE OF THE WEST' CLAIMS EXPERT IN INTERNATIONAL LAW

One of Europe's leading experts in international law says President Putin is
unlikely to take any notice of the West because of empty threats in the past.

Dr James Summers, Director of the Centre for International Law and Human Rights
at Lancaster University and author of the book, 'Peoples and International Law',
believes Western powers lack the appetite for imposing meaningful sanctions
against Russia over its intervention in Ukraine.

He said the Russian President has dealt with it all before and probably sees the
West as 'toothless'.

'Putin has seen a lot of threats from Western powers in the past, particularly
in Georgia,' explained Dr Summers. 'He now may be thinking, "Why should I pay
attention this time?"

'If the West are going to make threats, then they should make decisions they can
actually follow through with and that they can stand behind.'

He pointed out the reaction of Russia's other close neighbours could play more
of a key role in dissuading President Putin from annexing it or declaring its
independence under a puppet government.

Ukraine meanwhile has decided against boycotting the Winter Paralympics in
Sochi.

The head of Ukraine's Paralympic Committee says the country's athletes will stay
and compete in Sochi despite Russia's military moves in Crimea.

The decision was announced a few hours before Friday's opening ceremony.

Russian news agency R-Sport quoted Valeriy Sushkevich, the president of
Ukraine's National Paralympic Committee, as saying 'we are staying at the
Paralympics'.

However, he added: 'I don't know to what extent the team can focus on the result
now.'

Foreign ministers from central Europe, the Baltics and Nordics today condemned
Russia's military intervention in Ukraine and a planned referendum planned by
Crimea's government, calling for the EU to send an observation mission to Kiev.

The group of countries, many of them sharing land borders with Russia or the
Ukraine and living with the memory of Soviet rule, have taken a tough line in
the face of Moscow as the crisis has escalated.

'Nordic and Baltic countries and the Visegrad countries' foreign ministers
condemned today... the attack on Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial
integrity, and also condemned the illegal referendum on the joining of Crimea
with Russia,' the ministers said in joint statement from the meeting.

Foreign ministers from Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, known as
the Visegrad Four, and from the Nordics and Baltics met at the Estonian town of
Narva on the Russian border.

Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski said the European Union needed to
strengthen its defence policy and upgrade crisis management capabilities in the
wake of the events on its borders.

'It is a challenge we did not wish for, but is knocking at our doors,' he said.

The Council of Europe, the pan-European human rights watchdog, is offering to
investigate violence and the treatment of minorities in Ukraine to try to defuse
mounting tensions between Kiev and Russia, Austria has said.

Sebastian Kurz, the foreign minister of Austria, which holds the revolving chair
of the 47-member Council until May, told Reuters on Friday that he and the
Council's secretary general would visit Kiev on Monday to offer its services in
the conflict.

Both Russia and Ukraine are members of the Council of Europe, which Kurz said
had credibility and expertise in supporting minority rights. He called the
Ukrainian parliament's repeal of a law making Russia a recognised language in
some regions 'an absolute mistake'.

Asked how Russia had reacted so far to the mediation offer, Kurz said: 'At least
there have been no negative voices in the Council of Europe from the Russian
side.'

The Vienna-based Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is
also trying to mediate in Ukraine.

However, dozens of military observers from OSCE members invited by Ukraine to
monitor the situation in Crimea had to turn back on Thursday after failing to
get past roadblocks.

The OSCE, a pan-European forum for security issues that was set up during the
Cold War, is also trying to put together a 'contact group' of leading players in
the Ukraine crisis and to arrange a broader monitoring mission for Ukraine.

UKRAINE'S NEW LEADERSHIP TURNS TO THE OLIGARCHS FOR HELP

In a surprising move, Ukraine's new leadership has reached out to oligarchs for
help - appointing them as governors in eastern regions where loyalties to Moscow
are strong.

With their wealth, influence and self-interest in preventing further conflict,
the oligarchs could be the key to calming tensions and maintaining Ukraine's
control in areas where pro-Russian activists have stoked separatist tensions.

But the decision to appoint the country's richest men as regional administrators
has its risks. Some believe the oligarchs, who have a history of manipulating
governments, may become too entrenched in their new jobs and could use their
posts for personal gain.

The unexpected move drew instant ire from Russian President Vladimir Putin, who
called one of the oligarchs, Ukraine's third-richest man, Ihor Kolomoisky, a
'swindler'.

'They name oligarchs, billionaires as governors of eastern regions,' Putin said
during a news conference earlier this week. 'Naturally, people don't accept
that.'

Under Ukrainian law, governors are appointed by the country's president instead
of being elected.

After President Viktor Yanukovych fled for Russia last month in the wake of mass
protests against his government and deadly clashes with police, acting President
Oleksandr Turchynov fired Yanukovych's appointees and replaced them with his
own.

Kolomoisky, a metals, banking and media tycoon, was named governor of his native
region of Dnipropetrovsk, while Serhiy Taruta, the country's 16th-richest man,
according to Forbes Ukraine, was named governor of his home Donetsk region. Both
oligarchs are seen as pro-European and Kolomoisky's media have provided
sympathetic coverage of the pro-Western protests.

The move comes after other top oligarchs, including the country's richest man
and a key backer of Yanukvoych's Party of Regions, Rinat Akhmetov, called for
preserving Ukraine's unity.

Experts said the appointments demonstrated that despite its strong ties to
Russia, industry leaders in eastern Ukraine who provide jobs to tens of
thousands of Ukrainians are against a split-up.

'The oligarchs taking on this responsibility is a demonstration of their
commitment to an independent, sovereign and territorially integrated Ukraine,'
former U.S. Ambassador John Edward Herbst told The Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        March 7, 2014 Friday 2:37 PM GMT

Astronaut relives emotional moment he watched 9/11 unfold from space and played
bugle tribute to his friend who was killed in the terror attack

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 715 words



     ·    American astronaut Frank Culbertson was above New York at time of the
          terror attacks
     ·    His images show plume of smoke streaming from World Trade Center
     ·    Program includes film of Culbertson playing Taps on his bugle in space
          in tribute to his friend Chic Burlingame who died in the attacks


Footage from space showing the terror attacks in New York on 9/11 is to be shown
in full on television for the first time, as part of a series about astronauts.

American astronaut Frank Culbertson was above Manhattan when the World Trade
Center came under attack in 2001.

He filmed as the huge plume of smoke from the towers drifted across the city,
only learning a few hours afterwards that his friend, Chic Burlingame, had been
one of the pilots killed that day when his plane was flown into the Pentagon.

Scroll down for video

The dramatic footage will be shown for the first time in the UK, as part of
Channel 4's Live From Space season.

In the program, part of a series that detail the realities of astronauts' lives,
Culbertson is shown playing the Taps bugle call - which signals the end of the
day for US military personnel - on a trumpet in tribute to his friend later that
day.

In a public message to his countrymen, he wrote the following day: 'It's
horrible to see smoke pouring from wounds in your own country from such a
fantastic vantage point.

'The dichotomy of being on a spacecraft dedicated to improving life on the Earth
and watching life being destroyed by such wilful, terrible acts is jolting to
the psyche, no matter who you are.'

Culbertson explained that upon learning of the attacks he rushed around the
station until he found a window that would give him a view of New York and
grabbed the nearest camera.

He said: 'It's difficult to describe how it feels to be the only American
completely off the planet at a time such as this. The feeling that I should be
there with all of you, dealing with this, helping in some way, is overwhelming.'

The channel's Live From Space season next week will feature documentaries about
astronauts, building up to a two-and-a-half-hour live broadcast from the ISS and
Mission Control in Houston, Texas, which will feature a full 90-minute orbit of
Earth.

Short clips from the film of the attacks on New York were released by Nasa to
mark the tenth anniversary in 2011, but the film has not been seen in full with
Culbertson's commentary and bugle call.

Creative director of the Channel 4 project, Tom Brisley, said: 'Not every frame
has been seen before, so every frame that was shot on that day is in the show.'

Executive producer Sally Dixon said: 'It's the first time we have had it in that
form with Frank talking us through it.

'If that had been in a movie you'd have gone, "oh come on, that guy's got a
trumpet?". But reality is stranger than fiction sometimes.'

It will feature in the documentary Astronauts: Houston We Have A Problem for
which program-makers have been given access to Nasa footage of some of the
difficulties in space over the years.

They include film of Italian astronaut Luca Parmitano, who was close to drowning
when his helmet filled with water during a space walk, causing colleagues to
fear for his life.

During other filming for the documentary - to be screened on March 13 - there
was a real-life emergency on the station when a cooling system failed, forcing
the crew to make two space walks to fix it.

Dixon said: 'Suddenly a valve went on a coolant pump outside and they had to
shut down power to half the station to power down a lot of equipment, so we were
there filming our general stuff and they let us in on meetings of all these
various teams.

'They work out how will they do the space walk, people are practicing in the big
pool with a model of the space station underwater because it's very like
microgravity.

'It was just an amazing coincidence that we happened to be filming - no space
walks were filmed for Rick [Mastracchio], Koichi [Wakata] and Mike's [Hopkins]
mission. It was incredible to see the teamwork that went on to work out what
needed to be done and how they would do it.

The live program, Live From Space: Lap Of the Planet, will be screened on March
16, and presented by Dermot O'Leary and veteran astronaut Mike Massimino, who
helped fix the Hubble telescope.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        March 7, 2014 Friday 2:18 PM GMT

Ousted Ukrainian president Yanukovych is 'gravely ill' after heart attack as
plane carrying country's new leader is boarded by SWAT team after terrorist
attack alert

BYLINE: WILL STEWART IN MOSCOW and JAMES RUSH

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2634 words



     ·    Russian newspaper claims Viktor Yanukovych is in 'grave' condition
     ·    Vladimir Putin dismissed report earlier this week that Yanukovych had
          died
     ·    SWAT teams boarded plane carrying Ukraine's new PM following
          'terrorist threat'
     ·    Speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament today said there will be
          no war between Russia and the Ukraine
     ·    She also said Crimea's parliament has the right to hold a referendum
          on the region's future status
     ·    French foreign minister has said second round of sanctions against
          Russia could follow if first do not succeed


Deposed president of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych is in a Moscow hospital after
suffering a suspected heart attack, it was reported in Russia today.

His condition was said to be 'grave', Moskovsky Komsomolets newspaper, known as
MK, has claimed, citing unofficial sources.

Austrian authorities meanwhile have said SWAT teams boarded a plane carrying
Ukraine's new Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk after receiving a threat that a
terrorist attack was planned.

Austria's Interior Ministry has said today the team boarded the plane after it
received a security warning from German flight controllers after its scheduled
landing in Vienna on Thursday night. Nothing out of the ordinary was found.

Mr Yatsenyuk, who was making his way after addressing European Union leaders in
Brussels, then took his scheduled connection to Kiev.

German flight control spokeswoman Kristina Kelek said the initial warning came
from Belgian police and was then relayed by her office to Austrian authorities
because the plane was already almost out of German airspace when it was
received.

She says it was a vague warning that 'there was possibly a terrorist attack
planned'.

Vladimir Putin dismissed a report earlier this week that Yanukovych had died
from a heart attack in the Russian city of Rostov-on-Don.

On Tuesday, the Kremlin leader said his former ally was 'alive and healthy', and
that he had met him several days earlier.

However, Yanukovych has not been seen in public since giving a press conference
in Russia one week ago.

Putin also claimed  the former leader would have been killed if not for his
rescue in Sevastopol by Russian forces.

Today the newspaper said: 'According to an MK source, Yanukovych may have had a
heart attack. His condition is assessed as grave.'

The name of the Moscow hospital was not given.

'So far there has been no official confirmation,' stated the newspaper.

Yanukovych is the subject of a formal request by the authorities in Kiev for
extradition to face an investigation for ordering his security forces to shoot
unarmed protesters in Kiev last month. He denies the allegations.

Russia believes Yanukovych remains the legal president of Ukraine. Putin agreed
to give him sanctuary after he was toppled.

'The legitimate president, purely legally, is undoubtedly Yanukovych,' said
Putin on Tuesday.

'I think he has no political future - I told him that. As for playing a role in
his fate, we did that purely from humanitarian reasons.'

Russia now has 30,000 troops in Ukraine's Crimea region, Ukrainian border guards
said on Friday, nearly twice the previous figure given by the government in
Kiev.

Serhiy Astakhov, aide to the head of border guards service, told Reuters the
figure was an estimate and included both troops that had arrived since last week
and Russia's Black Sea Fleet, permanently based in the Crimean port of
Sevastopol.

Russia, whose forces occupied the isolated peninsula last week, says the only
troops it has there are those based in Sevastopol. The Russian troops that have
occupied positions across Crimea wear no insignia on their uniforms but drive
vehicles with Russian military plates.

Ukraine says thousands of extra troops have arrived and have fanned out across
the occupied peninsula in violation of the treaty governing the base. Earlier
this week Ukraine said there were a total of 16,000 Russian troops in Crimea.

Leading Ukranian politician Yulia Tymoshenko has today said there was a danger
of guerrilla war in Crimea should it be incorporated into Russia and appealed to
Germany and others for immediate economic sanctions against Moscow.

She said a Russian takeover of the Crimean peninsula would create long-term
dangers for the whole region.

Speaking to Reuters after a meeting with German chancellor Angela Merkel,
Tymoshenko said international measures against Russia had so far been
ineffective and called for immediate action to prevent a 'flashpoint'.

Meanwhile, the speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament has today dismissed
suggestions there would be war between Russia and Ukraine after President Putin
said he had the right to invade if the situation in Ukraine worsened.

'It's complete nonsense, it absolutely does not reflect our intentions, the
feelings of empathy and the pain we feel for the Ukrainian people,' said
Valentina Matviyenko, head of the Russian Federation Council.

'We are absolutely sure that there will never be a war between the two brotherly
nations.'

She also said Crimea's parliament has the right to hold a referendum on the
region's future status.

The parliament in Ukraine's southern Crimea region said on Thursday it would
hold a referendum on whether the region should join Russia on March 16.

Matviyenko said: 'Yesterday we learned about the historic decision taken by the
Crimean parliament to hold a referendum on accession, on entry into the Russian
Federation.

'Without a doubt, the Crimean parliament, as a legitimate authority, has that
right... The sovereign right of the people to determine their future.'

Foreign ministers from central Europe, the Baltics and Nordics today condemned
Russia's military intervention in Ukraine and a planned referendum planned by
Crimea's government, calling for the EU to send an observation mission to Kiev.

The group of countries, many of them sharing land borders with Russia or the
Ukraine and living with the memory of Soviet rule, have taken a tough line in
the face of Moscow as the crisis has escalated.

'Nordic and Baltic countries and the Visegrad countries' foreign ministers
condemned today... the attack on Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial
integrity, and also condemned the illegal referendum on the joining of Crimea
with Russia,' the ministers said in joint statement from the meeting.

Foreign ministers from Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, known as
the Visegrad Four, and from the Nordics and Baltics met at the Estonian town of
Narva on the Russian border.

'IT IS TIME TO CALL PUTIN'S BLUFF': FORMER WORLD CHESS CHAMPION GARRY KASPAROV

Former world chess champion Garry Kasparov (right) has said it is time to call
President Vladimir Putin's 'bluff'.

The Russian former chess grandmaster turned human rights activist has claimed
the Kremlin leader will go 'as far as he's allowed to go' as he said the West's
response had been 'better than nothing' but 'not enough'.

Mr Kasparov, the chairman of the Human Rights Foundation, was speaking on
America's News Headquarters on Fox News.

He said: 'He has a weak hand, but he knows how to raise the stakes and he knows
how to bluff. And it's time to call his bluff.'

Mr Kasparov also claimed any sanctions imposed should not exclude 'a
demonstration of military might'.

Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski said the European Union needed to
strengthen its defence policy and upgrade crisis management capabilities in the
wake of the events on its borders.

'It is a challenge we did not wish for, but is knocking at our doors,' he said.

The Council of Europe, the pan-European human rights watchdog, is offering to
investigate violence and the treatment of minorities in Ukraine to try to defuse
mounting tensions between Kiev and Russia, Austria has said.

Sebastian Kurz, the foreign minister of Austria, which holds the revolving chair
of the 47-member Council until May, told Reuters on Friday that he and the
Council's secretary general would visit Kiev on Monday to offer its services in
the conflict.

Both Russia and Ukraine are members of the Council of Europe, which Kurz said
had credibility and expertise in supporting minority rights. He called the
Ukrainian parliament's repeal of a law making Russia a recognised language in
some regions 'an absolute mistake'.

Asked how Russia had reacted so far to the mediation offer, Kurz said: 'At least
there have been no negative voices in the Council of Europe from the Russian
side.'

The Vienna-based Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is
also trying to mediate in Ukraine.

However, dozens of military observers from OSCE members invited by Ukraine to
monitor the situation in Crimea had to turn back on Thursday after failing to
get past roadblocks.

The OSCE, a pan-European forum for security issues that was set up during the
Cold War, is also trying to put together a 'contact group' of leading players in
the Ukraine crisis and to arrange a broader monitoring mission for Ukraine.

Earlier today, France's foreign minister said if a first round of sanctions did
not succeed against Russia in the wake of its military intervention in Ukraine,
a second could follow, targeting Russian businesses and people close to
President Vladimir Putin.

European Union leaders have urged Putin to enter direct talks with the Ukrainian
government, warning of 'far-reaching consequences' for relations with Moscow if
there is any further escalation.

At emergency talks in Brussels, leaders of the group of 28 states agreed on a
limited package of sanctions to take immediate effect with the threat of further
measures - including asset freezes and travel bans - unless there was swift
action to end the stand-off.

French foreign minister Laurent Fabius today told France Info Radio: 'If there
are not very swift results, there will be new measures aimed at those
responsible and Russian businesses. It could be freezing assets, it could be
cancellations, it could be refusing visas,' he added, without elaborating.

Fabius called the situation in Ukraine 'a serious crisis, maybe one of the most
serious since the Cold War'.

On Thursday, the local parliament of the Crimea region voted to leave Ukraine
and ask to join Russia in a direct challenge to Ukraine's new government in
Kiev.

Fabius said any new move by Russia to bring Crimea, which has an ethnic Russian
majority, formally under its control could have 'grave consequences' for
relations between Russia and Europe.

'There will be no more international stability if a region... because it's
solicited by a neighbouring country, can decide to change its borders and attach
itself to its neighbour,' Fabius added.

Any deterioration of economic ties between Russia and its trading partners could
be a 'very big blow' to Moscow, Fabius said, adding that any new sanctions could
target Putin's inner circle.

U.S. President Barack Obama has, meanwhile, ordered sanctions against figures
responsible for the military intervention in Ukraine, including travel bans and
a freezing of their assets in the United States, although a U.S. official said
Putin was not on the list.

Putin has said Russia and the United States still stood far apart over Ukraine,
but the two countries should not sacrifice relations over a disagreement on an
individual, albeit very important, international problem.

In a statement issued by the Kremlin on Friday, the Russian leader told U.S.
President Barack Obama in a telephone call on Thursday that Ukraine's new
leaders, who had come to power in an anti-constitutional coup, had imposed
'absolutely illegitimate decisions on the eastern, southeastern and Crimea
regions'.

'Russia cannot ignore calls for help in this matter and it acts accordingly, in
full compliance with the international law,' Putin said.

'(He) stressed the paramount importance of Russian-American relations to ensure
stability and security in the world. These relations should not be sacrificed
for individual differences, albeit very important ones, over international
problems.'

In the one-hour call, Obama urged Putin to accept the terms of a potential
diplomatic solution to the crisis, which has triggered the worst crisis in
U.S.-Russian relations since the end of the Cold War.

PUTIN 'UNLIKELY TO TAKE NOTICE OF THE WEST' CLAIMS EXPERT IN INTERNATIONAL LAW

One of Europe's leading experts in international law says President Putin is
unlikely to take any notice of the West because of empty threats in the past.

Dr James Summers, Director of the Centre for International Law and Human Rights
at Lancaster University and author of the book, 'Peoples and International Law',
believes Western powers lack the appetite for imposing meaningful sanctions
against Russia over its intervention in Ukraine.

He said the Russian President has dealt with it all before and probably sees the
West as 'toothless'.

'Putin has seen a lot of threats from Western powers in the past, particularly
in Georgia,' explained Dr Summers. 'He now may be thinking, "Why should I pay
attention this time?"

'If the West are going to make threats, then they should make decisions they can
actually follow through with and that they can stand behind.'

He pointed out the reaction of Russia's other close neighbours could play more
of a key role in dissuading President Putin from annexing it or declaring its
independence under a puppet government.

Putin has stridently defended Russia's moves in Ukraine, a country he calls a 'a
brotherly nation', saying Moscow was not behind the seizure of Crimea, home of
Russia's Black Sea Fleet.

He has denied western accusations that his troops have captured state buildings
there, saying the armed men were members of local self-defence units.

He says Russia is willing to cooperate with western powers but any solution to
the crisis must be based on an EU-brokered agreement signed on February 21 by
ousted leader Viktor Yanukovich, who Putin has said is Ukraine's legitimate
president.

Putin said he agreed with Obama that Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and U.S.
Secretary of State John Kerry should continue 'intensive contacts' on Ukraine.

Putin's spokesman has today said the president's efforts to de-escalate the
crisis in Ukraine are met with no understanding.

'Regardless of all the efforts of our president, his readiness to explain
Russia's position practically on a daily basis, we still hit a wall of no
understanding,' Peskov said in comments due to broadcast on state television
Rossiya 24 on Sunday.

'It is rather sad and what is worse is that it is very bad from the point of
view of possible repercussions.'

He added Moscow was not orchestrating events in Ukraine. 'Quite the opposite,'
he said.

Russia's Foreign Ministry has said NATO's decision to curb its cooperation with
Moscow showed a 'biased and prejudiced approach' over Ukraine.

'We see as extremely dangerous attempts to bring in the "NATO factor" to
Ukraine, where the situation is complex and delicate as it is, as it creates
additional tension and undermines the prospects for settling the situation,' the
ministry said in a statement.

On Wednesday, NATO announced a full review of its cooperation with Russia and
said it would suspend planning for a joint mission linked to Syrian chemical
weapons.

Ukraine meanwhile has decided against boycotting the Winter Paralympics in
Sochi.

The head of Ukraine's Paralympic Committee says the country's athletes will stay
and compete in Sochi despite Russia's military moves in Crimea.

The decision was announced a few hours before Friday's opening ceremony.

Russian news agency R-Sport quoted Valeriy Sushkevich, the president of
Ukraine's National Paralympic Committee, as saying 'we are staying at the
Paralympics'.

However, he added: 'I don't know to what extent the team can focus on the result
now.'

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        March 7, 2014 Friday 6:47 AM GMT

China warns influential commentators to stick to party line on Kunming attack;
Chinese police threaten journalists for asking frank questions about a terror
attack in Kunming and round up 45 people for "spreading internet rumours"

BYLINE: By Malcolm Mooore Beijing

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 647 words


Chinese police have named and threatened some of the country's most influential
journalists and commentators for questioning the party line on a terror attack
in Kunming.

In recent months, the Chinese authorities have stepped beyond censorship to
directly threaten people with large followings on the internet with grim
repercussions, including jail time, if they do not stay on message. The strategy
has had a chilling effect on public discourse, stopping most celebrities from
speaking freely.

Yesterday marked another severe escalation of the trend, as Beijing's
cybersecurity police posted screenshots of five accounts which they said had
"ignored the facts [about the killings in Kunming], distorted the situation and
hurt the feelings of the people".

Last Saturday, eight attackers dressed in black slashed 29 people to death at
the south western city's railway station. The government said the attackers were
ethnic Uighurs fighting for the independence of the far western region of
Xinjiang.

Feng Xiang, a journalist for the Southern Weekend newspaper, posted a comment on
his Weibo account in the wake of the attack that the authorities "never tell you
what really happens".

"They just let you blindly hate each other, live in fear and confusion without
reason and die in ignorance," he wrote.

His words were reposted by Li Chengpeng, a hugely influential commentator with
seven million followers on Weibo, and by Luo Changping, an investigative
journalist with 350,000 followers. Two other writers questioned whether the
attacks had arisen because of China's repressive policies in Xinjiang.

"I think using force to keep stability is not the right way. We should find the
root of their hatred and that would be the right way to solve the conflict,"
wrote Yan Ming, whose Weibo account has since been deleted.

"We must admit the imperfection of the society and its failure," wrote Cheng
Meixin, another writer.

Beijing police's cybersecurity unit "seriously" warned all five men that "as
public figures you need to be responsible for what you say". It added that if
they violated the law, they would be punished. Last year, China introduced a
regulation saying that internet users can be imprisoned if their posts go viral
and prove to be "rumours".

The post by the police channeled a wave of public anger on the celebrities, with
some calling for Li Chengpeng's "links to foreign terrorists" to be
investigated.

Mr Li quickly responded that even the "inquisition" of writers during the Qing
dynasty had been less pervasive. He added that his post had been deleted on the
orders of the head of Weibo and that he was waiting for the police to act.
"Shall I turn myself in or wait at home for you to come and get me?" he asked.

As well as threatening the five men, the authorities said they had rounded up 45
people after the Kunming attack for posting rumours that could have caused
public unrest.

"Some individuals spread rumours that groups of terrorists had infiltrated other
cities and that other attacks had happened. These rumours deliberately caused
panic and disturbed social order," the police said, adding that some of the
people had been warned and others detained.

The threats from the cybersecurity unit came one week after Xi Jinping, the
Chinese president, named himself the head of a new Central Internet Security
group that will enhance the government's control of cyberspace.

They also came as Xinjiang's party secretary, Zhang Chunxian, blamed the
violence in Kunming on "the fast spread of informatisation".

He suggested that Muslim Uighurs are being radicalised by circumventing China's
web controls to watch videos posted by Islamists on the web.

"By that I mean, 90 per cent of terrorism in Xinjiang comes from jumping the
[Great Firewall]. Violence and terrorism keep happening due to the videos on the
internet," he said.

Additional reporting by Adam Wu

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 8, 2014 Saturday

Yemeni military unit foils terrorist attack by Al-Qa'idah militants

LENGTH: 248 words


Text of report by Yemeni Armed Forces news website 26 September on 8 March

[Unattributed report: "Heroes of the 115th Infantry Brigade in Abyan foil
terrorist attack by Al-Qa'idah"]

Heroes of the 115th Infantry Brigade in collaboration with popular committee
members in the town of Lawdar District in Abyan Governorate this morning foiled
a terrorist attack by Al-Qa'idah militants.

Brigade commander Brig-Gen Muhammad Abdallah Shamba told 26 September.net that
"these militants attempted to assault the brigade with hand grenades and
explosive devices, and some of them were carrying explosive belts. But heroes of
the brigade thwarted the attack and killed one of the terrorists, a Saudi
national, wounded another, and arrested two." He noted that two soldiers were
killed and a third was wounded, adding that "heroes of the brigade are hunting
down the militants, who fled the scene, to arrest them and clear the area.

For his part, an official military source stressed that heroes of the armed
forces and security agencies are on the alert to teach those terrorists a hard
lesson, eradicate terrorism, and clear the Yemeni territories of their evils. He
reiterated that they will be pursued, and arrested wherever they are with the
help of the honourable citizens, adding that they will be brought to justice and
receive their just and deterrent punishment for the crimes they have committed
against the homeland and citizens.

Source: 26 September website, Sanaa, in Arabic 0000 gmt 8 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 8, 2014 Saturday

Four terrorists, including Saudi, killed in terrorist attack in Yemen

LENGTH: 91 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Abyan, 8 March (Saba) - Terrorist militants attacked on Saturday [8 March] a
checkpoint of the 115th Brigade in Lawder town in Abyan province, a military
official said.

They were equipped with explosive belts, grenades and heavy machine-guns, he
said, adding that four of the attackers, including a Saudi national, were
killed.

Two soldiers were killed and one other injured in the attack, the official said.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 1730 gmt 8 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 8, 2014 Saturday 11:22 PM GMT

Was it a terror attack? Two people  on board Boeing 777 that disappeared over
Vietnam were traveling on STOLEN PASSPORTS as missing U.S passengers identified
as IBM exec and two toddlers

BYLINE: RICHARD SHEARS and LIZZIE PARRY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3999 words



     ·    Malaysia Airlines flight Mhl0 took off from Kuala Lumpur at 12.21am
     ·    Vietnamese Navy detected emergency signal 153 miles out to sea
     ·    Flight Mhl0 declared missing nearly 90 minutes after it was due to
          land
     ·    Malaysian Transport Minister said 'no crash site has been found'
     ·    227 passengers and 12 crew were from 14 different countries including
          Malaysia, China, U.S., France, Canada, and Australia
     ·    Three Americans, including two toddlers, feared dead
     ·    IBM employee Philip Wood, 51, identified as sole adult American
          national aboard the missing plane
     ·    Two passengers believed to have been travelling on a stolen passports
     ·    Aviation expert Chris Yates said the aircraft will not have been
          carrying enough fuel to still be flying and 'will have crashed'
     ·    He said the investigation will look at two areas, the maintenance of
          the aircraft and possible terrorism
     ·    Vietnamese air force spot two oil slicks suspected to be from the
          wreckage


An American national working for IBM in Malaysia has been identified as one of
the passengers traveling on board the Malaysian Airlines plane that vanished off
the coast of Vietnam as new information concerning stolen passports has raised
fears that it may have been an act of terror.

Philip Wood, 51, was identified as the only adult passenger traveling on a U.S.
passport on Flight Mhl7. Two other American travelers have been named as
toddlers Leo Meng, 2, and Nicole Meng, 4.

Earlier today, two oil slicks were spotted by the Vietnamese air force that had
joined a major search and rescue operation started when the aircraft disappeared
shortly after losing contact with air traffic controllers.

The Boeing 777, with 227 passengers and 12 crew members, took off from Kuala
Lumpur at 12.21am (4.21pm GMT) bound for Beijing, where it was expected to land
at 6.30am (10.30pm GMT).

But after reaching 35,000ft and 120 nautical miles off the coast of the
Malaysian town of Kota Bharu the plane vanished, prompting fears the aircraft
'could have crashed'.

As Malaysian Airlines released a full list of the passengers on board -
including five children aged two to four years old - it emerged two passengers
were traveling on stolen passports.

Scroll down for video

Luigi Maraldi, 27, was listed as the sole Italian national on the missing
flight, but according to his father, was not on the plane.

'Luigi called us early this morning to reassure us he was fine, but we didn't
know about the accident,' Walter Maraldi told NBC News. 'Thank God he heard
about it before us.'

The name of Austrian citizen Christian Kozel, 30, also appeared on the passenger
manifest, but the European nation's foreign ministry stated that the man was
safe back home, and that his passport had been stolen.

Officials from Italy and Austria confirmed that the travel documents of both men
were reported stolen in Thailand. The Austrian passport was taken two years ago,
and the Italian one last year.

A list of passenger names posted at the Beijing airport, apparently by Chinese
authorities, listed three U.S. passport holders: Philip Tallmadge Wood, 51;
Nicole Meng, 4; and Leo Meng, 2.

Wood is believed to be an IBM technical storage executive who began working in
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, only three months ago, according to his LinkedIn
profile.

The two Canadian passengers were identified as mining executive Muktesh
Mukherjee and his wife Xiaomo Bai.

What may have caused the Malaysian Airlines plane to disappear

The most dangerous parts of a flight are takeoff and landing. Incidents rarely
happen when midflight.

The disappearance of a Malaysia Airlines jet well into its flight has led
experts to assume that whatever happened was quick and left the pilots no time
to make a distress call.

It initially appears there was either a sudden breakup of the plane or something
that led it into a quick, steep dive. Some experts even suggested an act of
terrorism.

Possible causes for a crash include:

Catastrophic structural failure This could have damaged the airframe or engines.
Given the plane's impressive safety record, experts suggest this is unlikely.

Bad weather Planes are designed to fly though most severe storms, but poor
weather has caused crashes in the past. However, the skies were clear in this
case.

Pilot disorientation The pilots could have taken the plane off autopilot and
somehow gone course.

Failure of both engines In January 2008, a British Airways 777 crashed about
1,000 feet short of the runway at London's Heathrow Airport. There were no
fatalities. Such a scenario is possible, but the plane could glide for up to 20
minutes, giving pilots plenty of time to make an emergency call.

A bomb Several planes have been brought down by bombs. If the debris field is
large it will indicate the plane broke apart high up.

Hijacking A traditional hijacking seems unlikely given that a plane's captors
typically land at an airport and have some type of demand. But a 9/11-like
hijacking is possible, with terrorists forcing the plane into the ocean.

Pilot suicide There were two large jet crashes in the late 1990s that
investigators suspected were caused by pilots deliberately crashing.

Accidental shoot-down There have been two previous cases of passenger jets being
brought down accidentally by the military.

According to their Facebook pages, the couple had two young sons, who were
apparently not on the flight.

Also named among the passengers were Australian nationals Catherine and Robert
Lawton, from Brisbane.

The husband and wife were reportedly traveling with their compatriots Mary and
Rodney Burrows.

A third couple from Australia, Li Yuan and Gu Naijun, from Sydney, were also
listed as missing.

As the air search was abandoned overnight, aviation expert Chris Yates said the
plane would not be carrying enough fuel to still be in the air and would
'definitely have crashed'.

He told Sky News: 'Frankly the plane would not have been carrying enough fuel to
stay aloft much longer than an hour after it was due to arrive in Beijing.

'We simply don't know the circumstances behind what caused that crash at the
moment.

'There will be two areas for the investigation: the maintenance of the aircraft
and also possible terrorism.'

The lack of an emergency call 'suggests something very sudden and very violent
happened,' William Waldock, who teaches accident investigation at Embry-Riddle
Aeronautical University in Arizona, said.

Scott Hamilton, managing director of aviation consultancy Leeham Co., added:
'Either you had a catastrophic event that tore the airplane apart, or you had a
criminal act.

'It was so quick and they didn't radio.'

Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak said search operations in an area about
midway between Malaysia and Vietnam's southern coast were being intensified.

It comes as the Vietnamese air force reported it has spotted two oil slicks,
thought to be from the wreckage of the crash.

A Vietnamese government statement said the slicks were spotted off the southern
tip of Vietnam.

They were each between six miles and nine miles long, officials said.

The statement said the slicks were consistent with the kinds that would be left
by fuel from a crashed jetliner, but it was not clear if they were connected to
the missing aircraft.

'Vietnam rescue airplanes saw two oil spills and one smoke column in the area
around 150 miles west of Tho Chu island, but we can't confirm it's from that
Malaysia plane,' said Pham Quy Tieu, vice minister of transportation.

'We sent two maritime boats and some military boats there to clarify, each boat
with about 20 people. The oil spills are about 15km (9.3 miles) long. Those
boats will be there in about three to four hours.'

Less than one hour after Flight Mhl0 left Kuala Lumpur for Beijing, the plane
disappeared from radar.

Malaysia Airlines CEO Ahmad Jauhari Yahya said there was no indication that the
pilots sent a distress signal. The fact that there was apparently no call for
help suggests that whatever happened to the flight occurred quickly.

'We are doing everything in our power to locate the plane. We are doing
everything we can to ensure every possible angle has been addressed'

- Malaysian transport minister Hishamuddin Hussein

'We are doing everything in our power to locate the plane. We are doing
everything we can to ensure every possible angle has been addressed,' Transport
Minister Hishamuddin Hussein told reporters near the Kuala Lumpur International
Airport.

'We are looking for accurate information from the Malaysian military. They are
waiting for information from the Vietnamese side,' he said.

Ships in the area have been involved, scouring the vast site for signs of a
wreckage.

The South China Sea is a tense region with competing territorial claims that
have led to several low-level conflicts, particularly between China and the
Philippines.

That antipathy briefly faded Saturday as China, the Philippines, Vietnam,
Singapore and Malaysia all sent ships and planes to the region.

Malaysia had dispatched 15 planes and nine ships to the area. The U.S. Navy was
sending a warship and a surveillance plane, and Singapore said it would send a
submarine and a plane. China and Vietnam also were sending aircraft to help in
the search.

Malaysian Airlines has confirmed the majority of those on board are from
Malaysia and China, with three Americans, two Canadians and seven Australians
and passengers from France.

Vietnamese state media, quoting a senior naval official, had reported that the
Boeing 777-200ER flight had crashed off south Vietnam, but those reports have
been denied, with the plane listed as 'missing'.

The Vietnamese Navy confirmed it detected the aircraft's emergency locator
signal 153 miles south of Phu Quoc island in the South China sea.

Admiral Ngo Van Phat told the Vietnamese newspaper Tuoi Tre that radar showed
the aircraft had crashed into the sea off the southern tip of Vietnam, close to
the border with Cambodia.

TIMELINE OF FLIGHT Mhl7

12.21am (4.21pm GMT): Flight Mhl7 takes off from Kuala Lumpur airport

1.21am (5.21pm GMT): The flight failed to check in as scheduled while flying
between Malaysia and Ho Chi Minh city, Vietnam

2.40am (6.40pm GMT):

The flight loses contact with air traffic controllers

6.30am (10.30pm GMT):

The flight was scheduled to land at Beijing

7.54am (11.54pm GMT):

The airline issued a statement saying it had not landed and was officially
missing

The paper later reported the Admiral qualifying his statement, saying the radar
had revealed the presumed crash site.

Malaysian naval vessels saw no immediate sign of wreckage when they reached the
maritime area off the country's northeast coast this morning, a senior rescue
official said.

Malaysia has sent three maritime enforcement ships and a navy vessel to the
area, backed by three helicopters, a Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency
official said.

'Our aircraft asset spotted an orange speck in the sea where the last signal
came from. We sent a vessel to search the area and it was confirmed that it was
nothing,' he said.

The signal picked up by the Navy is believed to be the Emergency Locator
Transmittor, which can be activated manually by the flight crew or automatically
upon impact.

Crying relatives of Chinese passengers on board the plane wept at Beijing
airport as it became clear the jet had probably crashed.

An unconfirmed report on a flight tracking website said the aircraft had plunged
650ft and changed course shortly before all contact was lost.

The route would have taken flight Mhl0, a B777-200 aircraft, across the
Malaysian mainland in a north-easterly direction and then across the Gulf of
Thailand.

Chinese state media said 24 Chinese artists and family members, who were in
Kuala Lumpur for an art exchange program, were aboard. The Sichuan provincial
government said Zhang Jinquan, a well-known calligrapher, was on the flight.

The pilot of the passenger plane is Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah, a 53-year-old
Malaysia who joined the airline in 1981.

His co-pilot was 27-year-old First Officer Fariq Ab. Hamid, also from Malaysia,
who joined the airline in 2007.

If the aircraft has crashed, and all the passengers and crew are killed, it
would the deadliest aviation incident since November 2001.

In that incident, 265 people died after an American Airlines Airbus A300 crashed
in Belle Harbor, Queens, after leaving JFK Airport in New York. The deaths
included five people on the ground.

MAS Operations Control Vice President Fuad Sharuji said: 'We tried to call this
aircraft through various means,' adding that it was carrying fuel for 7.5 hours
when it disappeared.

Lai Xuan Thanh, director of Vietnam's civil aviation authority, said the plane
was over the sea and bound for Vietnamese airspace but air traffic officials in
the country were never able to make contact.

The plane 'lost all contact and radar signal one minute before it entered
Vietnam's air traffic control,' Lieutenant General Vo Van Tuan, deputy chief of
staff of the Vietnamese army, said in a statement issued by the government.

More than 10 hours after last contact, officials from several countries were
struggling to locate the plane.

All countries in the possible flight path of the missing aircraft were
performing a 'communications and radio search', John Andrews, deputy chief of
the Philippines' civil aviation agency, said.

Xinhua said China has sent two maritime rescue ships to the South China Sea to
help in the search and rescue efforts.

'It couldn't possibly be in the air because it would have run out of oil by
now,' Shukor Yusof, an aviation analyst at S&P Capital IQ, said.

'It's either on the ground somewhere, intact, or possibly it has gone down in
the water.'

Aviation experts said that if the report of the aircraft suddenly plunging was
correct it could be due to a number of factors.

'CRASH' WOULD BE DEADLIEST IN PLANE'S 19-YEAR HISTORY

If it is confirmed that the plane has crashed, the loss would mark the second
fatal accident involving a Boeing 777 in less than a year and by far the worst
since the jet entered service in 1995.

It would mark the U.S.-built Boeing 777-200ER airliner's deadliest incident
since entering service 19 years ago.

An Asiana Airlines Boeing 777-200ER crash-landed in San Francisco in July 2013,
killing three passengers and injuring more than 180.

Boeing said it was aware of reports that the Malaysia Airlines plane was missing
and was monitoring the situation but had no further comment.

The flight was operating as a China Southern Airlines codeshare.

An official at the Civil Aviation Authority of Vietnam (CAAV) said the plane had
failed to check in as scheduled at 5.21pm GMT while it was flying over the sea
between Malaysia and Ho Chi Minh city.

These include a catastrophic engine failure; the pilots taking evasive action to
avoid another aircraft; or an explosion.

The airline has not said whether the pilots were able to issue a distress call -
but if they did not, experts said this could indicate a catastrophy that had
occurred without warning.

At Beijing's airport, authorities posted a notice asking relatives and friends
of passengers to gather to a hotel about 15km from the airport to wait for
further information, and provided a shuttle bus service.

A woman wept on the shuttle bus while saying on a mobile phone: 'They want us to
go to the hotel. It cannot be good.'

Periodically, wails could be heard coming from inside the hotel conference room
where the relatives were sequestered, and several people emerged in the
mid-afternoon, complaining that airline officials were not providing sufficient
information.

'We are being treated like dogs!' one man yelled, pushing through a crowd of
reporters.

A waiting area for family and friends was also set up at the Kuala Lumpur
airport the flight had left from.

Fuad Sharuji, Malaysian Airlines' vice president of operations control, told CNN
that the plane was flying at an altitude of 35,000ft and that the pilots had
reported no problem with the aircraft.

The Boeing jet lost contact with Malaysian air traffic controllers a little over
two hours into its flight.

Reports from China's Xinhua news agency said later that the aircraft was lost in
air space controlled by Vietnam and did not enter Chinese airspace or make any
contact with Chinese controllers.

'Our team is currently calling the next of kin of passengers and crew,' the
airline's chief executive, Ahmad Jauhari Yahya, said as the airline issued a
statement saying its 'thoughts and prayers' were with all those on board as well
as their families.

NATIONALITIES OF THE MISSING

China/Taiwan: 152, including an infant

Malaysia: 38

India: 5

Indonesia: 7

Australia: 6

France: 4

U.S.: 3, including two toddlers

New Zealand: 2

Ukraine: 2

Canada: 2

Russia: 1

Netherlands: 1

Finding planes that disappear over the ocean can be difficult. Airliner 'black
boxes' -  the flight data and cockpit voice recorders - are equipped with
'pingers' that emit ultrasonic signals that can be detected underwater.

Under good conditions, the signals can be detected from several hundred miles
away, John Goglia, a former member of the U.S. National Transportation Safety
Board, said.

If the boxes are trapped inside the wreckage, the sound may not travel as far,
he said. If the boxes are in an underwater trench, that also hinders how far the
sound can travel. The signals also weaken over time.

Unconfirmed reports said it was believed the missing aircraft was involved in a
crash in August 2012 when it damaged the tail of a China Eastern Airlines plane
at Shanghai Pudong Airport.

The reports said that in that incident the tip of the wing of the Malaysian
Airlines Boeing 777 broke off.

Retired American Airlines captain Jim Tilmon told CNN that 'it doesn't sound
very good,' as the search continued for the missing jet.

'The route is mostly overland, which means there would be plenty of radars and
radios to contact the plane.

'I've been trying to come up with every scenario that I could just to explain
this away, but I haven't been very successful.'

Mr Tilmon said the jet was 'about as sophisticated as any commercial airplane
could possibly be.'

A leading aviation safety expert has said it is 'extraordinary' that the pilots
of a missing Malaysia Airlines plane carrying 239 people did not make a distress
call.

The Boeing B777-200 aircraft would have been cruising at about 35,000 feet when
it lost contact over the South China Sea, giving the pilots 'plenty of time' to
report any technical problems, Flight Global's operations and safety editor
David Learmount said.

Mr Learmount said: 'Something happened and the pilots did not tell anyone. Why?
It's a good question.

'It's extraordinary the pilots failed to call because they had plenty of time
to. Unless there was a bomb on board but there has been no evidence of that.'

Mr Learmount, who is a pilot, drew comparisons with the Air France 447 plane
crash over the Atlantic Ocean in 2009, which killed 216 passengers and 12
aircrew, including five Britons.

The aircraft crashed when pilots lost control after ice crystals affected
sensors used to measure the plane's speed, he said.

Mr Learmount said: 'This is an historical comparison and could be a coincidence.

'Modern aircrafts are beautifully built and incredibly safe.

'If the engines were to fail because of some kind of interruption to the fuel
flow, they can glide with no problems whatsoever for about 40 minutes at that
height.'

Mr Learmount said the time which the Malaysia Airlines plane went missing may be
significant.

He said: 'Between midnight and 2am you're not at a mental or physical
performance high - you're at the lowest performance standard in the 24-hour
cycle.'

Plane's disappearance crash echoes Air France crash


     ·    Air France flight 447 crashed over the Atlantic in 2009
     ·    216 passengers were killed along with  12 crew members - five Britons
          were among the dead
     ·    Aircraft crashed when pilots lost control when ice crystals affected
          sensors used to measure the plane's speed
     ·    Investigators took two years to find the Air France plane


The failure to locate the plane so far was not unusual, he added, with
investigators taking two years to find the missing Air France 447 plane.

However, Mr Learmount admitted he was 'puzzled' why authorities had not divulged
a more accurate location of where the aircraft went missing.

'They may not know precisely but they know pretty accurately,' he said.

The 53-year-old Malaysia Airlines pilot, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, has more than
18,000 flying hours and has been flying for the airline since 1981, the
company's chief executive Ahmad Jauhari Yahya said.

The first officer, 27-year-old Fariq Hamid, has about 2,800 hours of experience
and has flown for the airline since 2007.

BOEING 777: ONE OF THE WORLD'S SAFEST JETS

The Boeing 777 flown by Malaysia Airlines that disappeared over the South China
Sea is one of the world's most popular - and safest - jets.

The long-range jumbo jet has helped connect cities at the far ends of the globe,
with flights as long as 16 hours.

But more impressive is its safety record: The first fatal crash in its 19-year
history only came last July when an Asiana Airlines jet landed short of the
runway in San Francisco. Three of the 307 people aboard died.

Airlines like the plane because it is capable of flying extremely long distances
thanks to two giant engines.

Each engine is so massive that a row of at least five coach seats could fit
inside it. By having just two engines, the plane burns through less fuel than
four-engine jets, like the Boeing 747, which it has essentially replaced.

"It has provided a new standard in both efficiency and safety," said Richard
Aboulafia, an aviation consultant with the Teal Group.

"The 777 has enjoyed one of the safest records of any jetliner built."

Besides last year's Asiana crash, the only other serious incident with the 777
came in January 2008 when a British Airways jet landed about 1,000 feet short of
the runway at London's Heathrow Airport.

Malaysia Airlines did have an incident in August 2005 with a 777 flying from
Perth, Australia, to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia's largest city.

While flying 38,000 feet above the Indian Ocean, the plane's software
incorrectly measured speed and acceleration, causing the plane to suddenly shoot
up 3,000 feet.

The pilot disengaged the autopilot and descended and landed safely back in
Perth. A software update was quickly made on planes around the world.

Malaysia Airlines has 15 Boeing 777-200ER jets in its fleet of about 100 planes.
The first was delivered on April 23, 1997, and the most recent on December 13,
2004, according to Boeing. The 200ER is one of four versions of the 777.

The 777 is capable of flying 7,250 miles non-stop. Its two Rolls-Royce Trent 875
engines each have 74,600lb of thrust, letting the plane cruise at Mach 0.84, or
nearly 640 mph.

A new model has a list price of 261.5 million US dollars (£156 million),
although airlines usually negotiate discounts.

The 777 was the first twin-engine plane to be immediately certified to fly over
the ocean as far as 180 minutes from any emergency landing airport.

Government safety regulators have determined that it could fly for nearly three
hours on a single engine in the case of an emergency.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 8, 2014 Saturday 8:13 PM GMT

Was it a terror attack? Two people aboard Boeing 777 that disappeared over
Vietnam were traveling on STOLEN PASSPORTS as missing U.S passengers identified
as IBM exec and two toddlers

BYLINE: RICHARD SHEARS and LIZZIE PARRY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3737 words



     ·    Malaysia Airlines flight Mhl0 took off from Kuala Lumpur at 12.21am
     ·    Vietnamese Navy detected emergency signal 153 miles out to sea
     ·    Flight Mhl0 declared missing nearly 90 minutes after it was due to
          land
     ·    Malaysian Transport Minister said 'no crash site has been found'
     ·    227 passengers and 12 crew were from 14 different countries including
          Malaysia, China, U.S., France, Canada, and Australia
     ·    Three Americans, including two toddlers, feared dead
     ·    IBM employee Philip Wood, 51, identified as sole adult American
          national aboard the missing plane
     ·    Two passengers believed to have been travelling on a stolen passports
     ·    Aviation expert Chris Yates said the aircraft will not have been
          carrying enough fuel to still be flying and 'will have crashed'
     ·    He said the investigation will look at two areas, the maintenance of
          the aircraft and possible terrorism
     ·    Vietnamese air force spot two oil slicks suspected to be from the
          wreckage


An American national working for IBM in Malaysia has been identified as one of
the passengers traveling aboard the Malaysian Airlines plane that vanished off
the coast of Vietnam as new information concerning stolen passports has raised
fears that it may have been an act of terror.

Philip Wood, 51, was identified as the only adult passenger traveling on a U.S.
passport on Flight Mhl7. Two other American travelers have been named as
toddlers Leo Meng, 2, and Nicole Meng, 4.

Earlier today, two oil slicks were spotted by the Vietnamese air force earlier
today, as the major search and rescue operation was launched when the aircraft
disappeared shortly after losing contact with air traffic controllers.

The Boeing 777, with 227 passengers and 12 crew members on board, took off from
Kuala Lumpur at 12.21am (4.21pm GMT) bound for Beijing, where it was expected to
land at 6.30am (10.30pm GMT). Among them were three Americans, including two
toddlers.

But after reaching 35,000ft and 120 nautical miles off the coast of the
Malaysian town of Kota Bharu the plane vanished, prompting fears the aircraft
'could have crashed'.

As Malaysian Airlines released a full list of the passengers on board -
including five children aged two to four years old - it emerged two passengers
were traveling on stolen passports.

Scroll down for video

Luigi Maraldi, 27, was listed as the sole Italian national aboard the missing
flight, but according to his father, was not on the plane.

'Luigi called us early this morning to reassure us he was fine, but we didn't
know about the accident,' Walter Maraldi told NBC News. 'Thank God he heard
about it before us.'

The name of Austrian citizen Christian Kozel, 30, also appeared on the passenger
manifest, but the European nation's foreign ministry stated that the man was
safe back home, and that his passport had been stolen.

Officials from Italy and Austria confirmed that the travel documents of both men
were reported stolen in Thailand.

A list of passenger names posted at the Beijing airport, apparently by Chinese
authorities, listed three U.S. passport holders: Philip Tallmadge Wood, 51;
Nicole Meng, 4; and Leo Meng, 2.

Wood is believed to be an IBM technical storage executive who began working in
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, only three months ago, according to his LinkedIn
profile.

As Saturday unfolded, more information started to emerge about some of the
victims aboard the doomed plane.

The two Canadian passengers were identified as mining executive Muktesh
Mukherjee and his wife Xiaomo Bai.

According to their Facebook pages, the couple had two young sons, who were
apparently not aboard the flight.

Also named among the passengers were Australian nationals Catherine and Robert
Lawton, from Brisbane.

The husband and wife were reportedly traveling with their compatriots Mary and
Rodney Burrows.

A third couple from Australia, Li Yuan and Gu Naijun, from Sydney, were also
listed as missing.

As the air search was abandoned overnight, aviation expert Chris Yates said the
plane would not be carrying enough fuel to still be in the air and would
'definitely have crashed'.

He told Sky News: 'Frankly the plane would not have been carrying enough fuel to
stay aloft much longer than an hour after it was due to arrive in Beijing.

'We simply don't know the circumstances behind what caused that crash at the
moment.

'There will be two areas for the investigation: the maintenance of the aircraft
and also possible terrorism.'

Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak said there has been no sign of the missing
plane.

He said search operations in an area about midway between Malaysia and Vietnam's
southern coast were being intensified.

It comes as the Vietnamese air force reports it has spotted two oil slicks,
thought to be from the wreckage of the crash.

A Vietnamese government statement said the slicks were spotted off the southern
tip of Vietnam.

They were each between six miles and nine miles long, officials said.

The statement said the slicks were consistent with the kinds that would be left
by fuel from a crashed jetliner, but it was not clear if they were connected to
the missing aircraft.

'Vietnam rescue airplanes saw two oil spills and one smoke column in the area
around 150 miles west of Tho Chu island, but we can't confirm it's from that
Malaysia plane,' said Pham Quy Tieu, vice minister of transportation.

'We sent two maritime boats and some military boats there to clarify, each boat
with about 20 people. The oil spills are about 15km (9.3 miles) long. Those
boats will be there in about three to four hours.'

Less than one hour after Flight Mhl0 left Kuala Lumpur for Beijing, the plane
disappeared from radar.

Malaysia Airlines CEO Ahmad Jauhari Yahya said there was no indication that the
pilots sent a distress signal. The fact that there was apparently no call for
help suggests that whatever happened to the flight occurred quickly.

'We are doing everything in our power to locate the plane. We are doing
everything we can to ensure every possible angle has been addressed'

- Malaysian transport minister Hishamuddin Hussein

'We are doing everything in our power to locate the plane. We are doing
everything we can to ensure every possible angle has been addressed,' Transport
Minister Hishamuddin Hussein told reporters near the Kuala Lumpur International
Airport.

'We are looking for accurate information from the Malaysian military. They are
waiting for information from the Vietnamese side,' he said.

Ships in the area have been involved, scouring the vast site for signs of a
wreckage.

The South China Sea is a tense region with competing territorial claims that
have led to several low-level conflicts, particularly between China and the
Philippines.

That antipathy briefly faded Saturday as China, the Philippines, Vietnam,
Singapore and Malaysia all sent ships and planes to the region.

Malaysia had dispatched 15 planes and nine ships to the area. The U.S. Navy was
sending a warship and a surveillance plane, while Singapore said it would send a
submarine and a plane. China and Vietnam also were sending aircraft to help in
the search.

Malaysian Airlines has confirmed the majority of those on board are from
Malaysia and China, with three Americans, two Canadians and seven Australians
and passengers from France.

Vietnamese state media, quoting a senior naval official, had reported that the
Boeing 777-200ER flight had crashed off south Vietnam, but those reports have
been denied, with the plane listed as 'missing'.

The Vietnamese Navy confirmed it detected the aircraft's emergency locator
signal 153 miles south of Phu Quoc island in the South China sea.

Admiral Ngo Van Phat told the Vietnamese newspaper Tuoi Tre that radar showed
the aircraft had crashed into the sea off the southern tip of Vietnam, close to
the border with Cambodia.

TIMELINE OF FLIGHT Mhl7

12.21am (4.21pm GMT): Flight Mhl7 takes off from Kuala Lumpur airport

1.21am (5.21pm GMT): The flight failed to check in as scheduled while flying
between Malaysia and Ho Chi Minh city, Vietnam

2.40am (6.40pm GMT):

The flight loses contact with air traffic controllers

6.30am (10.30pm GMT):

The flight was scheduled to land at Beijing

7.54am (11.54pm GMT):

The airline issued a statement saying it had not landed and was officially
missing

The paper later reported the Admiral qualifying his statement, saying the radar
had revealed the presumed crash site.

Malaysian naval vessels saw no immediate sign of wreckage when they reached the
maritime area off the country's northeast coast this morning, a senior rescue
official said.

Malaysia has sent three maritime enforcement ships and a navy vessel to the
area, backed by three helicopters, a Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency
official said.

'Our aircraft asset spotted an orange speck in the sea where the last signal
came from. We sent a vessel to search the area and it was confirmed that it was
nothing,' he said.

The signal picked up by the Navy is believed to be the Emergency Locator
Transmittor, which can be activated manually by the flight crew or automatically
upon impact.

Crying relatives of Chinese passengers on board the plane wept at Beijing
airport earlier today as it became clear the jet had probably crashed.

An unconfirmed report on a flight tracking website said the aircraft had plunged
650ft and changed course shortly before all contact was lost.

The route would have taken flight Mhl0, a B777-200 aircraft, across the
Malaysian mainland in a north-easterly direction and then across the Gulf of
Thailand.

Those on the flight included two American toddlers and a Chinese baby, and 12
crew members, Malaysian Airlines said in a statement, adding it was working with
all authorities in the region and search and rescue teams had been mobilized.

The aircraft had been due to land in Beijing at 6.30am local time but at 7.54am
the airline issued a statement saying it had not landed and was officially
missing.

It said there were 152 passengers from China, 38 from Malaysia, seven from
Indonesia, six from Australia, five from India, three from the U.S., and others
from Indonesia, France, New Zealand, Canada, Ukraine, Russia, Taiwan and the
Netherlands.

Chinese state media said 24 Chinese artists and family members, who were in
Kuala Lumpur for an art exchange program, were aboard. The Sichuan provincial
government said Zhang Jinquan, a well-known calligrapher, was on the flight.

The pilot of the passenger plane is Captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah, a 53-year-old
Malaysia who joined the airline in 1981.

His co-pilot was 27-year-old First Officer Fariq Ab. Hamid, also from Malaysia,
who joined the airline in 2007.

If the aircraft has crashed, and all the passengers and crew are killed, it
would the deadliest aviation incident since November 2001.

In that incident, 265 people died after an American Airlines Airbus A300 crashed
in Belle Harbor, Queens, after leaving JFK Airport in New York. The deaths
included five people on the ground.

MAS Operations Control Vice President Fuad Sharuji said: 'We tried to call this
aircraft through various means,' adding that it was carrying fuel for 7.5 hours
when it disappeared.

Lai Xuan Thanh, director of Vietnam's civil aviation authority, said the plane
was over the sea and bound for Vietnamese airspace but air traffic officials in
the country were never able to make contact.

The plane 'lost all contact and radar signal one minute before it entered
Vietnam's air traffic control,' Lieutenant General Vo Van Tuan, deputy chief of
staff of the Vietnamese army, said in a statement issued by the government.

More than 10 hours after last contact, officials from several countries were
struggling to locate the plane.

All countries in the possible flight path of the missing aircraft were
performing a 'communications and radio search', John Andrews, deputy chief of
the Philippines' civil aviation agency, said.

Xinhua said China has sent two maritime rescue ships to the South China Sea to
help in the search and rescue efforts.

'It couldn't possibly be in the air because it would have run out of oil by
now,' Shukor Yusof, an aviation analyst at S&P Capital IQ, said.

'It's either on the ground somewhere, intact, or possibly it has gone down in
the water.'

Aviation experts said that if the report of the aircraft suddenly plunging was
correct it could be due to a number of factors.

'CRASH' WOULD BE DEADLIEST IN PLANE'S 19-YEAR HISTORY

If it is confirmed that the plane has crashed, the loss would mark the second
fatal accident involving a Boeing 777 in less than a year and by far the worst
since the jet entered service in 1995.

It would mark the U.S.-built Boeing 777-200ER airliner's deadliest incident
since entering service 19 years ago.

An Asiana Airlines Boeing 777-200ER crash-landed in San Francisco in July 2013,
killing three passengers and injuring more than 180.

Boeing said it was aware of reports that the Malaysia Airlines plane was missing
and was monitoring the situation but had no further comment.

The flight was operating as a China Southern Airlines codeshare.

An official at the Civil Aviation Authority of Vietnam (CAAV) said the plane had
failed to check in as scheduled at 5.21pm GMT while it was flying over the sea
between Malaysia and Ho Chi Minh city.

These include a catastrophic engine failure; the pilots taking evasive action to
avoid another aircraft; or an explosion.

The airline has not said whether the pilots were able to issue a distress call -
but if they did not, experts said this could indicate a catastrophy that had
occurred without warning.

At Beijing's airport, authorities posted a notice asking relatives and friends
of passengers to gather to a hotel about 15km from the airport to wait for
further information, and provided a shuttle bus service.

A woman wept on the shuttle bus while saying on a mobile phone: 'They want us to
go to the hotel. It cannot be good.'

Periodically, wails could be heard coming from inside the hotel conference room
where the relatives were sequestered, and several people emerged in the
mid-afternoon, complaining that airline officials were not providing sufficient
information.

'We are being treated like dogs!' one man yelled, pushing through a crowd of
reporters.

A waiting area for family and friends was also set up at the Kuala Lumpur
airport the flight had left from.

Fuad Sharuji, Malaysian Airlines' vice president of operations control, told CNN
that the plane was flying at an altitude of 35,000ft and that the pilots had
reported no problem with the aircraft.

The Boeing jet lost contact with Malaysian air traffic controllers a little over
two hours into its flight.

Reports from China's Xinhua news agency said later that the aircraft was lost in
air space controlled by Vietnam and did not enter Chinese airspace or make any
contact with Chinese controllers.

'Our team is currently calling the next of kin of passengers and crew,' the
airline's chief executive, Ahmad Jauhari Yahya, said as the airline issued a
statement saying its 'thoughts and prayers' were with all those on board as well
as their families.

NATIONALITIES OF THE MISSING

China/Taiwan: 152, including an infant

Malaysia: 38

India: 5

Indonesia: 7

Australia: 6

France: 4

U.S.: 3, including two toddlers

New Zealand: 2

Ukraine: 2

Canada: 2

Russian: 1

Netherlands: 1

Finding planes that disappear over the ocean can be difficult. Airliner 'black
boxes' -  the flight data and cockpit voice recorders - are equipped with
'pingers' that emit ultrasonic signals that can be detected underwater.

Under good conditions, the signals can be detected from several hundred miles
away, John Goglia, a former member of the U.S. National Transportation Safety
Board, said.

If the boxes are trapped inside the wreckage, the sound may not travel as far,
he said. If the boxes are in an underwater trench, that also hinders how far the
sound can travel. The signals also weaken over time.

Unconfirmed reports said it was believed the missing aircraft was involved in a
crash in August 2012 when it damaged the tail of a China Eastern Airlines plane
at Shanghai Pudong Airport.

The reports said that in that incident the tip of the wing of the Malaysian
Airlines Boeing 777 broke off.

Retired American Airlines captain Jim Tilmon told CNN that 'it doesn't sound
very good,' as the search continued for the missing jet.

'The route is mostly overland, which means there would be plenty of radars and
radios to contact the plane.

'I've been trying to come up with every scenario that I could just to explain
this away, but I haven't been very successful.'

Mr Tilmon said the jet was 'about as sophisticated as any commercial airplane
could possibly be.'

A leading aviation safety expert has said it is 'extraordinary' that the pilots
of a missing Malaysia Airlines plane carrying 239 people did not make a distress
call.

The Boeing B777-200 aircraft would have been cruising at about 35,000 feet when
it lost contact over the South China Sea, giving the pilots 'plenty of time' to
report any technical problems, Flight Global's operations and safety editor
David Learmount said.

Mr Learmount said: 'Something happened and the pilots did not tell anyone. Why?
It's a good question.

'It's extraordinary the pilots failed to call because they had plenty of time
to. Unless there was a bomb on board but there has been no evidence of that.'

Mr Learmount, who is a pilot, drew comparisons with the Air France 447 plane
crash over the Atlantic Ocean in 2009, which killed 216 passengers and 12
aircrew, including five Britons.

The aircraft crashed when pilots lost control after ice crystals affected
sensors used to measure the plane's speed, he said.

Mr Learmount said: 'This is an historical comparison and could be a coincidence.

'It also happened in the early hours of morning, after midnight in the dead of
night, and went missing without a call from the pilots.

'Modern aircrafts are beautifully built and incredibly safe.

'If the engines were to fail because of some kind of interruption to the fuel
flow, they can glide with no problems whatsoever for about 40 minutes at that
height.'

Mr Learmount said the time which the Malaysia Airlines plane went missing may be
significant.

He said: 'Between midnight and 2am you're not at a mental or physical
performance high - you're at the lowest performance standard in the 24-hour
cycle.'

Plane's disappearance crash echoes Air France crash


     ·    Air France flight 447 crashed over the Atlantic in 2009
     ·    216 passengers were killed along with  12 crew members - five Britons
          were among the dead
     ·    Aircraft crashed when pilots lost control when ice crystals affected
          sensors used to measure the plane's speed
     ·    Investigators took two years to find the Air France plane


The failure to locate the plane so far was not unusual, he added, with
investigators taking two years to find the missing Air France 447 plane.

However, Mr Learmount admitted he was 'puzzled' why authorities had not divulged
a more accurate location of where the aircraft went missing.

'They may not know precisely but they know pretty accurately,' he said.

The 53-year-old Malaysia Airlines pilot, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, has more than
18,000 flying hours and has been flying for the airline since 1981, the
company's chief executive Ahmad Jauhari Yahya said.

The first officer, 27-year-old Fariq Hamid, has about 2,800 hours of experience
and has flown for the airline since 2007.

BOEING 777: ONE OF THE WORLD'S SAFEST JETS

The Boeing 777 flown by Malaysia Airlines that disappeared over the South China
Sea is one of the world's most popular - and safest - jets.

The long-range jumbo jet has helped connect cities at the far ends of the globe,
with flights as long as 16 hours.

But more impressive is its safety record: The first fatal crash in its 19-year
history only came last July when an Asiana Airlines jet landed short of the
runway in San Francisco. Three of the 307 people aboard died.

Airlines like the plane because it is capable of flying extremely long distances
thanks to two giant engines.

Each engine is so massive that a row of at least five coach seats could fit
inside it. By having just two engines, the plane burns through less fuel than
four-engine jets, like the Boeing 747, which it has essentially replaced.

"It has provided a new standard in both efficiency and safety," said Richard
Aboulafia, an aviation consultant with the Teal Group.

"The 777 has enjoyed one of the safest records of any jetliner built."

Besides last year's Asiana crash, the only other serious incident with the 777
came in January 2008 when a British Airways jet landed about 1,000 feet short of
the runway at London's Heathrow Airport.

Malaysia Airlines did have an incident in August 2005 with a 777 flying from
Perth, Australia, to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia's largest city.

While flying 38,000 feet above the Indian Ocean, the plane's software
incorrectly measured speed and acceleration, causing the plane to suddenly shoot
up 3,000 feet.

The pilot disengaged the autopilot and descended and landed safely back in
Perth. A software update was quickly made on planes around the world.

Malaysia Airlines has 15 Boeing 777-200ER jets in its fleet of about 100 planes.
The first was delivered on April 23, 1997, and the most recent on December 13,
2004, according to Boeing. The 200ER is one of four versions of the 777.

The 777 is capable of flying 7,250 miles non-stop. Its two Rolls-Royce Trent 875
engines each have 74,600lb of thrust, letting the plane cruise at Mach 0.84, or
nearly 640 mph.

A new model has a list price of 261.5 million US dollars (£156 million),
although airlines usually negotiate discounts.

The 777 was the first twin-engine plane to be immediately certified to fly over
the ocean as far as 180 minutes from any emergency landing airport.

Government safety regulators have determined that it could fly for nearly three
hours on a single engine in the case of an emergency.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                        March 9, 2014 Sunday 6:17 PM GMT

Malaysia Airlines: What happened to Flight Mhl70? Radar indicates missing jet
may have turned back as authorities investigate possible terror attack

BYLINE: BY TOMAS JIVANDA

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 784 words


Intelligence agencies from across the world are trying to trace the true
identities of two people who used fake passports to board the missing Malaysia
Airlines jet, amid growing concerns that terrorists may have hijacked or bombed
the flight.

Malaysian officials examining CCTV footage have found images of the pair, the
Malaysian Transport Minister said. Authorities suspecting foul play may be
involved continue to look over footage from Kuala Lumpur's international airport
and question border guards.

"Early indications show some sort of a security lapse, but I cannot say any
further right now," an official with direct knowledge of the investigation told
Reuters.

Ground controllers lost contact with flight Mhl0 as it travelled somewhere
between Malaysia and Vietnam early Saturday morning.

It had left Kuala Lumpur bound for Beijing around two hours earlier carrying 239
people.

Late on Sunday Vietnamese authorities said they had spotted an object that they
suspect is one of the plane's doors. A massive international search is yet to
find a confirmed trace of the plane however.

The weather was fine, the plane was cruising at high altitude and the pilots
send no distress signal before the plane disappeared - very unusual
circumstances for a modern jetliner operated by a professional airline to crash,
but that experts say would be consistent with an on board explosion.

Foreign ministries in Italy and Austria said the two identities on the passenger
list matched two passports reported stolen in Thailand from citizens of the
countries. The pair using the passports appear to have bought the tickets
together.

Interpol has criticised boarder controls for having not checked the passports -
that were stolen in 2012 and 2013 - against their database.

Authorities are now looking at two more possible cases of suspicious identities,
the Malaysian Transport Minister said, adding that Malaysian intelligence
agencies were in contact with international counterparts. He gave no more
details.

Adding to speculation, Malaysian military radar indicates the missing plane
turned back on itself shortly before vanishing.

Air force chief Rodzali Daud told a media conference: "The military radar
indicated that the aircraft may have made a turn back and in some parts, this
was corroborated by civilian radar."

Pilots are supposed to inform the airline and traffic control authorities if a
plane does a U-turn, Malaysia Airlines Chief Executive Ahmad Jauhari Yahya
added. "From what we have, there was no such distress signal or distress call
per se, so we are equally puzzled," he said.

The recent developments further strengthened concerns that terrorism could be
the cause of the disappearance, aviation and terrorism experts said.

One Malaysian official told Reuters the authorities were not ruling out
involvement of Uighur Muslim militants in the jet's disappearance, noting that
Uighurs were deported to China from Malaysia in 2011 and 2012 for carrying false
passports. Last week knife-wielding Uighur separatists killed at least 29 people
in a Chinese train station.

Other scenarios, including some catastrophic failure of the engines or structure
of the plane, extreme turbulence or pilot error or even suicide, were also
possible, experts said.

Jason Middleton, the head of the Sydney-based University of New South Wales'
School of Aviation: "You're looking at some highly unexpected thing, and the
only ones people can think of are basically foul play, being either a bomb or
some immediate incapacitating of the pilots by someone doing the wrong thing and
that might lead to an airplane going straight into the ocean."

 "With two stolen passports (on board), you'd have to suspect that that's one of
the likely options."

Just 9 percent of fatal accidents happen when a plane is at cruising altitude,
according to a Boeing statistical summary of commercial jet accidents.

The plane was last inspected 10 days ago and found to be "in proper condition,"
Ignatius Ong, CEO of Malaysia Airlines subsidiary Firefly airlines, said at a
news conference.

Malaysia Airlines has a good safety record, as does the 777, which had not had a
fatal crash in its 19-year history until an Asiana Airlines plane crashed last
July in San Francisco, killing three passengers, all teenagers from China.

A total of 22 aircraft and 40 ships have been deployed to search for the
aircraft by Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia, China and the United
States, not counting Vietnam's fleet.

China's administrator of the Civil Aviation Administration said some debris had
been spotted, but it was unclear whether it came from the plane. Vietnamese
authorities said they had found nothing close to two large oil slicks spotted
Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 9, 2014 Sunday 12:19 AM GMT

Terror attack clue as 239 die in jet plunge: Two passengers on flight had used
'stolen passports'

BYLINE: SIMON PARRY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 671 words



     ·    The Malaysian Airlines Boeing 777-200 was brought down by a 'sudden,
          catastrophic event' with no time for a Mayday call, Mail on Sunday
          told
     ·    There were suspicions that yesterday's incident marked a new
          escalation in the terror campaign by separatist Muslim Uighurs
     ·    The majority of passengers on the flight from Malaysia to China were
          Chinese, with 13 other nationalities represented


Fears were growing last night that a passenger jet which vanished from the sky
with 239  people on board was the target of a terrorist attack.

The Malaysian Airlines Boeing 777-200 was brought down by a 'sudden,
catastrophic event' with no time for a Mayday call, a senior aviation source in
Kuala Lumpur told The Mail on Sunday.

Two of the passengers appeared to be travelling on  stolen passports.

There were suspicions that yesterday's incident marked a new escalation in the
terror campaign by separatist Muslim Uighurs, who want their region of Xinjiang
in western China to have greater autonomy from the Chinese government.

The majority of passengers on the flight from Malaysia to China were Chinese,
with 13 other nationalities represented.

The plane vanished from radar screens off the coast of southern Vietnam early
yesterday, sparking a huge air and sea search.

Two large oil slicks were reportedly seen in the South China Sea late yesterday
near the spot where flight Mhl0 is believed to have plunged into the water two
hours into its journey from the Malaysian capital. The search was due to resume
at first light today.

Speaking in Kuala Lumpur, a senior civil aviation source told The Mail on Sunday
it was 'incomprehensible' that the plane, which has an outstanding safety
record, would have disappeared without warning.

'Even if both engines failed, there would have been time for a Mayday call,' the
official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 'There was obviously a
sudden, catastrophic event that brought this plane out of the sky. There could
have been an explosion and we can't rule out sabotage or an act of terrorism.

'That the pilots were unable to send a distress signal lends  credence to this
theory.

'If it were an engine failure, bad weather or air turbulence, the pilots would
have had time to put out an emergency call. That didn't happen.

'That's why the possibility of an explosive or hijacker on Mhl0 cannot be
discounted.'

A second civil aviation source confirmed the belief that terrorism or sabotage
was thought to be behind the disaster and said members of the plane's
maintenance crew were having their backgrounds examined.

International experts added further weight to the terrorism theory. In the UK,
David Learmount, operations and safety  editor at aviation website Flightglobal,
said it was 'extraordinary' that the pilots did not make a distress call.

They would have had 'plenty of time' to report any technical problems, Mr
Learmount said, adding: 'Something happened and the pilots did not tell anyone.
Why?'

Boeing 777s are regarded as among the world's safest aircraft with only one
fatal passenger accident - a crash-landing which killed three people in San
Francisco last year - in nearly 20 years of service.

Fears that a terror attack caused the disaster were heightened when a list of
passengers released by Beijing police reportedly had two names pixellated out,
leading to online speculation they might have been ethnic Uighurs. Later, it
emerged that two passengers were travelling on stolen passports belonging to
nationals from Austria and Italy.

Asked whether terrorism was suspected, Malaysian transport minister Hishammuddin
Hussein said authorities had 'no information, but we are looking at all
possibilities'.

Uighurs have been behind increasingly brazen attacks on China including a car
bomb atrocity in Beijing's Tiananmen Square last October that killed five people
and injured dozens more. A mass stabbing at a  railway station in the southern
Chinese town of Kunming on March 1 that left 28 people dead and 113 injured is
also believed to have been linked to unrest  in Xinjiang.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              March 9, 2014 Sunday

TERROR ATTACK CLUE AS 239 DIE IN JET PLUNGE

BYLINE: BY SIMON PARRY

LENGTH: 607 words


FEARS were growing last night that a passenger jet which vanished from the sky
with 239 people on board was the target of a terrorist attack.

The Malaysian Airlines Boeing 777-200 was brought down by a sudden, catastrophic
event' with no time for a Mayday call, a senior aviation source in Kuala Lumpur
told The Mail on Sunday.

Two of the passengers appeared to be travelling on stolen passports.

There were suspicions that yesterday's incident marked a new escalation in the
terror campaign by separatist Muslim Uighurs, who want their region of Xinjiang
in western China to have greater autonomy from the Chinese government.

The majority of passengers on the flight from Malaysia to China were Chinese,
with 13 other nationalities represented.

The plane vanished from radar screens off the coast of southern Vietnam early
yesterday, sparking a huge air and sea search.

Two large oil slicks were reportedly seen in the South China Sea late yesterday
near the spot where flight MH370 is believed to have plunged into the water two
hours into its journey from the Malaysian capital. The search was due to resume
at first light today.

Speaking in Kuala Lumpur, a senior civil aviation source told The Mail on Sunday
it was incomprehensible' that the plane, which has an outstanding safety record,
would have disappeared without warning.

Even if both engines failed, there would have been time for a Mayday call,' the
official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. There was obviously a sudden,
catastrophic event that brought this plane out of the sky. There could have been
an explosion and we can't rule out sabotage or an act of terrorism.

That the pilots were unable to send a distress signal lends credence to this
theory.

If it were an engine failure, bad weather or air turbulence, the pilots would
have had time to put out an emergency call. That didn't happen.

That's why the possibility of an explosive or hijacker on MH370 cannot be
discounted.'

A second civil aviation source confirmed the belief that terrorism or sabotage
was thought to be behind the disaster and said members of the plane's
maintenance crew were having their backgrounds examined.

International experts added further weight to the terrorism theory. In the UK,
David Learmount, operations and safety editor at aviation website Flightglobal,
said it was extraordinary' that the pilots did not make a distress call.

They would have had plenty of time' to report any technical problems, Mr
Learmount said, adding: Something happened and the pilots did not tell anyone.
Why?'

Boeing 777s are regarded as among the world's safest aircraft with only one
fatal passenger accident - a crash-landing which killed three people in San
Francisco last year - in nearly 20 years of service.

Fears that a terror attack caused the disaster were heightened when a list of
passengers released by Beijing police reportedly had two names pixellated out,
leading to online speculation they might have been ethnic Uighurs. Later, it
emerged that two passengers were travelling on stolen passports belonging to
nationals from Austria and Italy.

Asked whether terrorism was suspected, Malaysian transport minister Hishammuddin
Hussein said authorities had no information, but we are looking at all
possibilities'.

Uighurs have been behind increasingly brazen attacks on China including a car
bomb atrocity in Beijing's Tiananmen Square last October that killed five people
and injured dozens more. A mass stabbing at a railway station in the southern
Chinese town of Kunming on March 1 that left 28 people dead and 113 injured is
also believed to have been linked to unrest in Xinjiang.

© Mail On Sunday

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 9, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Were terrorists behind plane tragedy in sea?;
239 feared dead after Boeing goes missing Two men were travelling on stolen
passports Officials say they cannot rule out terror attack Airline and plane
both have good safety records

BYLINE: MALCOLM MOORE; ROBERT MENDICK; PATRICK SAWER; Adam Wu

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1158 words


AIR SAFETY experts were investigating last night whether an airliner that went
missing in the Far East could have been the target of a terrorist attack.

Twenty-four hours after Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 disappeared over the
South China Sea, the only clue to the fate of its 239 passengers and crew was
the disclosure that at least two people on board were using stolen passports.

It raised fears that terrorists could have used the passports to board the
craft, which went missing with no prior signals of trouble to air traffic
controllers.

The plane was heading from Malaysia to China, where last week 33 people were
killed and 143 injured in a terrorist attack in the south-western city of
Kunming.

The attack, in which a gang of men ran amok in a Chinese railway station, was
blamed on proseparatist ethnic Uigurs, who come from the mainly Muslim areas of
the Xinjiang region that borders Pakistan and Afghanistan. Some Chinese media
have called it the country's own "9/11".

Last night, it was stressed that it was too early to say whether terrorism was a
likely cause of the Malaysia Airlines crash. But US officials said they were
checking passenger manifests and going back through intelligence. "We are aware
of the reporting on the two stolen passports," one senior offi-cial told NBC
news. "We have not determined a nexus to terrorism yet, although it's still very
early, and that's by no means definitive."

A leading expert on aviation safety said it was "extraordinary" that the pilots
of the aircraft did not have time to make a distress call. David Learmount, of
the aviation magazine Flight Global, said that because the plane was cruising at
about 35,000ft when it lost contact over the South China Sea, the pilots would
normally have had "plenty of time" to radio in any technical problems before the
plane hit the water.

Chris Yates, another aviation expert, said: "There will be two areas for the
investigation: the maintenance of the aircraft and also possible terrorism."

As darkness fell over the South China Sea last night, rescuers using boats,
helicopters and planes had spotted two long oil slicks in the area where the
Boeing 777 lost contact with air traffic www.control.No wreckage, or survivors,
were spotted during a rescue mission that involved five countries and lasted
roughly seven hours before night closed in. But there was a surprise after
Malaysia Airlines released the passenger list for Flight MH370 between Kuala
Lumpur and Beijing.

After checking the names of passengers 63 and 101, Christian Kozel and Luigi
Maraldi, the Austrian and Italian governments said that neither man was on
board.

Both had their passports stolen in Thailand over the past two years, and Mr
Maraldi had been issued with a new one according to Italian media.

China Southern, which operated a code-share on the flight, said both the
passengers using stolen passports had booked through its ticketing office.

Asked in the wake of the revelations whether terrorists had seized the plane,
Najib Razak, the Malaysian prime minister, said: "We are looking at all
possibilities, but it is too early to make any conclusive remarks."

An unnamed senior US intelligence official told The New York Times that "at this
time, we have not identified this as an act of terrorism. While the stolen
passports are interesting, they don't necessarily say to us that this was a
terrorism act".

It was 1.20am on Saturday when Flight MH370 disappeared, in clear weather and
with no distress signal, over the sea between Malaysia and Vietnam.

Two-thirds of the 227 passengers were Chinese, including one infant, travelling
on what has become one of the most popular tourist routes in Asia. There were no
British passengers on board.

The pilot, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53, had more than 18,000 flying hours under his
belt and had been flying for Malaysia Airlines for more than three decades.

Data from the plane showed no cause for panic. After a steady climb to 35,000ft,
the Boeing 777 levelled off and then abruptly stopped sending its location,
speed and altitude. There was no sign of any sudden descent.

The absence of any signal from the plane particularly troubled experts; even if
both engines on the jet had failed, there should have been time to issue a
distress call as the plane descended.

It was five hours before Malaysia Airlines issued its first statement, simply
saying that it had lost contact with its plane and had begun a rescue operation.

In Beijing, Wang Yi, China's foreign minister, broke off a press conference to
deal with the crisis. "We are extremely worried," he said. Shortly afterwards,
Xi Jinping, the president, ordered "all-out efforts" on a rescue operation.

An efficient police operation at Beijing airport shuttled relations away from a
mass of Chinese and foreign journalists and to a conference room in a hotel,
where they sat and waited.

It was six more hours before the search began focusing on the last point of
contact from the plane, roughly 120 nautical miles south-west of Vietnam.

At 12.15pm, an emergency message was broadcast to all ships in the area asking
them to "keep a sharp look out and assist immediately".

China dispatched two ships from its naval base on Hainan island, while the
Vietnamese and Malaysia navies both sent helicopters and ships. Singapore sent
Hercules planes to search overhead. A Vietnamese journalist on board a search
and rescue helicopter said they had spotted oil slicks on the waters.

But Hishamuddin Hussein, the Malaysian transport minister, said it was too early
to confirm a crash and that there were no signs of wreckage.

"We are doing everything in our power to locate the plane. We are doing
everything we can to ensure every possible angle has been addressed," he said.

Malaysia Airlines has a good safety record; it last lost a plane in 1977. The
Boeing 777, equipped with twin Rolls-Royce Trent 892 engines, is one of the
world's safest planes.

Its only fatal crash in a 19-year history came last July when an Asiana Airlines
jet missed the runway in San Francisco and three people were killed.

Experts said investigators would concentrate not only on whether the plane had
suffered some catastrophic structural or engine failure, but also on sudden and
unforeseen turbulence, some sort of attack on the plane, or even the suicide of
the pilot.

But, a full day after the tragedy, the only news that Malaysia Airlines could
issue was that "at this stage, our search and rescue teams from Malaysia,
Singapore and Vietnam have failed to find evidence of any wreckage". It added:
"The sea mission will continue while the air mission will recommence at
daylight."

The families of the passengers in Beijing were furious, having been held
throughout the day in the hotel with minimal information. As the day came to a
close, the relations retired to rooms in the hotel, still without any news,
their hopes fading.

Additional reporting by Adam Wu

'We are doing everything in our power to locate the plane'

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A distressed relation of a passenger on board the Malaysia Airlines
flight is comforted at Beijing airport, where the plane had been due to land
KIM KYUNG-HOON/REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        March 9, 2014 Sunday 7:30 AM GMT

Tony Blair 'betrayed victims of IRA';
The families of victims of IRA terrorist attacks accuse Tony Blair of betrayal
over secret deals with Sinn Fein and Colonel Muammar Gaddafi

BYLINE: By Robert Mendick Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1096 words


Relatives of people murdered by the IRA have made a concerted attack on Tony
Blair, accusing the former prime minister of betraying them twice over.

Families have blamed Mr Blair for two secret deals - one of which led to British
relatives missing out on millions of pounds in compensation payments and another
that has allowed IRA suspects on the run to evade justice.

Aileen Quinton, whose mother Alberta died at the age of 72 in the Enniskillen
bombing on Remembrance Sunday in 1987, said: "There are no depths of immorality,
betrayal and treason that Tony Blair is not capable of. I would put nothing past
Tony Blair."

Charles Arbuthnot, whose sister Jane was a serving police officer who died in
the Harrods bombing, said: "Tony Blair completely disregarded the families of
the many British victims of IRA atrocities and instead followed his own personal
agenda."

Miss Quinton, 55, who worked for the Metropolitan Police for 30 years, was one
of 150 victims and their relatives bringing a class action in the US courts
against Colonel Muammar Gaddafi and his Libyan regime that had supplied the
plastic explosive Semtex to the IRA. Semtex was used to detonate bombs at
Enniskillen and Harrods, and in other atrocities.

The court action was halted in 2008 following a deal struck between Gaddafi and
President George W Bush, aided by an intervention from Mr Blair. The deal meant
that American victims of Libyan-sponsored terrorism shared a billion pounds in
compensation while British families received nothing. Gaddafi had asked Mr Blair
to intervene.

The anger over Mr Blair's apparent interference - disclosed last year by The
Telegraph - has been compounded by the discovery that while in power Mr Blair's
government negotiated a deal that effectively gave an amnesty to IRA terrorists
on the run.

Almost 200 so-called "comfort" letters were sent to alleged IRA terrorists
following a secret deal between Mr Blair and Sinn Fein. It is understood that
one recipient was Charles Caulfield, who has been implicated in the 1987 Poppy
Day massacre at Enniskillen in which 11 people were killed and dozens injured.
Mr Caulfield's whereabouts is unknown.

He was thought to have gone to the US, but other reports suggest he is living in
the Irish Republic. Mr Caulfield, now in his 50s, was named in the Commons as
the mastermind of the Enniskillen bombing although he has never been charged.

Another recipient of a letter was Evelyn Glenholmes, a Sinn Fein activist, who
had been on the run, was wanted for several murders and had been linked to the
Harrods attack. She is understood to have received her "comfort" letter in 2002.

She returned to Belfast, where she sits on a terrorist victims' forum, having
been the victim of a gun attack in her teens. She did not respond to an inquiry
by The Telegraph last week.

The existence of the letters became known when John Downey, charged with killing
four soldiers in the Hyde Park bombing in London in 1982, was acquitted last
month after it emerged he had received reassurance he was not a wanted man.

Miss Quinton said: "What has gone on is extremely murky."

She continued: "When I discovered Blair's involvement in this, I was just
disgusted. He was involved in the deal that blocked compensation and he
interfered in justice. And then you consider how much money he is making now
that comes from his years in office when he was betraying us all."

Matt Jury, a partner at McCue & Partners, which brought the class action and
whose clients include Miss Quinton, said it was time for a full inquiry into Mr
Blair and the Labour government's behind-the-scenes negotiations with Libya and
the IRA.

Mr Jury is considering suing Mr Blair for alleged interference in his case.
While American victims of the Harrods bombing received compensation of as much
as £10 million from the Libyans - after the deal between Mr Bush and Gaddafi -
British victims have never received a penny.

Mr Jury said last week: "Not only have these victims learnt recently that the UK
Government might have been instrumental in denying them just compensation from
those who provided the Semtex to build the bombs, they have now been told it
granted immunity to those men who used them."

Mr Blair has refused to comment on the "comfort" letters. He has also denied any
involvement in the deal that led to British victims of IRA terrorism being
denied compensation in the US courts.

His spokesman has accused The Telegraph of "twisting the meaning" of an email
sent by a former British ambassador to Libya which disclosed Mr Blair's
intervention in the case on Gaddafi's behalf.

Enniskillen 1987

Alberta Quinton was wearing her service medals when she was murdered by the IRA
on November 8 1987. She had been a front-line nurse during the Second World War
and was attending the Remembrance Sunday parade in Enniskillen when a bomb
exploded at the town's cenotaph.

Her daughter, Aileen, was furious to learn of the "comfort" letter believed to
have been sent to the chief suspect, and of Tony Blair's alleged role in halting
her court case against Colonel Muammar Gaddafi.

"Tony Blair has been far more interested in advancing the cases of Gaddafi, Sinn
Fein and the IRA than their victims," said Miss Quinton. "My mother wore the
medals she had been awarded for service in the RAF during the war and she went
to pray for the young airmen she had known that had been killed."

She kept her mother's medals and the poppy she was wearing when she died. Sadly
they were destroyed in a suspected arson attack on the family home.

Harrods 1983

Jane Arbuthnot, a woman officer with the Metropolitan Police, was 22 when she
was murdered in the Harrods bomb blast on December 17 1983. She was one of six
people killed, three of them police officers.

Her mother, Sue Arbuthnot, was in a garden centre in nearby Fulham when the bomb
went off. She heard the rumble but never dared to imagine her daughter might be
killed.

"She was fun; she was a bubbly 22-year-old. She was enjoying being a
policewoman. She was a beloved daughter and I think, most of the time, a beloved
sister to her brothers and sister," said Mrs Arbuthnot, now 84 and a widow.

The disclosure that political intervention had led to compensation for American
victims of the Harrods attack - but not British ones - has appalled her.

"The whole thing is so grubby. It is so political, " said Mrs Arbuthnot, who now
lives in Ipswich. "Tony Blair wanted to make his mark as a peace envoy and we
went down the drain because of that."

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 10, 2014 Monday

Arab League denounces terrorist attacks in Egypt

LENGTH: 80 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 9 March: The Arab foreign ministers denounced on Sunday [9 March]
terrorist attacks that hit Egypt recently.

"Terrorism is a destructive scourge that threatens the lives of innocent people
and hinders the development," the ministers said in a statement at the end of
their meeting in Cairo.

The statement called for more Arab cooperation for combating terrorism.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1744gmt 09 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 10, 2014 Monday

Intelligence agencies warn of terror attacks in north Indian state during polls

LENGTH: 463 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper The Asian Age website on 10
March

New Delhi: As the country heads for one of the fiercest electoral battles, the
intelligence agencies engaged in tracking activities of terrorist outfits have
come across concrete information that the subversive groups are planning a major
strike during electioneering.

Intelligence inputs suggest that the terror strike could happen in the
politically-crucial states of either Uttar Pradesh or Bihar.

Thus, the Intelligence Bureau has sent out a detailed advisory to the special
branches and anti-terrorist units of the two states. Highly-placed intelligence
sources said there are specific inputs that terrorist groups are planning a
major hit in the two states.

The fact, sources added, that terror outfits had zeroed down on UP and Bihar was
not without reason. In fact, the reasons are both "tactical as well as
political", sources added.

As both UP and Bihar account for 120 Lok Sabha [lower house of parliament]
seats, all national political parties, particularly the BJP which is hoping to
reap a rich political harvest in the two states, will resort to aggressive
campaigning there.

Further, terror groups like the Indian Mujahideen and Students' Islamic Movement
of India (Simi) have a formidable network in both Bihar and UP giving them good
logistical support.

"Terrorist groups are well tuned into the political developments in the country.
So they are fully aware that parties like the BJP will use their star political
campaigners in both states as they hope to do well in UP and Bihar. Further,
there is talk that BJP prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi is likely to
contest from Varanasi in UP so a big terror strike will send out a strong
symbolic signal," a senior intelligence official remarked.

So, the Central intelligence agency has directed the two states to be extra
vigilant once the election campaign picks up pace. Among the slew of measures
suggested are preventive detentions, reviving network of informers and stringent
checks along the Indo-Nepal border to monitor inflow of illegal arms and
ammunition.

Intelligence sources also claimed that fresh inputs suggest that IM could make a
fresh concerted bid on the life of Narendra Modi as its earlier attempts to
target him at the Patna rally in October last year failed.

The IM's top-brass sitting in Pakistan, have again directed their operatives in
India to make "serious attempt" to eliminate Mr Modi during the election
campaign. "There has been a fresh input a few days ago on attempts by IM to
target Mr Modi during polls. We have alerted the concerned security and
intelligence agencies and have beefed up Mr Modi's security accordingly," the
official added.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 10 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 10, 2014 Monday

Taiwan airline official says terrorist attack warning taken seriously - CNA

LENGTH: 284 words


Text of report by Taiwanese Central News Agency CNA

Beijing, 10 March: China's civil aviation authorities have taken seriously a
warning about possible terrorist attacks on the Beijing Capital International
Airport, according to a senior executive of China Airlines (CAL), Taiwan's
largest air carrier.

A man telephoned CAL's Taipei headquarters 4 March, saying that possible attacks
on Beijing's airport were imminent.

The company passed on the warning to China's Aviation Administration the next
day, which at once dispatched two personnel to CAL's Beijing office to take
charge of the recorded phone message, Peng Jung-min, CAL's chief representative
to Beijing, told the press at his office Monday.

After receiving the attack warning, CAL has reinforced its own security checks
on its flights between Taiwan and Beijing, Peng said.

In addition, he went on, a double ID certification system has been launched,
meaning that passengers must undergo ID examination by CAL ground personnel
twice before being allowed to board their flights.

Peng also confirmed that the caller first spoke in French but as the switchboard
operator could not understand him, he then switched to Mandarin Chinese.

Earlier, Taiwan's National Security Bureau said the information on terrorist
threat on targets in Beijing has been passed on to the Chinese authorities as
well as to Taiwan's Cabinet-level Office of Homeland Security and other local
intelligence, law enforcement and aviation authorities.

As a result, airport security in Taiwan has been tightened and extra measures
have been taken to ensure the safety of flights bound for Beijing, the bureau
said.

Source: Central News Agency website, Taipei, in English 0920gmt 10 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 10, 2014 Monday

Saudi cabinet strongly condemns "terror" attack in Bahrain's Daih village

LENGTH: 262 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Bahrain News Agency

Bahrain News Agency) -

Riyadh, Mar. 10. (BNA) -The Saudi Cabinet has strongly condemned the terror
blast which took place in Daih village [northern Bahrain] and claimed the lives
of three policemen and wounded several others.

The Saudi Council of Ministers prayed Allah Almighty to rest the souls of the
martyrs in eternal peace and protect the Kingdom of Bahrain.

This came the Saudi Cabinet held a session today, under the chairmanship of the
Second Deputy Premier, Adviser and Special Envoy of the Custodian of the Two
Holy Mosques HRH Prince Muqrin bin Abdulaziz Al Saud.

The Saudi Cabinet stressed the importance of the correct understanding of the
teachings of Islam, which reject dissension, extremism and the politicisation of
Islam for partisan purposes.

It endorsed the "statement issued by the Saudi Ministry of Interior culminated
by the royal approval, which explained security and intellectual prohibitions on
citizens and residents and granting a grace period for participants in fighting
outside the Kingdom an additional 15 days for self-revision and return to their
homeland."

It emphasised that the decision "came within the framework of the Kingdom's
keenness to maintain security and stability and fight everything aiming to
destabilise the national cohesion and harm Islam's moderation and its broad and
comprehensive concept, and against any deviating thought aiming at harming
Islam, Muslims, their faith, security and stability."

Source: Bahrain News Agency, Manama, in English 1420 gmt 10 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             March 10, 2014 Monday

Six nabbed for spreading terror attack rumor

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 112 words


Six people have been detained by police in Dongguan, Guangdong province, for
spreading a rumor that a commercial district in the city was attacked by
terrorists.

A man surnamed Xian, who is a real estate agent, fabricated a post on Baidu
Tieba, a popular online forum, claiming that some people were killed by
terrorists from Xinjiang at the Diwang Plaza on March 5.

The made-up post quickly snowballed into a false alarm on the Internet, with
photos of a smashed restaurant at the plaza making some jittery.

Police later found the photos,actually were evidence of a dining dispute.

Six people who spread the fake news were apprehended and received due
punishments, said police.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       March 10, 2014 Monday 12:06 AM GMT

Phoney passports clue to terror attack on Malaysia Airlines jet

BYLINE: John Chapman

LENGTH: 556 words


TERROR experts joined the hunt yesterday for missing Malaysia Airlines flight
Mhl0 amid fears that the 239 people on board were the victims of an atrocity.

Intelligence agencies believe that the lack of an emergency call "suggests
something very sudden and very violent" happened to the plane, which
disintegrated at around 35,000ft.

An aircraft expert said: "Either you had a catastrophic event that tore the
aeroplane apart or you had a criminal act."

Interpol heavily criticised lax airport security after it emerged that at least
two passengers had boarded the flight with stolen passports.

At no point were the identities of the passengers checked against a
lost-and-stolen database.

It is also feared that two more stolen passports were used on the Boeing 777
jetliner.

Contact with the plane was lost somewhere between Malaysia and Vietnam after it
left Kuala Lumpur early on Saturday morning for Beijing.

European authorities confirmed the identities of the two stolen passports. One
was ­Italian, under the name Luigi Maraldi, the other was Austrian in the name
of Christian Kozel.

Maraldi and Kozel were both booked to leave Beijing on a KLM flight to Amsterdam
on March 8. Maraldi was then to fly to Copenhagen, Denmark, on KLM on March 8,
and Kozel to Frankfurt, Germany.

Having onward reservations to Europe from Beijing meant the pair, as holders of
EU passports, did not need visas for China.

Interpol Secretary General Ronald Noble said: "It is clearly of great concern
that any passenger was able to board an ­international flight using a stolen
passport listed in Interpol's databases."

He expressed frustration that few of Interpol's 190 member states search its
database to see if documents being used to board a plane are lost or stolen.

"For years Interpol has asked why countries should wait for a tragedy to put
prudent security measures in place," he added.

No debris has been found but Vietnamese authorities said a low-flying plane had
spotted a rectangular object, possibly a plane door, about 56 miles south of Tho
Chu island, in the same area where oil slicks were seen.

The missing plane apparently fell from the sky at cruising altitude in fine
weather but the pilots were either unable or had no time to send a distress
signal.

Malaysia's air force chief Rodzali Daud said radar indicated the plane may have
turned back.

But Malaysia Airlines boss Ahmad Jauhari Yahya said pilots are supposed to
inform traffic control if they do a U-turn.

He said: "There was no such distress signal or distress call per se, so we are
equally puzzled."

Foreign ministries in Italy and Austria said the names of two men listed on the
flight manifest matched the names of passports reported stolen in Thailand.

Malaysian Transport Minister Hishammuddin Hussein said: "I can confirm that we
have visuals of these two people on CCTV."

The stolen passports have strengthened concerns about terrorism as a possible
cause of the crash. Al Qaeda has used similar tactics in the past.

Other possible causes include engine failure, extreme turbulence or simple pilot
error.

In all, 34 aircraft and 40 ships have been sent by Malaysia, Thailand,
Australia, Singapore, Indonesia, China and the US, in addition to Vietnam's
fleet, in search of the plane.

The passengers were from 14 countries, including Malaysia, China, the US,
France, Canada and Australia.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             March 10, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Airline has not ruled out terrorism attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 87 words


THE airline says it is not ruling out any theory while officials in the US,
which is sending FBI investigators, say there is no evidence of such an attack
yet.

The presence of two passengers with stolen passports is a breach of security but
could relate to illegal migration.

When an Air India plane crashed in Mangalore in 2010, as many as 10 fraudulent
passports were recovered. Foreign ministries in Italy and Austria said the names
of two citizens listed on the flight matched the names on two passports stolen
in Thailand.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             March 11, 2014 Tuesday

27 victims of Kunming terror attack leave hospitals

BYLINE: Hu Yongqi

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 363 words


One survivor of the terrorist attack in Kunming on March 1 remained in
life-threatening condition on Sunday, the city's mayor said.

Twenty-seven of the 143 people injured in the attack have been discharged from
hospitals and have returned home, Li Wenrong, the mayor of the Yunnan provincial
capital, said in Beijing on Sunday.

This means 116 were still being treated in hospitals, and 44 of them remain
seriously injured, he said.

Condemning the attack and calling for united efforts to fight terrorism, Li
likened terrorists to rats running across the street, citing a Chinese saying
that describes people who are extremely unpopular.

More than 2,000 medical workers were treating the injured in 12 hospitals, and
psychological counseling was being provided to victims and their families, the
mayor said.

"The attack caused huge trauma for those who experienced and still remember it,
and the Kunming government has invited top psychologists to console the injured
and victims' families," said Li, who also is a deputy to the National People's
Congress. He joined the NPC meeting four days after it opened on March 5.

The terrorist attack at Kunming Railway Station killed 29 people. Four
terrorists were shot dead at the scene, and four others were arrested.

Li said many volunteers joined the rescue effort after the attack, which lasted
about 15 minutes. Taxi drivers, private car owners and tricyclers helped rush
the injured to hospitals, while ambulances arrived at the railway station in
four minutes.

Wang Xianlong, a 60-year-old survivor who received head and back injuries, can
now walk on his own after nine days of treatment at the Kunming No 1 People's
Hospital.

Wang said psychiatrists came to the hospital to offer help on how to leave
behind "horrible memories".

Qin Guangrong, Party chief of Yunnan, said on Sunday that the province will
strengthen security to prevent terrorists from making the border province a
frontier to sneak into other countries.

The province shares more than 4,000 km of borderline with other countries.

Meanwhile, 15 bodies of the 29 dead victims had been cremated in Kunming, Li
said.

Li Yingqing and Xue Dan in Kunming contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             March 11, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

I thought Max Clifford was going to rape or murder me;
PR GURU FACES TRIAL ON TEEN ASSAULT CHARGES Woman tells jury of her terror over
'attack' in car

BYLINE: VICKY SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1126 words


A TEENAGER feared Max Clifford would rape or murder her after he groped her
during a terrifying assault, a jury was told yesterday.

The PR guru boasted of his relationship with The Beatles and Rolling Stones
before molesting the petrified 14-year-old in his car, it was claimed.

Clifford allegedly showed her photos of himself with the famous bands and other
stars and promised he could introduce her to whoever she wanted.

She claims she felt in real danger when he told her, "This is what you have to
do" before lunging at her and fondling her during the alleged attack in 1966.

The alleged victim - now in her 60s - denied she had invented the story to "jump
on the bandwagon" and win compensation after Clifford's highly publicised
arrest.

The woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, is one of seven Clifford is
accused of assaulting when they were in their teens.

Describing her alleged encounter with the publicist, now 70, she said she met
him when he was in his 20s at a Wimpy Bar in Morden, Surrey, where she would
hang out with a group of pals after school. At the time he was not famous, but
the woman said she recalled being told he had a "wonderful job" in showbusiness.

She told jurors at Southwark crown court in South East London that she was still
wearing her school uniform when he persuaded her to accept a lift home.

The woman said he told her: "There's something I would like you to see." But
instead of heading for her address, he drove off in the wrong direction and
stopped the car at a secluded park.

She told the court: "I said I want to go home. He just kept saying, 'But I have
got something to show you'.

"He got a book out which was in the back of the car. He was saying, 'Look
there's me with all the stars', I was saying, 'OK I still want to go home'.

"He was turning pages saying, 'I'm with this one and that one'. It was all the
pop groups at the time and famous people. They were pictures of him and them. He
went through and said 'who do you want to meet?'" She said The Beatles and
Rolling Stones were among the groups in the picture book.

Clifford repeatedly asked who she would like to meet and she eventually replied
the Walker Brothers, an American group who had achieved two No 1 hits.

The celebrity agent then showed her a picture of himself with the band, saying:
"I can arrange that but this is what you have got to do." The woman claimed
Clifford then pushed her seat back and "forced himself upon me".

She said: "My seat went almost horizontal. He then lunged at me and put his body
on mine and he was touching me all over."

She described being in a panic and said she believed she would be raped. "My
body was just frozen in fear," she added.

Eventually she managed to wriggle out from underneath him, open the car door and
run home. She said: "I was so happy to be in one piece because I didn't know at
that time whether I was going to get raped or murdered. If someone starts
driving in the opposite direction of where you are, you think, 'I'm in
trouble'."

The woman said that over the years she had told some friends about the alleged
incident, but did not tell police until Clifford was arrested in 2012 by
officers working on Operation Yewtree.

The woman - now a mum - said: "People always said to me 'why didn't you go to
the police'. But he's powerful and virtually controls the media, what chance do
I stand? "I always said if I was to hear from other people then I would
definitely do my bit and tell them what happened because it's only fair.

"But I wouldn't have done it on my own because I wouldn't stand a chance."

Clifford, wearing a navy blazer with a white shirt and pink and blue striped
tie, listened intently through headphones in the dock as the woman gave her
evidence.

During cross-examination Richard Horwell QC, defending, told her: "I suggest
none of this ever happened, that in 1966 Max Clifford did not have a car and
didn't have access to a car." The woman then admitted the assault may have
happened in 1967, adding: "I always said if other people came forward I would
tell my bit because I couldn't live with myself if I didn't.

"That was why I came forward - because these other women are probably going to
tell the truth as well."

Mr Horwell asked the woman if she was "jumping on a bandwagon" by making the
accusation against Clifford and whether she planned to sue him for compensation.

She said she had not sought legal advice, adding: "I have been telling people
for the last 35 years - before he was ever famous."

She added: "It's 100% true. I wouldn't put myself through this otherwise or my
friends."

She admitted she was "repulsed" by Clifford when she met him because he wasn't
very popular and was wearing a "nerdy" suit. Her ex-husband, who has been
divorced from her for 10 years, reacted angrily in court when Mr Horwell
suggested she was after money and had made up the entire episode.

The man responded: "Certainly not.

Goodness me - I can't G b believe you are suggesting it."

wjr "  Three pals of the woman also told the jury how she recounted her alleged
ordeal to them.

One said they were chatting around 30 years ago when she had claimed that
Clifford had sexually assaulted her.

yhf The friend said: "She was upset and "absolutely furious over the years that
it o had happened but she didn't ever tell her parents, which at the time it
would have been quite common not to."

Another friend, the manager of a care home, said she learned about the alleged
assault in 2004.

She had told the woman about an elderly resident's birthday party at a
restaurant when Clifford, who was also dining there, sent over a bottle of
champagne to the group.

After hearing this story, the woman revealed what had allegedly happened to her
in the 60s and added: "He's not a very nice man."

The friend recounted details of the woman's story, telling the jury: "She was
disgusted and very frightened."

Clifford, of Hersham, Surrey, denies 11 counts of indecent assault against seven
girls aged 14 to 19 between 1966 and 1984.

Prosecutor Rosina Cottage QC told the court last week Clifford would "bully and
manipulate" young women into sex acts.

He is said to have impersonated celebrities such as Michael Winner and American
TV producer Aaron Spelling in phone calls to encourage girls to do what he
wanted.

Victims claim they were promised careers as a model or big acting roles in
productions such as the James Bond movie Octopussy if they went along with his
demands.

The trial continues.

vicky.smith@mirror.co.uk All the Max Clifford trial LATEST www.Tmirror.co.uk k

I suggest none of it happened ..in 1966 Max Clifford didn't have a car or access
to one RICHARD HOWELL QC IN CROSS-EXAMINATION

My seat went horizontal.. he lunged at me and was touching me all over ALLEGED
VICTIM GIVING EVIDENCE AGAINST CLIFFORD

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEFENDANT Max Clifford at court yesterday in London
CLIENTS Clifford with Rebecca Loos and Cheryl Barrymore
STAR DATE With celebrity Kerry Katona at perfume launch and, left, with OJ
Simpson
EARLY DAYS Young Clifford in his office
ACCUSED Max Clifford arrives at Southwark crown court for the trial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 11, 2014 Tuesday 8:02 PM GMT

New Lockerbie report says Libyan was framed to conceal the real bombers;
Documentary claims al-Megrahi was set-up for 1989 terror attack as a pawn in
Middle-East politics

BYLINE: James Cusick

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1592 words


On 11 September 1989, eight months after Pan Am Flight 103 was blown out of the
skies above Lockerbie killing all 259 people on board and 11 people on the
ground, a US congressional committee in Washington DC was given information on
the mass murder by an associate director of the FBI.

The committee was told that analysis and leaks from western intelligence
services, intercepted messages from Tehran and Damascus, and other material
gathered by the US National Security Agency (NSA) meant the identification of
those responsible was now possible. The organisation that the Congress members
were pointed towards was the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine,
General Command (PFLP-GC).

And now, after a quarter of a century which saw a ground-breaking trial in 2001,
the conviction of the Libyan Abdelbaset al-Megrahi, a £1.7bn compensation
payment to the victims' families approved by the former Libyan leader Colonel
Muammar Gaddafi, and a controversial deal in 2009 to allow Megrahi to drop his
latest appeal and return to Libya to die, the PFLP-GC, once again, has been
identified as the group who planned and carried out the deadliest single terror
attack on European soil.

A three-year investigation by Arab broadcaster Al Jazeera has effectively
returned the entire Lockerbie inquiry back to its initial suspects.

Abolghassem Mesbahi, a former Iranian intelligence officer who defected to
Germany in the 1990s and who once reported directly to Iran's  former president,
Akbar Hashemiu Rafsanjani, claims that the supreme leader, Ayatollah Khomeini,
ordered the destruction of the Pan Am airliner in retaliation for the USS
Vincennes airstrike on an Iran Air passenger jet over the Persian Gulf six
months earlier.

The documentary resulting from the Al Jazeera investigation names the
Syrian-based Ahmed Jibril as the mastermind behind the PFLP-GC operation,
claiming he was recruited and paid to deliver the Ayatollah's revenge. Although
material in the programme adds weight to evidence about Jibril's central role,
the NSA will not be surprised. Shortly after the destruction of the Iran Air
flight, US intelligence sources claimed to have intercepted evidence of a call
between Jibril and the then Iranian interior minister, Ali Akbar Mohtashemi, in
which the Syrian offered to attack European targets in return for fees said to
be as high as $10m.

The two British investigators involved in the Al Jazeera film, Bill Cran and
Christopher Jeans, were also given access to a report compiled by Megrahi's
defence team in 2002. The private investigation for Megrahi's lawyers, called
Operation Bird, involved the former New York district attorney, Jessica de
Grazia, and Philip Corbett, a former chief security adviser to the Bank of
England.

Their evidence, never examined by a Scottish court, alleges that the case
against Megrahi was "directed off course" by political interference from both
Washington and London. The new documentary suggests that the switch away from
the PFLP, Syria and Iran towards Libya was effectively rubber stamped in a 1989
telephone call between the then British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and
George W Bush in the White House.

Their agreement, Al Jazeera suggests, was a diplomatic insurance policy to keep
Syria out of the frame because Washington believed it needed its support in the
emerging tension between the US and Saddam Hussein's Iraq.

Megrahi, an airline official reclassified as a Libyan intelligence officer,
appears to have become a sacrificial pawn in wider diplomatic games. Sentenced
to life for the bombing in 2001, his conviction centred on being able to place
him at a key time in Malta - which was regarded as the starting point for a
Samsonite suitcase that contained a Toshiba radio cassette machine packed with
Semtex explosive.

Prosecutors in Scotland successfully argued that the suitcase was smuggled from
Malta on to a flight to Frankfurt, subsequently transferred to a flight to
London and then, at Heathrow, was transferred to Pan Am Flight 103. Some 38
minutes after it took off from Heathrow, the bomb exploded in the bottom of an
aluminium luggage container just a few feet from the aircraft's fuselage. It
blew open a hole that sealed the fate of all on board.

The Operation Bird report suggests that Palestinian terrorists, meeting in
Malta,  decided to "divert the blame to Libya" and that they successfully
incriminated Megrahi as a suspect anticipated to be on the radar of western
intelligence agencies.

Al Jazeera suggests that among those involved was Mohammed Abu Talb, who headed
the Swedish cell of the organisation. Two others are named: a Palestinian, Hafez
Dalkomoni, who was put in charge of the newly-gathered cell, and a Jordanian
regarded as having knowledge of bomb-making, Marwan Khreesat. Jibril is said to
have returned to Germany from Malta to prepare the attack along with Khreesat,
while Dalkomoni flew to Malta, allegedly to advance the plans, as did Talb.

Again, none of the names will surprise the NSA or sources at the
Bundeskriminalamt (BKA), Germany's federal investigative police. The BKA had
both Dalkomoni and Khreesat under surveillance from October 1988, knew of Iran's
threat to avenge the USS Vincennes attack, and had found a terrorist arsenal in
a Frankfurt apartment which pointed an imminent attack.

Both men were arrested months before Lockerbie. Four bombs were recovered in the
arsenal, with evidence that a fifth had been constructed. Al Jazeera's claim
that a fifth bomb from the original arsenal was used to down Flight 103 lends
further evidence to another long-held theory.

A Malta shop-owner, Tony Gauchi, helped place Megrahi in Malta at a specific
time. A huge US reward may have helped his memory, but initially Gauchi had
identified Talb from a list of customers at his shop.

New evidence also shows the bomb was unlikely to have come from Malta, and
instead was probably placed precisely inside a luggage container on the ground
at Heathrow, then later loaded on to Flight 103.

As The Independent suggested in an article last December, the case against
Megrahi has disintegrated to the point where it can no longer be considered
safe. The Malta connection is now shown to be a concoction described as "a
perfect operation" by the PFLP in the Operation Bird report.

And if, as Al Jazeera suggests, evidence now points to Talb as the man likely to
have planted the bomb, where does that leave the conviction of Megrahi and the
reputation of Scottish criminal justice?

The Scottish Crown Office says it is unmoved by the Al Jazeera documentary and
that nothing has changed. Its statement said: "Mesbahi's claim that Iran was
responsible was first reported in the media in the late 1990s and was available
to the defence before the [Megrahi] trial but they did not call him as a
witness."

The Crown Office remains confident that the three senior judges who convicted
Megrahi got it right, and that the five Appeal Court judges who later upheld the
conviction also got it right. Equally, Tehran has dismissed any suggestion of
guilt. "We, once again, deny Iran's role in this issue," a foreign ministry
spokeswoman said.

Twenty five years on from the destruction of Flight 103, Lockerbie is no longer
just a name for a terrorist atrocity. It has become synonymous with an injustice
- which refuses to remain unresolved.

Secret suspects: Four faces linked to flight

Mohammed Abu Talb

Egyptian based in Uppsala near Stockholm, and a member of the PFLP-GC's
Salvation Front group. Joined the Egyptian army at 16, spent time in Armenia on
a commando training course, and in the Soviet Union. Talb joined the military
wing of the PLO in 1970. Was in Malta during the October 1989 raids on Neuss and
Frankfurt. Evidence links him to the shop in Malta where clothes were bought
that were placed inside the case that carried the Semtex bomb that destroyed
Flight 103. Later jailed for series of bombings in Scandinavia. Lives in Sweden.

Ahmed Jibril

Born in Palestine, he is  alleged to have founded the PFLP-GC in 1968. Jibril is
said to be involved in terror campaigns targeting both Israel and the United
States. Iran regarded Jibril's reputation for taking down aircraft as key to
their alleged plan to avenge the shooting down of an Iranian commercial aircraft
by a US warship in July 1989 while flying from Tehran to Dubai (290 people
died). Now aged 75, Jibril's organisation is thought to be involved in the
current Syrian civil war, on the side of the Syrian army. (Pic credit: Getty)

Hafez Dalkomoni

Head of the West German cell of the PFLP-GC in the late 1980s. Lost part of his
right leg in a botched bomb attack in 1969. Lived in Neuss near Dusseldorf.
Visited by Marwan Khreesat in October 1988, and was under German police
surveillance. Alleged to have travelled to Malta to prepare attack on US
aircraft. Police raided flats in Neuss and Frankfurt in October 1988 and found
Semtex,  grenades, mortars and dynamite. In jail at time of Lockerbie, convicted
of troop train bombings in 1987 and 1988, sentenced to 15 years. Thought now to
be in Syria.

Marwan Khreesat

Jordanian PFLP-GC technician. Once arrested by the German BKA police but was
later released due to a lack of evidence. It was later alleged that he was a
"mole" who reported back to Jordanian intelligence and their West German
counterparts, the BND. Khreesat was reported to have made five Toshiba-Semtex
bombs, one of which was the device used to blow a lethal hole in the fuselage of
Flight 103. Khreesat was never charged in connection with Lockerbie. He now
lives in Jordan.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                             March 11, 2014 Tuesday

Taiwan warned of potential terrorist attack at Beijing Capital Airport

SECTION: SOLAR PV; Strategy And Business Planning

LENGTH: 285 words



HIGHLIGHT: Taiwanese authorities received information on a potential terrorist
attack at the Beijing Capital International Airport on 4 March, just days before
the disappearance of the Beijing-bound Malaysian Airlines flight MH370.


Taiwanese authorities received information on a potential terrorist attack at
the Beijing Capital International Airport on 4 March, just days before the
disappearance of the Beijing-bound Malaysian Airlines flight MH370.

An anonymous caller had conveyed the information to Taiwan's China Airlines,
which passed on the recording and information relevant to the call to Taiwan's
government.

The caller said that he was a member of a French counterterrorism group, and
noted that the group received information about an East Turkestan terrorist
group planning to bomb the Beijing Capital International Airport.

East Turkestan is the proposed independent state sought by separatists in
northwest Xinjiang province in China.

The Taiwanese government beefed up security on its flights to Beijing following
the call.

Taiwan's Civil Aeronautics Administration (CAA) and the Aviation Police Bureau
both confirmed that they had received information on a terrorist attack, and
added that the police were confirming the veracity of the call.

Taiwanese authorities believe that the information of the terrorist attack is
unrelated to the disappearance of the Malaysian airlines flight, but are still
investigating.

The search is on for the missing Malaysian Airlines Boeing 777-200ER aircraft,
which disappeared with 227 passengers and 12 crew members on 8 March.

An ongoing joint search and rescue effort, focusing on the Gulf of Thailand,
Straits of Malacca, and the South China Sea, is being conducted by co-operating
agencies of numerous national governments.

Two passengers boarded the aircraft using stolen passports, but the authorities
have noted that it is unlikely that the disappearance of the aircraft is linked
to terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 March 12, 2014
                                 First Edition

P7 Missing airliner: terror attack [...]

SECTION: NEWS: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 7 words


P7 Missing airliner: terror attack 'unlikely'

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2014 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 12, 2014 Wednesday 4:31 PM GMT

Was missing flight Mhl70 jet brought down by a shoe bomber? British terrorist
convicted of plotting similar attack says he gave explosive to Malaysian terror
cell which included a pilot

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1614 words



     ·    Saajid Badat tells court of plot for Malaysian pilot to blast his way
          into a plane's cockpit
     ·    He has testified about the plan before, but it now has a new resonance
     ·    Badat told about the plot at trial of Osama bin Laden's son-in-law
          yesterday


A British man convicted of plotting an Al-Qaeda plane bombing told a New York
court yesterday about a separate 2001 plan for a Malaysian pilot to blast his
way into a jet's cockpit.

Saajid Badat, who was sentenced in 2005 to 13 years in jail as a co-conspirator
in a notorious December 2001 plot to bomb US airliners, has testified about the
Malaysian plan before.

But his description of the apparently abandoned plot has a new resonance as
investigators probe the fate of a Malaysia Airlines flight that disappeared on
Saturday with 239 people on board.

There has been no previous suggestion that Badat's 2001 plot is in any way
linked to the new mystery of missing flight Mhl0, and terrorism is just one
possible line of inquiry for authorities.

Authorities have not ruled out any possible cause for the plane's disappearance,
including mechanical failure, pilot error or sabotage. Both the Boeing 777 and
Malaysia Airlines have excellent safety records. Until wreckage or debris is
found and examined, it will be very hard to say what happened.

In 2001, Badat and fellow Briton Richard Reid were ordered by Al-Qaeda leaders
to blow two US airliners out of the sky with bombs hidden in their shoes.

But, while Reid tried and failed to detonate his bomb on a Paris to Miami
flight, Badat changed his mind after returning home.

Badat told US prosecutors at the trial of Osama bin Laden's son-in-law on
Tuesday that he was given two shoe bombs, one which he took to Britain and the
other which he gave to a Malaysian cell.

He believed one bomb was enough to bring down a jet, he told the trial by video
link from Britain, but the bomb he gave the Malaysian was intended simply to
help him breach a cockpit door.

Badat said he travelled from Afghanistan to Pakistan in December 2001 with Reid,
some Malaysians and a Mauritanian family.

He described the Malaysians as 'their own group of four to five individuals
including a pilot'.

'I gave one of my shoes to the Malaysians. I think it was to access the
cockpit,' he told the court.

Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the self-declared 9/11 plotter now held at Guantanamo
Bay, helped concoct the shoe-bomb plot and spoke of having plans for the
Malaysians, Badat said.

He said Mohammed kept a list of the world's tallest buildings and crossed out
New York's Twin Towers after the September 11, 2001 attacks by hijacked
airliners as 'a joke to make us laugh'.

Badat told the court he believed the Malaysians, including the pilot, were
'ready to perform an act'.

During the meeting, the possibility was raised that the cockpit door might be
locked. 'So I said, "How about I give you one of my bombs to open a cockpit
door?"' Badat told the court.

Malaysia today defended its handling of the hunt for the missing Boeing 777, but
acknowledged it is still unsure which direction the plane was headed when it
disappeared.

Government officials said they asked India to join in the search near the
Andaman Sea, suggesting they think the jetliner and the 239 people on board
might have reached those waters after crossing into the Strait of Malacca, some
400 kilometers (250 miles) from the flight's last known coordinates.

The mystery over the plane's whereabouts has been confounded by confusing and
occasionally conflicting statements by Malaysian officials.

'There's too much information and confusion right now. It is very hard for us to
decide whether a given piece of information is accurate,' Chinese Foreign
Ministry spokesman Qin Gang told reporters in Beijing. 'We will not give it up
as long as there's still a shred of hope.'

Malaysian Defense Minister Hishammuddin Hussein described the multinational
search as unprecedented. Some 43 ships and 39 aircraft from at least eight
nations were scouring an area of 92,600 square kilometers (35,800 square miles)
to the east and west of Peninsular Malaysia.

'It's not something that is easy. We are looking at so many vessels and
aircraft, so many countries to coordinate, and a vast area for us to search,' he
told a news conference. 'But we will never give up. This we owe to the families
of those on board.'

Malaysia Airlines flight Mhl0 took off from Kuala Lumpur for Beijing early
Saturday and fell off civilian radar screens at 1:30 a.m. about 35,000 feet
above the Gulf of Thailand between Malaysia and southern Vietnam. It sent no
distress signals or any indication it was experiencing any problems.

'All right, good night,' were the pilot's final words to air traffic control in
Malaysia before the plane entered Vietnamese airspace, Malaysian officials told
around 400 relatives of the passengers at a meeting Wednesday in Beijing,
according to a participant.

Malaysian authorities said Wednesday that a review of military radar records
showed plots of what might have been the plane turning back, crossing over the
country and flying to the Strait of Malacca, a busy shipping lane west of the
narrow nation.

Air force chief Gen. Rodzali Daud said the radar showed an unidentified object
at 2:15 a.m. about 200 miles (320 kilometers) northwest of Penang.

'I am not saying it's flight Mhl0. We are still corroborating this. It was an
unidentifiable plot,' he said.

Military and government officials said American experts and the manufacturer of
the radar systems were examining that data to confirm whether it showed the
Boeing 777. Until then, they said the search would continue on both sides of the
country.

The plane's sudden disappearance led to initial speculation of a catastrophic
incident that caused its rapid disintegration. The possibility now that it may
have continued to fly without communicating with the ground would mean its
electrical systems, including transponders which allow it to be identified by
commercial radar, were either knocked out or turned off, voluntarily or
otherwise.

TIMELINE: THE SEARCH FOR THE MISSING MALAYSIA AIRLINES JET

SATURDAY,  8

- Malaysia Airlines Flight Mhl0, carrying 227 passengers and 12 crew, departs at
12:21am, and is due to land in Beijing at 6:30am the same day.

- Airline loses contact with plane between 1-2 hours after takeoff. No distress
signal and weather is clear at the time.

- Missing plane last has contact with air traffic controllers 120 nautical miles
off the east coast of the Malaysian town of Kota Bharu.

- Civil Aviation Authority of Vietnam says plane failed to check in as scheduled
while flying over sea between Malaysia and Ho Chi Minh City.

- Flight tracking website flightaware.com shows plane flew northeast over
Malaysia after takeoff and climbed to altitude of 35,000 feet. The flight
vanished from website's tracking records a minute later while still climbing.

- Malaysia search ships see no sign of wreckage in area where flights last made
contact. Vietnam says giant oil slick and column of smoke seen in its waters.

- Two men from Austria and Italy, listed among the passengers on flight, are not
in fact on board. They say their passports were stolen.

SUNDAY,  9

- Malaysia Airlines says it fears the worst and is working with U.S. company
that specialises in disaster recovery.

- Radar indicates flight may have turned back from its scheduled route to
Beijing before disappearing.

- Interpol says at least two passports recorded as lost or stolen in its
database were used by passengers, and it is 'examining additional suspect
passports'.

- Investigators narrow focus of inquiries on possibility plane disintegrated in
mid-flight, a source who is involved in the investigations in Malaysia tells
Reuters.

MONDAY,  10

- The United States review of American spy satellite imagery shows no signs of
mid-air explosion.

- As dozens of ships and aircraft from seven countries scour the seas around
Malaysia and south of Vietnam, questions mount over whether a bomb or hijacking
could have brought down the Boeing airliner.

- Hijacking could not be ruled out, says the head of Malaysia's Civil Aviation
Authority, Azharuddin Abdul Rahmanthe

TUESDAY,  11

- Interpol Secretary General Ronald Noble names the two men who boarded jet with
stolen passports as Iranians who had entered Malaysia using their real
passports. 'The more information we get, the more we are inclined to conclude it
is not a terrorist incident,' Noble said.

- Malaysian police chief said the younger man appeared to be an illegal
immigrant. His mother was waiting for him in Frankfurt and had been in contact
with authorities, he said.

- Malaysian police say they are investigating whether any passengers or crew on
the plane had personal or psychological problems that might shed light on the
mystery, along with the possibility of a hijacking, sabotage or mechanical
failure.

- Malaysia's military believes missing jet turned and flew hundreds of
kilometres to the west after it last made contact with civilian air traffic
control off the country's east coast, a senior officer told Reuters. The jet
made it into the Strait of Malacca, one of the world's busiest shipping
channels, along Malaysia's west coast, said the officer.

WEDNESDAY,  12

- The search for the missing Malaysia Airlines jet expands to an area stretching
from China to India, as authorities struggle to answer what had happened to the
aircraft that vanished almost five days ago with 239 people on board.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 12, 2014 Wednesday 2:28 PM GMT

Was missing flight Mhl70 jet brought down by a shoe bomber? British terrorist
convicted of plotting similar attack says he gave explosive to Malaysian terror
cell which included a pilot

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 630 words



     ·    Saajid Badat tells court of plot for Malaysian pilot to blast his way
          into a plane's cockpit
     ·    He has testified about the plan before, but it now has a new resonance
     ·    Badat told about the plot at trial of Osama bin Laden's son-in-law
          yesterday


A British man convicted of plotting an Al-Qaeda plane bombing told a New York
court yesterday about a separate 2001 plan for a Malaysian pilot to blast his
way into a jet's cockpit.

Saajid Badat, who was sentenced in 2005 to 13 years in jail as a co-conspirator
in a notorious December 2001 plot to bomb US airliners, has testified about the
Malaysian plan before.

But his description of the apparently abandoned plot has a new resonance as
investigators probe the fate of a Malaysia Airlines flight that disappeared on
Saturday with 239 people on board.

There has been no previous suggestion that Badat's 2001 plot is in any way
linked to the new mystery of missing flight Mhl0, and terrorism is just one
possible line of inquiry for authorities.

Authorities have not ruled out any possible cause for the plane's disappearance,
including mechanical failure, pilot error or sabotage. Both the Boeing 777 and
Malaysia Airlines have excellent safety records. Until wreckage or debris is
found and examined, it will be very hard to say what happened.

In 2001, Badat and fellow Briton Richard Reid were ordered by Al-Qaeda leaders
to blow two US airliners out of the sky with bombs hidden in their shoes.

But, while Reid tried and failed to detonate his bomb on a Paris to Miami
flight, Badat changed his mind after returning home.

Badat told US prosecutors at the trial of Osama bin Laden's son-in-law on
Tuesday that he was given two shoe bombs, one which he took to Britain and the
other which he gave to a Malaysian cell.

He believed one bomb was enough to bring down a jet, he told the trial by video
link from Britain, but the bomb he gave the Malaysian was intended simply to
help him breach a cockpit door.

Badat said he travelled from Afghanistan to Pakistan in December 2001 with Reid,
some Malaysians and a Mauritanian family.

He described the Malaysians as 'their own group of four to five individuals
including a pilot'.

'I gave one of my shoes to the Malaysians. I think it was to access the
cockpit,' he told the court.

Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the self-declared 9/11 plotter now held at Guantanamo
Bay, helped concoct the shoe-bomb plot and spoke of having plans for the
Malaysians, Badat said.

He said Mohammed kept a list of the world's tallest buildings and crossed out
New York's Twin Towers after the September 11, 2001 attacks by hijacked
airliners as 'a joke to make us laugh'.

Badat told the court he believed the Malaysians, including the pilot, were
'ready to perform an act'.

During the meeting, the possibility was raised that the cockpit door might be
locked. 'So I said, "How about I give you one of my bombs to open a cockpit
door?"' Badat told the court.

Malaysia Airlines flight 370 took off from Kuala Lumpur for Beijing early
Saturday morning and fell off civilian radar screens at 1:30am about 35,000 feet
above the Gulf of Thailand between Malaysia and southern Vietnam. It sent no
distress signals or any indication it was experiencing any problems.

Malaysian authorities have since said that say air defence radar picked up
traces of what might have been the plane turning back and flying until it
reached the Strait of Malacca, a busy shipping lane west of the narrow nation
some 400 kilometres (250 miles) from the plane's last known coordinates.

Military and government officials on Wednesday said American experts, and the
manufacturer of the radar systems, were examining that data to confirm it showed
the Boeing 777. Until then, they said the search would continue on both sides of
the country, with an equal focus.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      March 13, 2014 Thursday 2:36 AM GMT

Was a shoe bomber the culprit? Bit terrorist reveals Malaysia Airlines attack
plot

BYLINE: Jimmy McCloskey, Felicity Cross

LENGTH: 596 words


THE MISSING Malaysia Airlines plane may have been downed by a shoe bomb attack.

British terror plotter Saajid Badat prompted fears about the fate of the
vanished passenger jet as the mystery continued to baffle experts.

The 34-year-old said he was aware of plans for an earlier shoe bomb attack in
Malyasia.

He said: "I gave one of my shoes to the Malaysians. I think it was to access the
cockpit.

"I said: 'How about I give you one of my bombs to open a cockpit door?'"

Badat's account of the 2002 plot prompted new terror fears as he spoke to a US
court via video link from London during the trial of Osama bin Laden's
son-in-law in relation to the 9/11 attacks.

Badat was jailed alongside fellow Brit Richard Reid, 40, after they
unsuccessfully attempted shoe bomb attacks on US-bound jets in 2001.

Karlene Petitt, pilot

Crashed

He also claimed 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed had once revealed plans
for a Malaysian terror plot. That led to fears yesterday that the Boeing 777
currently missing with 239 people aboard had been brought down by a shoe
bombing.

But yesterday another theory emerged to explain how the jet, packed with
tracking devices and monitored by radar stations, could have simply vanished.

An aviation expert said he believed the pilots may have deliberately crashed it
as hijackers stormed the cockpit.

They would have taken the action fearing they could be used to commit another
9/11-style attack.

Pilot Karlene Petitt claimed it may have been planned to smash the plane into a
skyscraper in a city such as Hong Kong or Singapore.

She said: "I think the flight deck was compromised. The terrorists turned the
transponder off which gives its location. They told the captain to fly towards a
different city. Hong Kong comes to mind, but they could have turned back to
Singapore, or head anywhere in range with one mission in mind - create another
9/11."

Related articles Terrorism fears grow as Malaysia Airlines missing 777 plane
wreckage found No wreckage, no clues... just endless questions Final words from
missing plane revealed as furious families lob bottles at air officials

Petitt added: "I believe that the captain initially followed their directions
and when he realised what was about to happen he put the plane into the ocean to
save thousands of lives on the ground.

"If I were in that seat and they decided they didn't need me any more I would
click off the autopilot and push the nose over in descent during my final
breath."

Petitt speculated that no terrorists had taken responsibility as their plan had
failed and they wanted to launch a similar bloodbath soon. She said search
parties must work out and search possible flight paths to nearby cities in order
to find any wreckage.

Another theory to emerge yesterday suggested a sudden decompression and loss of
oxygen may have caused the pilots and passengers to lose consciousness.

Yesterday a frantic search operation was widened to an area covering 27,000
square miles, five days after the Beijing-bound jet disappeared two hours after
taking off from Kuala Lumpur.

The plane's last radio message was also revealed. Pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53,
or co-pilot Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27, on board calmly said: "All right, good
night," to air traffic controllers as they passed from Malaysian into Vietnamese
airspace.

And yesterday frustrated relatives hurled water bottles at investigators and
screamed: "Tell us the truth."

Their anger boiled over at a press conference in Beijing amid claims authorities
were keeping some information secret about the jet.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            March 13, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Was jet downed by a shoe bomber?;
BRIT TERRORIST REVEALS PLOT TO ATTACK MALAYSIAN TARGET

BYLINE: JIMMY McCLOSKEY ; FELICITY CROSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 881 words


THE missing Malaysia Airlines plane may have been downed by a shoe bomb attack.

Brit terror plotter Saajid Badat prompted fears about the fate of the vanished
jet as the mystery continued to baffle experts.

The 34-year-old said he was aware of plans for an earlier shoe bomb attack in
Malaysia. He said: "I gave one of my shoes to the Malaysians. I think it was to
access the cockpit.

"I said: 'How about I give you one of my bombs to open a cockpit door?'" Badat's
account of the 2002 plot prompted new terror fears. He was speaking to a US
court via video link from London as part of the 9/11 trial of Osama bin Laden's
son-in-law.

Badat was jailed alongside fellow Brit Richard Reid, 40, after they
unsuccessfully attempted shoe bomb attacks on US-bound jets in 2001.

Crashed

He also claimed 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed had once revealed plans
for a Malaysian terror plot. That led to fears yesterday that the Boeing 777,
currently missing with 239 people on board, had been brought down by a shoe
bombing.

But yesterday another theory emerged to explain how the jet, packed with
tracking devices and monitored by radar stations, could have simply vanished.

An aviation expert believes the pilots may have deliberately crashed as
hijackers stormed the cockpit.

They would have taken the action fearing they could be used to commit another
9/11-style attack.

Pilot Karlene Petitt claimed it may have been planned to smash the plane into a
skyscraper.

She said: "I think the flight deck has been compromised.

"The terrorists turned the transponder off which gives its location. They told
the captain to fly towards a different city.

"Hong Kong comes to mind, but they could have turned back to Singapore, or
anywhere in range with one mission in mind - another 9/11.

"I believe the captain initially followed their directions and when he realised
what was about to happen he put the plane into the ocean to save thousands of
lives on the ground.

"If I were in that seat and they decided they didn't need me any more I would
click off the autopilot and push the nose over in descent during my final
breath."

Petitt speculated that no terrorists had taken responsibility as their plan had
failed and they wanted to launch a similar bloodbath soon.

She said search parties must work out possible flight paths to nearby cities in
order to find any wreckage. Another theory to emerge yesterday suggested a
sudden decompression and loss of oxygen may have caused the pilots and
passengers to lose consciousness.

Five days after the Beijing-bound jet disappeared, two hours after taking off
from Kuala Lumpur, the search operation has been widened to an area covering
27,000 square miles.

The plane's last radio message was also revealed.

Pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53, or copilot Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27, on board calmly
said: "All right, good night," to air traffic controllers as they passed from
Malaysian into Vietnamese airspace.

Last night a Chinese satellite searching for the missing aircraft has found what
it called a "suspected crash site at sea".

Officials released three blurred photos of "large floating objects" in the South
China Sea, close to the plane's original flightpath.

The biggest is estimated at 78ft by 72ft. Another picture apparently showed a
red-tinted oil slick.

All the images were captured four days ago but only released last night by
China, which is desperate to speed up Malaysia's search for the plane. Today
they will be studied in tiny detail for further clues.

Also yesterday frustrated relatives hurled water bottles at investigators and
screamed: "Tell us the truth."

Their anger boiled over at a press conference in Beijing amid claims authorities
were keeping some information secret about the jet.

Meanwhile, IT manager Mike Seberger, 47, from Chicago, found a plane-shaped
object, partly under a cloud, in internet satellite images of the Gulf of
Thailand.

jimmy.mccloskey@dailystar.co.uk

CHINA'S CLUE

SATELLITE images show large objects in the South China Sea, close to the missing
plane's original flightpath.

The shots, taken just 10 hours after flight MH370 went missing, were released
only last night on a Chinese Government website.

Officials say the fuzzy pictures are still to be "verified".

THAILAND CAMBODIA VIETNAM Ho Chi Minh city Kuala Lumpur Singapore Bangkok South
China Sea Gulf of Thailand INDONESIA MALAYSIA Thailand South China Sea Singapore
1.45am Kota Bharu Apparent sighting of lights in air by businessman on ground
1.30am Last recorded sighting with air traffi c conrol Plane last seen on
civilian radar above the waters where the South China Sea meets the Gulf of
Thailand 12.21am Saturday 8th March Malaysia Airlines fl ighrt MH370 Flight
departs Kuala Lumpur, due to land in Beijing at 6.30am the same day. On board
the Boeing 777-200ER are 227 passengers and 12 crew 1.20am Marang area Eight
villagers report seeing lights in the sky and hearing noise 1.45am Penaruk Bus
driver says he saw low-fl ying plane MALAYSIA Last recorded sighting with air
traffi c conrol Plane last seen on civilian radar above the waters where the
South China Sea meets the Gulf of Thailand seeing lights in the sky 2.15am
Northern Malacca Strait Military radar detects what could be the jetliner 200
miles north west of Penang Island Intended fl ight path to Beijing

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STILL MISSING: Pilot Zaharie Shah
ATTACK CLAIM: Failed bomber Badat

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            March 13, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

HUNT FOR THE MASKED GUNMAN;
MAN SHOT IN HEAD IN TOWN CENTRE TERROR ATTACK ; Armed police launch raids in
Birkby, Brighouse

BYLINE: Robert Sutcliffe & Louise Cooper

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 62 words


A MAN is critically ill in hospital after he was shot in the head while sitting
in this Audi car in Hudderseld.

e victim was blasted by a masked gunman armed with a shotgun in an incident in
Springwood that is being treated as attempted murder.

Armed ocers later carried out raids in Birkby and Brighouse as they hunted
suspects for the late-night attack.

Full Story -Pages 2-3

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Lurgan Mail

                            March 13, 2014 Thursday

Solicitor frozen in terror after attack by Lurgan man

LENGTH: 279  words


A solicitor assaulted after a court case was left almost frozen in terror, she
recalled yesterday (Wednesday).

The lawyer told Belfast Magistrates' Court how Leslie Caskey ran at her, jerked
his head in and issued a threat.

She said: "He just looked straight into my eyes and said You see you, you
f****** b*****, I will get you."

Caskey, 45, of Waringhall Place, Lurgan, Co Armagh, was convicted today of
common assault.

The incident occurred outside the Laganside court complex in Belfast in April
last year.

At the time Caskey had just lost a civil case in which the victim was
representing the other side.

No details of that case can be reported for legal reasons.

Giving evidence at a contested hearing on the assault charge, the solicitor said
she saw Caskey emerge looking angry and aggressive.

"He was running towards me at that stage. I thought he was coming for me," she
said.

"I was completely terrified, I was nearly frozen on the spot."

CCTV footage of the incident was played in court.

Caskey insisted he was being wrongly portrayed as "a monster".

He said: "It's being made out I'm a violent person. I'm not a violent person
with women."

According to his account he had been upset and emotional following the case and
suffered a suspected panic attack.

Claiming to have not even seen the solicitor, he added: "I left this court
blinded by tears. I just wanted to get away from it."

But after hearing all the evidence District Judge Ken Nixon convicted him of the
assault charge.

Sentencing will take place in four weeks time.

As he was leaving the court Caskey indicated he planned to appeal the verdict.

Judge Nixon told him: "You can appeal this when I have sentenced you."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INLM


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                            March 13, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Was jet downed by a shoe bomber? Was jet downed by a shoe bomber?;
BRIT TERRORIST REVEALS PLOT TO ATTACK MALAYSIAN TARGET

BYLINE: JIMMY McCLOSKEY ; FELICITY CROSS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 553 words


THE missing Malaysia Airlines plane may have been downed by a shoe bomb attack.

British terror plotter Saajid Badat prompted fears about the fate of the
vanished passenger jet as the mystery continued to baffle experts.

The 34-year-old said he was aware of plans for an earlier shoe bomb attack in
Malyasia.

He said: "I gave one of my shoes to the Malaysians. I think it was to access the
cockpit.

"I said: 'How about I give you one of my bombs to open a cockpit door?'" Badat's
account of the 2002 plot prompted new terror fears as he spoke to a US court via
video link from London during the trial of Osama bin Laden's son-in-law in
relation to the 9/11 attacks, Badat was banged up alongside fellow Brit Richard
Reid, 40, after they unsuccessfully attempted shoe bomb attacks on US-bound jets
in 2001.

Crashed He also claimed 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed had once revealed
plans for a Malaysian terror plot. That led to fears yesterday that the Boeing
777 currently missing with 239 people aboard had been brought down by a shoe
bombing.

But yesterday another theory emerged to explain how the jet, packed with
tracking devices and monitored by radar stations, could have simply vanished.

An aviation expert said he believed the pilots may have deliberately crashed it
as hijackers stormed the cockpit.

They would have taken the action fearing they could be used to commit another
9/11-style attack.

Pilot Karlene Petitt claimed it may have been planned to smash the plane into a
skyscraper in a city such as Hong Kong or Singapore.

She said: "I think the flight deck was compromised. The terrorists turned the
transponder off which gives its location. They told the captain to fly towards a
different city. Hong Kong comes to mind, but they could have turned back to
Singapore, or head anywhere in range with one mission in mind - create another
9/11."

Petitt added: "I believe that the captain initially followed their directions
and when he realised what was about to happen he put the plane into the ocean to
save thousands of lives on the ground.

"If I were in that seat and they decided they didn't need me anymore I would
click off the autopilot and push the nose over in descent during my final
breath."

Petitt speculated that no terrorists had taken responsibility as their plan had
failed and they wanted to launch a similar bloodbath soon. She said search
parties must work out and search possible flight paths to nearby cities in order
to find any wreckage.

Another theory to emerge yesterday suggested a sudden decompression and loss of
oxygen may have caused the pilots and passengers to lose consciousness.

Yesterday a frantic search operation was widened to an area covering 27,000
square miles, five days after the Beijing-bound jet disappeared two hours after
taking off from Kuala Lumpur.

The plane's last radio message was also revealed. Pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53,
or co-pilot Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27, on board calmly said: "All right, good
night," to air traffic controllers as they passed from Malaysian into Vietnamese
airspace.

And yesterday frustrated relatives hurled water bottles at investigators and
screamed: "Tell us the truth."

Their anger boiled over at a press conference in Beijing amid claims authorities
were keeping some information secret about the jet.

jimmy.mccloskey@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STILL MISSING: Pilot Zaharie Shah
ATTACK CLAIMS: Failed bomber Badat
¦ FRUSTRATION: Angry relatives throw bottles at airline officials

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 14, 2014 Friday

Ukraine's eastern region warns of possible terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 130 words


Excerpt from report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kharkiv, 14 March: The head of the Kharkiv regional state administration, Ihor
Baluta, has held a special meeting with heads of the Security Service of Ukraine
[SBU] directorate in Kharkiv Region, the regional prosecutor's office, the main
directorate of the Interior Ministry in Kharkiv Region and Kharkiv city
authorities on steps to avoid destabilization of the situation in the region.

The meeting was held behind closed doors.

"We have verified information that real destabilization of the situation is
being prepared in Kharkiv for 16 March and in the next few days, acts of
terrorism are possible in the city," Baluta said.

[Passage omitted: more details]

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 1318 gmt 14 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             March 14, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

JET HIJACKED FOR 'TERROR ATTACK';
CIA fear it's held on secret airstrip

BYLINE: JIMMY MCCLOSKEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 422 words


THE missing Malaysian Airlines flight could have been hijacked and flown for
five hours to a secret landing strip, it was suggested yesterday.

Top US officials made the claim six days after the Boeing 777 disappeared with
239 people on board.

They fear the vanished jet has been hidden away "with the intention of using it
later for another purpose".

That sparked concerns that terrorists are planning an horrific 9/11-style
spectacular.

Well-connected US journalist Andy Pasztor revealed the concerns of America's
Central Intelligence Agency.

He said they fear the plane's disappearance could be part of a "murky" terror
plot. And he explained: "Aviation investigators and national security officials
believe the plane flew on for a total of five hours after all contact was lost."

Writing in the Wall Street Journal, Pasztor said the new theory is based on data
automatically downloaded from the Boeing 777's engines.

Threats

He added: "US counterterrorism officials are pursuing the possibility that a
pilot or someone else on board the plane may have diverted it toward an
undisclosed location after intentionally turning off the jetliner's transponders
to avoid radar detection."

The theory, downplayed by Malaysian officials, means the missing Beijing-bound
jet could have flown on for an additional 2,200 miles.

That would put it within reach of North Korea, a secretive communist regime
which has issued frequent threats against the West.

CIA sources suggest it could have landed there or on an abandoned airstrip
elsewhere in south-east Asia.

Vietnam is littered with runways that have been disused since the war with the
US.

Last night the US Navy sent one of its warships, the destroyer USS Kidd, to the
Indian Ocean after receiving an "indication" that the plane could have come down
near the Indian subcontinent.

But aviation security expert Philip Baum branded a secret landing as "unlikely".

He said: "Planes hijacked in this way before have been smaller aircraft that
could land on shorter runways.

"The prospect of someone doing the same with a Boeing 777 seems extremely
far-fetched."

Malaysian officials have been criticised for badly organised press conferences
and releasing incorrect information. Yesterday Chinese satellite images thought
to show floating wreckage were dismissed as a mistake.

The Star Says: Page 6

jimmy.mccloskey@dailystar.co.uk

Seven days after flight MH370 from Malaysia to China vanished into thin air,
there is still no clarity on what happened to the plane. Experts reckon there
are a few possible scenarios.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pictures: AFP PHOTO / REUTERS
PRAYERS: Students light candles in Manila, Philippines. Right, messages of
support on a wall at Kuala Lumpur airport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            March 15, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

arson attack terror;
Murder squad cops probe after woman hurt in blaze

BYLINE: PAUL WARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 177 words


A FIRE that left a woman in hospital is being treated as attempted murder, it
emerged last night.

Emergency services were called to the blaze in Seaton Terrace, Irvine, Ayrshire,
at 2am yesterday.

A 49-year-old woman who was in the house was treated for smoke inhalation by
paramedics and taken to Crosshouse Hospital, where she is said to be in a stable
condition.

Police are treating the incident as wilful fire-raising and attempted murder.

Officers want to speak to a man who was seen in the area at the time of the
fire.

Detective Sergeant Ian Ross said: "We are carrying out inquiries to trace the
person responsible.

"I would like to appeal to a man described as wearing dark clothing, who was
seen in the area around the time of the fire, to get in touch as he may have
information which can help our inquiry.

"I would also appeal to anyone who was in the area last night and saw anything
suspicious or anyone hanging around to contact me."

Anyone with information can contact police on the non-emergency 101 number or
anonymously via Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             March 16, 2014 Sunday

Egypt: Six police killed in apparent terror attack

BYLINE: Nicolas Christian

LENGTH: 471  words


GUNMEN have killed six military police officers during an attack on a Cairo
checkpoint.

The policemen were attacked shortly after dawn ­prayers yesterday.

A statement issued by the armed forces laid responsibility for the attack on a
group linked to the Muslim Brotherhood, the party of ousted ­Islamist president
Mohamed Morsi.

"These cowardly operations will only increase our determination to continue the
war against terrorism," said Major General Mahmoud Yousri.

Yousri, chief of security in Qalubiya province, said the attackers stormed the
checkpoint in Shubra al-Kheima, a northern suburb.

He said bomb disposal experts managed to defuse two explosive devices left
behind by the attackers. A third bomb was detonated as it could not be safely
defused.

Egyptian authorities claim the Brotherhood has orchestrated a series of bomb
attacks on police and other targets that followed the overthrow of Morsi.

They have produced little ­evidence open to public scrutiny to bolster these
claims, and most have been claimed by a Sinai-based al-Qaeda-inspired group,
Ansar Beit al-Maqdis or Champions of Jerusalem.

The Brotherhood denies the attacks. The Brotherhood was designated a terrorist
group in December and thousands of its members have been put on ­trial.

A series of high-profile attacks on security forces in Cairo and the Sinai
peninsula have been claimed by Ansar Beit al-Maqdis, which it says are in
revenge for the military-backed government's repression of Morsi's supporters

In a statement posted on militant websites, Ansar said one of its founders,
Tawfiq Mohammed Freij, was killed on Tuesday at an undisclosed location when a
"heat bomb" he was transporting was set off when his car was involved in an
accident. It said Freij, also known as Abu Abdullah had masterminded the tactic
of blowing up pipelines to stop Egyptian gas supplies to Israel.

It called him the "field commander" of an August 2011 cross-border attack into
southern Israel that targeted a bus and other vehicles near the resort city of
Eilat, killing eight people.

The statement's wording suggests Freij moved from either Sinai or the Gaza Strip
to Cairo or elsewhere in Egypt in early 2013 to supervise the group's
operations, including a failed suicide car-bomb attack on interior minister
Mahmoud Ibrahim in Cairo in September.

Morsi - Egypt's first democratically elected president - is in jail facing four
separate trials after being deposed by the army amid mass protests last July.
The charges, which he denies, include killing protesters, spying and conspiring
to commit acts of terror.

His ailing predecessor, Hosni Mubarak, was jailed having been found guilty of
similar offences after his February 2011 overthrow. However, he was released,
pending appeal, last August and was later admitted to a military hospital in
Cairo for treatment.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 17, 2014 Monday

Rwandan foreign minister slams "terrorist" attacks by nationals in SAfrica

LENGTH: 125 words


Text of report by Rwandan radio on 12 March

Louise Mushikiwabo, minister of foreign affairs, declared that the Rwandan
Government has full rights of expelling the South African officials as Pretoria
recently chased three Rwandan diplomats, who were working in the Rwandan Embassy
located in South Africa.

On her Twitter page, Mushikiwabo went on saying that the Rwandans who took
refuge in South Africa continue their terrorist attacks against Rwanda, and
South Africa did not react as it was convened. Minister Mushikiwabo concluded by
pointing out that the bilateral cooperation between both countries would be
continuous if the Rwandans living in South Africa put an end to their illegal
acts.

Source: Radio Rwanda, Kigali, in French 1945 gmt 12 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 18, 2014 Tuesday

Ugandan police warn of possible terror attack by Somali Islamists

LENGTH: 285 words


Text of report by John Masaba entitled "Police warn of Al-Shabab attack on fuel
stations" published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New
Vision website on 18 March

The police have warned of possible terror attacks by Al-Shabab on fuel stations
in the country.

"We have received intelligence information that terrorists belonging to the
Al-Shabab group are planning to attack Uganda by hitting fuel tankers on
transit, fuel depots and stations," a statement released by deputy police
spokesperson, Patrick Onyango, said.

In the statement, Onyango warned that they have received intelligence that fuel
tanker stopovers and parking places like Naluwerere, Mbiko, Lugazi, Nakawa,
Buwama, Lyantonde, Ruti, Rubaale, Karuma, Elegu were possible targets. "We have
deployed adequately in these places both overt and covert personnel. We call
upon the general public to be vigilant and report any suspicious people/objects
in their areas," the statement said.

He said that with immediate effect, all trucks leaving the border posts of Busia
and Malaba would be given police escort. "We are engaging all fuel dealers and
truck drivers to comply with this counter measures. We are also guarding all
fuel stations and depots throughout the country," he said.

He urged the public not to panic because police has stepped up deployments, foot
and motorized patrols, surveillance and intelligence operations in the country.

In July 2010, Al-Shabab launched two bombings in Kampala that killed 79 people
watching a World Cup match.

The Al-Shabab have repeatedly threatened to strike Uganda unless its forces
withdraw from the African Union Mission in Somalia.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 18 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       March 18, 2014 Tuesday 7:49 AM GMT

Crew of missing Malaysian Airlines Flight Mhl70 'died heroically trying to save
the plane from a fire';
America's former head of air security has dismissed theories of a terror attack
or suicide mission

BYLINE: By Piers Eady

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 399 words


America's former head of air security believes the crew of missing flight Mhl
died heroically trying to save the plane from a fire.

Billie Vincent, former head of security for the Federal Aviation Administration
throughout the 1980s, has dismissed theories of a terror attack or suicide
mission.

Instead he believes the pilots struggled to save their aircraft after a blaze in
the cargo hold until they were eventually overcome by smoke.Latest updates on
search for missing jet

Mr Vincent, who was an expert witness in the Lockerbie bombing trial, said: "The
data released thus far most likely points to a problem with hazardous materials.

"This scenario begins with the eruption of hazardous materials within the cargo
hold - either improperly packaged or illegally shipped - or both."

Mr Vincent believes a fire started in the cargo hold and gradually destroyed the
plane's communications systems.

He says toxic fumes would have quickly overwhelmed the passengers and cockpit.

Mr Vincent guesses that one of the pilots managed to put on an oxygen mask and
tried to turn the plane back to Kuala Lumpur.

He puts the plane's rapid ascent and descent down to the crew simply not being
able to see properly until they manage to stabilise at 23,000 ft.

Mr Vincent added: "The airplane then continues flying until no fuel remains and
crashes - most likely into the ocean as there has been no report of any
Emergency Locater Transmitter (ELT) signal which can be received by satellite if
the crash were on land."

And Mr Vincent, who played a key role in negotiations after the hijackings of US
planes during the 1980s, insists it is unlikely the aircraft was sabotaged.

He said: "There is no indication that either of the pilots was criminally
involved in the disappearance of this aeroplane.

"Neither has Malaysia released any data indicating anything amiss in the
security clearance of the passengers for this flight.

"The one question raised about the two passengers travelling on stolen passports
has been cleared indicating that they were planning on illegally claiming
refugee status in another country, probably Germany.

"I have yet to see anything released about the nature and content of the cargo
carried in the cargo hold of Mhl.

"Hazardous cargo can be legally carried on passenger aircraft. However, the
amount and type of such hazardous materials are strictly controlled."

Malaysia Airlines flight Mhl

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 18, 2014 Tuesday 4:30 PM GMT

Chechen warlord dubbed Russia's Bin Laden after string of terror attacks has
been killed, claims militant website

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 276 words


A Chechen warlord who has claimed responsibility for a string of deadly attacks
in Russia in recent years has reportedly been killed.

The apparent death of Doku Umarov was announced by a website sympathetic to
Islamist militants fighting Russian rule in the North Caucasus.

The death of Russia's most wanted man, who called for attacks on last month's
Winter Olympics in Sochi, has been reported before by the Kremlin-backed leader
of the Chechnya region, but not by Umarov's sympathisers.

The Kavkaz Centre website called him a martyr who had 'given 20 years of his
life to the Jihad', but did not say when or how Umarov had been killed.

A spokesman for Russia's National Anti-Terrorism Committee was quoted by state
news agency RIA as saying he could not confirm Umarov was dead.

Umarov has defied Russian security forces for years as the head of the
insurgency seeking to carve an Emirate out of Russia's mostly Muslim southern
Caucasus provinces.

The jihadist leader was blamed for two suicide bombings in Volgograd in Russia
which killed 34 people over Christmas.

He has claimed responsibility for a suicide bombing in Moscow's Domodedovo
airport in 2011 that killed 37 people and injured 180.

He also claimed to have organised two suicide bombings in March 2010 that killed
40 people and injured 120.

Umarov - known as known as Russia's Bin Laden - had ordered a halt to attacks on
civilian targets in 2012.

But he rescinded that order in July, urging his followers to strike the Sochi
Olympics, which he denounced as 'satanic dances on the bones of our ancestors.'

His death would be a breakthrough for President Vladimir Putin in the fight
against the militants.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2014 Wednesday

Security operation launched in Kenyan coastal town over foiled terror attack

LENGTH: 156 words


Text of unattributed report entitled "Security operation launched in Mombasa
over terror attack" published by state-owned Kenya Broadcasting Corporation
(KBC) website on 18 March

A major security operation has been launched in Mombasa following last night's
incident where police foiled a planned terror attack, after intercepting a
vehicle loaded with explosives.

Two men of Somali origin were arrested in Changamwe area on their way to Mombasa
town where police believe they planned to carry out a major terror attack.

Bomb disposal experts were called in to determine the nature of the explosives.

Security personnel have been on a high alert after Al-Shabab militants warned of
attacks at unspecified locations in various parts of the country.

Kenya has suffered a series of terror attacks after the Kenya defence forces
invaded war-torn Somalia to pursue Al-Shabab fighters.

Source: KBC Online text website, Nairobi, in English 18 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2014 Wednesday

Syrians in Cuba condemn terror attacks in their homeland

LENGTH: 201 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Havana, (SANA) The Syrian community and students in Cuba strongly condemned the
terrorist explosion which hit al-Zahra neighbourhood in Homs city and the
terrorist mortar attacks that targeted the Umayyad and al-Qasaa areas in
Damascus.

In a statement, the Syrians stressed that these criminal acts are part of the
series of terrorism which reflects the bankruptcy of the armed terrorist groups
and those who support them due to the latest achievements of the Syrian army.

The students expressed support to their homeland under the leadership of
President Bashar al-Assad.

The Syrians in Cuba offered condolences to the families of the martyrs, wishing
quick recovery for the injured and calling for restoring security and safety to
Syria.

A terrorist car bomb explosion took place in al-Zahra neighbourhood in Homs city
on Monday, claiming the lives of 6 citizens and injuring 26 others among them
children and women.

In the same context, 13 citizens were injured due to terrorist mortars attacks
on the Umayyad square and al-Qasaa area in Damascus.

H. Zain/ H. Said

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0855 gmt 19 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 19, 2014 Wednesday

Kenya heightens security in port city following foiled terror attack

LENGTH: 475 words


Text of report by Cyrus Ombati entitled "War on terror: CS Joseph Ole Lenku says
four airlines surcharged for bringing inadmissible people" published by Kenyan
privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 19 March

Nairobi, Kenya: Some 145 terrorists are being held in isolation in various
maximum security prisons in the country following renewed war on terrorism. Of
these, 129 were arrested in the past month alone in operations mounted by Kenyan
anti-terror police with the assistance of other foreign agencies. Interior
Cabinet Secretary Joseph Ole Lenku said Wednesday [19 March] they have
heightened operations against terrorism and revealed four airlines had been
surcharged for bringing into the country inadmissible persons. Lenku said in his
office the interception of the assortment of illegal arms and improvised
explosive devices in Mombasa [coastal region] on Tuesday was a breakthrough in
the war on terrorism.

"There is no doubt the capture of these assorted arms and the arrest of suspects
averted an inconceivable disaster that could have resulted in loss of lives and
destruction of property," said Lenku.

He said among the recoveries include 270 rounds of ammunition, an AK 47 rifle,
six IEDs, grenades, detonators and a mobile phone improvised for detonating
bombs. Another accomplice, a sixth one, was arrested Wednesday morning in
Nairobi, said Lenku. Two others had been arrested in Nairobi on Tuesday in
connection with the Mombasa seizure. The revelation came following the discovery
of a massive car bomb which US and Kenyan anti-terror experts believe was
transported into the coastal city to commit what would have been one of the
deadliest terrorist acts in Kenya. The occupants were initially arrested
possessing a modified vehicle.

It is believed the FBI played a crucial role in tracking the vehicle from
Somalia after it entered Kenya through Mandera and Garissa [counties in
northeastern Kenya] early this month. According to sources, the occupants of the
car were surveying targets in Mombasa for about a week after meeting their
contacts in the coastal city. They planned to attack a mall there and some of
plotters of the scheme had been linked by the FBI to the 22 September Westgate
Shopping Mall in which more than 70 people were killed. The cellphone lines used
by the two suspects in custody yesterday had communicated to alleged
Somali-based organisers of the Westgate terror attack.

Lenku said security has been beefed up in Mombasa County and other parts of the
country.

"With Mombasa being a tourist hub, we are keen to ensure that tourists' holidays
are not disrupted by insecurity," he said and defended the police raid on Musa
Mosque in the coastal town. He said no one should criticize police for their
work and urged for public support.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 19 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            March 19, 2014 Wednesday
                                   2 Edition

Kenya foils terror attack in Mombasa

BYLINE: MOMBASA

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 173 words


KENYAN police have arrested two men suspected of links to a Somali Islamist
militant group after they were found with two large bombs that may have been
intended for an attack in the port city of Mombasa.

The Somali al Shabaab Islamist group has claimed several attacks on Kenya  in
the past.

After a raid by gunman at a Nairobi shopping mall that killed at least 67 people
in September, the group said it planned more attacks. The coast, which is
popular with tourists, has been a target.

Al Shabaab have demanded Kenyan troops withdraw from Somalia, where they have
been fighting the Islamist rebels.

Mombasa police chief Robert Kitur said: "Our first suspicion is that they are
 al Shabaab especially because of their origin."

He said one man was Somali and the other was a Kenyan of Somali origin.

Police tracked the men and recovered two large improvised explosive devices
from them.

Mr Kitur added: "We suspect they were planning to detonate them somewhere around
Mombasa. If they had detonated, they would have caused massive destruction."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2014 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 19, 2014 Wednesday 4:55 PM GMT

Kenya, Uganda on alert for possible terror attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 585 words


NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) - Security agencies in two East African countries are on
alert for possible terror attacks from Somali extremists who have vowed to
avenge the presence of African Union troops in Somalia, officials said
Wednesday.

Anti-terror police foiled a planned terrorist attack in the coastal city of
Mombasa after they intercepted a car packed with explosives a week ago,
according to Kenyan authorities.

The FBI is aiding the investigation and two men who were allegedly caught in the
car were charged in court Wednesday for preparing to commit murder, being
members of an outlawed organization and illegal possession of explosives and
weapons. The two men charged in court were identified as Abdiaziz Abdulahi Abdi
and Isaak Noor Ibrahim believed to be Somali nationals.

Two more suspects, Mohammed Daayo, a Somalia national and Shadrack Nicholas, a
Kenyan, are in police custody in connection with the planned attack, according
to Mombasa County Criminal Investigations boss Henry Ondieki.

Security in the country has been increased following the arrests, said Kenya's
Internal Security Minister Joseph Ole Lenku.

Police on Tuesday displayed the explosives found in the vehicle, including six
cylinders weighing 60 kilograms (132 pounds), six detonators, six grenades, an
AK47 rifle and a cache of ammunition. A mobile phone improvised for detonating
bombs was also found, said Lenku.

Two senior FBI agents attached to the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi are in Mombasa
assisting Kenyan agencies with the technology for analyzing the explosives, the
Mombasa County commissioner Nelson Marwa said.

The FBI used satellites to locate and track the blue Toyota SUV in which the
explosives had been mounted leading to the arrests, Marwa said.

Police had arrested the first two suspects on March 11 but it is only on March
17 that they discovered the explosives which were concealed under the seats of
the suspects' sports utility vehicle, Marwa said.

The Islamic extremist rebels in Somalia, al-Shabab, have vowed to inflict
violent attacks on Kenya and Uganda because the two countries have contributed
troops to the African Union force supporting the government in Somalia.

In Uganda, police spokesman Ibn Ssenkumbi says Somali militants may be planning
to launch attacks on fuel trucks.

Ssenkumbi, a spokesman for police in the Ugandan capital of Kampala, said the
authorities had taken precautionary measures such as providing police escort to
fuel trucks parked or moving along highways.

"We got intelligence that a group actually was planning to attack, but we can't
tell if they are already in the country or not," he said.

Certain gas stations in Kampala have been ordered to keep parking lots empty of
all vehicles, while most fuel depots across the country are now under heavy
guard, he said.

Because Uganda is landlocked, fuel trucks arriving from the Kenyan port city of
Mombasa are a common sight along major highways. Trucks going to neighboring
Rwanda also pass through Uganda.

Ugandan officials have issued many terror alerts since the attack last September
at a shopping mall in the Kenyan capital of Nairobi. That attack was claimed by
al-Shabab, and Ugandan officials believe those Somali Islamic extremists are
plotting a similarly deadly attack on Ugandan territory in retaliation over
Uganda's military involvement in Somalia.

Al-Shabab bombed a bar screening of the 2010 World Cup final in Uganda's capital
in July 2010, an attack which killed more than 70 people.

___

Muhumuza reported from Kampala, Uganda

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 19, 2014 Wednesday 3:35 PM GMT

Kenya, Uganda alert for possible terror attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 143 words


NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) - Authorities in two East African countries say they are on
alert for possible terror attacks from Somali militants who have vowed to avenge
the presence of African Union troops in Somalia.

Kenyan authorities say police foiled a planned terrorist attack in the coastal
city of Mombasa after they intercepted a car packed with explosives a week ago.
The FBI is aiding the investigation.

Two men who were charged in court Wednesday with terror-related offenses.
Kenya's Internal Security Minister Joseph Ole-Lenku says security in the country
has been increased following the arrests.

In Uganda, police spokesman Ibn Ssenkumbi says Somali militants may be planning
to launch attacks on fuel trucks.

Uganda and Kenya contribute to African Union troops bolstering Somalia's weak
government against an insurgency by al-Qaida-linked al-Shabab militants.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Cheddar Valley Gazette

                            March 20, 2014 Thursday

N-plant terror attack fears

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 414  words


The potential impact and benefits of EDF's plans to build Hinkley Point C
nuclear power station have been aired at a fiery meeting in Glastonbury - with
the possible threat of a terror attack among the key concerns.

Police  stepped up patrols for last week's Glastonbury Town Council meeting,
knowing it would be packed with people frustrated at being unable to press the
company at a public meeting which had been cancelled in the town.

Members of the public were given the chance to quiz David Eccles, of EDF, before
his presentation at the meeting.

One addressed Mr Eccles and in relation to the cancelled public meeting said: "I
would just like to voice the disappointment of this community. It is clear you
feel the weight of opinion is against you."

Mr Eccles started his presentation by declaring: "I would like to start by
saying thank you for your questions this evening, I respect your positions and
views."

He then announced that he would alter his presentation with the aim of answering
the public's questions.

"That is the biggest load of claptrap I have ever heard in my life," said
Councillor Ian Forster when the presentation was over.

During a discussion between Mr Cousins and Mr Eccles, a suggestion emerged that
the building where waste was to be stored would not be as protected as the
reactor.

This led to questions over the threat of terrorism.

"I hope you do not build this. You are putting me, my children and my
grandchildren at risk," responded Mr Cousins.

Mr Eccles reassured the council and members of public that the whole site would
be "incredibly protected".

Councillor Denise Michell reiterated Mr Cousins' concerns about safety and asked
about what the contingency plans where if a "747 did drop there".

Mr Eccles stated that contingency plans lay with Somerset County Council not
EDF, but added that the company was working alongside the authority.

After much discussion it was pointed out that the fire service was highly
trained to deal with any emergencies.

The matter of storing the nuclear waste was a large concern for many of the
councillors and members of the public. However Mr Eccles stressed that EDF was
"in a position to store the waste for as long as it takes".

Councillor Nick Cottle said "We could be here all week and you wouldn't change
my view," but he continued to raise concerns over traffic, despite EDF hoping a
lot will come via the sea or M5.

Mr Eccles finished saying  he would "take away the strong feelings of this
meeting."

See letters, p31

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 184


                    Copyright 2014 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            March 20, 2014 Thursday

China denounces ETIM on terror attack

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 172 words


BEIJING - China on Wednesday reiterated its stance on fighting against the East
Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a terrorist group that voiced support for the
terrorist attack in Kunming on March 1.

ETIM released a video online and expressed support for the attack in Kunming
city, capital of Yunnan Province in southwest China, which killed 29 and injured
another 143.

"It has fully exposed the terrorist nature of the ETIM," Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said at a daily news briefing.

Terrorism is a common enemy of mankind. Fighting against the ETIM is a key
component of the international anti-terrorism war, Hong said.

He called on the international community to fully recognize the terrorist nature
and severe damage of the "East Turkistan" forces, as represented by the ETIM,
and to support China's anti-terrorism stance.

The ETIM, listed by the United Nations Security Council as a terrorist group,
claimed responsibility for the Tian'anmen attack in October in which five people
were killed and 40 others injured.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            March 20, 2014 Thursday

Deadly terrorist attack on Somali hotel slammed

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 366 words


UNITED NATIONS - The UN Security Council on Wednesday "condemned in the
strongest terms" a deadly terrorist attack on a hotel in central Somalia, saying
that "any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable regardless of their
motivation".

"The members of the Security Council condemn in the strongest terms yesterday's
attack on a hotel in Bula Burde, Somalia, for which Al-Shabab has claimed
responsibility," said a statement issued by the 15-nation council Wednesday
night.

A suicide bomber in Somalia on Tuesday rammed a car packed full of explosives
into a hotel in the southern town, killing several people, days after it was
recaptured from Al-Shabab fighters, in an attack claimed by the armed group.

The blast in Bula Burde is the latest in a string of attacks launched in
apparent retaliation to a new offensive by African Union (AU) troops seeking to
capture bases from Al-Shabab.

The attack followed an assault on a military convoy near the Somali capital
Mogadishu on Monday, which killed four Somali soldiers, reports said.

Al-Shabab, which is seeking to impose its version of Islamic law, was driven out
of bases in the capital more than two years ago, but has continued to control
swathes of countryside and smaller towns, which it uses as launch pads to
strike.

The members of the Security Council expressed their condolences to the families
of the victims, which included members of the Somalia National Army, the African
Union peacekeeping forces in Somalia (AMISOM) and civilians, the council
statement said.

"The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms
and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable regardless of their motivation," said the statement.

"The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to
justice, and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with the Somali authorities in this regard," it said.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            March 20, 2014 Thursday

Pakistan: Islamabad targets abadis after terror attack

BYLINE: Jon Boone in Islamabad

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 565 words


In a capital city of comfortable villas and tidy streets organised on a strict
grid plan, the Afghan Basti slum is an uncomfortable fit. A collection of
tightly packed mud hovels, it looks like it has been transplanted from
Pakistan's troubled tribal areas into what is otherwise a manicured enclave for
the country's elite.

The slum, one of several inhabited by the menial workers who keep the city
ticking along, may, however, be living on borrowed time. The government that
came to power last year has sounded increasingly hostile towards illegal
settlements that occupy valuable land and, according to some officials, are
havens for terrorists and criminals.

The slums, or katchi abadis, were swiftly singled out for blame after this
month's double suicide bomb attack in the city's district courts, which killed
11 people and was the worst attack Islamabad has suffered for five years.

"Whenever there is any terrorist incident they blame the katchi abadis," said
Noor Mohammad Khan, a vegetable seller in the Afghan Basti, whose family moved
to Islamabad from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. "We tell police, 'if you think
there are terrorists come and carry out operation, including commando
operation', but they don't find anything," he said.

A court ruling in February ordered the municipal authorities to clear the slums.
Another option under consideration is fencing them off and controlling entry and
exit points. One of Islamabad's top police officers said: "Putting a fence
around them will enable us to monitor who is coming and going much better."

Interior minister Chaudhry Nisar has led the charge for a crackdown. He singled
the katchi abadis out as possible militant havens soon after his party, the
Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz, came to power last summer. Slum dwellers say they
are being singled out in part because of ethnic prejudice.

"There are members of the government who do not like Pashtuns," said Haji
Muzafar Khan, 60, who lives in a slum near the Afghan Basti. Pashtuns are the
group who predominate in Pakistan's restive north-west and Afghanistan. "The
upper class Punjabis think we are uncivilised, dirty terrorists."

The police officer admitted few terror plots have been linked to the katchi
abadis, but says it is likely terrorists stay there after entering the city. "We
carry out raids once or twice a week and always find illegal weapons, narcotics
or suspicious characters," he said.

Pakistan is trying to force an estimated 3 million Afghans, who first moved to
Pakistan during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan in the 1980s, to leave. But
slum dwellers and campaigners think the authorities are most interested in
unlocking land that has soared in value as the city has grown.

"This is a government that very much represents urban commercial interests,"
said Aasim Sajjad Akhtar, an academic and chairman of the All Pakistan Katchi
Abadi Alliance. "They like the idea of vacating all this public land and selling
it off on contract."

In contrast to the city's leafy neighbourhoods, conditions in the katchi abadis
are grim. There are few municipal services such as a water, electricity or
sewers. But residents insist they won't go. "We have been here for 35 years and
the government has to build us somewhere decent to live before they can kick us
out," said Khan. "Even if they demolish our settlement we will live under the
open sky." Jon Boone Islamabad

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            March 20, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Woman's terror in attack by pitbull

BYLINE: Chloe Glover

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 456 words


A WOMAN has relived her horror after being mauled by a vicious dog just yards
from her Golcar home.

Mrs Elizabeth Du˜eld spent  ve days in hospital after the attack, which left her
with horri c hand injuries and the loss of the use of three  ngers on her right
hand.

Elizabeth, 54, said that she is now scared to go outside again after the
terrifying incident, which happened as she tried to protect her own pet dog, a
Jack Russell called Buster. R She tried to pull him to safety after he was
grabbed by a pitbull-type dog thought to belong to one of a group of teenagers
in a  eld only seconds from her front gate in Lilac Walk.

Police are now hunting the owner and dog, who launched the attack last ++ursday
at around 4.15pm.

Elizabeth was rushed to Hudders eld Royal In rmary last ++ursday by ambulance
but was then transferred to Bradford Royal In rmary where she has undergone two
operations by plastic surgeons to try to repair a hole in her hand and restore
feeling to her  ngers.

She was discharged on Tues T - day teatime but faces a further operation
tomorrow and is now wearing a large blue cast on her right arm and bandage on
her left thumb.

Elizabeth said: "I can't remember a lot but the whole experience was terrifying.

"I had just taken Buster out for a stroll when I noticed a group of boys with a
pitbull.

"I called him back but the dog saw him and raced over and grabbed him around the
head.

"I tried to pick him up but dropped him and that was when the dog turned on me.

"I was lying in the  eld for about 40 minutes before the ambulance came and
there was blood all over.

"My  rst thought was to get someone to get Buster inside."

Fortunately she was helped by several kind neighbours, one of whom fought the
dog o¡ with a stump of wood and calmed her whilst she waited for the ambulance.

Her dog received treatment for his injuries and Elizabeth, who is a full time
carer for her husband, John, now faces a painful recovery and a fear of leaving
her house again.

She said: "I'm really worried about going out again, especially because the dog
has not yet been caught.

"I hope that they manage to catch it because next time it could get a child,
which would be terrible.

"What happened was horrible and not only do I have these injuries but I can't
care for my husband, which is having a big impact.

"Luckily my daughter, Karen, is helping us but we could really do with some home
help from the council."

Her angry husband John said: "She was lucky it wasn't any worse. It is
frightening to think this happened just after she had walked out of her own
house. We're very grateful to Julie and our other neighbours who helped us."

Anyone with any information should contact police on 101.

Have your say on these stories at: www.examiner.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Elizabeth and John Duffield of Golcar with their Jack Russell 'Buster'
who was also injured in the attack. ¦ 190314EDOG_05 PAUL WELCH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                      March 20, 2014 Thursday 7:18 PM GMT

Liverpool university student suspected of planning a terrorist attack denied
right to return to UK;
Abdul Wahab Khan, one of five men arrested in 2009, inked to an al-Qaeda
operative

BYLINE: By Alan Selby

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 470 words


A              Liverpooluniversity student who was suspected of planning a
terrorist attack has been denied the right to return to the UK.

Abdul Wahab Khan was one of five men arrested in 2009, after intelligence
agencies linked them to an al-Qaeda operative involved in plans to blow up a
shopping centre in the north west.

Dramatic scenes saw one man forced to the ground at              John Moores
Universitycampus - where Mr Khan was studying - while shocked students looked on
when police swooped on April 8 of that year.

Security services had said the group were days away from carrying out a "mass
casualty attack plot", but police later released the men without charge.

Deportation proceedings against them were started but withdrawn from Mr Khan
after he agreed to leave the country voluntarily.

He was told he was not welcome in the UK, because "his presence would not be
conducive to the public good for reasons of national security."

Despite not being charged and leaving the country voluntarily he said he was
interviewed, fingerprinted and placed under surveillance by Pakistani
authorities when he arrived back in his homeland.

The decision to ban him from the UK was then upheld in an appeal hearing during
which Mr Khan and the other four men were barred from seeing some of the
evidence against them.

The Secretary of State said one of them had been involved in email communication
with an account they believed was run by an al-Qaeda associate.

They said emails included coded descriptions of ingredients for explosives and
plans for how an attack would take place, while one of the group had taken
reconnaissance photos of the shopping centre they intended to bomb.

A newly-released ruling shows the European Court of Human Rights dismissed his
new appeal on January 28, meaning Mr Khan can never return to the country.

In a statement his lawyer said Mr Khan had no intention of coming back to the
UK, but that he had objected to the fairness of the secret appeal hearings.

He also said other members of the group who did not leave the country
voluntarily had successfully appealed against their deportation.

The Secretary of State said because he had already moved away there was no
obligation to protect him against the chance of ill treatment on his return to
Pakistan, which prevented the others' deportation, and the European Court of
Human Rights upheld this decision.            More Merseyside news:

Alcoholic proposed to girlfriend while punching her in face jailed for four
years

Campaigners react angrily after Reading newspaper appears to link Hillsborough
to hooliganism

Trapdoor in lounge leads police to hidden cannabis farm

Liverpool mayor launches campaign to have Tory minister sacked over Beatles
blunder

Machete-wielding burglars threaten householders during terrifying raid at
Liverpool home

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                             March 21, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Couple threatened with hammer in terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 156 words


A MASKED intruder threatened a couple with a hammer during a terrifying
burglary.

Fortunately no-one was injured in the attempted robbery at a house on Leeds
Road, Dewsbury, on Tuesday night. The suspect, who was wearing a black
balaclava, entered the house at the back door but the couple heard a disturbance
and went to see what was happening.

They saw the intruder who then raised a hammer above his head and demanded
property.

The couple challenged the suspect who ran off across Leeds Road close to the
junction with Bywell Road - opposite the Tesco store - where he is thought to
have been joined by a second man.

Det Con Peter Usher of Huddersfield CID, said: "The man we want to speak to in
connection with the incident is described as 6'2" tall and of skinny build.

"He was wearing a black zipped up padded jacket, which was waist length, blue
jeans and black gloves.

"Any witnesses or anyone with information is asked to call via 101."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 21, 2014 Friday 8:04 AM GMT

PICTURED: Victims of a terror attack in Pakistan

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 283 words


ISLAMABAD (AP) - Zebunissa Abdul Rashid flips through an album of images of her
late husband, stopping to share a sweet or funny story about the 72-year-old man
who was killed by militants who stormed the court complex where the lawyer
worked.

Rao Abdul Rashid was a loving father and husband and a "man of his word" who
loved collecting perfumes in a cabinet in their bedroom.

"I miss his smile. I miss his smell. I miss opening the door for him," said the
60-year-old wife. "He was the first man of my life. I married him when I was 15
and after 4 decades and a half, they took him away from me."

Gunmen stormed Pakistan's main court complex in Islamabad on March 3, cutting
down fleeing lawyers before blowing themselves up in a rampage that killed 11
people, including Rashid's husband, Rao Abdul Rashid. It was the worst terror
attack in the capital since a 2008 truck bombing at the Marriott Hotel that
killed 54 people.

In an assault that lasted roughly 20 minutes, gunmen swarmed through the narrow
alleys between the complex's buildings, hurling grenades and firing automatic
weapons wildly, witnesses said.

The assault stunned the capital, which has largely been spared the violence
raging in many parts of the country.

So many times in the aftermath of suicide bombings and shootings in Pakistan,
the victims become nameless, faceless numbers in the tallies of dead and
wounded. In this photo essay, Associated Press photographer Muhammed Muheisen
attempts to remember the victims through a series of photos showing the families
they left behind.

__

Follow AP photographers and photo editors on Twitter: http://apne.ws/15Oo6jo.

___

Follow Muhammed Muheisen on Twitter at www.twitter.com/Muheisen81.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       March 21, 2014 Friday 4:34 PM GMT

Video: Teen accused of planning Columbine-style school massace in Leicestershire
throwing molotov cocktail;
Michael Piggin is accused of arming himself with guns and explosives as he
plotted a terror attack on staff and pupils

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 381 words


A jury has been shown a video of a teenager accused of planning a repeat of the
Columbine massacre throwing a molotov cocktail

A jury has been shown this video of a teenager accused of planning a repeat of
the Columbine massacre throwing a molotov cocktail in an alley.

Michael Piggin is accused of arming himself with guns and explosives as he
plotted a terror attack on staff and pupils at his former school in
Loughborough, Leicestershire.

The teenager, who was 17 when he was arrested but can now be named after turning
18, also identified his college, Loughborough Mosque, a local cinema,
Loughborough University and the town's council offices as potential targets, the
Old Bailey has heard.

The jury was shown a video of Piggin lighting a rag stuffed inside a bottle of
flammable liquid and then throwing it. It explodes leaving a trail of flames on
the ground and up an outside wall.

Piggin then goes back to inspect the small fire, pours cola on it before walking
away swigging from the drinks bottle.

A second video was shown to the Old Bailey courtroom of Piggin writing
anti-Muslim graffiti on a wall.

In it, the bespectacled teenager is shown spray-painting No More Mosques! in
large black letters.

Piggin, who has Asperger's syndrome, denies a charge of possessing items for the
purpose, preparation and instigation of an act of terrorism.

They include partially assembled petrol and pipe bombs, partially constructed
improvised explosive devices (IEDs), a stab proof vest and gas mask, air rifles,
pistols, ammunition and a note book containing information about the planning
and construction of explosive devices found at his home.

He also denies possessing a document or record containing information likely to
be useful for a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism.

Piggin and two other teenagers, who cannot be named, have already pleaded guilty
to charges of possessing petrol bombs and component parts of pipe bombs for the
use of explosive devices, the jury was told.

Piggin has also admitted possessing the component parts for improvised explosive
devices (IEDs), the court heard.

The Columbine high school massacre saw Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold murder 12
students and one teacher in Colorado in 1999 in one of America's worst mass
shootings.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

Pakistan condemns terrorist attack in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 114 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 21 March: Pakistan on Friday condemned the March 20 deadly attack on
a Kabul hotel, in which a number of civilians - including women and children,
Afghans and foreigners - lost their lives.

Those injured included a Pakistani national. Foreign Office Spokesperson Tasnim
Aslam in a statement said, "Our deepest sympathies and condolences go to the
families of the victims. We also pray for the speediest recovery of the injured.
Pakistan reiterates its condemnation of terrorism, in all its forms and
manifestations."

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1822gmt
21 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

Six killed, several injured in terrorist mortar attacks - Syrian news agency

LENGTH: 433 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Six killed, several others injured in new spate of terrorist attacks" - SANA
headline.]

Provinces, 21 Mar (SANA) - Terrorist mortar attacks on neighbourhoods in the
city of Aleppo claimed the lives of 6 civilians and wounded 20 others on Friday
[21 March], according to a source in the province.

The source told SANA reporter that mortar shells, which were fired by terrorists
hit the neighbourhoods of Al-Tilel and Share' al-Nill, caused also material
damage in the sites.

One citizen killed, head of national reconciliation committee wounded in
Damascus countryside

A bakery manager was killed and chairman of the national reconciliation
committee in al-Hameh area in Damascus countryside was injured by terrorists'
gunfire Thursday.

A source at the Police Command told SANA that terrorists opened fire at the
bakery's manager, Mohammad Baioun and chairman of the national reconciliation
committee in al-Hameh, Hussam Skaf near the municipality building, killing the
former while the latter was wounded by a gunshot.

This is not the first attack against heads and members of the reconciliation
committees in Damascus countryside. A terrorist group assassinated chairman of
the national reconciliation committee in Maadamiet al-Kalamoun and member of the
national reconciliation committee in Harasta, and a third group bler up an
explosive device in the car of the head of the national reconciliation committee
in Madaya and set a member's car ablaze.

2 Citizens wounded in terrorist attacks in Damascus countryside

Two citizens have been wounded and material damage inflicted on properties due
to a mortar attack on al-Bayrouni Hospital and Harasta suburb in Damascus
countryside.

A source at the Police Command told SANA that a mortar shell landed behind
al-Bayrouni Hospital, wounding two citizens and causing material damage.

Four other shells fell in Talet al-Amjad and the B4 areas and near Harasta
suburb bridge, causing material damage to buildings and cars but no casualties.

Terrorists have lately showered Harasta suburb with scores of shells, leaving
tens of citizens dead or injured.

Terrorist rocket attack on Lattakia university

Meanwhile, terrorists based in the northern countryside of Lattakia fired a
rocket shell on the faculty of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering -Industrial
Institution-at Tishreen Uuniversity in the city.

A source in the province told SANA that the terrorist attack caused material
damage to classrooms, without human casualties.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 21 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

Turkish editorial says "mass" terror attack in Istanbul likely

LENGTH: 1135 words


Text of report by Turkish newspaper Yeni Safak website on 21 March

[Editorial by Ibrahim Karagul: "Who is Targeting Istanbul for Terrorism?"]

A strange, bewildering, and at the same time worrisome incident took place
yesterday in Nigde. Three people, alleged to have come from Syria, opened fire
on security forces who sought to stop the vehicle that they had forcibly
commandeered in Ulukisla.

In the clash, in which long-barreled weapons and hand grenades were used, one
traffic policeman and one non-commissioned officer were martyred. The
individuals, who also killed a truck driver, went into a health clinic and took
the employees hostage.

In an operation conducted by security forces, two of the attackers were then
captured wounded, while another is still being sought.

The weapons seized from the attackers, who allegedly came to Nigde from Hatay by
taxi, are such as to make it plain that the three individuals were truly
oriented towards specific targets and for specific purposes.

The incident has still not been elucidated, but there is substantial
disinformation in play. If it is considered that, in particular just prior to
the elections, every incident, every action, and every statement is being
assessed with interest and met with scepticism, this incident needs to be
thought about and questioned in a very serious way.

What sort of attack was planned?

Allegations and theses that they were Al-Qa'idah members; that one of them spoke
Arabic and the other Albanian, and that the individual who fled was also of
Balkan origin; that they were elements of a greater attack; that they were going
to Istanbul, and that the goal was a major attack in Istanbul, should be taken
seriously.

Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay, stating that the attackers did not know
Turkish and were Syrian, has said that "there are those who want to destabilize
the election atmosphere." And Interior Minister Efkan Ala has said: "We think
that the target was Istanbul."

An intensive campaign is being conducted, both inside and outside the country,
to juxtapose Turkey and Al-Qa'idah. The campaign, aimed at producing such a
perception with regard to the government, and at finding international support
for such a perception, and which is being conducted by foreign media outlets,
has grown even more intense over the past three months. A tremendous operation
is being carried out, via the parallel structure in particular, in order to get
Turkey convicted of terrorism, and to get it declared as a "country that
provides support to terrorism."

The way in which the incident in question took place does not present the image
of Al-Qa'idah. But when one considers that the target of the attackers was
different, and that they were uncovered while proceeding towards this target,
then the statement that it does not resemble Al-Qa'idah attacks becomes
meaningless, because we do not know the target.

If there was a major target, and if a massacre like the Reyhanli attack had been
planned, then those uncovered in Nigde were but a small part of a major
preparatory effort. In that case, an intense effort is needed with regard to the
other elements. What sort of an attack was planned? If their target was
Istanbul, as has been claimed, then could other terrorists, and bomb-laden
vehicles if such exist, be inside Turkey?

How are we to explain the attempted lynching by the crowds that gathered in a
moment in front of the hospital to which the wounded terrorists were taken? As
the sensitivity of the people of Anatolia?

Who are their supporters within the country?

Who are those who, with just a week remaining until the elections, want to bring
Turkey face-to-face with terrorism?

What connection does this plan have with the elections? Whose support have they
gotten from within the country? Are we confronting an organization directly, or
some new terrorist consortium?

It is being claimed that MIT [National Intelligence Organization] warned
security units about the incident three days ago. Was the vehicle halted on the
basis of this warning? Were the terrorists caught unawares? If this is the case,
then are there warnings about other elements as well?

There are so many questions...

Turkey is on pins and needles. It is trying to cope with joint operations by a
formation within the country and certain multinational centres of power. This is
a comprehensive intervention aimed at intelligence, terrorism, and redesigning
Turkey. The target of this intervention is not only Prime Minister [Recep]
Tayyip Erdogan, and not only the AKP [Justice and Development Party]. This
coalition of evil is endeavouring to reset Turkey, to reshape it, to bring it to
its knees, and to tame it and render it manageable.

Let us say it openly: Our country is confronting a multinational intervention.
The nation has comprehended this. It has understood it, and so it is showing
immediate reactions, and is standing up for the country. The public of Turkey,
displaying this sensitivity, will also know how to hold the leading forces of
this coalition to account. Turkey, which is aware that the scenario being
presented as a political dispute and rivalry in fact targets itself, is going to
demand a frightful payment from someone.

If the plan that was thwarted at Nigde before being able to attain success was
perhaps one of the plots of this coalition, then it means that war has been
declared on Turkey. The dispute has come to the stage of bloodshed.

If it is only an attack by an organization, or an Al-Qa'idah attack, then there
is certainly a security problem. But if the game-makers behind it are revealed,
it will be understood that the incident is not a matter of security but rather a
matter of Turkey.

Personally, I have been following similar incidents for years now. I have never
seen that the identity of the triggerman has revealed the true address [of the
instigator(s)]. The identity of the triggerman is usually employed in order to
cover things up, and puts a blindfold over our eyes.

In this incident as well, rather than focusing on the triggermen, and limiting
ourselves to those three individuals, it is essential to deal with what the
target was, where the other units of the team are, what sort of action was
planned, and who the game-maker(s) behind them is/are.

As for the really important thing, it is to question the incident's connection
with the elections and the coup attempt aimed against the government.

If the connections between these events and those who are laying traps for
Turkey by means of international intelligence networks and international
corporations are revealed, this nation will spit into their faces.

With a week to go before the elections, it must be revealed just what sort of
chaos plan those planning for mass actions have concocted.

Source: Yeni Safak website, Istanbul, in Turkish 21 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

Kenya: Radicalisation of youths heightens fears of increased terror attacks

LENGTH: 630 words


Text of report by Dennis Okari entitled "Alarm as radical youths take over key
mosques" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on
22 March

Radicalised youths have taken over the running of a number of mosques in Mombasa
[coastal region], heightening fears of increased terrorist attacks in the
country, the Saturday Nation can reveal.

Not even the chairman of the Imams and Preachers of Kenya (IPK), Sheikh Mohammed
Idris and Organising Secretary Sheikh Mohammed Khalifa have been spared the
youths' wrath.

The radicalisation has worried Kenyan and international security agencies with
fears that it could result into increased terrorism activities in the country
and across the borders.

An NTV investigation at the Coast indicated that Sheikhs Idris and Khalifa were
ejected from their positions on 2 December, last year.

The youth seen as the cause of increased terror attacks in Mombasa stormed the
mosque and kicked out the imam and conducted the sermons themselves.

This caught Muslim leaders by surprise and they met in Mombasa for days to craft
a solution.

The leadership of IPK, which is a respected top organ of Muslims, has recently
faced the wrath of radicalised youth for being "moderates".

Imams in Mombasa's Kisauni and Likoni areas were also warned to move out of the
mosques or be forcefully removed.

Mosques at the sprawling Majengo estate are now also under the control of the
radicalised youths.

Musa mosque is deemed as a haven for disenfranchised, unemployed youth and
sympathetic to preachers with links to radical groups like the Al-Shabab. Sakina
mosque is seen as moderate.

Masjid Musa has also been under foreign and local police radar as a breeding
base for brainwashed youth joining Al-Shabab but the youth there have denied it.

Many of the youth who spoke to NTV at Masjid Musa and their current spiritual
leaders believe slain preacher Aboud Rogo died a martyr and they are following
in his footsteps. Rogo was accused of spreading hatred against non-Muslims in
the name of religion and aiding in recruitment of youths to terror groups.

Last month, Musa mosque was in the news when police officers stormed it after a
deadly clash with the radicalised youth.

Security agencies had proposed the closure of the mosque altogether for breeding
terrorism and being a hot-bed for Al-Shabab militant teaching and training.

Muslim preacher Sheikh Makaburi who has been at loggerheads with the government
over his teachings that border on incitement said the mosque activities would
never change as the rich do not want to be associated with it.

After the death of Sheikh Rogo, who was the imam at Masjid Musa, the committee
running it was retired before being abandoned in October last year due to its
constant association with terrorism.

The mosque has attracted hundreds of youth for the last six years. The death of
Sheikh Rogo created a vacuum. Lack of leadership structure at Masjid Musa led to
younger members assuming leadership to date.

NTV found a young man living with three bullets in his body after a deadly clash
with police on 2 February at the mosque.

Muslim cleric Abubakar Shariff Ahmed popularly known as Makaburi led youth to
cleanse the mosque and change its name from Masjid Musa to Masjid Shuhadaa.

Meanwhile, police have launched a manhunt for the owner of a vehicle found
carrying six bombs and weapons in Mombasa.

The Toyota Hilux Surf, KAN 410E, is registered under Mr Barnabas Kipkoskei
Kiprono of P.O. Box 1459 Eldoret. [Eldoret is a county in western Kenya]

Police also found an AK-47 rifle, ammunition and grenades in the car.

It is alleged that the suspects in custody told the officers that the owner of
the vehicle left it under their care and travelled to Tanzania.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 22 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Children killed in hotel terror attack

BYLINE: Dean Simpson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 446 words


Nine people have been killed in an attack at a luxury hotel in the Afghan
capital, including four foreigners and two children who were shot in the head.

The four gunmen were swift as they entered the luxury hotel in Kabul, although
it took them a few minutes to find the restaurant that was their target, Afghan
officials said as they pieced together details of the brazen attack.

The Afghan capital has been hit by several attacks, but authorities appeared
stunned that the militants had managed to get through the tight security at the
Serena hotel - considered one of the safest places to stay in Kabul.

The shooting spree was the latest in a series of high-profile attacks as the
Taliban and allied militants step up a campaign of violence in the weeks leading
to April 5 national elections.

It also came on the heels of an uptick in bombings and shootings against
foreigners in Kabul, something that had been relatively rare.

Earlier this month, a Swedish journalist was shot on the street execution-style
and a Lebanese restaurant popular with foreigners was attacked by a suicide
bomber and gunmen in January.

The attacks show the Taliban is following through on its threat to use violence
to disrupt next month's elections.

The presidential vote will be the first democratic transfer of power since the
2001 US-led invasion that ousted the Islamic militant movement.

President Hamid Karzai is constitutionally barred from seeking a third term.

Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid claimed responsibility for the hotel
attack, saying it shows that "our people, if they decide to attack any place,
they can do it".

The restaurant was packed with Afghans celebrating the eve of the Persian New
Year, Nowruz as well as foreigners who frequent the hotel.

Interior Ministry spokesman Sediq Sediqqi said most of the civilians were killed
when two of the attackers walked into the restaurant and began shooting, while
the others were shot to death as the gunmen made their way through the hotel.

Police killed all four attackers after a three-hour stand-off, with shooting
resounding through the cordoned off streets outside.

He said the four foreigners killed were from Canada, New Zealand, Pakistan and
India, but the New Zealand and Pakistani foreign ministries denied any of their
citizens were among the dead.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said in a statement that a woman from
New Zealand was in the Serena at the time of the attack but was unharmed.

Islamabad also said no Pakistani nationals were killed.

Afghan authorities have released a series of conflicting statements since the
attack began to unfold, citing the need to focus on protecting the hotel guests
and the chaos.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A member of Afghanistan's intelligence service displays some of the
identification cards and weapons gunmen > carried during an attack on the Serena
hotel on Thursday Anja Niedringhaus

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2014 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 23, 2014 Sunday

Al-Qa'idah in Arabian Peninsula said behind foiled Kenya terror attack

LENGTH: 1041 words


Text of report by The Standard on Sunday Team entitled "Did Al-Qa'idah from
Arabian Peninsula plot foiled attack?" published by Kenyan newspaper Sunday
Standard on 23 March; subheadings as published

Kenya: As police celebrate thwarting what they say could have been Kenya's
deadliest terrorist attack, investigators now believe the plotters were from the
Al Qa'idah in the Arabian Peninsular (AQAP) group based in Yemen.

AQAP was apparently targeting to kill Western and Jewish tourists aboard
European chartered aircrafts on March 16 and wreck the Moi International Airport
to cripple Kenya's tourist and aviation sector, they say. Their motive, it is
suspected, was to seek retribution for Kenya's military engagement in Somalia
against the Al Shabab militiamen, who have long been sponsored by Al Qaeda.
AQAP's alleged link in Mombasa was apparently Fuad Abubakar Manswab, a Kenyan
fugitive facing terrorism charges in Mombasa alongside Briton Jermaine Grant,
intelligence analysts say.

Although police have not formally acknowledged AQAP's role in the foiled attack,
they privately agree that the use of a massive car bomb is often associated with
more established affiliates of Al Qaeda such as the AQAP. "We have not
conclusively established which group was behind this plot," says Mombasa County
Commander Robert Kitur who, however, acknowledged the level of sophistication of
the booby-trapped car bomb pointed to growing refinement among local terrorists.

Mombasa County Commissioner Nelson Marwa admitted Kenya was working with British
and US counter-intelligence agencies on account of terrorist attacks on US and
Israeli targets in Nairobi and Kilifi in 1997 and 2012 respectively. Kitur said
British and US counter- terrorism officials were involved in the current probe
because " terrorism is a global problem, you cannot fight it alone and we always
share information."

Financial support

But a source at the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit ATPU told The Standard on Sunday
the collaboration was more long-term and involved Britons and Australians
providing training and communication intelligence because their nationals were
often targets of terror attacks in Kenya. Nevertheless, there has been progress
in the fight against terrorism, local experts acknowledge. "Al Shabaab is in
disarray after losing Kismaayo, which was a source of revenue," says Kitur.
However, loss of territory does not mean the terror group cannot kill or maim,
he warned. Ahmed Shariff, a security analyst in Mombasa who monitors militant
groups including AQAP, Al Shabaab and the lesser known Al Qaeda in East Africa
(AQEA), believes the 1997 and 2012 attacks in Kenya were supported by
Somali-based militants but made possible with financial, technical support and
inspiration from Al Qaeda's Arab affiliates. He says AQAP's suspected
involvement in the abortive attack was not unexpected given AQEA's and Al
Shabab's current deficiency following battleground losses and decimation of
their leaders and commanders.

Shariff says Indian intelligence provided previously shows in the early 1990s
the parent Al Qaeda under slain founder Usamah bin Ladin, sponsored attacks on
US forces in Somalia by deploying Kashmiri militant group Jaishe Mohamed and its
former leader Maulana Masood Azhar, who reportedly visited Kenya at least twice.
"AQAP is the most active Al Qaeda franchise in the Arabian and Horn of Africa
region," according to the analyst, who adds that there is some proof that some
Kenyan Al Qaeda operatives have links with the Yemeni-based militant group.

Interviews with aviation authorities in Nairobi and Mombasa reveal that fears of
terror attacks on airports and key installations have always existed since
Kenya's invasion of Somalia in 2011. However, aviation authorities went into red
alert in January and February when the Mombasa County Security team warned Moi
International Airport surveillance teams that terrorists were planning an attack
there.

Popular tactic

"The advisory was very specific because it indicated that terrorists were
planning to use a car bomb," said an official. The advisory indicated "a car
bomb was the most likely tactic terrorists would deploy against an international
airport in order to kill wantonly and derive maximum publicity". "We were also
informed that the use of car bombs was becoming a popular tactic by terrorist
groups," said the official. Some experts say there are strong tactical
connections between AQAP and the abortive March 16 terrorist attack derived from
comments in the 14th edition of AQAP's Inspire online magazine, which in
February exhorted Al Qaeda cell members to launch attacks on nations that have
sent troops to Somalia. In the alleged plan on Mombasa airport, the plotters
sought to drive an explosive-laden car from a garage in Mombasa's Magongo area,
eliminate police sentries and ram through the airport's main entrance between
3am and 5am on March 16 when most chartered flights from Europe drop tourists
and Western executives.

Suspects in custody

Abdiaziz Abdillahi Abdi and Isaack Noor Abdi were captured before allegedly
delivering the car to a quartet that was to commit the actual raid on Mombasa
International Airport in a lightning suicide attack preceded by grenade and gun
blasts, according to a theory gaining currency among local security agencies. In
a rambling tirade against "infidel" conspiracies on Muslim lands, the editor of
Inspire warned that time had come for African Union peace keepers and their
nations and sponsors to "pay the price" for the "occupation of Somalia." The
report identified Chicago in the USA and Mombasa and Nairobi as some of the
cities to be targeted to avenge Muslim blood. Meanwhile, the same edition
included online lessons on how to assemble a Car Borne Improvised Explosive
Device (CBIED), and exhorted cell members to develop bombs from fertilisers and
lace them with ball bearings, shrapnel and gasoline to maximise damage and human
losses during attacks.

Although Mombasa's security officials deny knowledge of the foregoing, we
reliably learnt that the local County Security Committee was aware of AQAP's
threats, going by reports in AQEA's Kiswahili online newspaper.

Source: Sunday Standard, Nairobi, in English 23 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             March 24, 2014 Monday

LONE WOLF TERROR THREAT TO THE QUEEN;
AL-QAEDA ATTACK FEARS

BYLINE: VICTORIA MURPHY

SECTION: NEWS: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 53 words


AL-QAEDA chiefs are urging UK extremists to launch terror attacks on sporting
events attended by the Queen.

They want jihadists fresh from the war in Syria to carry out "lone wolf "
atrocities at football and tennis matches and the races.

Scotland Yard said last night: "Steps have been put in place."

FULL STORY: PAGES 4&5

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DANGER Al-Qaeda terrorist
TARGET Queen at Ascot races

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             March 24, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

LONE WOLF TERROR THREAT TO THE QUEEN;
AL-QAEDA ATTACK FEARS

BYLINE: VICTORIA MURPHY

SECTION: NEWS: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 63 words


AL-QAEDA chiefs are urging UK extremists to launch terror attacks on sporting
events attended by the Queen.

They want jihadists fresh from the war in Syria to carry out "lone wolf "
atrocities at occasions like Royal Ascot races and the Derby.

Other events under threat include Premier League football.

Scotland Yard said last night: "Steps have been put in place."

FULL STORY: PAGES 4&5

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DANGER Al-Qaeda terrorist
TARGET Queen at Ascot races

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             March 24, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror in the park;
COURT ; Attack victim rushed to RAH

BYLINE: Express Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 282 words


A brutal thug who launched an unprovoked and sustained attack on a 20-year-old
man after approaching him in a Paisley park is facing a lengthy spell behind
bars.

Kevin Docherty, 23, dragged Stephen Pollok to the ground, punched and kicked him
on the head and body and then hit him repeatedly with a belt.

His victim was left nursing serious injuries, including a fractured eye socket
and cuts to his head that required 11 stitches when he was treated at the town's
Royal Alexandra Hospital.

Paisley Sheriff Court heard how Docherty had approached Mr Pollok in the
Fountain Gardens and ordered him to turn out his pockets.

He then robbed his victim of a mobile phone and launched a ferocious attack.

The battering only stopped when Docherty's girlfriend panicked and intervened.

Both Docherty and his partner then coolly walked away from the scene, leaving Mr
Pollok lying in agony.

As the vicious yob left, he warned his victim: "My name is Kev Doc. If anyone
finds out about this, I know where you live."

The court was told that, minutes earlier, Mr Pollok had become aware that he was
being followed by a couple who then approached and asked him for a cigarette and
tried to engage him in conversation.

Docherty, of Clarence Street, Paisley, pleaded guilty to carrying out the
assault to Mr Pollok's severe injury and permanent disfigurement, as well as
robbing him of a mobile phone.

Defence agent Gordon Ritchie said he would reserve his plea in mitigation until
his client was brought back to court later this month to learn his fate.

Sheriff Tom McCartney remanded Docherty in custody while background reports are
prepared and ordered him to be hauled back to court for final sentence on March
28.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Scene The vicious attack took place in Fountain Gardens

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 25, 2014 Tuesday

Qatar condemns terror attack on Yemeni security checkpoint

LENGTH: 112 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Yemen News Agency): Sanaa, March 24 (Saba)-Qatar has condemned the terrorist
attack against a security checkpoint in Hadramawt in which 20 soldiers were
killed.

In a statement, the Qatari Foreign Affairs Ministry denounced all forms of
violence, voicing its support to Yemen in combing terrorism, and extending its
condolences to the Yemeni government and the victims family.

Qatar also urged all Yemen parties to shoulder their responsibility and work
together to implement the outcomes of the National Dialogue Conference.

YE

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 2155 gmt 24 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 25, 2014 Tuesday 1:27 AM GMT

Navy boosts security to protect ships from terror attacks

BYLINE: MAIL TODAY BUREAU

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 362 words


The Indian Navy has launched a hunt for a Boom Defence System, to protect
warships within harbours and at sea from collisions, and terror strikes
involving divers and surface craft like the suicide attack against USS Cole.

With the Navy acquiring key advanced warships ranging from aircraft carrier INS
Vikramaditya to stealth frigates, protecting these vessels from attacks is an
important task.

The Navy has issued a request for information seeking details of the Boom
Defence System (BDS).

It has sought to ascertain if the system can protect ships in harbour and
anchorage against surface crafts and divers.

It has sought details on whether the BDS can stop divers and crafts from
approaching a harbour or ships from the sea and if it can tangle the running
gear of boats entering restricted areas.

The Navy has also sought to know if the system can foul propellers and rudders
on small boats entering restricted waters.

The BDS is a tried and tested method for the defence of harbours. It is aimed at
shielding harbours from intruders and underwater vessels.

The system works by placing underwater nets to prevent any intrusion. The
security of India's growing naval fleet is one of the prime concerns for the top
brass.

The threat to warships has grown, particularly after a sea route was used by
terrorists to launch terror strikes in Mumbai in November 2008.

The vulnerability of key naval assets in the Mumbai harbour increases because of
congestion, officials said.

The BDS is one system that is widely used to prevent attacks in such a
situation. The system works even in the open sea, where warships can be
vulnerable to attacks using small boats.

The world woke up to the dangers of small craft being used as a bomb after the
targeting of USS Cole. The destroyer was hit by a small craft in the Yemeni port
of Aden on October 12, 2000.

The attack, which killed 17 American sailors, was claimed by al-Qaeda. Officials
said measures need to be taken to prevent such a situation.

They also said the BDS is one of the measures that can be used to protect
vessels from collisions at sea and in harbours. The Indian Navy is a force of
over 150 vessels at the moment.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 25, 2014 Tuesday 5:53 PM GMT

Merkel miffed at Barack Obama and David Cameron 'nuclear war game';
World leaders played an interactive nuclear war game designed to test their
responses to a terrorist atomic "dirty bomb" attack that threatened the lives of
hundreds of thousands of people

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield and Peter Dominiczak in The Hague and Nick Squires
in Rome

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 536 words


David Cameron joined Barack Obama, Angela Merkel and Xi Jinping and other world
leaders to play a "nukes on the loose" war game to see how they would cope with
a terrorist nuclear attack.

The German chancellor grumbled at being asked to play games and take tests with
the Prime Minister, US and Chinese presidents around a table with dozens of
heads of state at a nuclear summit in The Hague .

Her complaints were overruled because Mr Obama was keen on the idea and in on
the surprise.

In the war game, played out by actors in a series of short films, a terrorist
attack with an atomic "dirty bomb" takes place in the financial heart of an
unnamed but Western metropolis. "It could be the City of London, or Wall Street,
Milan or anywhere", summit leaders were told.

As the scenario unfolded, it emerged that the terrorists are from an
unidentified global terror network and they have stolen nuclear material from an
unidentified country that had poorly secured its radiological and nuclear
stockpiles.

The bomb is being built in a clandestine laboratory with stolen uranium. It is
an improvised explosive device but deadly and the clock is ticking, the leaders
were told. Hundreds of thousands of people could be about to die.

"They had to give an answer on their own, in real time. It was like a test. It
put them on the spot. Should they inform the public or keep them in the dark,"
said a diplomatic source.

"Should they work with other countries or stand alone to try to thwart or
minimise the attack? How should they make the cold calculation of how to get a
more sustainable human cost in terms of deaths?"

Each world leader had a computer tablet with a touch screen options to make one
of four responses to a series of four scenario films played by actors and
mimicking the famous 1983 Cold War Hollywood thriller "War Games", where a
computer hacker triggers a nuclear missile scare.

In a competitive environment, with a ticking clock, the leaders had to make
rapid choices before the results were presented to the group, anonymously
stripped of their identities and followed by discussion.

Perhaps predictably at a world summit on nuclear security, the war game found
that shared, collective international decisions were able to stop the terrorist
network before they could actually build the dirty bomb.

US officials said that the unconventional approach had been designed to give a
"scare you to death" shock to make leaders seriously think about the security of
nuclear materials.

But not everyone was happy about playing the war game with the grumbling led by
Mrs Merkel who was unimpressed with role-playing at such a high-powered
gathering. Mr Obama, who helped plan the game, overrode the moaning. He had
Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, his lead national security adviser on the issue,
helpfully by his side.

"Leaders had their doubts about participation on their own without their expert
civil servants. It was about discussion and problem solving without leaders
relying on written statements to read out. At the end the leaders were more
enthusiastic," said a spokesman for the summit.

President Barack Obama talks at the Nuclear Security Summit 2014, The Hague:

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 25, 2014 Tuesday 12:09 PM GMT

Barack Obama and David Cameron play nuclear terror war game;
World leaders played an interactive nuclear war game designed to test their
responses to a terrorist atomic "dirty bomb" attack that threatened the lives of
hundreds of thousands of people

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield and Peter Dominiczak in The Hague and Nick Squires
in Rome

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 519 words


David Cameron joined Barack Obama, Angela Merkel and Xi Jinping and other world
leaders to play a "nukes on the loose" war game to see how they would cope with
a terrorist nuclear attack.

The German Chancellor grumbled at being asked to play games and take tests with
the Prime Minister, US and Chinese presidents around a table with dozens of
heads of state at a nuclear summit in The Hague .

Her complaints were overruled because President Obama was keen on the idea and
in on the surprise.

In the war game, played out by actors in a series of short films, a terrorist
attack with an atomic "dirty bomb" takes place in the financial heart of an
unnamed but Western metropolis, "it could be the City of London, or Wall Street,
Milan or anywhere", summit leaders were told.

As the scenario unfolded, it emerged that the terrorists are from an
unidentified global terror network and they have stolen nuclear material from an
unidentified country that had poorly secured its radiological and nuclear
stockpiles.

The bomb is being built in a clandestine laboratory with stolen uranium. It is
an improvised explosive device but deadly and the clock is ticking, the leaders
were told. Hundreds of thousands of people could be about to die.

"They had to give an answer on their own, in real time. It was like a test. It
put them on the spot. Should they inform the public or keep them in the dark,"
said a diplomatic source.

"Should they work with other countries or stand alone to try to thwart or
minimise the attack? How should they make the cold calculation of how to get a
more sustainable human cost in terms of deaths?"

Each world leader had a computer tablet with a touch screen options to make one
of four responses to a series of four scenario films played by actors and
mimicking the famous 1983 Cold War Hollywood thriller "War Games", where a
computer hacker triggers a nuclear missile scare.

In a competitive environment, with a ticking clock, the leaders had to make
rapid choices before the results were presented to the group, anonymously
stripped of their identities and followed by discussion.

Perhaps predictably at a world summit on nuclear security, the war game found
that shared, collective international decisions were able to stop the terrorist
network before they could actually build the dirty bomb.

US officials said that the unconventional approach had been designed to give a
"scare you to death" shock to make leaders seriously think about the security of
nuclear materials.

But not everyone was happy about playing the war game with the grumbling led by
Chancellor Merkel who was unimpressed with role-playing at such a high-powered
gathering. Mr Obama, who helped plan the game, overrode the moaning. He had
Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, his lead national security adviser on the issue,
helpfully by his side.

"Leaders had their doubts about participation on their own without their expert
civil servants. It was about discussion and problem solving without leaders
relying on written statements to read out. At the end the leaders were more
enthusiastic," said a spokesman for the summit.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 26, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

World leaders play war game to test their reactions to a nuclear terror attack;

Nukes on the loose

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield; Peter Dominiczak

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 422 words


David Cameron played a "nukes on the loose" war game with Barack Obama, Angela
Merkel and other world leaders to see how they would cope with a terrorist
nuclear attack, it has emerged.

They took part in the computer tests during a nuclear security summit in The
Hague.

In a series of anonymous tests, the leaders, who included China's Xi Jinping,
were asked to respond to various scenarios, using a touch screen to record their
answers.

The event has been compared with the 1980s film WarGames, which starred Matthew
Broderick as a hacker who gains access to a United States military
supercomputer, nearly triggering a nuclear war.

US officials said that the test had been designed to give a "scare you to death"
shock to make leaders seriously think about the security of nuclear materials.

The Prime Minister yesterday said that "it all ended happily" when questioned
about the tests.

It is understood that Mrs Merkel, the German chancellor, complained at being
made to take part.

Mr Obama, the only leader who played the game accompanied by a senior official,
is said to have been pushed for the demonstration to take place. In the war
game, played out by actors in a series of short films, terrorists attack an
unnamed Western metropolis with a "dirty bomb".

It could be "the City of London, or Wall Street or Milan", summit leaders were
told. It emerged that the terrorists were from an unidentified global terror
network and had stolen their nuclear material.

The leaders were told that the device was deadly and the clock was ticking, with
the potential for hundreds of thousands of people to die.

A diplomatic source said: "They had to give an answer on their own, in real
time. It was like a test. It put them on the spot. Should they inform the public
or keep them in the dark?

"Should they work with other countries or stand alone to try to thwart or
minimise the attack? How should they make the cold calculation of how to get a
more sustainable human cost in terms of deaths?"

A Downing Street source said: "The war games-style tabletop session was an
innovative way of bringing the summit to life and encouraging leaders to share
their own thoughts and experiences of handling such tense situations.

"The Prime Minister liked the interactive style and the fact leaders were
confronted with different events they had to respond to. And it should be
reassuring to people that they took the right decisions to ensure a happy ending
where the terrorists didn't succeed in making a bomb."

Bruno Waterfield and Peter Dominiczak

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Angela Merkel laughs with Sauli Niinisto, the Finnish president

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            March 26, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I FEEL LIKE A PRISONER AFTER STREET BEATING;
SCARRED TERROR OF ATTACK VICTIM, 13 Kids filmed girl yob smashing Annisha's head
off pavement

BYLINE: STEPHEN TEMLETT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 348 words


A GIRL of 13 is terrified to go to school after a female thug viciously attacked
her as kids filmed the beating on their phones.

Annisha Cunliffe suffered a broken nose and black eye when the attacker pounced
on her as she walked home from lessons.

Twenty youngsters gathered to watch the attack, with many of them filming it.

Footage of the assault was later put online.

Annisha's mum Samantha Black, 33, said: "She doesn't want to go back to school
but she has to. She should have been safe there.

"Now she's worried about leaving the house at all."

Samantha slammed those who filmed the assault. She said: "I'm horrified that
children this age think it's acceptable."

Annisha was attacked on Monday in Deegan Court in Dumfries as she walked home
from Maxwelltown High School, where she's in second year.

Samantha told our sister paper the Dumfries & Galloway Standard, who reveal the
story today: "The girl started shouting at her and jumped her, smashed her head
off the pavement and kneed her in the face."

A couple who live nearby ran from their home to help Annisha.

Samantha, who is 11 weeks pregnant, said: "A lady phoned to say she had been
attacked and was sitting on the pavement covered in blood.

"The woman was scared to send her home on her own so she brought her home in her
car.

"The couple deserve a medal.

The woman who brought her in the car is a diamond.

"I've never experienced anything like this and I feel so guilty. I was having
nightmares about it last night, imagining she was dead.

"She has a fractured nose, a her head, d has to go h d I black eye, a bump on
she's on painkillers and back to hospital in three days. was broken-hearted.
There was blood everywhere."

Footage of the attack was shared on the controversial site Snapchat, which
deletes sent images after 10 seconds.

Annisha, wearing heavy make-up to cover her bruises, agreed to be photographed
to shame those involved in the attack.

Police asked anyone with information, or who saw the attack. to call them on
101.

They are keen to speak to the lady who helped Annisha. She is about 30 with dark
brown hair in a bun.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL For Annisha and Sharon
SCENE Thug pounced in Deegan Court as Annisha walked home. Other kids did
nothing to help her r
FEELING TRAPPED Annisha doesn't want to leave house

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 27, 2014 Thursday

Terror attacks cannot stop Afghan polls - election official

LENGTH: 355 words


Text of report by Afghan Tolo News TV on 26 March

[Presenter] In reaction to recent attacks by the armed opponents of Afghanistan,
the Independent Election Commission [IEC] has said that these attacks cannot
stop it to hold the next election. In reaction to the recent attack on the IEC
regional office in Kabul, it repeatedly called on security bodies to fully guard
polling stations and IEC employees. Geti Mohseni reports.

[Correspondent] The next presidential and provincial council elections will be
held in 10 days. The IEC held a conference entitled "Women and Elections" in
Kabul and said in reaction to the governments' armed opponents' attacks that
such attacks cannot sabotage the election.

[Abdorrahman Hotaki, IEC deputy head, captioned, speaking at a conference] Once
again, we warn the Afghan government's opponents and terrorist groups that their
terrorist attacks will never stop the 5 April election to happen.

[Correspondent] The head of the IEC secretariat office said that a transparent
election can be held when security is ensured.

[Zialhaq Amarkhel, head of IEC secretariat office, captioned, speaking at a
conference in Pashto] When security does not exist in an area, this means that
the IEC does not have control on polling stations there. When security does not
exist, this means observers will not be able to properly supervise the event.
When security does not exist, this means materials cannot be transferred
properly and when security does not exist, the people or voters will not be able
to vote in a polling stations properly. Hence, security plays an important role
in ensuring transparency of an election.

[Correspondent] The election commission once again emphasized that its employees
will remain impartial in this event and warned that it will not allow any IEC
employee or government official to interfere in this process. It also reported
that so far 3.8 million people have been registered and 1.2 million of them are
women.

[Video shows IEC officials speaking at a conference, archive footage of people
in polling stations, areas of the capital]

Source: Tolo News, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 26 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 27, 2014 Thursday

French paper says "probable" terror attack foiled

LENGTH: 615 words


Text of report by French newspaper Liberation on 27 March

[Report by Patricia Tourancheau: "Probable Terror Attack Foiled"]

The discovery, six weeks ago, of explosives at the home of the mother of a
jihadi back from Syria in a Mandelieu-la-Napoule (Alpes-Maritimes department)
apartment block made a forceful comeback yesterday in an AFP dispatch citing a
counterterrorism investigator, who took the view that "an Islamist assault on
the Cote d'Azure" had "probably been foiled." This struck a court source as an
"exaggeration": "'Probably' is the appropriate term. We know neither whether the
suspect intended to make use of his fireworks, nor when nor where."

As Liberation has revealed, the Central Interior Intelligence Department (DCRI)
discovered "components for making a bomb: an explosive substance, electrical
material, and a container" on 17 February, "hidden in the communal parts of the
building." Tests subsequently identified it as TATP, a powerful, volatile
substance, AFP reports. According to our reports, there were three soda cans,
each filled "with the explosive, nails, and screws, fitted with a fuse, and
ready for use." What is more, "a hand weapon and a touch-screen tablet" were
hidden in the same electrical cable cladding on the top floor of the block where
23-year-old Ibrahim B's mother lived. Her son had been arrested on 11 February.

Ibrahim B, who hails from Le Cannet, is believed to have set off for Syria in
September 2012 with his erstwhile school mate, Abdelkader T, 25, who worked as a
cook. The DCRI had found "wills" bearing their signatures in the garage of
Jeremy Bailly in Torcy (Seine-et-Marne department), This alleged leader of the
Islamist "Cannes-Torcy" cell also had stashed away in his garage explosives and
material for assembling a bomb, plus a list of potential Jewish targets.

Initially suspected of throwing a grenade at a kosher grocery in Sarcelles
(Val-d'Oise department) on 19 September 2012 and of planning an assault on a
fast-food outlet, the group, which divides its activities between the Cote
d'Azur and the Ile de France, has to date collected 21 investigations on
terrorism-related criminal conspiracy charges.

The DCRI monitored the travels of Ibrahim B and Abdelkader T from a distance
when they set off to fight Bashar al-Asad's forces alongside the Al-Nusra front,
a Syrian rebel group affiliated to Al-Qa'idah. They reportedly sent messages on
the social networks calling on members to "pnish France." The Greek police
searched Ibrahim B at the frontier with Turkey on 3 February and found him to be
"in possession of a USB key containing files on how to put together explosive
devices," one investigator reports. The Greeks tipped the DCRI off. Since then,
Ibrahim B's "potential hideouts" on the Cote d'Azur had been under surveillance,
up to his arrest. Meanwhile, Abdelkader T was apprehended near Ancona, in Italy,
at the end of January and subsequently repatriated and put behind bars in
France.

Elections

The DCRI fears that jihadis back from Syria may go into action, and are
wondering whether Ibrahim B was plotting to make use of his devices "at the Nice
Carneval," which began on 14 February. "It has to be taken seriously: The TATP
totalled a kilo in weight, and that can do enormous damage," an officer says.
However, some people deem it "pointless to go in for doom thinking" and to
brandish "hypothetical foiled attacks," whose timing is just right: between the
two rounds of the local elections and two days after the select Defence Council
meeting on the situation in Syria and the jihadist threat called by Francois
Hollande at the Elysee [president's office].

Source: Liberation, Paris, in French 27 Mar 14 p 14

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            March 27, 2014 Thursday

Security Council strongly condemns deadly terrorist attack in Yemen

LENGTH: 291 words


March 26, 2014

The United Nations Security Council condemned the recent attack in Hadramawt,
Yemen, in which 20 soldiers were killed, reaffirming that all acts of terrorism
are criminal, and urging all UN Member States to cooperate fully with Yemeni
authorities so that those responsible can be brought to Justice.



"The members of the Security Council extended their condolences to the families
of the victims and expressed their sympathy to all those injured in this heinous
act, and to the people and Government of Yemen," said Sylvie Lucas, Permanent
Representative of Luxembourg, which holds the Council's presidency for the
month, in a news release. The attack in question occurred on 24 March.

The 15-nation body also reaffirmed that "terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable regardless of their motivation, wherever and whenever and by
whomsoever committed."

Reiterating their determination to combat all forms of terrorism, in accordance
with the responsibilities listed under the UN Charter, the members of the
Council further "urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with the Yemeni authorities" so that perpetrators, organizers,
financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism can be brought
to justice.

"The members of the Security Council reminded States that they must ensure that
measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under
international law, in particular international human rights, refugee and
humanitarian law," Ms. Lucas said.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 28, 2014 Friday

Nigerian military reports preventing terrorist attack on Borno State communities

LENGTH: 327 words


Text of report by state-owned Nigerian TV from Abuja on 24 March

The Defence Headquarters has said security forces prevented terrorist attack on
communities around Bama and Ngurosoye in Borno state.

A statement by Director Defence Information Maj-Gen Chris Olukolade said, troops
on patrol during the weekend dislodged a band of terrorists who were about to
attack some settlements in the outskirt of Bama and Ngurosoye.

He said 18 terrorist were killed in the clash. 16 burnt AK 47 rifles were found
in the debris while 5 Pickup vehicles, 7 Gulf cars and one Hillux truck were
destroyed. Gen Olukolade said, a total of 75 villagers were screened and
released in the course of cordon and search in the adjoining communities. He
noted that an alleged bomb attack on a market in the area as reported in the
media is yet to be verified.

Olukolade also said 16 AK47 rifles have been recovered in the course of cordon
and search of communities, during related counter insurgency operations. He
explained that mop up operations are ongoing on Mandara Mountains and Haraza
hills.

Troops eventually overran camps in the outskirts of Gombole, Mele, Kecheri,
Dufrfada, Yuwe, and others around Mandara Mountains and Sambisa forests after
stiff resistance, Gen Olukolade said. Many terrorists died in the encounter,
while a soldier lost his life and five others were wounded, he added.

The Multi-National Joint Task Force (MNJTF) has also stepped up patrols of the
banks of Lake Chad as well as surrounding communities in addition to air
surveillance and patrols designed to smoke out the remnants of the terrorists,
the Defence headquarters statement said.

Gen Olukolade further said, air raids on some camps sited on Islands have also
recorded successes in dislodging the terrorists located there. He said, cordon
and search for the terrorists have also been focused on screening of the
villagers in surrounding communities.

Source: NTA TV, Abuja, in English 2000 gmt 24 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 29, 2014 Saturday

Lesser known militant group says behind Indian Kashmir terror attack - PTI

LENGTH: 151 words


Text of report published by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 28 March: A lesser-known militant outfit 'Al Shohada Brigade',
believed to be a shadow outfit of Lashker-i -Toiba terror outfit, Friday claimed
responsibility for the twin attacks in Jammu region which left three people,
including an army man, dead.

A 'spokesperson' of the outfit called some news organisations in Srinagar and
claimed the responsibility for the attack.

The outfit's name was first circulated on September 26 last year when it claimed
the responsibility for twin attacks on police station in Hira Nagar and an army
camp in Sambha of Jammu region in which 12 people, including Lt Col Bikramjeet
Singh, were killed.

However, after the militants were killed, it was clearly established by the
police that the suicide attackers belonged to banned Lashker-i-Toiba terror
group.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1634gmt 28 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 29, 2014 Saturday

Tunisian officials comment on former Libyan premier's warning of terror attacks

LENGTH: 1001 words


Text of report by Mongi Saidani in Tunis headlined: "Argument in Tunisia
following the Libyan warning of possible terrorist operations. Jebali denies the
existence of health problems behind his resignation from Ennahdha Movement,"
published by Saudi-owned leading pan-Arab daily Al-Sharq al-Awsat website on 28
March

The Tunisian security establishment has shown serious concern over the statement
made by Ali Zaydan, former Libyan prime minister, in which he warned the Arab
Maghreb states, including Tunisia, of possible terrorist operations in the next
stage. Tunisian security commanders told Al-Sharq al-Awsat that these warnings
are going to be taken seriously in light of the position of the man in Libya and
his full acquaintance with the details of the Libyan security file for a long
time and his clear remark on the spread of weapons and ammunition everywhere in
Libya.

In a statement to Al-Sharq al-Awsat, Salim Ayyad, director of the media office
at the Tunisian Interior Ministry, downplayed the seriousness of these
statements and said that they have become something "almost normal," and pointed
out the eagerness of the security establishment and the army to dismantle the
terrorist cells inside and to defeat them whether on its eastern or western
border. He also said: The Tunisian security has been prepared for all the
possible scenarios since the beginning of the Arab revolutions. He cited the
evidence on the importance of the intervention of the security forces in the
important successes in the last stage and the pre-empting of terrorist
operations and dismantling them before they occur. The security forces and the
army have succeeded since the beginning of February in killing seven terrorist
leaders at the Ruwad beach and in the arrest of terrorist elements in Borj
al-Wazir, and both areas are located in Ariana Governorate, which is near the
capital. Tunisia has banned the activities of the jihadist Salafi Ansar
al-Shari'ah organization, which is led by Abu-Ayyadh, since August 2013. The
security forces and the army attribute most of the terrorist operations which
have taken place in Tunisia to the supporters of this organization.

International reports have warned a few days ago of the disappearance of
shoulder-held anti-aircraft Eagle missiles, and said that their fall in the
hands of terrorist groups may constitute a real threat to the stability of many
countries neighbouring Libya. They warned of the possible smuggling of these
anti-aircraft missiles to Tunisia, Chad, Mali, and Lebanon.

In a related issue, Emad al-Haj Khalifa, spokesman for the Internal Security
Forces, has told Al-Sharq al-Awsat that the security forces are seriously
looking at such warnings about the possible occurrence of terrorist incidents,
and drew a link between these warnings and the chaos of weapons which is rampant
in Libya, on the one hand, and the security deterioration taking place in Libya
and the failure to achieve a political and security stability that would be
beneficial to the neighbouring countries, particularly Tunisia, on the other. He
pointed out that the security of Tunisia is part of Libya's security and Tunisia
can never experience actual stability without achieving the same stability in
neighbouring Libya. The security experts who are specialized in the strategies
of comprehensive security are watching the phenomenon of terrorism and its
possible developments in Tunisia. In this respect, Security expert Noureddine
el-Nifar said in a statement to Al-Sharq al-Awsat that the extremist terrorist
groups are like the sphinx in the old Greek legend, and said: The phenomenon of
terrorism has been created from the womb of our societies, and they are
threatening to devour us.

Meanwhile, Hamadi Jebali, the outgoing secretary general of the Ennahdha
Movement, has refuted the existence of health problems that caused his
resignation from the general secretariat. In a statement to the domestic Mosaic
FM radio, he said that the difference in the political visions and the opinions
on how to steer the movement with the other Ennahdha's leaders have been the
cause of his resignation. He avoided involvement in political rivalries and
divisions within his party. Zubayr Shhoudi, director of Ghannouchi's office
hinted last week that Al-Jebali's resignation was due "to his feeling of fatigue
and exhaustion." In his same statement, he criticized President Moncef
Marzouki's exploitation of the presidency position to launch an election
campaign before the due time, and said that "this is something unacceptable" and
called for enabling all the possible candidates to have the same chances in the
upcoming presidential elections.

More than one political side has asked Marzouki to resign from his presidential
post if he intends to run in the presidential elections, but he announced that
he is going to declare his final decision after the elections law is endorsed.
Meanwhile, the Tunisian security forces have started a security investigation in
the El Kef Governorate (160 kilometres northwest of Tunis) against the backdrop
of throwing two Molotov cocktails at night on Wednesday on a theatre for
dramatic arts in the city. This theatre was about to host the festival of "24
hours of theatre" on the occasion of the International Theatre Day, which began
on 25 March and ended yesterday, Thursday. Mehdi Boudiaf, head of the Regional
Front for Students in the same city, has said in the middle of this month that
there is a phenomenon of the distribution of leaflets for the Takfiri [the ideas
embraced by those who hold other Muslims to be infidels] groups inside the
educational establishments. Boudiaf also said that there is a large group of
students who practice illegal activities under the cover of religious
enlightenment, and said that more than one club in the Model Institute in El Kef
have been stopped under the pretext of the prohibition of music and artistic
activities.

Source: Al-Sharq al-Awsat website, London, in Arabic 0000 gmt 28 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            March 29, 2014 Saturday

Suspects in Kunming terrorist attack arrested

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 94 words


KUNMING - Four suspects in the Kunming knife attack have been arrested for
crimes of organizing, leading, taking part in a terrorist attack and intentional
homicide, the Yunnan provincial procuratorate announced on Saturday.

A group of knife-wielding assailants attacked civilians at a railway station in
Kunming, provincial capital of southwest China's Yunnan Province, on the evening
of March 1, causing 29 deaths and injuring another 143.

Police shot to death four of the attackers at the station. The other four were
captured and detained by police on March 3.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 30, 2014 Sunday

Terrorist attacks do not affect Afghans' desire to take part in polls - report

LENGTH: 533 words


Text of report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 29 March

[Presenter] Suicide bombings and other terrorist attacks in the capital and
provinces cannot stop the people from taking part in election campaign and it
cannot reduce excitement of election campaign as well. Election teams of some
presidential candidates say that after every terrorist attack, the number of
participants in the election campaign events increase significantly as the
people want to elect their future president. Some Kabul residents also say that
they plan to shape their destiny through their votes despite the existence of
security threats.

[Correspondent] The next presidential and provincial council elections will be
held in seven days, a short time for a big test and crucial event for
Afghanistan. With the approach of the election day, apparently terrorists are
also trying to disrupt this process. Kabul city and some other provinces have
witnessed several terrorist attacks over the past one week alone and mostly
civilians have lost their lives in these attacks. Obviously, these attacks have
been aimed at disrupting the elections and to prevent the people from shaping
their destiny with their votes.

[Sayed Aqa Fazel Sancharaki, a member of Dr Abdollah Abdollah's election
campaign team, captioned] Futile attempts and threats by enemies do not affect
the people's presence and participation. On the contrary, it creates new motives
and now the people realize to what extent the election is important.

[Correspondent] Earlier, the Interior Ministry announced that most seminaries
were closed in Pakistan and the Taleban stood with all their ability to sabotage
the Afghan polls. Now, terrorist attacks increase, but the people's
determination to shaping their destiny strengthens too.

[Mohammad Sediq Patman, member of Dr Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai's election campaign
team, captioned] The people realize the current situation in Afghanistan and
that neither suicide bombings nor enemies' propaganda affect the Afghan people's
morale. On the contrary, such attempts further embolden and further increase the
people's awareness.

[Correspondent] In recent attempts, a group of assailants attacked the
Independent Election Office in Kabul city which is the only body responsible for
holding the elections in Afghanistan, but in other parts of the city, the people
say that such attacks cannot stop them to vote.

[Zekrollah, a Kabul resident, captioned] I have decided to elect our president
to serve the country.

[Ahmad Khaled, a Kabul resident, captioned] I want to vote to rescue the nation
from misery and to promote economic growth in the country.

[Correspondent] Terrorists are trying to disrupt the polls, but the people have
already decided to shape their destiny. The people respond to terrorists with
one sentence: No effort can stop the people from shaping their destiny and
changing their lives.

[Video shows election teams' members, local people talking to camera,
construction work, a view of Kabul city, IEC headquarters, archive footage of
Afghan security forces rushing to the site of attack at night, people voting at
polling stations]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1315 gmt 29 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 30, 2014 Sunday

Afghan leader, US secretary of state discuss peace process, terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 320 words


Text of report by state-owned National Afghanistan TV on 29 March

John Kerry, the US secretary Of State, had a telephone conversation with
President Hamed Karzai this afternoon. President Karzai stated in a telephone
conversation with the US Secretary of State on 21 March that the Taleban wanted
to start talks with the High Peace Council, but there are some obstacles before
the progress of the peace process, which require necessary cooperation from the
Pakistani side.

In response, John Kerry had assured that he would talk to the Pakistani prime
minister, in this regard. In his telephone conversation today, the US Secretary
of State informed the president about his recent talks with the Pakistani prime
minister on the peace process in Afghanistan.

Regarding the lack of progress in the peace process, President Karzai told the
US Secretary of State that some obstacles are intentionally created before peace
in Afghanistan by US allies in the region. The president also added that Kabul
has witnessed continuous and complicated terrorist attacks for a while now, and
in fact, foreign intelligence bodies are involved in these attacks. Pointing out
the increase in terrorist attacks and creation of obstacles before peace, the
president said that the people of Afghanistan doubt that the USA does not have
influence on countries that support terrorism and on the opposition of the peace
process in Afghanistan, or it does not have the intention to influence them.

Hamed Karzai added that the people of Afghanistan demand clarity in this respect
from the USA. The president also stated that terrorist attacks in the country
will not disrupt the will of the people of Afghanistan for building a bright and
stable future by any means, nor will continuation of such terrorist attacks be
in favour of strategic relations between Afghanistan and the USA.

Source: National Afghanistan TV, Kabul, in Dari 1530 gmt 29 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 30, 2014 Sunday

Kenyan affiliate of Somali terror group behind Likoni attack - report

LENGTH: 941 words


Text of report by Benard Sanga entitled "Did Nairobi based Al Shabab group order
attack on Likoni church?" published by Kenyan newspaper Sunday Standard on 30
March; subheadings as published

Mombasa, Kenya: As police announced the killing of two gunmen believed to have
participated in last Sunday's church massacre, a multi-sectional taskforce
investigating the attack now believes Nairobi-based Al Hijra group, which is the
Kenyan affiliate of Al Shabab, ordered the killings.

Sources say Al Hijra's Mombasa cell members committed the violent act on the
orders of Kenya's Al Shabab leader, Ahmed Iman Ali. The activities of Al Hijra
in Mombasa, Nairobi and other parts of East Africa were also cited in a UN
Monitoring Report for Somalia in July last year, which warned that the al-
Shabab affiliate was being coordinated by followers of the late radical Islamist
Sheikh Aboud Rogo. These include a prominent terrorism suspect associated with
British terror suspect Jermaine Grant. Apparently, Iman Ali, who also leads Al
Hijra and is said to be living in Yemen after fleeing southern Somalia, ordered
the attack and asked Mombasa Al Hijra cellmates to carry it out. Intelligence
reports from National Intelligence Services (NIS) lend credence to this theory.
They show that for close to a year, Al-Qa'idah affiliates in Kenya have
identified churches as targets, especially in Mombasa and Kwale. The cell mates
include old Al- Shabab suspects as well as recent returnees from Somalia.
Towards the end of last year, Suleiman Mwayuyu from Kwale, who was killed in
January, is believed to have spearheaded attacks on churches in Kisauni, Likoni
and Kwale.

Hit squad

The intelligence reports indicate that some of the targets include churches in
Likoni, Kwale and Changamwe area of Mombasa County. The attacks in Likoni were
to be committed by a hit squad that has been operating in Mombasa for some
years, and which has been responsible for most grenade and Improvised Explosive
Devices (IED) attacks in the area. On August 3, 2013 the spy agency reported
that Al Shabab commander Ahmed Iman had sneaked into the country from Yemen
through the Kenya-Tanzania border to coordinate the attacks. According to the
briefs, Iman was expected to team up with two Tanzanian Al Shabab operatives,
Juma Seif and Ibrahim Hussein, "to strategise on how to launch terror attacks
within Coast, Nairobi and north Eastern." Reports indicate Mombasa's Al- Shabab
members, led by a relative of the late Al-Qa'idah operative Saleh Nabhan, had by
August 16, 2013 begun for firearms and hand grenades for the attacks. Eight days
before that on August 8, the intelligence briefs pointed that two Tanzanian
nationals - Juma Seif and Ibrahim Hussein - who are Al Shabab operatives, were
attending meetings at Masjid Musa Mosque in Majengo, Mombasa.

Red alert

Intelligence reports indicated that Iman was also to link up with a group of
eight other Al Shabab operatives that had been dispatched by one Iise, a Somali
national believed to be the leader of the Al Shabab wing called the martyrdom
brigade. Reports indicate that the eight arrived in the country at the beginning
of July last year. Their targets were hotels and Western embassies. Meanwhile,
the late Saleh's relative was tasked with the responsibility to get firearms and
hand grenades. This was also the time slain Sheikh Ibrahim Amru was calling on
youths to support jihad at Masjid Minaa in Kisauni, according to the briefs
prepared on June 25 last year. In the same period, two radical priests preaching
at Masjid Chelsea and Maratib mosques in Eastleigh, Nairobi, and who cannot be
named for legal reasons, were making several trips to Mombasa to indoctrinate
Islamic youth at Masjid Minaa and Masjid Musa. Consequently, it is that period
(June-August) that a key terror suspect based in Mombasa was having direct
contact with the local Al Shabab returnees from Somalia. The brief indicated
that the operatives were targeting Jesus Celebration Centre (JCC) in Bamburi
area for possible terror attacks during vigil prayers (kesha). See Also:
Three-day Kwale conference to bring all 2,700 country's leaders together The
Standard on Sunday can, however, report that prior to the attack on the Joy of
Jesus church in Likoni and the discovery of the booby-trapped car in Mombasa on
March 17, there has been an escalation in terror threats reporting dating as far
back as June last year. Two months ago, an alert was issued at the Moi
International Airport over possible attacks. Officials at the facility indicate
that security alert was raised to red -the highest alert. Some churches have
been receiving warnings over planned attacks but evangelical clerics say that
this information is never shared with them.

Text messages

We have never received intelligence over planned attacks. We ask the police to
also start sharing with us such information," said Reverend Stanley Wanari of
the Church of Truth International in Likoni. Earlier in February, some church
leaders received text messages warning them of possible terror attacks on
churches in Changamwe, Likoni and Kisauni areas. On Saturday, a group of church
leaders in Mombasa said the tactics and the ideologies that drive the attack on
churches and car-bombs were similar to those employed by the Yemeni-based
extremist militant group, Al Qa'idah in the Arabian Peninsula. Police have also
extended their hunt for those behind the church attack into Kwale County, which
borders Tanzania, giving credence to reports by locals that the attackers fled
towards the road leading to the Lunga Lunga boarder post.

Source: Sunday Standard, Nairobi, in English 30 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 30, 2014 Sunday

Afghans say terrorist attacks cannot stop them from voting in polls - TV

LENGTH: 469 words


Text of report by Afghan Tolo News TV on 29 March

[Presenter] The Taleban attacks cannot stop the Afghans from voting. Some Kabul
residents say that they are not afraid of these attacks and will extensively
take part in the polls. Azem Arash today [29 March] talked to some people in an
area close to the Independent Election Commission's office [IEC] which was
attacked today. They say that these attacks further strengthen their
determination to vote.

[Correspondent] People are counting days to go to polling stations. They are
getting ready to vote. Though insecurity is considered the biggest challenge
facing this process, the people say that insecurity cannot stop them from
voting. This is the Hutkhel area of Kabul city and some attackers attacked the
IEC office here, but the people are leading a normal life and say that they will
vote without fear.

[Mohammad Omar, Kabul resident captioned, in Pashto] Nobody can stop us from
voting and God willing, we will hold a proper election.

[Wahid, Kabul resident, captioned] It is obvious that they try to stop us, but
we should vote anyway.

[Correspondent ] This is Torialay exchanging currency from dawn till late on the
side of the road, saying he is decisive to vote to elect his president.

[Torialay, a Kabul resident, captioned, talking to camera while counting money]
I will vote while they do not want Afghanistan to achieve peace. Everyone tries
to have a new president to bring peace to Afghanistan.

[Sayed Aqa, a Kabul resident, talking to correspondent in his car] I will vote
and this situation cannot stop me. This country has always experienced suicide
attacks and explosions.

[Correspondent] There are more people who do not consider these threats an
obstacle to the election.

[Mir Pacha, a Kabul resident, captioned] The enemy always tries to terrify us to
stop us from building our country, but we will vote no matter how hard they try.
We will go to polling stations and we are not afraid of their threats no matter
how many times they attack us.

[Correspondent] Earlier, it was believed that insecurity is the biggest
challenge facing the next election, but it seems insecurity is not the main
challenge to this process as the people have decided to extensively take part in
the polls. This is the Hutkhel area of Kabul and we are right 100 metres from
the incident which took place today. It seems that the people are not afraid of
terrorist attacks. I talked to the people who said that they will take part in
the polls and do not consider these suicide attacks and explosions a threat to
the elections. They say that they will vote to elect their president to rescue
themselves from these suicide attacks and explosions forever.

[Video shows interviews, correspondent reporting from a busy street]

Source: Tolo News, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 29 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 31, 2014 Monday

CAR group condemns "terrorist attack" in Bangui neighbourhood

LENGTH: 230 words


Text of communique by Patriotic Front for Self-Determination (FPPA) Chadian
published by privately-owned, pro-government website Alwihda on 29 March

A press release following the attack on innocent civilians in Fatima
neighbourhood last night

The Patriotic Front for Self-Determination (FPPA) strongly condemns the
terrorist attack on the night of Thursday to Friday 28 March 2014 during a vigil
in Fatima neighbourhood. We can only condemn these blind strikes that brought an
end to the lives of tens of innocent people. We can only express their pain and
sorrow at these incomprehensible and unjustifiable attacks. We offer our sincere
and heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims affected by this
tragedy.

The FPPFA would like to take this opportunity to reiterate its condemnation of
attacks without distinction against areas frequented by Muslim civilians,
Christians or others, which are violations of international humanitarian law by
pointing out that among the twenty people killed in this attack, there were
women and children. Furthermore, we caution all attempts to link these acts to
Islam and Muslims to distort the truth and unilaterally change the status quo.

The FPPA is calling for an impartial international inquiry to investigate and
punish the perpetrators of this despicable act.

The FPPA General Secretariat

Source: Alwihda website in French 29 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 31, 2014 Monday

Terror attacks said denting Kenya's tourism industry - report

LENGTH: 976 words


Text of report by Mathias Ringa, Scola Kamau and Adam Ihucha entitled "Tanzania
grabs chance after Kenya terror dent" published by Kenyan newspaper The
EastAfrican website on 31 March; subheadings as published

Kenya's economy is headed for tough times as tourism, a major source of foreign
exchange, faces a poor first half of the year, denting the country's hopes of a
six per cent economic growth target.

Tanzania has however grabbed the chance, marketing itself in its neighbour's
strongholds as a safer destination.

Insiders say figures being compiled by the Kenya Tourist Board (KTB) for 2013
and expected to be released in the coming months "do not look good".

They say the sector registered a poor performance in the second half of last
year compared with the first owing to fears over the general election and rising
insecurity. The trend would appear to have spilled over to this year.

The officials are worried that the decline this year might be bigger in
percentage terms compared with the 2012 figures if the challenges facing the
sector are not addressed soon.

Data from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) show the number of
tourist arrivals in 2012 declined by 2.3 per cent to 1.23 million from 1.26
million the previous year.

In 2012, the sector raked in 1.11 billion dollars, a two per cent decline from
the 1.12 billion dollars the previous year. The officials expect a reduction in
earnings for 2013.

That will complicate the government's efforts to meet its rising recurrent and
development expenditure as the national debt rose to 1.95 trillion Kenya
shillings (22.5 billion dollars) as at last July.

The International Monetary Fund has advised the government to go slow on
borrowing, warning that it will not only destabilise the economy but also weaken
the country's international status as an investment destination.

The taxman is eyeing 920 billion shillings (10.6 million dollars) in the current
financial year (2013/2014) and, as at January, 427.1 billion Kenya shillings
(4.9 million dollars), or 53 per cent of the target, was in the bag

Tourism is one of the flagship sectors in the Vision 2030 blueprint which aims
to transform Kenya to a middle-income economy in the next 16 years. But the
sector has seen tough times since the Kenyan military took the war on terror to
the Al-Shabab's doorstep in Somalia. The militants have upped revenge attacks in
areas frequented by tourists in Kenya, denting the country's image as an
international tourist destination.

"Attacks in Mombasa will, of course, have an impact on tourism given the coastal
region is our tourism hot spot at the moment," said Muriithi Ndegwa, the KTB
managing director, following a gun attack on a church in the coastal city
recently. "Although we are not in a position to quantify the cancellations by
tourists, industry players have expressed fears of a possible drop in visitors."

The Likoni attack came days after security officers in Mombasa seized a vehicle
laden with explosives capable of bringing down a skyscraper.

The terror attack on Westgate Mall in the capital Nairobi last year, broadcast
by international media, portrayed Kenya as an unsafe destination, according to
government officials and investors.

Targeted more visitors

The government had targeted higher visitor numbers of about two million this
year and a rise in revenue but it now concedes difficulties in achieving the
target at it grapples with rising insecurity in tourism attractions, mainly in
the Coast and Nairobi.

The protected areas have also recorded a rise in poaching cases, mainly of two
of the "Big Five," elephants and rhinos.

"The insecurity incidents will negatively affect tourism performance as tourists
perceive Kenya as an unsafe destination," said Tourism Cabinet Secretary Phyllis
Kandie. "We are carrying out a global campaign to keep the image positive."

Investors are already calling for a review of the targets so as to present a
realistic picture.

"The results this year might be worse than in 2013, even though we cannot say
last year was any better," said Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers
(KAHC) national chairman, Jaideep Vohra.

International arrivals for the first half of 2013 by air and sea closed at
495,978 compared with 564,261 in the same period in 2012, a 12.1 per cent
decline. Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) received 409,130 visitors, a
13.5 per cent decline from 473,231 in 2012, as Mombasa's Moi International
Airport received 86,530 visitors, 4.9 per cent down from 91,030 in 2012.

The only cruise ship last year docked in January with a paltry 318 visitors,
compared with 1,057 just a month earlier.

The Kenyan coast commands more than 60 per cent of the tourism sector with over
300 hotels, which have 30,000 beds, but some hotels have begun laying off casual
workers and are warning permanent workers they might be next.

A spot check by The EastAfrican established that hotels across the coastal strip
are operating at an average occupancy of 20 to 40 per cent, compared with 70 and
80 per cent in the same period last year.

According to Mr Vohra, the sector has lost millions of shillings worth of
business at the Coast this year after tourist bookings and international
conferences were cancelled due to security concerns. Some of the business was
diverted to Tanzania, which is gaining in both beach tourism and safaris.

KAHC says Zanzibar has become Kenya's main competitor in beach tourism due to
its quality beaches and hotels and it is also viewed as safer than Mombasa.
Tanzania is also selling itself as a safer safari destination compared with its
neighbour.

Kenya Association of Tour Operators (KATO) official Monika Solanki said the
doubling of park fees by the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) had scared away
potential international tourists into Tanzania.

Source: The EastAfrican website, Nairobi, in English 31 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday

Afghan ministry summons Pakistani envoy over rocket, terrorist attacks - TV

LENGTH: 431 words


Text of report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 31 March

[Presenter] The Pakistani ambassador to Kabul has been summoned. The Afghan
Foreign Ministry summoned the Pakistani envoy to Kabul in connection with
artillery attacks on Afghan security check points and terrorist attacks in
Afghanistan from Pakistani soil. The Afghan Foreign Ministry informed the
Pakistani ambassador about Afghanistan's serious criticism and concerns about
Pakistan's shelling of Afghan soil.

[Correspondent] Terrorists enter Afghanistan from Pakistan and Pakistan attacks
Afghanistan with missiles. This issue has turned into a sinus injury which
cannot be treated easily. The Foreign Ministry complained about Pakistan's
border violations at a session of the National Security Council the other day
and the National Security Council also assigned the Foreign Ministry to inform
the Pakistani ambassador about Afghanistan's serious criticism. The Foreign
Ministry today [31 March] summoned the Pakistani ambassador and seriously
criticized border violations by Pakistan.

[Shekeb Mostaghni, spokesman for Foreign Ministry, captioned, speaking at a news
conference] The Foreign Ministry today at 1100 am summoned the ambassador of the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan to inform Pakistani officials about serious
concerns and criticism by the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan about increasing
border violations and attacks on border check points from the other side of the
Durand Line.

[Correspondent] Pakistan has been shelling Afghan border areas for nearly two
years now and also it has kept open its border for terrorists for years. But why
does the Afghan government not complain against Pakistan to the UN Security
Council?

[Mostaghni] The initial diplomatic measures include summoning the Pakistani
ambassador to the Foreign Ministry to inform the Pakistani officials about
serious criticism and complains by the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.

[Correspondent] Pakistani officials have rejected missile shelling of
Afghanistan from Pakistani border areas. The Afghan government has always said
that terrorist centres in Pakistan are serious threat to stability of the
region. Afghanistan has made enough sacrifices in fighting terrorism. In recent
incident, armed opponents of the government killed 23 Afghan soldiers in Ghazi
Abad District of Konar Province nearly a month ago.

[Video shows the spokesman speaking at a news conference, a scene of missile
attacks on Afghan areas, Pakistani forces firing rockets, Taleban militants,
coffins]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1315 gmt 31 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday

Syrian army reportedly attacks alleged "terrorist" dens around country

LENGTH: 219 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Provinces, (SANA) -Army and Armed Forces launched Tuesday [1 April] military
operations against terrorists' gatherings and dens in several areas, killing
many terrorists and injuring others.

A unit of the armed forces on Tuesday discovered a factory for manufacturing
explosives in al-Hosen village in Homs countryside.

A military source told SANA that the factory includes a huge numbers of IEDs
prepared to be detonated, a big amounts of various kinds of explosives and
equipment for manufacturing explosives.

An army unit targeted terrorists' gatherings in the villages of Onoq al-Hawa,
Abu-Hawadid and Jeb al-Jarrah in Homs countryside, killing many terrorists and
destroying three pickups equipped with machineguns, a military source said.

Another army unit inflicted heavy losses upon terrorists during targeting their
gatherings in the villages of al-Ghassebiyeh and Al-Dar al-Kabira in the central
province.

A car bomb went off while an armed terrorist group was preparing it in Tsil town
in Daraa countryside and killed several terrorists, a source in Daraa province
told SANA.

The source added terrorist Mohannad Mahmoud Dib al-Masri was identified among
the terrorists.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 1 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday

One killed following terrorist mortar attack in Syrian capital

LENGTH: 74 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

One citizen was killed and others were injured as a terrorist mortar shell fell
on a minibus on Harasta highway in Damascus countryside.

A source at the police command told SANA that the shell hit the bus as it was
heading to al-Wafidin Cam, causing the martyrdom of a citizen and the injury of
12 others.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1655 gmt 1 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 1, 2014 Tuesday 5:35 PM GMT

Kenya: Big terror attack possible, official fears

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 368 words


NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) - Kenyan authorities made more than 650 arrests following
the latest bomb attack Monday in the East African country, according to
officials who are worried that a wave of small-scale bomb and gunfire attacks
indicates a large-scale terrorist assault may be imminent.

The country is still on edge following the attack by Somali militants in
September on Nairobi's Westgate Mall that killed at least 67 people. Since then
al-Shabab sympathizers have been blamed for an explosion at Nairobi's main
airport, a grenade attack on tourists on Kenya's coast, a blast on a public bus
in Nairobi, and three blasts Monday night in the capital that killed six people.

Authorities said Tuesday they had arrested 657 people following the latest
attack. Kenya frequently makes mass arrests after attacks only to release nearly
all of those arrested.

Last month, police on the coast discovered a car bomb packed with explosives
that a police official has said was meant to target a shopping mall. Later in
the month gunmen killed six people in a church outside Mombasa.

Australia said over the weekend that officials have received reports that
terrorists are planning a range of attacks in Nairobi and Mombasa.

"The attack on the Westgate Mall in 2013 and a series of incidents and attacks
in 2014 underscores that there is a serious and ongoing risk of large scale acts
of terrorism in these locations," Australia's government said. "Kenyan
authorities are at a high state of alert."

A senior Kenyan security official said that security agencies believe a large
scale attack is imminent. He said because police foiled the planned car bomb in
Mombasa, terrorists are more determined to carry out another.

Bryan N. Kahumbura, a Horn of Africa analyst with the International Crisis
group, said a mix of issues is fueling the escalation of attacks.

The disappearances and executions of Muslim youth suspected of having links to
terror networks have caused a lot of anger within the Kenyan Muslim community,
Kahumbura said. Many Muslims feel they are being profiled by police, he said.

Al-Shabab has threatened more attacks in Kenya unless the government withdraws
troops fighting the al-Qaida-linked group in Somalia.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 1, 2014 Tuesday 4:43 PM GMT

Kenya: Big terror attack possible, official fears

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 129 words


NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) - Officials fear a wave of explosions in Kenya could
indicate another large-scale attack is coming.

Since the September attack on an upscale mall that killed 67 people, Somali
militant sympathizers have been blamed for an explosion at Nairobi's main
airport, a grenade attack on tourists on Kenya's coast, a blast on a public bus
in Nairobi, and three blasts Monday night in the capital that killed six people.

A top police official who insisted on anonymity said security agencies believe a
large attack is imminent. Police foiled a car bomb attack in Mombasa last month.

Australia issued a weekend alert of "a serious and ongoing risk of large scale
acts of terrorism" in Kenya. The U.S. Embassy last month reminded its citizens
of the threat of terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 2, 2014 Wednesday

Syrian envoy says terrorists planning to launch chemical attack

LENGTH: 706 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

New York - Syria's Permanent Representative to the UN Dr Bashar al-Jaafari said
that terrorist groups are planning to launch attacks using chemical weapons in
Jobar area to accuse Syrian government of it , as indicated in a phone call
between terrorists monitored by the authorities.

Al-Jaafari told Russia Today TV channel in a phone call on Tuesday [1 April] he
sent two identical letters on March 25th to the UN Secretary-General and
President of the Security Council drawing their attention to two vital issues.
He said the first issue is that Syrian authorities monitored a landline phone
call between two terrorists in Jobar area in Damascus' suburb, during which one
of them said a third terrorist referred to as Abu Nader is secretly distributing
gas masks to protect from toxic gas among his cohorts.

Al-Jaafari said the Syrian authorities also intercepted another call between two
terrorists, one of them referred to as Abu Jihad who said there will be a use of
toxic gas in Jobar area, asking the terrorist members working with him to
prepare gas masks. He added the purpose of this talk is to use toxic gas once
again to accuse the government of the attack, just like what happened last year
in Ghouta area in Damascus Countryside and in Aleppo before it.

Syria's Permanent Representative said more critical piece of information is that
terrorist organization known as Jabhat al-Nusra broadcast a video on their
YouTube channel on 23 March showing preparations for carrying out a bombing in
Sukkar site in Adra area in Damascus Countryside, where Jabhat al-Nusra and
Al-Qa'idah terrorists are running amok. He noted that the video showed a BMP
armoured vehicle loaded with 7,000 kilograms of TNT and C4 and driven by a
terrorist called Shamel al-Ansari, in addition to another car loaded with
explosives driven by a Jordanian terrorist called "Abu Stef al-Urduni, with the
purpose of the two vehicles is to detonate them in Sukkar site, which contains
chemicals.

There's nothing called international community, unfortunately, Al-Jaafari said
"we directed two letters to the Security Council to have the countries that keep
talking about the threats of chemical weapons to pressure the countries
sponsoring and funding these terrorist groups -specifically Turkish, Saudi, and
Qatari governments -to prevent such terrorist acts by pressuring these gangs and
terrorist gangs" adding that now this matter is in the hands of the Security
Council. He added that joint coordinator of the UN and the Organization for the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) as well as the UN Secretary-General are
aware of this, and the Syrian authorities are doing their duties in this regard,
noting that the area in question is blockaded, adding "as far as we are
concerned as a government, we are doing our duty to the fullest, but the issue
now has regional, and international and Arab aspects."

Regarding developments in Kassab and Lattakia countryside, and the steps to be
taken by the Syrian government, al-Jaafari said on the political side, Syria
sent five letters on the issue of Kassab to the UN Secretary-General and
President of Security Council during past seven days, with all letters full of
information on the direct involvement of the Turkish government in sponsoring
the terrorist attacks on Kasab.

"These terrorist groups came from Turkish territories and were covered by
Turkish artillery, tanks and aircrafts so that they aren't engaged by the Syrian
Army in that area, with the purpose of the Turkish military involvement being an
attempt to distract the Syrian Army form these terrorist groups so that they may
commit their heinous acts," he said.

Al-Jaafari pointed out that there's considerable migration of Syrian Armenians
from Kasab and that there have been many victims, but the Syrian authorities are
liberating the area one meter at a time, with intense battles taking place
there. He concluded by asserting that in the end, the Syrian Arab Army will
emerge victorious and liberate all areas up to the borders with Turkey, just
like what happened in al-Hosn, Yabroud and al-Queseir.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 2 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 2, 2014 Wednesday

Greek counter-terrorism unit key in averting attack in Cote d' Azur

LENGTH: 310 words


Text of report in English by government-affiliated Greek news agency ANA-MPA
website

[Unattributed report: "Greek Counter-Terrorism Unit Key in Averting a Grave
Terrorist Attack in Cote d'Azur"]

A grave terrorist attack in France was averted with the substantial help of
Greek authorities, it was announced on Thursday [27 March]. Critical information
was passed on to French authorities by the Greek Counter-Terrorism Police Unit,
which led to the arrest in Cote d'Azur of a 23-year-old French national of
Algerian descent, alleged to be a member of an Islamic terrorist organization.
The man in custody has been identified as Ibrahim B., who had been interrogated
by the Greek Counter-Terrorist Unit in the past while passing through Greece.

According to the Greek Police, the 23-year-old entered Greece through Syria at
the end of December 2013 and he was interrogated by the Greek Counter-Terrorism
Unit on January 3 on suspicion of having participated in terrorist acts. During
a search of his room, Greek authorities found a usb-stick containing encrypted
data about terrorist acts. Nevertheless, as the man could not be linked to any
terrorist act in Greece and there was no pending international warrant against
him, he was set free.

The Greek Counter-Terrorism Unit continued its investigation, however, and
passed all information to the French Police on several occasions during January
2014, in the framework of international police cooperation. The Greek
information was crucial in mobilizing a secret operation by the French, which
led to his apprehension. During a search of the house of Ibrahim B., explosives
and other evidence of his actions were found. According to the French
authorities, a grave terrorist attack in Cote d'Azur has now been averted.

Source: Athens News Agency-Macedonian Press Agency website, Athens, in English
1922 gmt 27 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            April 2, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack » in own home

SECTION: NEWS: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 41 words


A GANG of thugs thought to be armed with a gun terrorised a man in his own home.

The four men beat the 47-year-old Oakes victim about the head and stole a mobile
phone and cash after bursting into the house through an unlocked door Full Story
- Page 9

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 4, 2014 Friday

Australia, UK issue travel advisories over Kenyan terror attacks

LENGTH: 235 words


Text of report by Ramadhan Rajab entitled "Australia, UK issue travel
advisories" published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 3
April

The British government has cautioned its citizens against travelling to some
parts of the country following frequent terrorism and crime incidents.

The latest updates posted on the British High Commission in Kenya's website warn
British nationals against visiting Mombasa [coastal region] following the
Tuesday [1 April] evening killing of Shaykh Abubakar Shariff alias Makaburi.

"The death of a prominent cleric in Mombasa on 1 April has led to unrest and
increased tension in the area. There is a possibility of further disturbances in
Mombasa," the post reads.

"You should follow the local news, look out for further updates to this travel
advice and remain vigilant at all times."

This comes two days after the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs issued a
similar advisory to its nationals.

"We continue to receive regular reports that terrorists are planning a range of
attacks in Nairobi and Mombasa.

In light of the current security environment, the level of advice for Nairobi
and Mombasa has been increased," the Australian department said in an updated
travel advisory published on its website on Monday.

The department also identified Mandera, Garissa, Wajir and Pate Island in Lamu
as high risk areas.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 3 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 4, 2014 Friday

Kenya terror attacks: Clerics appeal against stigmatisation of Muslims

LENGTH: 356 words


Text of report by Ally Jamah entitled "Don't blame all Muslims for sins of a
few, say clerics" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The
Standard website on 4 April

Nairobi, Kenya: Muslim leaders have appealed to Kenyans against collective blame
and stigmatisation of Muslims whenever acts of insecurity and terrorism occur.
Speaking at Kenyatta National Hospital Thursday [3 April] after visiting and
consoling victims of Monday's grenade attacks in Nairobi's Eastleigh Estate, the
leaders said that criminal acts of a few individuals should not be blamed on a
whole community.

"If someone with a Muslim name is involved in criminal acts, it does not imply
that such action is condoned by Islam and the whole community should not be
collectively blamed for the wrong acts of a few individuals," said Nairobi Jamia
Mosque's Deputy Imam, Sheikh Juma Amir.

Shaykh Juma further said it was unfair to associate Muslims with acts of
violence and stressed that the teachings of Islam emphasize protection of life
and property and that Islam does not allow the killing of innocent people.

"Islam itself means peace and it is a religious obligation for each individual
Muslim to work and support all efforts aimed at fostering peaceful coexistence,"
said Shaykh Jumam, who was accompanied by the Imam of Jamia Mosque Shaykh
Muhammad Swalihu and the former deputy Imam Shaykh Subki Shee. The leaders
condemned acts of wanton killings against innocent people and reminded the
government of its obligation in protecting the lives and property of all Kenyans
without discrimination.

"It is deplorable that some people can even contemplate shooting an innocent
child. We strongly condemn these despicable acts and government should apprehend
those involved in killing of innocents," said Shaykh Swalihu.

The leaders called on all Kenyans to continue working together towards nurturing
a peaceful society where all citizens live in peaceful co-existence.

"We have for generations lived together in peace and harmony and should not
allow dark forces to create divisions and sow mischief."

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 4 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 4, 2014 Friday

Kenyan president blames corrupt law enforcers for terror attacks

LENGTH: 296 words


Text of report by Francis Mureithi entitled "Corrupt officials helping
terrorists - president" published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The
Star on 3 April

President Uhuru Kenyatta has blamed corruption amongst law enforcers for the
terror attacks in the country.

In a report tabled in parliament, on the progress made in fulfilling
international obligations, the president says though his government is presently
implementing the Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2012, "some of the challenges
encountered in implementing this instrument include corruption among law
enforcers and porous borders, which make it easy for terrorists to cross."

Uhuru cites regional political and security instability, influx of refugees and
identity documents fraud as other major challenges in combating terrorism. The
president says the country is seeking further international partnership to fight
terrorism.

"Kenya has been a victim of various, heinous terror attacks within her
territory. She has therefore sought to find like-minded nations to partner with
in this emergent global threat for purposes of sharing knowledge and
experiences," the report states.

Uhuru says though Kenya is a non-nuclear weapon state, the threat of a
clandestine nuclear programme by terrorist organisations remains a challenge and
requires joint efforts by various states. In a separate report on the status of
the national security, Uhuru has singled out Al-Shabab for posing "enormous
security threats" in the country.

He says in the last one year, 126 deaths occurred as result of terror attacks
while 342 injuries were reported.

Uhuru has suggested increase in the use of mobile tracking devices to locate
criminals involved in terrorism, kidnaps and robberies.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 3 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 4, 2014 Friday 11:16 AM GMT

White Widow Samantha Lewthwaite vows new wave of 'attacks' on westerners to
avenge the murder of her terrorist teacher as he walked to a mosque in Kenya

BYLINE: LUCY CROSSLEY and SARA MALM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1213 words



     ·    Abubakar Shariff Ahmed killed by unidentified gunmen in Mombasa
     ·    Ahmed was linked to fugitive Samantha Lewthwaite, aka the White Widow
     ·    Security sources in Kenya now fear retaliation over his death
     ·    Preacher helped more than 100 Britons join terror group al-Shabaab
     ·    Group counts Lewthwaite as a member and was behind shopping mall
          attack
     ·    WARNING, ARTICLE CONTAINS GRAPHIC IMAGES


The 'White Widow' Samantha Lewthwaite could be planning a retaliation attack
after her 'terrorist teacher' was shot dead this week.

Al-Qaeda leader Abubakar Shariff Ahmed was killed by unidentified gunmen as he
and a friend were walking from a court in Mombasa, Kenya to a nearby mosque.

Ahmed, also known as Makaburi - meaning graveyard, is said to be the person who
recruited Samantha Lewthwaite, 29, to al-Shabaab, an African-centered phalanx of
Al-Qaeda.

Lewthwaite, a mother-of-four dubbed 'Britain's most wanted woman', is just one
of hundreds of Britons, including Lee Rigby's killer Michael Adebolajo,
allegedly recruited by Ahmed.

Security services now fear that Lewthwaite is planning revenge over the death of
the al-Shaabab head, and will attack Western-affiliated targets in Africa as she
blames the Kenyan government for the death of Ahmed.

'Intelligence suggests Makaburi introduced Samantha Lewthwaite to many
influential figures within the al-Shabaab network - he guided her path to
Jihad,' a senior security source told the Mirror.

'This will be seen as yet another act of war and could spectacularly backfire on
the Kenyan government if they are found to be responsible for his death.

'Lewthwaite and her associates will want revenge.'

A witness said that two gunmen had opened fire, with around 20 shots fired as
Ahmed, fell to the floor, dressed in a white checked robe. His companion was
also shot dead.

The witness said that police arrived soon afterwards, and slid the preacher's
body into the back of an official pick up truck.

Human rights activists' have claimed that the Kenyan government - rattled by the
presence of Islamic extremists in Kenya and by the attack last year by al-Shabab
on a Nairobi mall - was  behind the killing, and were also responsible for the
deaths of two other Muslim leaders.

Ahmed had been linked to fugitive terror suspect Lewthwaite, dubbed the White
Widow, as he helped more than 100 Britons to join Somali terrorist group
al-Shabaab, which counts her as a member.

The 29-year-old British Muslim convert is the world's most wanted woman after
being accused of allegedly ordering the killings of two radical Muslim clerics,
two Protestant preachers, and three others with links to al-Shabaab.

However, in September last year Ahmed denied ever having met Lewthwaite, who is
the widow of

of 7/7 bomber Germaine Lindsay.

Ahmed was also linked to another British fanatic, Jermaine Grant, who is
currently on trial over a plot to bomb hotels. A UN investigation has suggested
that Ahmed and Grant took over the Kenyan and East African leadership of
Al-Qaeda in 2012.

In October Ahmed told how he was 'living on borrowed time' after two other other
Muslim leaders of a mosque that Makaburi was associated with were killed by
unidentified gunmen in Mombasa.

When he was interviewed in October, Ahmed, who was seated under a cloth bearing
a hand-painted sword and religious text in Arabic, railed against the killings
of radical Muslim leaders, saying that while Kenyan security forces might think
that killing them helps snuff out radical Islam, it actually increases the
problem.

'Mombasa youths are looking for guns. It was nothing, then knives, and now it's
guns,' he said.

He added that whoever had ordered his two friends killed would also order his
death. Police and the government have denied involvement but have made no
arrests in connection with the shootings.

THE WHITE WIDOW: HOW A SOLDIER'S DAUGHTER FROM AYLESBURY BECAME ONE OF THE MOST
WANTED WOMEN

Samantha Lewthwaite is the widow of 7/7 bomber Germaine Lindsay, who blew
himself up on a Piccadilly Line train between King's Cross St Pancras and
Russell Square stations.

She was the daughter of a former soldier before converting to Islam.

The British Muslim convert is linked to the Westgate Mall massacre in Nairobi in
which 67 people were killed, and is thought to be hiding in Somalia.

Interpol issued a 'Red Notice' warrant for her arrest shortly after the attacks
for terrorist offences in Mombasa dating back to 2011.

The 29-year-old is the world's most wanted woman after being accused of
allegedly ordering the killings of two radical Muslim clerics, two Protestant
preachers, and three others with links to al-Shabaab.

Yesterday the US Embassy deplored the recent violence in Kenya, including
Makaburi's murder, and called for a full investigation.

The US has encouraged dialogue between the government and religious leaders 'to
address the underlying causes of tensions and to help counter the danger
presented by violent extremist groups.'

On Tuesday evening, just prior to his death, Ahmed had left a courtroom where he
had helped more than two dozen youths accused of being part of al-Shabaab.

Hussien Khalid, an official with a human rights group in Mombasa called Haki
Africa, said government agents are prime suspects in such killings. He said 20
Muslims have been killed in the city the last four months.

'We know the government is targeting us now,' he said.

'We know our lives are in danger because we are speaking up against the
atrocities they are committing to people at the coast, so they see us as the
enemy to their cause, which is fraught with human rights violations.'

The US State Department's report on Kenya's human rights record published
earlier this year found that Kenyan security forces were responsible for the
most serious human rights abuses in 2013, 'including unlawful killings, forced
disappearances, torture, and use of excessive force.'

Violent attacks have been increasing in Kenya. On Monday three blasts detonated
in central Nairobi, killing six people Police said Wednesday they have since
arrested 900 people from the Somali enclave of Nairobi.

Although described by some as charismatic and intelligent, Ahmed held radical
views and notably said that the four al-Shabaab gunmen who slaughtered at least
67 people in Nairobi's Westgate Mall in September 'had every right to do what
they did'.

'Islamically it is justified. We cannot allow foreign forces entering Muslim
countries, killing innocent Muslim people and then it go unpunished,' he said,
citing Kenya's military presence in Somalia and the need for an 'eye for an eye'
defense of Muslim life.

A July report from the UN Monitoring Group on Somalia and Eritrea accused Ahmed
of maintaining ties to a Kenyan terror group known as al-Hijra and said he
wanted terrorist attacks to be deadlier.

Speaking in October, Ahmed said he was bound by the Quran to avenge the killings
of his two friends, Sheik Aboud Rogo and Sheik Ibrahim Ismael.

'We will kill the people who killed them,' he said.

He argued that Muslims in Kenya have no other recourse.

'There is no law here. We are in the jungle,' he said. 'We cannot see our fellow
Muslims being slaughtered in front of their children and wives and not do
anything. We are the ones being terrorised here.'

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 5, 2014 Saturday

Ugandan police warn against terror attacks by ADF rebels

LENGTH: 245 words


Text of report by Charles Etukuri entitled "Police warns against terror attacks
by ADF" published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New Vision
website on 5 April

The Uganda Police Force said Saturday [5 April] that it has information that
terror organizations could be planning an attack on schools around Kampala.

"We have received credible intelligence that Allied Democratic Forces (ADF)
terrorist cells within the central and eastern regions of the country are
planning to carry out attacks on schools," Inspector General of Police Kale
Kayihura said in statement.

Kayihura urged all schools and the entire public to be vigilant and report any
suspicious persons and activities in their vicinity to the nearest police
station.

School authorities have also been urged to man all the entry points to their
schools by having guards stationed there at all times.

They have also been urged to install metal detectors at the entry points and to
also install security lights and alarm bells.

"We wish to assure the public that Uganda police and the other security agencies
are determined and committed to ensure that law, order, peace and security
prevail in all parts of the country," Kayihura said

The ADF is notorious rebel outfit has been blamed for a number of bomb attacks.
In 8 June, 1998 they attacked the Uganda Technical College, Kicwamba, burning 27
students to death and severely injuring scores.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 5 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 5, 2014 Saturday 3:01 PM GMT

Couple who were seriously injured in Boston Marathon bombing get married in a
fairytale wedding just days before the first anniversary of the terror attack
which nearly killed them both

BYLINE: JOEL CHRISTIE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 827 words



     ·    Pete DiMartino, 28, and Rebekah Gregory, 26, both suffered serious leg
          injuries as they watched the marathon with Rebekah's son Noah last
          year
     ·    But the tragedy brought them closer - and they got engaged in October
     ·    After winning a 'dream wedding' package from marriage website TheKnot,
          the couple were married in North Carolina on Friday
     ·    About 150 family and friends gathered for the ceremony at a
          19th-century estate, with almost every detail decided upon by readers
          of the site
     ·    Rebekah walked down the aisle on crutches as she still recovering from
          her injuries


Nearly one year after they were both seriously injured in the Boston Marathon
attack, Rebekah Gregory and Pete DiMartino were married on Friday, following
many tough months of recovery.

The couple said 'I do' on a 19th-century estate in North Carolina, with the
bride slowly walking down the aisle using a special crutch for her left leg,
which may soon be amputated due to the severity of her wounds.

She was guided by her father, Tim, and son Noah, six, down a bed of pink-and
yellow-hued rose petals to her awaiting groom, NBC News reported.

Sniffles were heard throughout the short ceremony, though the crowd laughed when
the officiant asked Rebekah if she would take DiMartino as her husband:
"Absolutely!" she replied.

Scroll down for video

The couple were at Boston's iconic road race as spectators, waiting to see
DiMartino's mother cross the finish line, when two bombs blasted through the
crowd on April 15.

Though they'd only known each other about a year, the attack made them realize
how short life can be, Rebekah says, and DiMartino, 29, proposed in October.

'We really appreciate each other so much more. I've fallen deeper in love with
Pete every single day,' Rebekah (now Mrs. DiMartino), 26, told NBC News.

The couple's big day was in many ways organized by everyday Americans voting via
wedding planning website, TheKnot.com, who awarded them the dream wedding free
of charge.

The catch was that readers of the site selected Rebekah's dress (Sophia
Moncelli), the location (Biltmore Estate) and their rings.

While DiMartino is from Rochester, New York, and Gregory is from Richmond,
Texas, North Carolina was chosen as the location because it was the couple's
favorite vacation spot.

The wedding photos were taken by Allan Zepeda.

During the Boston bombing, Rebekah's son was with the couple.

When the blast detonated - killing three people and wounding 275 others -
Rebekah's body acted as a shield to her son.

Noah suffered injuries to his lungs and scrapes and bruises, but DiMartino and
Gregory both required multiple surgeries and both continue to undergo
rehabilitation.

Rebekah underwent a staggering 14 surgeries following the blast and told The
Knot that her leg still might need to be amputated.

As well as a ruptured eardrum, DiMartino lost 90 per cent of his right Achilles'
tendon and suffered broken bones in his ankles and it has taken him months of
physical therapy to learn to walk again.

But the couple has leaned on each other for support during their recoveries. One
day in October, Rebekah told Pete she needed him. He jumped in his car, with a
custom-made ring in his pocket.

'I was having a rough day and I called Pete and told him, "I just need you here
right now",' she told The Knot. 'I was in complete shock when I saw Pete. He got
down on one knee and before he could even ask, I said, "yes!"'

She added: 'Being able to show people that you can take something so horrible
and turn it into something so beautiful has been such a blessing to us.'

Just before Christmas, a device that had been drilled into Rebekah's bone was
removed and replaced with a cast - allowing her to stand again for the first
time since the tragedy.

'To put two feet on the ground again was the most amazing feeling,' she told NBC
News at the time.

'And just right before Christmas, too. It's like, what an amazing present this
year.'

But Gregory still has a long way to go, and she has described the moment she put
her foot down in the boot as extremely painful.

'It was awful. It was the worst pain all over again,' she said. 'Putting it on
the ground doesn't feel right and it feels like it's just crushing what bones I
have left.'

Her doctors estimated that it would be another six months to a year before she
is walking more freely.

She said she is so motivated by the achievement.

'It just hit me: I've come such a long way and even though I have such a long
way to go, I'm so blessed for this journey and to be able to help people and
inspire people along the way,' she said.

The couple met on a work trip.

'Going through an experience like the marathon makes you realize how short life
really is and how we don't really know how much time we have left,' Gregory
said.

'And I know that with my time there is nobody else I would want to spend it
with. It made me realize how much I cared about him and how much he was the only
person for me.'

brightcove.create

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                       April 5, 2014 Saturday 8:28 PM GMT

'We live in constant fear': Kenya terror attack survivor Lynsey is trying to put
her family's life back together;
Six months ago, Sue Mathias feared her daughter and grandson had been killed by
gunmen in a devastating attack on Westgate Mall in Kenya

BYLINE: By Liz Day

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 920 words


Six months ago, Sue Mathias feared her daughter and grandson had been killed by
gunmen in a devastating attack on Westgate Mall in Kenya.

But this week, there was a tearful reunion as they came home to South Wales for
the first time since the four-day siege in Nairobi, which left 67 dead and 175
wounded.

Lynsey Khatau, who decided to surprise her mum with the visit, said: "My father
[Benjamin] picked us up from the airport while she was shopping. When she came
home, we were sitting at the kitchen table and she just started crying. She
dropped her shopping and ran over to give us both a hug. It was very emotional."

Kenyan Mall survivor reunited with mum

Although the 23-year-old was delighted to come home to Caerphilly for the first
time in two years with her four-year-old son Caiz, she is missing her Kenyan
husband Max, who could not accompany her without a visa.

Ever since the attack last September, Lynsey has been desperate to bring her
husband and son to live in South Wales and says her family are suffering from
post-traumatic stress.

The mum-of-one, who lives less than a mile away from the site of the attack,
said: "Westgate Mall is not accessible and you can still see all the bullet
marks in the outer walls and cafe windows. I don't see any rebuilding yet, as
the whole upper floor caved through."

She added: "We took Caiz back there not long ago to try and get him to talk. He
remembers the bad men shooting at mummy, but at least he is eating again. He
still sleeps in our bed and I am scared to leave the house with him."

Due to this fear, Lynsey has been educating Caiz at home. The brave mum, who
speaks to her son in Gujarati, has helped to teach him seven languages.

It is not just Caiz who struggles to sleep. Lynsey admits she often fails to
drop off until 4am and then wakes up for prayers at 5.30am. Since she has been
back in South Wales, she has managed to sleep through the night for the first
time since the attack.

"I suffer from anxiety and sometimes I don't sleep at all. My eyes are
everywhere and I have a tightness in my chest and breathing difficulties. We
live in constant fear," she said.

The week before Lynsey and Caiz travelled home, Parklands Diamond Plaza - the
computer and phone shop where Max works as head sales executive - was the target
of an armed robbery.

His wife of six years said: "Kenya has become so dangerous. There are constant
robberies, shootings and grenade attacks. This is not what I want for my son,
husband or myself."

Lynsey was born in Pontllanfraith and went to the local comprehensive school.
She first met Moshin, who her family call Max, on an internet chatroom when she
was 15 and he was 18.

Max was born in Nairobi, but moved to England to live with his uncle when he was
a teenager. He came to the UK on a study visa, hoping to study at a college in
Birmingham.

After meeting online in January 2006, the pair started meeting up at weekends to
go shopping and to the cinema.

In May 2008, Max arranged an 18th birthday party for his girlfriend, but just 10
days later, he was arrested for working illegally and taken to Campsfield House
Immigration Removal Centre in Oxfordshire.

He proposed to Lynsey during a tearful phone call, but Max was deported from
Heathrow on May 14 and has been in Kenya ever since.

Lynsey travelled to Africa a month later, having only ever been on holiday to
Spain.

"It was a huge culture shock. I met his parents and I had to wear a head scarf.
My husband told me that I did not have to, because it was not part of my
culture, but I wanted to respect their beliefs," explained Lynsey, who has since
converted to Islam.

The pair married at a register office in Nairobi in August 2008, with just Max's
parents, sister, sister-in-law and a lawyer present.

"It was not the perfect wedding, but it did not matter to us about the cake and
the dress. All that mattered was each other," recalled Lynsey, who discovered
she was pregnant a month after the ceremony.

"I had to go through the pregnancy and birth in the UK without my husband,"
added the young mum, who has since divided her time between Nairobi and
Pontllanfraith.

On September 21 last year, Lynsey was shopping at the Westgate Mall with her
husband and son when the lights went out.

"The first thing that happened was that a grenade went off under a car or
something outside - that was the first thing that we heard. Then there was
shooting, maybe 20 rounds, in less than a minute," she recalled.

"We were going to die - that was the only thing I was thinking. There were
people just falling everywhere. It was really horrific. We just took a chance
and ran out. I was thinking if I die, I die - as long as I get Caiz out.

"They shot a man behind me - a taxi driver. That's what my son saw. I was
waiting to feel the bullets. There was one woman in there who said she was a
Muslim but they shot her because she was not covered. I was lucky," she added.

Lynsey does not know how long she will stay in Pontllanfraith before returning
to Kenya. She is still desperate to move permanently to South Wales, but is
determined to keep her family together.

"I am 23 years old I have not been able to start a life yet. My hopes are to
leave Nairobi forever and never return, but I will only do that with my family.
I am not going to give my husband up for anything," she said.

"I was born here, my son was born here and my family are Welsh. We have a right
to live in this country, but I do not want to return without my husband. We just
want to live as a family, happily and free from danger."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 6, 2014 Sunday

Some seven Syrians killed following "terrorist" attack in Homs region

LENGTH: 510 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Provinces - Terrorists' rocket shells which hit Al-Tanak market in al-Inshaat
neighbourhood in the city of Homs left 6 civilians dead and 12 others wounded on
Saturday [5 April], a source in Homs province told SANA reporter.

Another civilian was reported killed and 13 others were injured in a terrorist
mortar attack on al-Khudr Street in the city, the source added.

Material damage was caused to the properties.

Terrorist mortar shells cause material damage to several places in Damascus

Terrorist mortar shells have caused material damage to the public and private
properties in al-Itfaia neighbourhood, the Opera House and Al-Fayhaa Sports Hall
in Damascus.

A source at the police command told SANA that a mortar shell fell in Al-Itfaia
area and caused material damage only.

SANA reporter said that the mortar shell caused a fire to a fuel tank and
firefighters extinguished the fire before it reached other buildings.

The source added that two mortar shells fell on the rood and entrance of the
Opera House, causing material damage to the building, while another mortar shell
fell in the surrounding of Al-Fayhaa Sports Hall causing material damage.

On Friday, Three mortar shells hit Burj al-Rous area in Al-Qassaa quarter in the
capital Damascus, causing injury to a citizen and material damage to a house and
a car.

A source at Damascus Police Command said that five citizens got injured by a
mortar shell which landed near Al-Jahez park, in addition to huge material
damage caused in the surrounding area.

The source added that two mortar shells landed near al-Jamarek roundabout,
injuring two citizens and causing material damage.

Citizen injured of rocket shells in Hama

Meanwhile, terrorists fired 5 rocket shells on the western neighbourhood of
Mharadeh in Hama northern countryside.

A source in Hama told SANA that initial information indicated the injury of a
citizen and material damage to the citizens' properties.

Civilian injured by side bomb blast in Hasaka

A blast of a side bomb planted by terrorists in the city of Hasaka injured a
civilian.

The explosion, which took place opposite to Al-Salhiyeh Bakery caused material
damage in the site.

13 citizens injured in terrorist mortar attack in Jaramana city

13 citizens got injured in terrorist mortar attack in Jaramana city in Damascus
countryside.

A source at the province told SANA reporter that 17 mortar shells fell on
Al-Radi Hospital and several other residential areas, in addition to al-Soyouf
Square causing the injury of 13 citizens and material damage to the hospital,
houses and cars.

On Friday, terrorist mortar attack on Jaramana city injured 8 citizens.

A source at the Police Command told SANA that 6 mortar shells fired by
terrorists fell on the neighbourhoods of al-Homsi, al-Naseim, al-Ass al-Sharqi,
al-siouf Square and behind al-Radi Hospital, injuring 8 citizens and causing
material damage to a number of houses and cars.

English Bulletin

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 5 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                              April 6, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror at 1am gun attack;
Man, 24, was 'targeted' by unknown assailant

BYLINE: OLIVER DUGGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 224 words


A YOUNG MAN was shot and injured in a "targeted" attack in the street.

The 24-year-old victim is believed to have suffered a serious but not life
threatening injury after being shot with a shotgun by an unknown attacker.

Merseyside Police said the man, bleeding from the leg, took himself to Aintree
University Hospital at around 1am yesterday.

He was admitted with a gunshot wound and health workers informed the police. The
attack, in Croxteth Hall Lane, is believed to have been a targeted
www.shooting.No one else is believed to have been hurt and the victim's injuries
were being treated at Fazakerley hospital yesterday evening.

A police investigation is ongoing and the road remained closed for most of the
day. Officers were unable to confirm wether a weapon had been retrieved but said
no arrests had yet been made.

They added that enquiries continued into yesterday evening to establish exactly
how and where the man sustained his injuries, and house-to-house questioning was
underway. CCTV footage of Croxteth Hall Lane was also being sought by the police
last night.

The attack is the second shooting in Merseyside this week, after a father and
son were gunned down in Everton on Wednesday. Three people have now been
arrested by police in Manchester following that incident, which left a
51-year-old man and his 27-year-old son in hospital.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CORDON: Croxteth Hall Lane was closed off after the shooting

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2014 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                        April 7, 2014 Monday 3:37 PM GMT

Three men arrested under the Terrorism Act over paramilitary attacks in
Coleraine and Portrush

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 41 words


Three men have been arrested over paramilitary-style attacks in Coleraine and
Portrush.

The three - aged 34, 37 and 42 - are currently being held under the Terrorism
Act.

They were arrested in connection with attacks that took place in November 2013.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                        April 7, 2014 Monday 2:14 PM GMT

Two men arrested under the Terrorism Act over paramilitary attacks in Coleraine
and Portrush

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 40 words


Two men have been arrested over paramilitary-style attacks in Coleraine and
Portrush.

The pair - aged 34 and 42 - are currently being held under the Terrorism Act.

They were arrested in connection with attacks that took place in November 2013.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                              April 7, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Senior police lack training to tackle terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Rod Mills

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 402 words


HALF of Scotland's top police officers have not passed a tough training course
deemed essential for dealing with terror attacks.

It is understood four of the eight serving Assistant Chief Constables (ACCs) do
not have the Strategic Command Course (SCC) qualification.

In 2008, the Scottish Government ruled the SCC would become a "mandatory
qualification" for anyone applying to become an ACC or higher rank.

The three-month course is described as "essential" in the job advert for the
£116,000-a-year ACC roles.

But among those without the top qualifications are Police Scotland's counter
terrorism lead and another senior officer involved in preparations for the
Glasgow Commonwealth Games this summer.

With Scotland also hosting the Ryder Cup this year, concerns have been raised
about how well equipped officers are if anything goes wrong.

Essential The 2012 job adverts for the new ACC roles in Police Scotland stated
it was "essential" that applicants successfully completed a relevant police SCC.

To gain access to the course, senior officers must have attended the Police
National Assessment Centre (PNAC) and the original job adverts said any
successful applicant should have the PNAC qualification.

Police sources say several top officers lack the qualifications.

ACC Ruaraidh Nicolson, responsible for combating organised crime and terrorism,
is understood to have neither the PNAC nor the SCC.

The man in charge of local policing in West Scotland, ACC Wayne Mawson, has
passed his PNAC but not the SCC.

Two temporary ACCs do not have the SCC. They are Campbell Thomson, in charge of
local policing in northern Scotland, and Derek Robertson, second in command for
policing the Commonwealth Games.

Labour's justice spokesman, Graeme Pearson, who has both the PNAC and SCC
qualifications from his time as Director General of the Scottish Crime and Drug
Enforcement Agency, said: "I think it is unfortunate that the service has not
taken on the requirement for the SCC even though they said at the outset it was
necessary for every senior officer."

A spokesman for the Scottish Police Authority said: "Based on the applications
received in response to the ACC job advert, advice was taken from HMICS who
deemed that other qualifications listed in applications could be classed as
'relevant' to the SCC."

A Police Scotland spokesman declined to comment on what he described as a
personal matter for the senior officers.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Assistant Chief Constable Ruaraidh Nicolson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 8, 2014 Tuesday

Kenya tightens security at key installations to avert terror attacks

LENGTH: 825 words


Text of report by Cyrus Ombati and Kamau Muthoni entitled "High alert as police
boss orders tough action on terrorists" published by Kenyan privately-owned
daily newspaper The Standard website on 8 April, subheadings as published

Kenya: Security has been scaled up at key installations across the country and
top state officials assigned more bodyguards as part of efforts to avert terror
attacks, The Standard has established.

On Monday [7 April], top security chiefs met in Nairobi to assess preparedness
to counter terror threats and authorities declared a shoot-to-kill order for
armed criminals. Inspector General of Police David Kimaiyo declared that armed
criminals deserve no mercy and assured his officers of the government's backing
when they kill those plotting attacks on Kenyans.

Prominent public figures who may be targeted by terrorists have had their
security scaled up.

Sources also told The Standard that senior government officials have been
instructed to limit their movements especially at night, a fact bolstered by the
instructions President Uhuru Kenyatta was caught on camera relaying to his
deputy William Ruto and Inspector General of Police David Kimaiyo by a
television cameraman.

Restrict movements

The government officials, their spouses and children were informed of an alleged
plot to attack them at various social joints and ordered to exercise caution and
avoid some areas. "You even heard the president ordering the IG and his deputy
to order these officials to scale down their movements especially at night,"
said a senior officer who is privy to the new security measures.

President Kenyatta was caught on camera, as he prepared to board his
Belgium-bound plane ordering Kimaiyo and Ruto to advise other government
officials and their spouses to minimise their movements and watch their backs.

"Tell them it is serious. Even your wife should stop moving around
unnecessarily," the president told his deputy at Jomo Kenyatta International
Airport last Tuesday as he flew out to Brussels. Sources said Ruto's security
has also been scaled up.

Some cabinet secretaries have been given extra chase cars to accommodate their
enhanced security. They include Interior's Joseph Ole Lenku, Ann Waiguru
(Devolution), Henry Rotich (Treasury) and Rachael Omamo (Defence).

Notably, these cabinet secretaries oversee crucial dockets with a bearing on
national security.

Others whose security has been scaled up are Chief Justice Willy Mutunga,
National Assembly Leader of Majority Aden Duale, Speaker of the National
Assembly Justin Muturi and Senate's Speaker Ekwe Ethuro.

Another official said church leaders have also been urged to exercise caution on
their security.

"We fear some extremists may try to revenge the recent developments in Mombasa.
You may see an attack on a church or their leaders," said a highly placed
security official.

Security around key installations and hotels in Naivasha has been intensified
with armed officers sent to man the KenGen power plant and hotels at the
lakeside town.

Naivasha sub-County Commissioner Mohammed Abass said they had also increased
patrols in the town and the major highways.

Terror threats have intensified following recent developments such as the
killing of radical Islamist Abubakar Shariff, also known as Makaburi.

Lenku said the Somali government supports the ongoing operation in Kenya and is
ready to receive the deportees. He said he met with his Somalia counterpart
yesterday to discuss the deportations.

More than 1,600 IDs have been invalidated in Nairobi and 13 new ID validating
machines have so far been bought. Kimaiyo advised Kenyans to be vigilant. "They
know very well what to do when and how. It is upon us all to ensure we are all
safe. This is a war we are fighting," said Kimaiyo.

Use guns

Kimaiyo and Interior Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo declared the shoot-to-kill
order on all terrorism suspects and those with illegal guns.

"Don't fear. Use those guns as required. We cannot be paying taxes to buy the
weapons and continue walking around with them while criminals terrorise Kenyans
and maim them," said Kimaiyo. "We will defend you."

Iringo told police not to fear using their guns when dealing with criminals.
"Someone has a grenade, an improvised explosive device or gun and you expect to
arrest him like that? Apply the rule of law in a commensurate manner," Iringo
advised.

He said if one is armed he or she is not there to preach. "If you can
neuteralise someone do it as soon as possible before he or she brings you down
but if you can arrest, the better," said Iringo.

Lenku made the remarks when he addressed security chiefs at the Kenya School of
Government, Kabete, during a meeting called to assess the response to crime.
Meanwhile, two powerful explosives planted next to two secondary schools in
Mandera town went off on Sunday evening sending student sitting their end of
term exams into panic.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 8 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 8, 2014 Tuesday 7:50 PM GMT

Kenya: 3,000 arrested after terror attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 346 words


NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) - At least 3,000 people were arrested in Kenya during four
days of security operations across the country following a wave of terror
attacks, officials said Tuesday.

Kenya police spokesman Masoud Mwinyi said most of those arrested and held at a
sports stadium in the capital have been questioned by security agencies and
released, but 447 suspects remain in custody under anti-terrorism laws that
allow police to hold suspects longer than 24 hours. He said 69 suspects had been
charged in court with various offenses.

Human rights activists have criticized the security operation, which police said
was prompted by recent explosions and gun attacks that have killed at least 12
and have been blamed on Somali militant group, al-Shabab. The extremist group
has vowed to carry out terror attacks in Kenya in retaliation for Kenya sending
its military to Somalia to help fight insurgents.

Rights groups say only Somalis are being targeted, and they are concerned about
their treatment. Police denied both allegations.

Activist al-Amin Kimathi said journalists and human rights groups are not being
allowed to the stadium where the suspects are being held.

"There is no transparency, it's very opaque, there are no health facilities, and
there is a lack of amenities. There is no documentation," he said.

Kimathi warned that the government operation may lead to disaffection between a
sector of Kenyans and the state.

"There are fears of sectarian tensions maybe sired by this kind of approach...
Whereas government keeps saying that it's not about religion, the perception is
very strong that the government is targeting ethnic Somalis and religion," he
said.

Police spokesman Mwinyi denied allegations that certain communities and faiths
are being targeted by police, and said the suspects are being kept in humane
conditions.

Mwinyi said the aim of the operation is to detect illegal aliens, arrest and
prosecute persons suspected of engaging in terrorist activities, identify places
harboring criminals, and to contain and prevent general acts of crime and
lawlessness.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 8, 2014 Tuesday 3:31 PM GMT

Kenya: 3,000 arrested after terror attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 135 words


NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) - A Kenyan official says at least 3,000 people have been
arrested during four days of security operations following a wave of terror
attacks.

Police spokesman Masoud Mwinyi said Tuesday that most of those arrested were
scrutinized by security agencies and released, but that 447 are being held in
custody under anti-terrorism laws that allow police to hold suspects longer than
24 hours.

Human rights activists have criticized the operation, saying only Somalis are
being targeted. Rights groups are also concerned about police treatment of
suspects.

Kenya has suffered a wave of recent explosive and gun attacks blamed on a Somali
militant group. Al-Shabab militants have vowed to carry out terror attacks in
Kenya to avenge the presence of the Kenyan military in Somalia fighting the
insurgents.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 10, 2014 Thursday

Israeli defence minister terms settler attacks on army troops "act of terror"

LENGTH: 530 words


Excerpt from report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem
Post website on 10 April

[Report by Tova Lazaroff and Greer Fay Cashman: "Ya'alon: Settler attacks on IDF
acts of terror"]

Settler violence against the IDF in Yitzhar this week was an act of terror,
Defence Minister Moshe Ya'alon charged on Wednesday [9 April] during a ceremony
at the Nevatim Air Base.

"We have to fight domestic terrorism, against those outlaws who attack IDF
commanders, soldiers and Border Police who are doing their utmost day and night
to safeguard the country and citizens. The State of Israel will not tolerate
such criminal activity, which is terrorism in all respects," said Ya'alon. He
warned that security forces are investing all means at their disposal to halt
and arrest violent extremists.

Settlers viewed his rhetoric with concern, warning that it could lead to
bloodshed in which an IDF soldier would shoot and kill a resident of Judea and
Samaria.

Settler leaders from the Council of Jewish Communities in Judea and Samaria have
harshly condemned the violence that has occurred in the settlement in the last
few days after a Jewish extremist on Sunday slashed the tires of an IDF jeep
parked in Yitzhar.

Other settlers, who did not want to be named, however, said that the events and
the ones that followed could hardly be compared to a terror attack and that
classifying them as such was a dangerous overreaction. Samaria Regional Council
head Gershon Mesika pledged that he would work to prevent such violence. At the
same time, however, he charged the IDF helped inflame the situation when the day
after the tire was slashed, security forced entered Yitzhar to demolish a number
of illegal buildings. [Passage omitted on previously covered material]

[Lazar Berman, Stuart Winer and Yifa Ya'aqov report at 0551gmt in centrist news
site The Times of Israel in English: "Security forces arrested early Thursday
morning five residents of the Yitzhar settlement on suspicion of involvement in
Tuesday's attack on an IDF encampment and destruction of army property. Two of
the suspects were teenagers between the ages of 16 and 18-years-old, Channel 10
reported. The other three were 23, 28, and 29 years old. According to Israel
Radio, Israeli authorities were expected to make additional arrests in the
coming days. After their arrests in a joint operation by Israel Police and
Border Police forces, the five suspects were taken in for questioning. A hearing
over the extension of their detention was scheduled for Thursday. Two other
suspects were arrested Wednesday, one from Yitzhar and the other from the
settlement of Havat Gil'ad.

[In addition, the IDF announced Thursday that they would not allow a planned
excursion during the Passover holiday to the site of Homesh, a settlement
evacuated during the 2005 disengagement, according to Israel Radio. The army
cited a manpower concerns, and the spike in the number of clashes between
security forces and extremist settlers. The Samaria Regional Council said that
the IDF was punishing all settlers for the actions of a tiny group of
hooligans.]

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 10 Apr 14 pp 1, 10

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 10, 2014 Thursday

Moroccan king sends condolence letter to Pakistani president over terror attack

LENGTH: 142 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, Apr 10, 2014 (MAP) - HM King Mohammed VI sent a condolence letter to
Pakistani President Mamnoon Hussain, following the terrorist explosion that
rocked a popular market in Islamabad, causing several casualties.

In this letter, the sovereign strongly condemned this abominable terrorist
explosion.

On this sad occasion, HM the king expressed to President Mamnoon Hussain, the
families of the victims, and the people of Pakistan his heartfelt condolences
and sincere feelings of compassion.

HM the king expressed his deep compassion for the wounded, imploring the
Almighty to grant them a speedy recovery, to accept the victims in His vast
paradise, and grant comfort to their families.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 1724 gmt 10 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            April 10, 2014 Thursday

Ban deplores recent deadly terrorist attacks in Pakistan

LENGTH: 137 words


April 9, 2014

United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon condemned today the two recent
deadly bomb blasts in Pakistan, in the capital Islamabad and in the Baluchistan
province.



"The Secretary-General deplores the recent terrorist attacks in Pakistan,
including today's bombing of a market in Islamabad and yesterday's attack on a
train in Baluchistan, incidents that led to killing and wounding of many
people," said a statement issued by Mr. ban's spokesperson in New York.

"He extends his deep condolences to the families of the victims and the
Government of Pakistan," said the statement.

According to media reports, today's attack in a busy Islamabad market killed at
least 24 and injured as many as 100. Yesterday, at least 12 were killed in a
train bombing, and over 40 were injured, news agencies have reported.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 11, 2014 Friday

Afghan intelligence thwarts numerous terrorists attacks on 5 April polls - TV

LENGTH: 437 words


Text of report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 10 April

[Presenter] Two hundred and sixty-two terrorists who intended to disrupt the
polls have been arrested. The National Directorate of Security [NDS] reported
that it neutralized 90 per cent of group attacks, suicide bombings, explosions
and missile attacks. More than 20 Taleban were also killed in fighting on the
election day. Nazroddin Mosleh has more details.

[Correspondent] Terrorist groups such as Haqqani, Jundallah and Salafis in
collaboration with some circles in Pakistan attempted to disrupt the 5 April
presidential elections in Afghanistan. The National Directorate of Security
arrested 262 suicide bombers on 38 days during the election process. These
terrorists tried to disrupt the polls using explosive-packed vehicles, suicide
vests and weapons.

[Lotfollah Mashal, NDS spokesman, captioned, speaking at a news conference] We
arrested 262 terrorists, mostly Afghans and some Pakistanis. Actually, their
crimes are based on evidence. All of them were arrested along with
explosive-packed vehicles, suicide vests, explosives, bombs and rockets.

[Correspondent] The performance of the detective bodies have been met with
criticism, but it informed the Afghan forces about terrorist efforts on
disrupting the polls 3,200 times in 48 hours.

[Mashal] We could provide this information to the national police, national army
and NDS executive personnel in 40 hours prior to the election and eight hours on
the election day. As result of this information, most conspiracies of the enemy
were foiled. Kabul was the focal point and all the achievements were made there.

[Correspondent] The Taleban fought each other eight times only on the election
day in which more than 20 Taleban were killed.

[Arrested suicide bomber, young kid, talking to camera with blurred face] I was
transferred to Helmand Province a few days ago. His name was Bakhtiar who
equipped me with a [suicide] vest to attack government employees.

[Correspondent] The National Directorate of Security seized 3,191 mines, 45
suicide bombers, 17 motorcycle packed with explosives, 19 suicide vests, 85
gallons of explosives, 8,200 kg of explosives, 194 Kalashnikovs; 14 PKs, 18
communications means and 95 bullets of heavy weapons during these operations.
The directorate hopes that the legal and judicial bodies will not release the
arrested terrorists.

[Video shows NDS spokesman speaking at a news conference, a suicide bomber
talking to camera with blurred face, some shackled terrorists, weapons,
explosives, suicide vests]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 10 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 11, 2014 Friday

Terrorist attack on US consulate foiled in Afghan west - TV

LENGTH: 341 words


Text of report by privately-owned Noor TV on 10 April

[Presenter] An attack on the US consulate has been thwarted after an
explosive-laden vehicle was seized in downtown Herat city. Local officials said
that anti-terrorism forces succeeded in seizing a Mazda packed with two tonnes
of explosives in Herat city last night [9 April]. The police reported that the
vehicle was planning to attack the US consulate.

[Correspondent] At a news conference on Thursday [10 April], Herat police chief
said that the anti-terrorism forces seized a Mazda packed with nearly two tonnes
of explosives last night, reporting that the government's armed opponents
planned to attack the US consulate in Herat city with these explosives. The
police also arrested the driver of the vehicle.

[Samiollah Qatra, Herat police chief, captioned, speaking at a news conference]
In preliminary confessions, he said that he did not accept three targets, but he
accepted the fourth one which is the US consulate. Fortunately, he was arrested
along with his vehicle and explosives.

[Correspondent] The suspect who planned to attack the US consulate also
confessed, in the presence of the media, that he received order from foreign
circles in the Zer Koh area of Shendand District to attack the consulate.

[Would-be suicide bomber, talking to journalist] I [came] from the Zer Koh area
of Shendand District. Earlier, I used to go to Iran to work and after making
some money, I came to Afghanistan to spend it with my wife and kids. Mullahs are
coming from Pakistan and preaching. I have met them. They are encouraging the
people to launch jihad which is an obligation. They say one should carry out
jihad to go to paradise.

[Correspondent] The Herat police say that they seized some documents from the
man showing he received terrorist training on the other side of the Afghan
border.

[Video shows the Herat police chief talking to camera, the suspect talking
journalists, the police taking him to custody, a vehicle packed with explosives]

Source: Noor TV, Kabul, in Dari 1300 gmt 10 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Latin America - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 11, 2014 Friday

Terror attacks stops oil production on Colombian field

LENGTH: 500 words


Text of report by privately-owned, right-of-centre, Colombian newspaper El
Espectador website on 8 April

[Report by Jorge Sanz on 8 April: "Terrorism forces suspension of oil
production, job contracts."]

Oil production has stopped as a result of the approximately 19 terrorist attacks
on the Cano Limon-Covenas pipeline. Ecopetrol [Colombian Petroleum Enterprise]
has not fulfilled its export commitments on 35,000 barrels of oil a day, and at
least 500 contract workers in the oil industry have been laid off.

The bombing of the pipeline that occurred on 25 March in La China, in the
municipality of Toledo (Norte de Santander) has not been possible to repair
because of the refusal of the U'wa indigenous people to allow entry of the
authorities and oil technicians to their properties.

Ecopetrol spokesmen indicated that this situation paralyses oil production
because storage tanks are at full capacity, which has led to the suspension of
at least 500 contract workers in the Cano Limon fields, operated by the
multinational Occidental.

So far this year there have been 19 bomb attacks against the pipeline, the
largest in the country, which carries crude oil from fields in Arauca to the
northern port of Covenas. Last year there were 24 terrorist attacks on the oil
infrastructure during the same period.

The inability to transport oil by pipeline has led Ecopetrol to be in breach of
contract with some international oil companies, claiming force majeure to avoid
penalties. These contracts are for crude from North Vasconia [Station], a
situation that forces the rescheduling of foreign sales.

So far no major oil company spokesman has explicated the situation of oil
production in the field operated by Occidental.

Mines and Energy Minister Amylkar Acosta said that in recent days, there have
been several terrorist attacks on the oil transport infrastructure. These
include the Cano Limon-Covenas, Transandino, and Bicentenario pipelines, the
minister admitted.

"The response to restore pumping through these pipelines has been very
efficient," said the official.

In Norte de Santander groups operating outside the law include the FARC and ELN
[Army of National Liberation]; the latter subversive group also commits crimes
in Arauca.

Acosta stressed that the Ministry of Defence has reinforced security of the
infrastructure, not only oil but energy. He said more than 30 attacks have been
prevented by the measures taken by the security forces.

The minister reiterated that these attacks directly harm the workers who were
laid off while oil production is restored.

Amylkar Acosta was concerned about the breaches of contract incurred by the
state-run oil company as a result of the bombing. "Not only does it undermine
confidence in the reliability of supply, but it also has economic costs, unless
force majeure can be invoked," he said.

He recalled that the income of the region was also affected through royalties
and taxes for the nation.

Source: El Espectador website, Bogota, in Spanish 8 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 11, 2014 Friday

Video clips reportedly show Kenyan MP "talking loosely about terror attacks"

LENGTH: 692 words


Text of report by Rashid Abdi entitled "Eastleigh rally clip puts Aden Duale in
a tight spot" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website
on 11 April; subheading as published

National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale was on Thursday [10 April]
embroiled in a storm after video clips circulating on social media appeared to
show him talking loosely about terror attacks.

The recordings show Mr Duale addressing a rally in Nairobi's Eastleigh
neighbourhood where police have launched a security swoop following a series of
grenade blasts.

Thousands of people, mainly ethnic Somalis, have been rounded up in the mop-up
that has crippled business in the shopping suburb.

The video shows Mr Duale asking those behind the terror attacks in Eastleigh to
stop doing so as they were hurting the interests of local traders.

Speaking in vernacular, Mr Duale says: "We Somalis of Kenya...We invested our
money in Eastleigh. This is where our economy is based."

He adds: "Eastleigh is our umbilical cord. You must arrest anyone who is
spoiling Eastleigh - even if he is Adan Barre's brother. Those who are
detonating explosives in Eastleigh should do it elsewhere. Had the one who is
detonating explosives here done that in Machakos [southeast of Nairobi], do you
think the people of Eastleigh would have been harassed?"

The Saturday rally, attended by more than 20 politicians, was called following
the latest attack on two restaurants in which six people were killed and scores
of others wounded.

On Thursday, one Eastleigh resident reacted with fury to his comments.

"Duale is sending a message to terrorists that it is ok to detonate bombs
elsewhere as long as it is not Eastleigh," the man, who did not want to be named
for security reasons told the Nation.

Efforts to get a comment from Mr Duale over the controversial video were
unsuccessful as he did not respond to our phone calls and text messages.

Fresh ammunition

However, his utterances are likely to give his critics fresh ammunition to
demand his removal from the Jubilee government.

At the Eastleigh rally, Mr Duale threatened to withdraw support for the Jubilee
government over what he termed arbitrary arrests of "my people."

The security dragnet is intended to identify undocumented migrants and refugees
who have run away from camps in northern Kenya. There have been complaints that
police have been indiscriminate in rounding up all those without papers,
including Kenyan Somalis.

Mr Duale, ranked high up in the government pecking order, was the first such
official to publicly criticise the security operation.

The crackdown was launched after President [Uhuru] Kenyatta gave people with
illegal weapons an ultimatum to surrender them in his "State of the Nation"
address last week.

"We stand by the interests of our people. There should be no doubt about that,"
Mr Duale said at the rally in Eastleigh attended by over 20 MPs and Senators
from North Eastern, Coast and Upper Eastern regions.

Police, he said, were targeting Muslims.

"We were elected by the Muslim community and we shall defend their interests,"
he said amid chants from the charged crowd.

"It shall no longer be business as usual. We shall not and will never allow our
people to be discriminated against," Mr Duale declared.

His utterances attracted harsh reaction from fellow Jubilee MPs who dared the
United Republican Party MP to leave his role as Majority Leader.

Led by Kigumo's Jamleck Kamau, the MPs said they were dismayed by what they
termed as Mr Duale's reckless utterances.

"Issues on security affect us all and it has neither boundary nor region," Mr
Kamau said.

They said other Jubilee MPs were ready to take up his position in parliament
since as the Majority Leader, he is supposed to articulate government position
and policies in the House.

In a rejoinder from Turkey, where he accompanied President Kenyatta on an
official visit, Mr Duale told off his critics, declaring that his position was
negotiated between The National Alliance and United Republican Party.

"Do they want us to clap when our people are being discriminated against?" he
posed.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 11 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                             April 11, 2014 Friday

Michael Piggin: Columbine-style terror attack not my intention

BYLINE: Matthew Taylortheguardian.com

LENGTH: 672 words

ABSTRACT

Asperger's syndrome sufferer stockpiled petrol bombs, guns and body armour but
denies he would have carried out Loughborough attack

FULL TEXT

A teenager accused of plotting to carry out a Columbine high school-style
massacre has told a court that he never intended to go through with the plans.

Michael Piggin, who was 16 at the time, stockpiled petrol bombs, air rifles,
pistols and body armour in his bedroom which the prosecution claimed he then
planned to use in attacks on his former school, a cinema, and a mosque in his
home town of Loughborough.

Giving evidence at the Old Bailey, the teenager, who has Asperger's syndrome,
said that he had drawn up a hitlist of targets when he had been low and anxious
after finishing secondary school. He said it made him "feel better" but insisted
he never planned to act on it.

"I felt it got that stuff off my mind," Piggin said. "It let me focus on
whatever else - education, GCSEs whatever."

Asked if he was intending to carry out attacks against the people on the list -
mostly former school mates or teachers that he had fallen out with or who had
bullied him - Piggin replied: "Of course not."

Piggin was arrested last February after threatening other teenagers with a
knife. When police searched his room they found a giant swastika flag above his
bed, Adolf Hitler's book Mein Kampf, military books and DVDs.

The court heard he had also stockpiled knives, guns, homemade bombs and a
crossbow in his bedroom, and kept a journal of his plans to commit mass murder.

Wearing a blue hooded top and an Artic Monkeys T-shirt, Piggin described how he
was repeatedly bullied as a child forcing him to move between primary schools.

He said that from age 11 or 12 he had developed an interest in the army and all
kinds of weapons, and had a large collection of military books and DVDs.

The court heard he formed a group called the URA - the Urban Revolutionary Army
or United Rebel Army - with two friends. In theory he said it was an anti
extremist group dedicated to defending the country. However he claimed that in
reality it was just a way of the friends expressing themselves. "It was
something for us to do, that the three of us could do together."

Earlier in the trial, the court heard that police had recovered a Che Guevara
notebook emblazoned with Nazi swastikas and English Defence League (EDL) mottos.
In it Piggin wrote that the "worst and most life-changing things" happened to
him at school and said that council officials had "tortured my family over the
years".

Jurors heard that Piggin's notebook contained tactics for what he called
"Operation: The New Columbine" along with a detailed drawing of a stick man
showing how he would arm himself.

In recordings played to the jury, Piggin mentioned the Columbine high school
massacre of 1999 and the Virginia Tech shooting in 2007, saying they were "all
because of bullying".

On the back of his notebook, Piggin had scribbled "Fuck Islam - born in England,
live in England, die in England", and inside he wrote that he was a member of
the EDL in opposition to the "Islamic invasion of Europe".

In one recording, Piggin was heard to say: "The reason I'm about to take this
action is to show that even the smallest and least powerful people have the
power to hit back against the strong and the powerful."

But giving evidence he said he began collecting weapons and explosives when he
was at secondary school and claimed that it was just an interest.

The teenager also had a list of weapons, including a machete, axe and throwing
knives, which were ticked off as he acquired them.

But he told the court he was collecting them because he was interested in
camping and survival techniques.

Piggin and two other teenagers, who cannot be named, have already admitted
possessing petrol bombs and component parts of pipe bombs for the use of
explosive devices, the jury was told. Piggin has also admitted possessing the
component parts for improvised explosive devices (IEDs), the court heard.

He denies two terrorism charges.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                       April 11, 2014 Friday 6:48 PM GMT

Former Crosby teacher and ex-Crosby Herald reporter in India during Mumbai
terrorist attacks;
A FORMER schoolteacher from Crosby has told how the terror attacks in Mumbai
left travellers in India fearing for their safety.

BYLINE: By Crosby Herald

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 292 words


A FORMER schoolteacher from Crosby has told how the terror attacks in Mumbai
left travellers in India fearing for their safety.

Claire Harwood, who left her job at Christ Church Primary School in Bootle two
months ago to travel the world, was in Goa when the gunmen struck in a
devastating killing spree that left at least 171 people dead and more than 200
injured.

Claire said: "We found out the news in the middle of the night when people
started texting from home to ask if we were OK. Many knew of people they'd met
who were due to be in Mumbai at the time of the attacks. Everyone was extremely
tense - the news that English and American tourists were being singled out for
hostage situations and major tourist areas being the targets made people very
nervous about staying in such popular resorts.

"All the Goan people that we met spoke about it with condemnation as they were
against the violence and were also very worried as they expected that it would
more or less destroy the tourism in their area"

The 29-year-old former Merchant Taylors' pupil said many tourists were
frantically trying to leave India.

Claire was due to fly to Bangkok, but the airport there was shut down by
protestors.

She was relieved when her parents, who live near Crosby Village, helped secure
her a flight to Cambodia, where she arrived yesterday.

Former Crosby Herald journalist Dave Thackeray and his partner Sarah Young were
also travelling through India when the terrorists struck.

Dave, 33, said: "Horrifyingly we'd spent a lot of time hanging out at Leopold's
Café and the beautiful Gateway to India in Colaba.

"We'd been marvelling at the opulence of the Taj Mahai Hotel, where dozens later
lost their lives.

"Mumbaikers have been through so much pain these past few days."

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                       April 11, 2014 Friday 6:11 PM GMT

Arson attack linked to terror campaign against Crosby businessman Terry Riley;
A TERRACED house was the latest property targeted in the terror campaign against
Crosby businessman Terry Riley and his associate John Ball.

BYLINE: By Crosby Herald

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 285 words


A TERRACED house was the latest property targeted in the terror campaign against
Crosby businessman Terry Riley and his associate John Ball.

The house on Gonville Road, Bootle, was hit by an arson attack in the early
hours of Wednesday morning. Neighbours spoke of hearing strange noises, before
the empty property's front door was engulfed in flames.

The Crosby Herald understands the terrace house belongs to the Ascot Group,
which is owned by Mr Riley.

One elderly resident, who did not wish to be named for fear of reprisal, said:
"I have lived in this house for decades and you simply do not get this kind of
thing on Gonville.

"It has shocked a lot of people.

"A woman who lives further down the road dialled 999. It is a good job she
spotted it in time.

"The flames could have spread next door.

"The police came the next day with forensics. The took away the letter box which
was left on the front path.

"I was told someone poured petrol through the letter box, then drooped a match
through."

A spokesman for Merseyside Police said: "We are investigating a suspected arson
attack following a fire at a house in Bootle on Wednesday, June 24. About 1.30am
emergency services were called following reports that a house on Gonville Road
was on fire.

"Damage was caused to the front door of the property but no-one was injured
during the incident Crime scene investigators have been at the scene and
house-to-house enquiries have been carried out.

"High visibility patrols have also been stepped up in the area. Detectives
believe this was a targeted attack and are investigating whether it is linked to
other recent incidents in the Sefton area. Anyone with information is asked to
call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111."

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 11, 2014 Friday 4:53 PM GMT

'Give every US pilot a gun': Republican presidential hopeful Rand Paul wants
airline pilots armed to thwart terror attacks

BYLINE: DARREN BOYLE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 296 words



     ·    Rand Paul claims arming US pilots is cheapest way to prevent new 9/11
     ·    Senator believes current regulations are far too bureaucratic
     ·    Accuses President Obama of slashing budget for arming pilots to zero
     ·    The Kentucky politician is 18/1 to win the 2016 US Presidential
          election


Senator Rand Paul has blasted US President Barack Obama for failing to arm all
US commercial airline pilots to prevent a new 9/11 outrage.

He said handing out guns to airline pilots is the most cost effective way to
protect the fleet and deter any new terror operations.

The Republican politician from Kentucky said current regulations were too
cumbersome and he vowed to slice through red-tape with a proposed new law.

Scroll down for video

Speaking to Shaun Hannity on Fox News, Senator Paul accused President Obama of
failing US pilots and passengers.

'I'm concerned about what is the most cost effective way of preventing another
9/11.

'I want all pilots to be armed. The President has zeroed this out of his budget
and wants to get rid of it out of his programme.

'When I talk to pilots, I'm in airports all the time, pilots come up to me all
the time and say "it's too hard to get the permit and keep up the permit".'

http://youtu.be/0WvT8USffx8?t=3m43s]

Senator Paul suggested the current system for licensing pilots to carry firearms
in the cockpit was too bureaucratic.

'You have to do five days in New Mexico. I've a Bill to streamline this and the
goal of my Bill  is to have 100 percent of American pilots armed.

'It is the most cost effective way of deterring another attack on our planes.'

The politician is an 8/1 chance according to Paddy Power to secure the
Republican presidential nomination to run in 2016 and 18/1 to win the White
House race.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             April 11, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Omagh bomb charge;
Republican faces 29 counts of murder after 1998 terrorist attack

BYLINE: David Young

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 248 words


AH I G H . P R O F I L E republican has been charged with murdering 29 people in
the Omagh bombing.

Seamus Daly, 43, from Cullaville, Co Monaghan in the Irish Republic, has
previously been found liable for the August 1998 Real IRA outrage in Co Tyrone
in a landmark civil case. He has now been charged with 29 counts of murder, two
charges linked to the explosion in Omagh and two counts linked to an attempted
explosion in Lisburn in April 1998.

Daly was arrested by officers from the Police Service of Northern Ireland's
Serious Crime Branch in the Newry area.

The 29 victims, who included a woman pregnant with twins, died when the
dissident republican detonated a car bomb in Omagh town centre on a busy
Saturday afternoon.

It was the single bloodiest terrorist attack in the history of the Northern
Ireland Troubles and came only months after the signing of the historic Good
Friday peace accord. No-one has been successfully convicted of the bombing in a
criminal court. Five years ago Daly was one of four men found responsible for
the bomb at Belfast High Court after being sued by some of the victims'
families.

The men were ordered to pay £1.6 million to the bereaved relatives.

Daly faced a civil retrial after successfully appealing against the original
finding, but the second trial delivered the same outcome as the first, with
judge Mr Justice John Gillen ruling him responsible for the attack. He was due
to appear in court in Dungannon today.

www.Facebook.com/Manchester EveningNews

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       April 11, 2014 Friday 12:41 PM GMT

Seamus Daly remanded into custody after appearing in court charged with
murdering 29 people in the Omagh bomb;
Dissident republican in the dock over killings in single worst terrorist attack
of the Troubles

BYLINE: By Chris Sherrard

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 169 words


Dissident republican Seamus Daly has been remanded into custody after appearing
in court charged with murdering 29 people in the Omagh bombing.

There was a high security presence as the 43-year-old was led into the dock of
Dungannon Magistrates' Court on Friday morning.

He was arrested in Newry, Co Down, on Monday and charged on Thursday evening
with 33 offences, including 29 murder charges.

Daly, from Cullaville, Co Monaghan, was also charged with two offences relating
to an attempted explosion in Lisburn earlier in the same year.

He was one of four people who had been found liable for the Omagh bombing in a
landmark civil ruling in 2009.

Twenty-nine people, including a woman pregnant with twins, died when a Real IRA
car bomb exploded on a busy Saturday afternoon in the Co Tyrone town.

It was the single bloodiest terrorist attack in the history of the Northern
Ireland Troubles and came only months after the signing of the historic Good
Friday peace accord.

Daly has always denied any involvement in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                             April 11, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

COME DINE WITH ME BRIDE NUDE TERROR;
Groom attacked his wife in hotel

BYLINE: DAVID LOVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 371 words


A BRIDE ran naked and hysterical through a hotel after her husband beat her up
in their luxury bedroom following a wedding celebration.

The groom, Alexander Tulloch, now faces jail after a sheriff told him: "I am
concerned about the nature of what happened."

Offshore electrical engineer Tulloch, 37, subjected his bride to a flurry of
punches on her body.

Inverness Sheriff Court heard yesterday how Tulloch pinned Melissa Kirby, 36, a
former contestant on Channel 4's Come Dine With Me, to the bed before putting
his hand on her mouth and nose so she could barely breathe.

The incident took place at the Kingsmills Hotel in Inverness where the couple
were spending the night in an exclusive luxury apartment.

They had splashed out on an intimate, beach-side wedding on the island of
Mauritius.

They returned to Scotland to treat family and friends to an expensive reception
and blessing ceremony.

Defence solicitor Marc Dickson told Sheriff Andrew Webster: "It should have been
a memorable day and it was, but for all the wrong reasons."

Regrets "He [Mr Tulloch] works in the Congo which is a hazardous job. They have
known each other since school and got married in Mauritius.

"He deeply regrets and is horrified about what happened.

"Only time will tell how this affects the marriage. "There are considerable
bridges to be built here."

Tulloch, who has already admitted assault, is now prevented by a bail condition
from seeing his new wife and lives with his mother in Kiltarlity, Beauly.

Fiscal depute Kelly Mitchell told the court: "Both had been drinking at the
reception but he had gone to bed early.

"She was taken to her room and while undressing made a comment about his sister
and his son, which upset him."

After the assault, Melissa managed to get away from her husband and ran to hotel
reception.

The prosecutor said: "She was completely naked and hysterical.

"She had bruising but did not need hospital treatment."

Placing Tulloch on bail, Sheriff Webster warned him: "Custody is a distinct
possibility here. I cannot ignore the nature of what went on.

"It is concerning at the least. But I want reports to see if there is an
alternative to custody."

Tulloch will return to court to be sentenced next month.

scotnews@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RIFT: Tulloch and Melissa
¦ UNHAPPY DAY: Melissa in her gown and, below, the Kingsmills Hotel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       April 11, 2014 Friday 12:59 AM GMT

Assad 'spreading terror with new chemical attacks'

BYLINE: Tom Coghlan

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 785 words


Britain and America are investigating claims that the Syrian government has
carried out a series of new chemical attacks in the suburbs of Damascus.

British officials said yesterday that they were "aware of multiple allegations"
of chemical attacks designed, it is alleged, to terrorise oppositioncontrolled
areas around the capital.

It is claimed that the regime is using toxic industrial substances, rather than
weaponised chemicals, as a ploy to spread fear, but on a scale not quite large
enough to trigger an international military response.

The US and its allies came close to military action after the Assad regime's
military killed up to 1,300 people in outlying areas of Damascus with sarin last
August. It was the deadliest chemical assault since Saddam Hussein gassed Kurds
in Halabja, Iraq, in the late 1980s.

The Foreign Office said it was seeking more information on an alleged chemical
attack in the suburbs of Harasta on March 27, another in Daraya on January 13,
and two attacks this month on Adra and Jobar.

The US and Turkey said they were also investigating rebel claims that chlorine
and possibly "high doses of pesticides" had been used in the attacks.

The Syrian opposition said that it had taken samples of clothing and soil from
the sites of more than one recent attack, which had been handed to the
governments in Jordan and Turkey.

Israeli officials believe a chemical that "neutralises but does not kill" was
used in the attack on Harasta, TheJerusalem Post reported.

The opposition Syrian National Coalition (SNC) alleged that the chemical attack
in Harasta killed three people and injured more than 25. It said that it was the
latest in a series of attacks, including the January 13 poisoning in Daraya that
killed three people and left ten with symptoms consistent with chemical
exposure. It added that they could preface a wider, deadlier attack.

"We all remember the 14 instances of chemical weapons attacks on a smaller scale
which took place before a much larger use happened on August 21, 2013," the SNC
said.

Faced then with the threat of retaliatory US airstrikes, the Syrian government
agreed to destroy its chemical weapons stockpiles and sign the Chemical Weapons
Convention, in a deal that was brokered by Russia. Work to remove the stocks
continues, but is more than six months behind schedule.

Videos posted recently by Syrian rebels of the Harasta attack appear to show men
without apparent injury gasping for breath and, in one case, frothing at the
mouth.

The Syrian American Medical Society (SAMS), an aid group that sends doctors to
Syria, said last week that its staff had helped to treat victims of the Harasta
strike.

"The Syrian American Medical Society strongly condemns an attack by poisonous
gas in Harasta . . . on March 27," it said. "At least 25 people were injured and
four were killed in the attack. All victims were taken to a SAMS-supported
facility in the area."

The charity said that the patients suffered from hallucinations, accelerated
heart rates, trouble with breathing and in some cases, suffocation.

A former commander of Britain's chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear
forces (CBRN) said that the video evidence purporting to show victims of the
Harasta and Adra attacks was compelling.

"Some sort of toxic chemical has been used, whether a chemical weapon or
something like chlorine," said Hamish de Bretton-Gordon. "They look as credible
as the ones at Saraqeb and Ghouta," he added, referring to two attacks in 2013
which were documented by UN inspectors.

Mr De Bretton-Gordon, who runs the consultancy firm SecureBio, said that
pesticides in high concentrations would cause symptoms similar to sarin gas,
with lower levels of toxicity. He said he believed that 200 tons of sarin
remained unaccounted for on Syria's declaration to international inspectors of
its weapons stocks.

"In built-up areas, chemical weapons are far more effective than conventional
ones," he said. "The tactical use of chemical weapons in stark terms is hugely
effective. The rebels have no kit and very little understanding. One can see why
the regime would want to use them, but also that the opposition might."

The Syrian government alleged on March 25 that "terrorists" were planning a
toxic gas attack in the Jobar area, and intending to blame it on the government.

In a statement yesterday, the Foreign Office said: "Whilst we know that some
groups operating in Syria are interested in developing a chemical capability and
some have acquired critical components, there is no evidence to suggest that any
groups other than the regime possess a CW capability at present.

"We take these allegations seriously but are not able to corroborate any of them
at present."

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 11, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Assad 'spreading terror with new chemical attacks'

BYLINE: Tom Coghlan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 784 words


Britain and America are investigating claims that the Syrian government has
carried out a series of new chemical attacks in the suburbs of Damascus.

British officials said yesterday that they were "aware of multiple allegations"
of chemical attacks designed, it is alleged, to terrorise oppositioncontrolled
areas around the capital. It is claimed that the regime is using toxic
industrial substances, rather than weaponised chemicals, as a ploy to spread
fear, but on a scale not quite large enough to trigger an international military
response.

The US and its allies came close to military action after the Assad regime's
military killed up to 1,300 people in outlying areas of Damascus with sarin last
August. It was the deadliest chemical assault since Saddam Hussein gassed Kurds
in Halabja, Iraq, in the late 1980s.

The Foreign Office said it was seeking more information on an alleged chemical
attack in the suburbs of Harasta on March 27, another in Daraya on January 13,
and two attacks this month on Adra and Jobar.

The US and Turkey said they were also investigating rebel claims that chlorine
and possibly "high doses of pesticides" had been used in the attacks.

The Syrian opposition said that it had taken samples of clothing and soil from
the sites of more than one recent attack, which had been handed to the
governments in Jordan and Turkey.

Israeli officials believe a chemical that "neutralises but does not kill" was
used in the attack on Harasta, The Jerusalem Post reported.

The opposition Syrian National Coalition (SNC) alleged that the chemical attack
in Harasta killed three people and injured more than 25. It said that it was the
latest in a series of attacks, including the January 13 poisoning in Daraya that
killed three people and left ten with symptoms consistent with chemical
exposure. It added that they could preface a wider, deadlier attack.

"We all remember the 14 instances of chemical weapons attacks on a smaller scale
which took place before a much larger use happened on August 21, 2013," the SNC
said.

Faced then with the threat of retaliatory US airstrikes, the Syrian government
agreed to destroy its chemical weapons stockpiles and sign the Chemical Weapons
Convention, in a deal that was brokered by Russia. Work to remove the stocks
continues, but is more than six months behind schedule.

Videos posted recently by Syrian rebels of the Harasta attack appear to show men
without apparent injury gasping for breath and, in one case, frothing at the
mouth.

The Syrian American Medical Society (SAMS), an aid group that sends doctors to
Syria, said last week that its staff had helped to treat victims of the Harasta
strike.

"The Syrian American Medical Society strongly condemns an attack by poisonous
gas in Harasta ... on March 27," it said. "At least 25 people were injured and
four were killed in the attack. All victims were taken to a SAMS-supported
facility in the area."

The charity said that the patients suffered from hallucinations, accelerated
heart rates, trouble with breathing and in some cases, suffocation.

A former commander of Britain's chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear
forces (CBRN) said that the video evidence purporting to show victims of the
Harasta and Adra attacks was compelling.

"Some sort of toxic chemical has been used, whether a chemical weapon or
something like chlorine," said Hamish de Bretton-Gordon. "They look as credible
as the ones at Saraqeb and Ghouta," he added, referring to two attacks in 2013
which were documented by UN inspectors.

Mr De Bretton-Gordon, who runs the consultancy firm SecureBio, said that
pesticides in high concentrations would cause symptoms similar to sarin gas,
with lower levels of toxicity. He said he believed that 200 tons of sarin
remained unaccounted for on Syria's declaration to international inspectors of
its weapons stocks.

"In built-up areas, chemical weapons are far more effective than conventional
ones," he said. "The tactical use of chemical weapons in stark terms is hugely
effective. The rebels have no kit and very little understanding. One can see why
the regime would want to use them, but also that the opposition might."

The Syrian government alleged on March 25 that "terrorists" were planning a
toxic gas attack in the Jobar area, and intending to blame it on the government.

In a statement yesterday, the Foreign Office said: "Whilst we know that some
groups operating in Syria are interested in developing a chemical capability and
some have acquired critical components, there is no evidence to suggest that any
groups other than the regime possess a CW capability at present.

"We take these allegations seriously but are not able to corroborate any of them
at present."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Wigan Today

                             April 11, 2014 Friday

Family in baseball bat attack terror

LENGTH: 240  words


A FAMILY were threatened by masked men with baseball bats during a robbery in
their own home.

Just after 9.30pm last night (Thursday), a 47 year-old man answered a knock at
the door to his Oak Avenue home in Golborne.

He was confronted by three men wearing ski masks, armed with baseball bats and a
knife who barged open the door.

They demanded money before attacking two men inside the house.

One of the offenders went upstairs where he confronted a 69 year-old man who
told them to leave and they walked out empty handed.

The offender who went upstairs is described possibly white, slim to skinny
build, aged 16 to 18 years old with a local accent. He was wearing a greyish
blue coloured jacket. One of the other offenders is described as possibly white,
of slim build, about 5ft 8in tall and spoke with a Liverpool accent.

Detective Chief Inspector Howard Millington said: "The family do not know why
they have been targeted and we do not know whether this has been a case of
mistaken identity or not.

"Understandably, they have been left traumatised by their experience and feel
unsafe in their own home, a place where everyone should feel the safest of all.
Two of the men received cuts to their face and head which required hospital
treatment."

"I would ask anyone who may witnessed anyone hanging around the area acting
suspicious to contact us on 0161 8567103 or the independent charity
Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWIG


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            East Anglian Daily Times

                            April 12, 2014 Saturday

Novel imagines Suffolk N-plant terror attack

BYLINE: Jessica Hamilton

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 379 words


A former nuclear industry safety official has written a novel based on his fears
that it would become easier for terrorists to cripple the UK if the Government
gives the go-ahead to big infrastructure projects such as Sizewell C.



Barrie Skelcher was head of the health physics department at Sizewell A during
the 1960s and 70s and went on to become technical officer at Sizewell B.

His novel, The Day England Died, is due to be published by the Book Guild on
April 24.

It tells the story of a group of terrorists planning an attack on a nuclear
power complex - by blowing up the pylons connecting it to the grid and disabling
emergency generators which could be used to help cool the reactors and prevent a
Fukushima-scale disaster..

Although the name Sizewell is not mentioned in the novel, the terrorists base
themselves in Suffolk 20 miles from a former fishing village where there is a
nuclear site.

In the novel it is called Deephole and is close to a town of 7,000 inhabitants
called Munchington.

Mr Skelcher, who lives in Leiston and is a sailing enthusiast, started his
nuclear industry career working for the UK Atomic Energy Authority at Dounreay
in Scotland in 1954 and took early retirement from Sizewell B in 1987.

Mr Skelcher, who has three children and four grandchildren, said he was opposing
the construction of Sizewell C because he believed the power should be generated
where it is needed - in London and the Thames Valley - and that concentrating so
much generating capacity on one site would make it easier for terrorists to
cripple the UK

"As power is being imported at Sizewell from offshore wind farms another power
station there would be putting too much power in one place," Mr Skelcher said.

"My guess is that terrorists will try to better the Twin Towers attack but
deploy different methods.

"In this context, the power stations, whatever type they may be, could be
targets."

An EDF Energy spokeswoman said the company could not discuss security but acted
on all recommendations and instructions from the Office for Nuclear Regulation.

"The Civil Nuclear Constabulary is deployed at all EDF Energy nuclear sites to
further enhance the already robust security arrangements. These officers work
alongside existing security teams at each station," she added.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EAD


                    Copyright 2014 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 13, 2014 Sunday 4:38 PM GMT

Boston Strong one year on: Four heroes from dramatic image of marathon bombings
prepare to mark anniversary of terror attack calling the Tsarnaev brothers
'weak'

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1373 words



     ·    Iconic image of the rescue of injured Jeff Bauman from the scene of
          the Boston marathon bombings is remembered
     ·    EMT Paul Mitchell, by-standers Carlos Arredondo, Devin Wang and Bauman
          became the faces of the terror attack
     ·    All three were hailed as heroes in the weeks after the attack which
          left three dead and hundreds seriously injured
     ·    Bauman was lauded by authorities for helping provide an ID of the
          Tsarnaev brothers days after losing both his legs
     ·    He has now published his own memoir charting his recovery from the
          attack


The year since Jeff Bauman was pushed in a wheelchair from the Boston Marathon,
his legs ravaged and his face ashen, has been marked by pain and difficulty but
also by triumphs:

He's learned to walk on new prosthetic legs, he's gotten engaged and he's an
expectant father.

Bauman became one of the most recognizable and powerful symbols of Boston's
resilience after the April 15 attacks - immortalized in an Associated Press
photo that shows three rescuers rushing him from the scene.

He became a hero days later when he was able to help authorities identify one of
two brothers accused of setting off pressure cooker bombs, killing two women and
an 8-year-old boy and injuring more than 260 others.

His memoir, 'Stronger,' comes out Tuesday.

The past year has been a blur for Bauman, and he can't get used to the idea that
this is his new life.

'Right now, you know, it's kind of a challenge to put my legs on every day. I'm
not used to it. It's something unnatural for me.

But I think over time it will become more of a natural thing,' Bauman, 28, told
the AP in an interview at the home he shares with his fiancee, Erin Hurley. 'At
first I couldn't even wear them for 20 minutes.... Now, I can wear them all
day.'

Bauman was standing near the finish line with two friends, waiting to cheer on
Hurley as she completed the marathon, one of the most important and busiest
events of the year in the city.

He noticed a man who looked out of place in a crowd of revelers, and they
exchanged a long stare.

As Bauman describes him, he was 'all business.'

Moments later, the two bombs exploded. Bauman found himself on the ground, his
legs gone.

People rushed in to help, but Bauman thought it was the end. Suddenly, a man in
a cowboy hat appeared: Carlos Arredondo.

He lifted Bauman into a wheelchair pushed by Devin Wang, a Boston University
student, and they rushed toward the medical tents. They were joined along the
way by Paul Mitchell, an EMT with Boston EMS.

'When someone looks that way, they've lost a lot of blood, and they're really
close to being dead,' Mitchell said.

Thanks to his rescuers, he lived. He was in surgery within 20 minutes at Boston
Medical Center.

Soon after Bauman woke, he was able to provide a description of the man who was
'all business.'

Authorities say it was Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who was killed in a shootout with
police in Watertown days later.

Tsarnaev's brother, Dzhokhar, has pleaded not guilty and is awaiting trial.

Bauman calls the brothers 'weak' and says they wasted their lives. He said
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev must suffer from knowing what he did, especially killing a
child.

'You can't tell me that that doesn't eat away at that kid every single day. It
has to. It must haunt him,' he said. 'Or if it doesn't, it eventually will.'

Bauman has focused on healing and learning to manage his new legs. He lost his
legs above the knee, making it harder to adjust to his prosthetics. It takes
more energy to walk with prosthetics than it does to walk normally, which means
he gets tired easily.

He has made steady progress, and by March, he was walking with one crutch. He
hopes to someday be able to walk without the crutches and to use the prosthetics
all day without his legs getting sore, as they do now.

Sleeping was tough for him the first few months, and he still has nights when
his mind is racing too fast to get any sleep. Days can be tough, too.

'I have bad days, days when I just don't want to do anything. Just kind of want
to lay in bed,' he said. 'I don't want to see anybody today. There's days like
that.'

Bauman is on leave from the Costco store where he worked in Nashua, N.H., before
the bombing. He wants to learn how to drive again before going back, and he has
a rigorous rehabilitation schedule that requires several appointments a week. He
also feels he's not prepared mentally to return yet.

For now, Bauman and Hurley are preparing for the baby, due July 14. They got
engaged in February and tentatively plan to get married next year, Hurley said.

ONE YEAR INTO THEIR RECOVERY: FOUR HEROES OF BOSTON STAY STRONG

An EMT. A volunteer. A spectator in a cowboy hat.

Moments after bombs exploded at the Boston Marathon, these three helped rescue a
man whose legs were blown off, a scene captured in an Associated Press photo.
That man, Jeff Bauman, was lauded as a hero himself when he gave authorities a
description that helped them track down two suspects.

PAUL MITCHELL

Mitchell has been a Boston EMT for five years. Like the others in the photo, he
refuses to take credit for saving Bauman's life.

'I think a lot of things went into Jeff being alive today, not to mention the
will of this guy. I met him once or twice. He's got the attitude. The positive
spirit.'

Looking at the photo reminds him to 'live life to the fullest.'

'Two of those people in that picture, not me, don't have any training, don't
have any obligation to run in there - and they did.'

DEVIN WANG

Wang is an aspiring athletic trainer, a senior at Boston University and a
world-class synchronized skater. That day she was a race volunteer.

'I think instinct kicked in, knowing that there were spectators in that general
area, not knowing if there's going to be another explosion, not knowing what I
was going to see once I got there,' Wang told ESPN. 'I felt like I did not do as
much as so many other people, yet I was getting all the credit for being that
hero.'

CARLOS ARREDONDO

In his native Costa Rica, Arredondo was a rodeo clown, helping get fallen riders
out of the way of angry bulls.

'Years of doing that kind of adrenaline, you're rushing in and out, running up
and out to get people out of there.... In a way I was training myself for the
Boston Marathon.'

He was passing out American flags on the race sidelines and ran to Bauman after
the blasts.

'I thought, `How am I going to get him out of here?''

'And then I saw this miracle woman coming with a wheelchair,' Arredondo
recalled. 'And it saved his life.'

JEFF BAUMAN

Bauman, who wrote a book about his experience, says he has mixed feelings about
the photo.

'I never look at it. I can't. I Googled myself once, and I looked at it and I
was like, I can't look at that. That just brings me right back to me laying on
the ground.'

But Bauman says it sums up the good that happened that day.

'I thought that was amazing that they helped save my life like that.... Everyone
was just trying to help me, help us, you know. Help the people that were hurt.'

Bauman admits he has some jitters.

'I'm kind of scared, I don't know. I mean, I just want to be able to be there
physically when the baby's running around and going nuts,' he said.

They don't know yet if it's a boy or a girl. To be safe, Bauman painted the
nursery a neutral shade of gray. The couple moved into a home in rural Carlisle,
northwest of Boston, in the fall.

Before then, Bauman lived with his mother in an apartment in Chelmsford, an old
mill town to the north.

Hurley says Bauman is still deciding whether to go back to school or pursue
other opportunities that have arisen since the bombing.

'He can do anything he wants really. But all he wants to do is walk. I think
that's a good goal for now,' she said. 'Plus, we have the baby coming. That's
going to be a big project. Like a lifetime project.'

For this year's marathon, the couple plans to spend some time at the race,
though Bauman admits to being apprehensive - not because he's worried it's not
safe but because of his celebrity.

'I'm kind of scared about that,' he said. 'I don't want to be mobbed and hoisted
up in a crowd.'

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 13, 2014 Sunday 7:09 AM GMT

Boston rolls out beefed up security measures ahead of marathon a year after
deadly terrorist attack

BYLINE: SNEJANA FARBEROV

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 398 words



     ·    More than 100 cameras have been installed along Boston portion of the
          course, along with 50 observation points to monitor the crowd
     ·    Thirteen ambulances will be deployed and 140 emergency medical service
          workers will be on hand


Officials have announced improved public safety measures for the final two miles
of the Boston Marathon April 21, a year after two explosions near the finish
line killed three people and wounded more than 260 others.

Mayor Martin Walsh and Police Commissioner William Evans Saturday said more
uniform and undercover officers will be deployed along the marathon's Boston
route.

Authorities also have installed more than 100 cameras along the Boston portion,
together with 50 observation points that will help monitor the crowd.

Thirteen ambulances will be deployed, together with 140 emergency medical
service workers on foot patrol, bicycles, utility vehicles and in medical tents.

Officials urge spectators to leave backpacks, strollers and other large items at
home.

There will be a large police presence through the week leading up to race,
starting with a memorial service attended by Vice President Joe Biden on
Tuesday, the one-year anniversary of the attack.

'It will be the Boston Marathon as it has always been,' Mayor Martin Walsh said
during a press conference in front of city hall. 'Our goal is for everyone to
enjoy the race.'

Walsh said the city has prepared extensive security measures for preventing as
well as responding to emergencies.

The two ethnic Chechen brothers suspected of planting the bombs at the finish
line were identified using footage taken from security camera.

One of the brothers, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, died after a gun battle with police
several days after the attack while the other, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, is awaiting
trial.

Officials also emphasized that increased security will be found not just at the
finish line, but along the entire course.

Though all major marathons are a challenge to secure, given the 26.2 mile
spread, the Boston Marathon's route through eight municipalities makes it all
the harder for security officials to coordinate protocols.

Preparations are also under way to help those affected by the bombings last year
cope with feelings that might be triggered by the anniversary, officials said.

'The first anniversary of a disaster is always difficult,' said Barbara Ferrer,
director of the Boston public health commission.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 13, 2014 Sunday 2:29 AM GMT

Maoists 'terrorise' Chhattisgarh in brutal attacks on election and military
personnel that leave 14 dead

BYLINE: ABHISHEK BHALLA

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 819 words


The Maoists have hit back.

Two days after peaceful elections in their stronghold Bastar, the rebels
signalled their intention to disrupt the next phase of the Lok Sabha polls in
Chhattisgarh by killing seven members of a polling party and five CRPF personnel
in twin attacks within a span of an hour on Saturday.

The polling in Bastar on Thursday was considered a success as it saw a 52 per
cent turnout - a figure considered high for such a troubled area.

The next phase will see Kanker, Rajnandgaon and Mahasamund constituencies, which
also have a strong Maoist presence, going to the polls on September 17.

Sources said that after the peaceful polls in Bastar, where the rebels could not
strike due to heavy security deployment, intelligence inputs were pouring in
about Maoists mobilising for big strikes.

"They want to terrorise voters before the next phase of polling. Their
intentions are clear - they want to disrupt the election but we have adequate
forces on the ground to ensure they cannot target polling booths," said a home
ministry official.

The most notorious areas of the 'Red Zone' went to polls on April 10 but there
are at least six more constituencies in the Maoist strongholds of Chhattisgarh
and Jharkhand, which will witness balloting on September 17 and 24.

In the past week, 18 people, including 10 security personnel, have died in
Maoist attacks in Chhattisgarh and Bihar.

On Saturday, Maoists attacked election personnel near Ketulnar village of
Bijapur district when they were returning from poll duty at around 11 am.

The rebels triggered a landmine and blew up the bus they were travelling in.
This was followed by indiscriminate firing.

In Darbha area of Sukma district, the rebels targeted an ambulance carrying CRPF
personnel.

Sources said a violation of standard operating procedures had come to light yet
again as the troops hopped onto an ambulance that was passing by.

The rebels, who have been planting landmines to target security forces, were
apparently tracking the jawans and triggered the blast.

The troops were returning to their base after sanitising an area for a polling
party.

A court of inquiry has been initiated to investigate the attack in Sukma.

Last month, 15 security personnel were caught in an ambush and gunned down by
Maoists in the same area.

Despite their grand plans, the Maoists failed to strike in Bastar ahead of
polling there. More than 25,000 security personnel were deployed after 80 per
cent of polling stations in the area were classified as 'highly sensitive'.

The Bastar area, which includes Maoist dens in Sukma, Dantewada, Bijapur and
Narayanpur districts, has the maximum number of armed rebels.

Keeping this in mind, authorities had decided that only Bastar constituency
should go to the polls on April 10.

Sources said the rebels could continue to target polling officials to send out a
message since they failed to disrupt the election process in Bastar, which
witnessed a large turnout despite their boycott call.

MAOISTS PLANTED MINES BEFORE ROAD WAS LAID

By Sahar Khan

Two days after peaceful polling in insurgency-hit Bastar zone, the Red brigade
carried out two separate strikes within a span of one hour, killing 14 people,
including five CRPF men and seven people returning from election duty, in south
Chhattisgarh.

It took the Maoists barely 10 minutes to target an ambulance after 10 CRPF
personnel boarded it to return to their camps.

The rebels detonated a powerful blast at Kamanar near Darbha in Bastar district,
about 350 km from state capital Raipur.

Five jawans were killed on the spot. Another five personnel were injured and
were air-lifted to Raipur for advanced medical attention.

In the span of 11 months, this is the third major attack by the guerillas in the
Darbha region.

In another blast triggered by the rebels seven poll staffs were killed and five
others injured at Ketulnar in Bijapur district.

According to Bijapur police, the poll officials were returning from Kutru to the
district headquarters in a passenger bus.

"After the blast, the Maoists opened fire which was repulsed by the security
forces who were deployed nearby for road opening operations," the police source
said.

Sunil Kujur, the Chhattisgarh chief electoral officer, said.

The Bastar Lok Sabha poll saw 52 per cent turnout on April 10.

The landmine blast near Darbha came as a surprise since the road was recently
built.

"It appears that the Maoists planted the explosives before the roads were built
and the blast was triggered by someone sitting 150 metres from the spot," Bastar
superintendent of police Ajay Yadav said.

The ambulance was thrown up in the air and landed some 15 metres away from NH-30
where the incident occurred.

A four-foot deep crater was formed.

CM Raman Singh condemned the attacks by calling it a "cowardly act".

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 14, 2014 Monday

Power cut in Syria's Aleppo following "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 70 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Aleppo - A source at Electricity Ministry said Sunday [13 April] a terrorist
attack on one of the high voltage powers in Aleppo caused electricity break off
in the city.

The source told SANA that maintenance teams are working to restore the power to
Aleppo as soon as possible.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1845 gmt 13 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                       April 14, 2014 Monday 4:45 AM GMT

Ukraine president Oleksandr Turchynov vows crackdown after terror attack

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 345 words


Fears of serious violence in Ukraine are growing as the country's president
announced a "large-scale anti-terrorist operation" to resist attacks by armed
pro-Russian forces, after a gun battle in which one man was killed.

Foreign Secretary William Hague will meet European counterparts in Luxembourg
today for talks on Ukraine amid a "dangerous escalation" of the crisis.

In a televised address, President Oleksandr Turchynov said authorities in Kiev
will use the army in order to prevent Russian forces from moving in, as they did
in Crimea. He pledged an amnesty to anyone laying down arms by this morning.

"The Security Council has made a decision to begin a large-scale anti-terrorist
operation with participation of army forces," he said. "We're not going to allow
Russia to repeat the Crimean scenario in Ukraine's east."

Moscow has denied it is behind the operation by gangs wearing uniforms without
insignia, but Britain said Russia would be assumed to be complicit unless it
condemned the actions.

"The latest occupations by armed groups of government buildings in towns in
eastern Ukraine are a further dangerous escalation of an already dangerous
situation," a Foreign Office spokesman said.

"Assumptions that Russia is complicit are inevitable as long as Moscow does not
publicly distance itself from these latest lawless actions. Russia must desist
from steps which destabilise Ukraine and undermine the possibility of Contact
Group talks.

Ukrainian special forces exchanged gunfire with a pro-Russia militia in an
eastern city yesterday morning, with at least one security officer killed and
five others wounded.

It was the first reported gun battle in eastern Ukraine, where armed pro-Russia
men have seized a number of government buildings in recent days.

Mr Turchynov said a Security Service captain wa s killed and two colonels
wounded in a gun battle outside Slovyansk, where the police station and the
Security Service office were seized a day earlier.

Ethnic Russians in Ukraine's east widely fear that the new pro-western Ukrainian
government will suppress them.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             April 14, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

71 die in Nigeria bus station terror attack

BYLINE: Nicholas Cecil

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 178 words


AT LEAST 71 people were killed today in a huge bomb attack on a bus station in
Nigeria's capital during rush-hour.

Commuters were on their way to work when an explosion rocked Nyanya Motor Park,
on the outskirts of Abuja, just before 7am.

More blasts followed as vehicles burst into flame when their fuel tanks ignited.
Police said at least 124 people were wounded and dozens of coaches and minibuses
were destroyed. One explosion ripped out a hole four feet deep. Rescue workers
and police gathered body parts as ambulances rushed the wounded to hospital.
There was no immediate claim of responsibility, but suspicion fell on Islamist
terror group Boko Haram. It has been threatening to target the capital after a
campaign in north-east Nigeria that has left nearly 1,500 people dead this year.

Last week, Boko Haram suspects tried to break out of Abuja's security HQ, next
door to the residence of President Goodluck Jonathan. They failed and 21 were
reported shot dead.

The group - whose name means Western Education Is Forbidden - aims to force an
Islamic state on Nigeria.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Carnage: Nyanya Motor Park in Abuja

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       April 14, 2014 Monday 3:05 PM GMT

At least 71 DEAD, 124 injured in suspected terror attack in Nigeria

BYLINE: Jane Wharton

LENGTH: 427 words


AT least 71 people have been killed and another 124 injured after an explosion
ripped through a busy bus station in Nigeria today.

Eyewitnesses spoke of a deafening blast and then people running around in panic
after the attack just outside the capital Abuja during rush hour.

Rescuers are currently gathering body parts and rushing the wounded to the
hospitals. Bodies still lie on the ground and screaming relatives are trying to
find out what has happened to their loved ones.

There was no immediate claim for the rush-hour blast, though the Boko Haram
terrorist network has been threatening to attack the capital.

A grieving relative at the scene near Abuja [Reuters]

Security experts said there was an initial blast in one of the buses at the
Nyana Motor Park, around 10 miles from the centre of Abuja. That then caused
several secondary explosions as vehicle fuel tanks ignited and burned.

In total 16 luxury coaches and 24 minibuses were destroyed - many of those were
packed with commuters.

Eyewitness Mimi Daniels, who works in Abuja, said: "I was waiting to get on a
bus when I heard a deafening explosion then smoke. People were running around in
panic."

Another eyewitness told the BBC: "I have never seen [anything] like that in my
life. It was just terrible... We were just running helter-skelter. So somehow I
think that they planted something inside one of the buses there.

"So there are many dead shot down at the scene of the accident. And as you can
see now some of these casualties... we are hoping, we are praying they will be
ok. We saw some ambulances bringing corpses to other hospitals."

The attack happened just outside Abuja, Nigeria [Express]

The Nyana Motor Park was the target of the blast [Reuters]

Boko Haram - which translates as Western education is sinful - have made threats
against Abuja and were responsible for a 2011 suicide car bombing at the city's
United Nations building, which killed at least 21 people.

Boko Haram militants are fighting for an Islamic state but until recently have
largely been confined to the remote northeast. Fighters from the militant group,
which is loosely modelled on the Taliban movement in Afghanistan, have killed
more than 1,500 people this year.

In recent years the group have forged ties with Al-Qaeda-linked militants in the
Sahara.

The attack has underscored the vulnerability of Nigeria's federal capital which
was built in the 1980s to replace Lagos as the seat of government for Africa's
biggest economy and top oil producer.

Dozens of commuters on the buses were killed in the attack [AP]

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       April 14, 2014 Monday 4:02 PM GMT

Rush-hour blast in bus station kills at least 71 and injures 124 in Nigeria;
The explosion rocked the federal capital Abuja this morning - as suspicions
point towards an attack by Islamic terror group Boko Haram

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 559 words


Nigeria bomb blasts sparks emergency response

A rush-hour explosion in a Nigerian bus station has killed at least 71 people
and injured 124.

The blast rocked the federal capital Abuja early this morning - as suspicions
point towards an attack by Islamic terror group Boko Haram.

Security experts suspected the explosion was inside a vehicle, said Air
Commodore Charles Otegbade, director of search and rescue operations. He gave no
further details.

Henry Onyebulem, head of the clinical department of Asokoro general hospital,
said that 27 dead had been deposited in the mortuary, while 25 critically
injured are being treated.

He expects the death toll to rise.

"I was waiting to get on a bus when I heard a deafening explosion then saw
smoke," said Mimi Daniels, who escaped from the blast near Nyanyan bridge, five
miles south of Abuja, with minor injuries to her arm.

"People were running around in panic."

Nigeria Bomb At Bus Station

Bloody remains lay strewn over the ground as security forces struggled to hold
back a crowd of onlookers and fire crews hosed down a bus still holding the
charred bodies of commuters.

"These are the remains of my friend," said a man, who gave his name as John,
holding up a bloodied shirt.

"His travel ticket with his name on was in the shirt pocket."

The attack underscored the vulnerability of Nigeria's federal capital, built in
the 1980s in the geographic centre of the country to replace coastal Lagos as
the seat of government for what is now Africa's biggest economy and top oil
producer.

Boko Haram militants fighting for an Islamic state have largely been confined to
the remote northeast.

They have been particularly active there over the past few months and are
increasingly targeting civilians they accuse of collaborating with the
government or security forces.

Suspected Islamist militants killed at least 60 people in an attack on a village
in northeast Nigeria late last week.

Eight people were killed in a separate attack at a teacher training college.

"In some ways it's not a big surprise. The situation has been escalating. It
should be part of the strategy to 'bring it home' what's happening elsewhere in
the northeast," said Kole Shettima, director of the MacArthur Foundation's
Africa office in Abuja.

"It's a statement that they are still around and they can attack Abuja when they
want, and instill fear."

The Islamists, who want to carve an Islamic state out of Nigeria, have in the
past year mostly concentrated their onslaught in the northeast, where their
insurgency started.

There had been no attacks near the capital since suicide car bombers targeted
the offices of Nigerian newspaper This Day in Abuja and the northern city of
Kaduna in April 2012.

Security forces at the time said that was because a Boko Haram cell in
neighbouring Niger state had been broken up.

A Christmas Day bombing of a church in Madalla, on the outskirts of Abuja,
killed 37 people in 2011, although the main suspect in that attack is now behind
bars.

Boko Haram also claimed responsibility for a bomb attack on the United Nations'
Nigeria headquarters that killed 24 people on Aug. 26, 2011.

Boko Haram, which in the Hausa language of largely Muslim northern Nigeria means
"Western education is sinful", is loosely modelled on the Taliban movement in
Afghanistan, and has forged ties with al-Qaeda-linked militants in the Sahara.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 15, 2014 Tuesday

Rwandan police arrest three people for "planning terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 365 words


Text of unattributed report entitled "Kizito Mihigo, two others arrested over
suspected subversive activities" published in English by Rwandan newspaper The
New Times website on 15 April

Rwanda National Police is holding three individuals suspected of offences
against state security.

The trio, who according to the police had been recruited by Rwanda National
Congress and were also collaborating with the FDLR [Democratic Forces for the
Liberation of Rwanda], were arrested separately.

They include Kizito Mihigo, a musician arrested last Friday, Cassien Ntamuhanga,
who works with Amazing Grace Radio and had earlier been reported missing
(arrested on Monday morning), Jean Paul Dukuzumuremyi, a demobilized soldier who
was arrested last Saturday, according to a statement from police.

Mihigo, Ntamuhanga and Dukuzumuremyi are being investigated for involvement in
planning terrorist attacks against Rwanda, trying to overthrow the government by
use of violence, planning to assassinate government officials and inciting
violence among the population, the statement said.

The trio, working with senior members of Rwanda National Congress (RNC) and the
FDLR, is alleged to have been responsible for a series of grenade attacks that
have rocked the country in the recent past and for continuing to plan terrorist
activities against Rwanda.

Police Spokesperson ACP Damas Gatare, said: "The police have ample evidence
including grenades and testimonies obtained from other accomplices arrested to
aid investigations."

He added that the trio has confessed to working closely with senior members of
RNC and FDLR, to carry out terrorist activities across the country.

ACP Gatare said the case file would soon be submitted to the prosecution for
further action, adding that the police will divulge more details about the
suspects today.

Kizito Mihigo, 33, had previously claimed to have devoted his talent to the
promotion of peace, unity and reconciliation among Rwandans.

An organist and composer, Kizito Mihigo, was born on 25 July, 1981 in Kibeho
Sector, Nyaruguru District, in the former Gikongoro Province, currently in the
Southern Province.

Source: The New Times website, Kigali, in English 15 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       April 15, 2014 Tuesday 4:03 PM GMT

Trojan Horse: Chief Constable and police commissioner attack appointment of
former anti-terror chief;
Move to recruit former anti-terror chief Peter Clarke "desperately unfortunate"
claims region's chief constable Chris Sims

BYLINE: By Brett Gibbons

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 610 words


A Government decision to appoint a former anti-terror chief to investigate
allegations of a hardline Islamist takeover plot at a number of Birmingham
schools has been heavily criticised by the region's top cop.

Education Secretary Michael Gove earlier announced that Peter Clarke, who served
as head of the Metropolitan Police's counter-terrorism unit, was to become
Education Commissioner, with responsibility to investigate the allegations.

But the move was swiftly attacked, with West Midlands Police Chief Constable
Chris Sims saying it was a "desperately unfortunate appointment" and suggesting
that Mr Clarke's previous experience - which includes leading the investigation
into the July 7 bombings in London - would inevitably lead to people drawing
"unwarranted conclusions".

Mr Clarke has been tasked by Mr Gove with reviewing the evidence in connection
with the Birmingham allegations.

His role will be to conduct an investigation to fully understand the situation
and work with Birmingham City Council to "analyse evidence of extremist
infiltration in both academies and council-run schools", the department said.

But Mr Sims said: "This is a desperately unfortunate appointment. Peter Clarke
has many qualities but people will inevitably draw unwarranted conclusions from
his former role as national co-ordinator for counter terrorism.

"I am a strong supporter of open and inclusive education for all children in
Birmingham and across the West Midlands and am committed to the process adopted
by Birmingham City Council with educational and social inclusion at its heart."

The West Midlands' elected Police and Crime Commissioner for the West Midlands,
Labour's Bob Jones, said he shared Mr Sims' concerns.

"This appointment gives the clear impression that the issues around Trojan Horse
are predominantly around counter-terrorism issues," he said.

Birmingham City Council also issued a statement insisting it was important that
Mr Clarke's appointment did not give the wrong impression to affected
communities.

Mr Clarke's appointment comes the day after it was disclosed that 25 schools are
now under investigation over the alleged hardline Muslim plot to force out
governors and headteachers.

Birmingham City Council has already announced it is appointing a new chief
adviser, Ian Kershaw, managing director of Northern Education, to directly
handle at least 200 complaints received in relation to the Operation Trojan
Horse allegations focusing on schools in the city. It is also setting up a
review group.

The council's investigation, running in parallel to the DfE's separate inquiry,
is due to initially report back in May.

Mr Clarke is due to report back with his findings in the summer. His remit will
cover both local council-run schools and academies.

Birmingham City Council leader Sir Albert Bore has said that West Midlands
Police is still looking into the authorship of the Trojan Horse document.

The allegations focus on the Park View Educational Trust, which runs three
schools in the city - all of which have been subjected to snap Ofsted
inspections in recent weeks.

Among further claims which have since come to light, one former anonymous staff
member at Park View Academy in Alum Rock alleged a colleague had in an assembly
praised the firebrand al-Qaida-linked Muslim cleric Anwar al-Awlaki - he was
killed by a US drone strike in Yemen in 2011.

The school trustees have firmly denied all the claims, branding the allegations
"a witch-hunt", while pointing to very good academic results among its pupils.

'Jihadist plot to take over Birmingham schools'

Liam Byrne demands urgent inquiry into 'shocking and disturbing' Jihadist plot
allegations

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             April 15, 2014 Tuesday

20th anniversary of Argentina's worst terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 31 words


20th anniversary of Argentina's worst terrorist attack - bomb attack on Jewish
Mutual Association in Buenos Aires which killed 114 people

Event Start Date: 2014-07-18

Event End Date: 2014-07-18

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2014 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 15, 2014 Tuesday 7:04 PM GMT

Boston Strong: Survivors and heroes of the marathon terror attacks reunite
one-year on for defiant portrait on the finishing line

BYLINE: JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1399 words



     ·    Survivors and those affected by the Boston marathon bombing posed for
          a touching portrait on April 6
     ·    They gathered at the finishing line on Boylston Street, where the two
          bombs went off a year ago on Tuesday, killing three people and
          injuring 264
     ·    Red Sox hitter David Ortiz, Governor Deval Patrick and former Mayor
          Thomas Menino appear in the photo
     ·    Carlos Arredondo - famed for his white cowboy hat  - also appeared in
          the photograph
     ·    The Richard family of Bill, 43, Denise, 43, Jane, 7 and Henry, 11,
          posed for the picture
     ·    They lost their 8-year-old son and brother Martin at the finishing
          line
     ·    The April 15, 2013 blasts tore through the crowded finish line of the
          world-renowned race, injuring spectators, volunteers and athletes
     ·    It was the worst mass-casualty attack on U.S. soil since the September
          11, 2011 attacks that killed some 3,000 people


One-year on and Boston Strong is personified in this historic picture as the
heroes of the marathon bombing come together for a moving portrait on Boylston
Street.

Organized by the Boston Globe, which received a Pullitzer Prize on Monday for
their coverage of the deadly terror attack, the photograph features a roll call
of the major players from that April 15 afternoon.

Survivors, the police and firefighters who risked their lives to rush to the
rescue, doctors, EMT's, runners, political figures and Red Sox players all stand
proud for the inspiring and touching tribute.

Scroll down for video

Up front are the Richard family, who lost their little boy Martin, 8, to the
second bomb as he watched the marathon with his dad, Bill, mother, Denise,
sister Jane and brother Henry.

The family recently spoke of the trauma they have experienced this past year
without Martin, as Denise also deals with the loss of her left eye, Jane the
loss of her leg and Henry, who has suffered PTSD.

A symbol of bravery is at the front of the picture too - Carlos Arrendondo - now
famous for his white cowboy attack and immortalized in a dramatic photo that day
of him helping save Jeff Bauman, who suffered horrific injuries to his legs in
the attack.

Standing tall in another cowboy hat is Red Sox player David Ortiz, who memorably
unleashed a defiant swearing invective in front of the Fenway Park crowd days
after the bombs - which was greeted only with the spirit in which it was meant.

CARLOS ARREDONDO (wearing white cowboy hat, front left)

In his native Costa Rica, Arredondo was a rodeo clown, helping get fallen riders
out of the way of angry bulls.

'Years of doing that kind of adrenaline, you're rushing in and out, running up
and out to get people out of there.... In a way I was training myself for the
Boston Marathon.'

He was passing out American flags on the race sidelines and ran to Jeff Bauman
after the blasts and encountered him mortally wounded with both his legs blown
off.

'I thought, `How am I going to get him out of here?''

'And then I saw this miracle woman coming with a wheelchair,' Arredondo
recalled. 'And it saved his life.'

Jeff didn't pose for the picture, but over the past year the two men have come
to symbolize everything about the terror and rescues of that day.

Bauman became one of the most recognizable and powerful symbols of Boston's
resilience after the April 15 attacks - immortalized in an Associated Press
photo that shows three rescuers - including Arredondo rushing him from the
scene.

He became a hero days later when he was able to help authorities identify one of
two brothers accused of setting off pressure cooker bombs, killing two women and
an 8-year-old boy and injuring more than 260 others.

Bauman was standing near the finish line with two friends, waiting to cheer on
Hurley as she completed the marathon, one of the most important and busiest
events of the year in the city.

He noticed a man who looked out of place in a crowd of revelers, and they
exchanged a long stare.

As Bauman describes him, he was 'all business.'

Moments later, the two bombs exploded. Bauman found himself on the ground, his
legs gone.

People rushed in to help, but Bauman thought it was the end. Suddenly, a man in
a cowboy hat appeared: Carlos Arredondo.

He lifted Bauman into a wheelchair pushed by Devin Wang, a Boston University
student, and they rushed toward the medical tents. They were joined along the
way by Paul Mitchell, an EMT with Boston EMS.

THE RICHARD FAMILY (wearing yellow t-shirts and brown jackets in the front of
the picture)

To mark the year anniversary of their tragic loss, the Richard family opened up
about the moment their lives changed forever.

In an emotional interview Bill Richard told the Boston Globe the moment the bomb
went off and his son Martin died.

He described the moment he saw his daughter Jane scream when she saw her left
leg had been blown off and called out for her brother, who was already dead.

Bill, 43, refused to be operated on and spent 24 hours with shrapnel in his leg
so he could make sure his family was OK.

In the chaos afterwards doctors tried to calm him down but he told them: 'Relax?
My son is dead. How can I relax?'

His wife, Denise, 43, a librarian, was left blind in her right eye.

Jane, seven, lost her left leg and Henry, 11, was physically unharmed but had
deep psychological scars.

As Jane described it to doctors: 'My brother Henry only got some cuts, but was
hurt in his heart'.

CELESTE AND SYDNEY CORCORAN (far right, Celeste wears a fluorescent yellow coat
and hat and Sydney wears a green parka jacket)

Mother and daughter Celeste, 48, and Sydney, 18, were on the finishing line
cheering on Celeste's sister Carmen Accabo when the bombs went off.

Shrapnel tore through Sydney's thigh, severing a major artery and leaving her
close to bleeding to death on the footpath. Her mother's injuries would leave
her a double amputee.

The devastating emotional and physical repercussions of that day have shaped
2013 for the Corcoran family, as they will for the rest of their lives.

But their spirit is the epitome of the Boston Strong slogan, and Celeste and
Sydney fought a thousand tiny battles after their horrific ordeal, and won.

'She's not just my mom, she's one of my best friends. We've always been really,
really close but especially after such a horrific event, we just got so much
closer,' Sydney told the Boston Globe.

'She's my mother so she's always taken care of me - I like to think I've always
taken care of her too - but now even more so. I have to help her through the
rest of her life.'

MASSACHUSETTS GOVERNOR DEVAL PATRICK (right, front in a baseball cap)

The governor was inspirational in the aftermath of the attacks and during the
trying week that followed.

Indeed, he admitted over the summer that once Dzhokhar Tsarnaev had been
captured he went to a restaurant alone and got 'quite drunk' out of relief.

After a dinner of duck confit, french fries, soup, salad and chardonnay, Patrick
said, 'I was actually quite drunk, by myself,' the Boston Herald reported in
June.

FORMER MAYOR THOMAS MENINO (far left in brown jacket and blue shirt)

Another inspirational and strong figure for the city that difficult week, Menino
has unfortunately been recently diagnosed with advanced stage cancer.

He is the longest serving mayor in Boston's history and only left office in
January.

His strong leadership was a rock for the city during and after the attacks and
when he left office he said, 'Thank you Boston. It has been the honor and thrill
of a lifetime to be your Mayor. Be as good to each other as you have been to
me.'

RED SOX HIITER DAVID ORTIZ (back left, also in white cowboy hat)

David Ortiz became a Boston hero for life when he took to the field at Fenway
Park the week after the attacks and offered a resolute tribute to the city.

Designated hitter David Ortiz exclaimed 'this is our f***ing city' to rapturous
cheers, and some tears, after a moving video, encapsulating the horror and
heroism of the bombings.

'All right, Boston,' said Ortiz. 'This jersey that we wear today, it doesn't say
Red Sox. It says Boston.

He continued: 'We want to thank you, Mayor Menino, Governor Patrick, the whole
police department for the great job they did this past week. This is our f***ing
city, and nobody is going to dictate our freedom. Stay strong.'

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 15, 2014 Tuesday 4:50 PM GMT

Boston Strong: Survivors and heroes of the marathon terror attacks reunite
one-year on for defiant portrait on the finishing line

BYLINE: JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 241 words


One-year on and Boston Strong is personified in this historic picture as the
heroes of the marathon bombing come together for a moving portrait on Boylston
Street.

Organized by the Boston Globe, which received a Pullitzer Prize on Monday for
their coverage of the deadly terror attack, the photograph features a roll call
of the major players from that April 15 afternoon.

Survivors, the police and firefighters who risked their lives to rush to the
rescue, doctors, EMT's, runners, political figures and Red Sox players all stand
proud for the inspiring and touching tribute.

Up front are the Richard family, who lost their little boy Martin, 8, to the
second bomb as he watched the marathon with his dad, Bill, mother, Denise,
sister Jane and brother Henry.

The family recently spoke of the trauma they have experienced this past year
without Martin, as Denise also deals with the loss of her left eye, Jane the
loss of her leg and Henry, who has suffered PTSD.

A symbol of bravery is at the front of the picture too - Carlos Arrendondo - now
famous for his white cowboy attack and immortalized in a dramatic photo that day
of him helping save Jeff Bauman, who suffered horrific injuries to his legs in
the attack.

Standing tall in another cowboy hat is Red Sox player David Ortiz, who memorably
unleashed a defiant swearing invective in front of the Fenway Park crowd days
after the bombs - which was greeted only with the spirit in which it was meant.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       April 15, 2014 Tuesday 7:54 PM GMT

Boston Marathon bomb victim who had both legs blown off in terror attack walks
again one year on;
A harrowing news picture of Jeff Bauman in a wheelchair with his face covered in
cuts became the defining image of the Boston Marathon bombings

BYLINE: By Christopher Bucktin

SECTION: NEWS,REAL LIFE STORIES

LENGTH: 1274 words


A harrowing news picture of young man in a wheelchair with his face covered in
cuts became the defining image of the Boston Marathon bombings.

Jeff Bauman was standing at the finish line just a few yards from two
pressure-cooker bombs which exploded and killed three people, injured hundreds
more and cost the young store worker his legs and almost his life.

But a year on from the terror attack, new pictures of Jeff, 28, show a shining
example of the spirit and the hope that the bombers could not destroy.

Since the bombing a year yesterday he has shown unbreakable courage has become a
shining example of the spirit forged in the Massachusetts city. He has fought
hard to rebuild his life, learning to walk on new prosthetic legs and becoming
engaged to Erin Hurley, who he'd been cheering that day, and who is now
expecting their first baby.

Throughout his battle to recover he has been followed by photographer Josh
Haner, who documented the 28-year-old's struggles and private moments with Erin,
family and friends.

In the moving images Jeff is seen undergoing his gruelling therapy, the day he
jubilantly walked on his own for the first time on his prosthetic legs and the
bond between him, Erin and their friends.

Those pictures have now led to Haner winning a coveted Pulitzer prize.

The images show Jeff's incredible bravery but there is no denying the trauma of
that day is etched on his memory for ever - especially the moment he locked eyes
with bomber Tamerlan Tsarnaev.

He had been waiting to cheer Erin across the finish line with two friends before
the two bombs exploded in Tsarnaev's backpack.

Jeff Bauman - Pulitzer Price Winner

"I know exactly when my life changed. When I looked into the face of Tamerlan
Tsarnaev," he says in his new book, "Stronger", which was released on Tuesday.

"It was 2:48 PM on April 15, 2013, one minute before the most high profile
terrorist event on United States soil since September 11th, and he was standing
right beside me.

"We were half a block from the finish line of the Boston Marathon, two in a
crowd of half a million."

The day had started ordinarily enough for Jeff.

"I had arrived half an hour earlier," he adds: "Even then, the sidewalks were
clogged ten deep. The best runners, who qualified for the first start time, had
finished hours before, but the runners kept coming, and the crowd kept growing.

"Most of these people, including Erin, were running for charity. They were the
average runners, the ones who needed and deserved our support. Everywhere I
looked, people were cheering and clapping, yelling for them to keep going, the
finish line was close, they were almost there.

"And then I noticed Tsarnaev. I don't know how he got beside me. I just remember
looking over my right shoulder and seeing him. He was standing close, maybe a
foot away, and there was something off about him.

"He was wearing sunglasses and a white baseball cap pulled low over his face,
and he had on a hooded jacket that seemed too heavy, even on a cool day. The
thing that really struck me, though, was his demeanour.

"Everyone was cheering and watching the race. Everyone was enjoying themselves.
Except this guy. He was alone, and he wasn't having a good time. He was all
business.

"He turned toward me. I couldn't see his eyes, because of his sunglasses, but I
know he was staring at me.

"I know now he was planning to kill me in less than a minute, he thought I'd be
dead but his face revealed no emotion. No doubt. No remorse. The guy was a rock.

"We stared at each other for eight, maybe ten seconds, then my friend Michele
said something, and I turned to talk to her."

Jeff had been about to join their other friend closer to the finish line, partly
to get away from Tsarnaev but when he turned back he was gone. That was when he
noticed the backpack.

He recalls: "It was sitting on the ground, near my feet. I felt a jolt of fear,
and that old airport warning started running through my head: Don't leave bags
unattended. Report suspicious packages. I looked around, hoping to find the guy.

"And then I heard it. The explosion. Not like a bomb in a movie, not a big bang,
but three pops, one after the other.

"It doesn't get hazy after that. It gets very clear. The hospital psychiatrist
later told me that my brain 'lit up', that at the moment the bomb went off my
brain became hyper-alert, so that even though my memories are fragmented into
hundreds of pieces, all the pieces are clear.

"I remember opening my eyes and seeing smoke, then realising I was on the ground
looking up at the sky. I remember a woman stepping over me, covered in blood.
Then others, scattering in all directions.

"There was blood on the ground. Chunks of flesh. And heat. There was a terrible
amount of heat. It smelled like a cookout in hell.

"There was an accident, I thought. Something went wrong."

Immediately after the blast, spectators rushed in to help, but Jeff thought it
was the end until suddenly, a man in a cowboy hat appeared - it was Carlos
Arredondo.

He lifted Jeff's mangled body into a wheelchair pushed by Devin Wang, a Boston
University student, and they rushed towards the medical tents where doctors
managed to stabilise him.

He was in surgery within 20 minutes at Boston Medical Centre.

In the hours immediately after the bombings Jeff became an instant hero when he
was able to help authorities identify Tamerlan, who along with his younger
brother Dzhokhar, 20, were suspected of carrying out the attack which killed
three people, one of which was eight-year-old Martin Richard.

Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed in a shootout with police in nearby Watertown
days after the bombings as he and his brother went on the run after the FBI
named the pair as their main suspects.

Prosecutors have said they will seek the death penalty for Dzhokhar, 20, who has
pleaded not guilty to the terror attack and is awaiting trial.

But the past year has been a blur for Jeff, as he struggles to get used to the
idea of his new life.

Since losing his legs above the knee he has made steady progress, and by March,
he was walking with the aid of just one crutch but his goal is to one day walk
unaided.

However he admits to still struggling to sleep and that some days he cannot
muster any energy and stays in bed.

Jeff remains on leave from his job at wholesale Costco store where he worked
before the bombing. He says he wants to learn how to drive again before going
back but adds he is not prepared mentally to return yet.

For now though he and Erin are busy preparing for the arrival of their baby on
July 14 and have chosen not learn if it is a boy or a girl. To be safe, he had
painted the nursery a neutral shade of grey in their new home in rural Carlisle,
northwest of Boston.

Erin has been Jeff's "rock" since the bombing, they got engaged in February and
tentatively plan to get married next year.

But, despite his recovery, Jeff is quick to pass on the hero tag on to others.

Recalling the moments in hospital he says: "When I was on the operating table,
with ten or 12 people standing above me. That's when I started to panic. I've
seen a lot of hospitals on television and in movies. I don't like hospitals.
'Put me under,' I yelled. 'I'm awake. Put me under'.

"A face came toward me, in front of the others. He was a young guy. He looked
like Major Winters from Band of Brothers. 'Don't worry,' he said. 'We'll take
care of you'. And they did. Everyone that day took care of me. They saved my
life.

"They are the heroes, because they gave me this opportunity. They gave me the
chance to prove that I, that we, are better than cowards with bombs. That we're
not broken. And we're not afraid.

"We're stronger."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 15, 2014 Tuesday 1:56 PM GMT

Photographer Tyler Hicks wins Pulitzer Prize for coverage of Nairobi attack;
Photographer Tyler Hicks won the 2014 Pulitzer Prize in breaking news
photography for his coverage of the terrorist attack at the Westgate Mall in
Nairobi, Kenya, that left more than 60 people dead

SECTION: CULTURE

LENGTH: 32 words


Photographer Tyler Hicks won the 2014 Pulitzer Prize in breaking news
photography for his coverage of the terrorist attack at the Westgate Mall in
Nairobi, Kenya, that left more than 60 people dead

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 16, 2014 Wednesday

Iranian Armenians protest against "terrorist" attacks in Syria

LENGTH: 204 words


Text of report in English by semi-official Iranian Students News Agency (ISNA)
website

Tehran, 16 April: Dozens of Armenians in Iran held a protest gathering in front
of the UN mission in Tehran on Wednesday [16 April] in protest to killing of
Armenians by Syrian terrorist rebels.

Armenian archbishop Sebo Serkisian as well as Karen Khanlari, representatives of
Armenian in Iranian parliament, took part in the protest gathering.

The protesters were carrying placards with the motto of "We want peace and
security in Region", "Turkish support for terrorist groups should be condemned",
"Fighting will continue until justice execution", "Justice is our righteous
cry", "Islamic Republic, supporter of the oppressed", and "massacre is condemned
at any time and place".

They also read out a statement on killing of Armenians in Kessab region,
northern Syria. Three protestors handed the statement to the UN mission in
Tehran.

Dozens of Armenians were killed during clashes with Syrian rebels and terrorists
in Kessab region late March.

The region has witnessed clashed launched by al-Qaeda and other terrorist armed
groups entered from Turkish shared borders with Syria.

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in English 0920 gmt 16 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 16, 2014 Wednesday

Syrian cabinet condemns terrorist attacks targeting innocent civilians

LENGTH: 316 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

The cabinet held a session on Tuesday chaired by Prime Minister Dr Wael
al-Halqi, during which it congratulated Syrians on occasion of Independence Day
and Easter.

Premier al-Halqi said Independence Day is a symbol of pride and dignity for all
Syrians, asserting that Syria will remain unified and independent and will
defeat its enemies thanks to the victories achieved by the Syrian Arab Army.

Al-Halqi reviewed the Cabinet's activities during the past week, stressing the
importance of ministers conducting field visits in order to touch upon citizens'
concerns and deal with them.

He also called for overcoming red tape and bureaucracy in administrative work,
underlined the growing relations with Iran and their role in providing goods for
Syrian markets, and reviewed the steps taken to improve the Syrian Pound
exchange rate in light of the speculations taking place.

In this regard, Governor of the Central Bank of Syria (CBS) Adib Mayyaleh
reviewed the state of Syrian Pound exchange rate and the reasons for the recent
instability in it, attributing it to media and psychological warfare seeking to
undermine Syria's economy and currency.

Mayyaleh said that the recovering production sectors, careful monitoring of the
exchange market, and recent steps to provide foreign currency in the market
should stabilize the exchange rates, while a number of ministers provided
opinions and suggestions in this regard.

Premier al-Halqi condemned the terrorist attacks targeting innocent civilians,
specifically the attack on al-Manar School on Tuesday which claimed one child's
life and injured several.

During the session, the Cabinet ratified the executives instructions of the
General Elections Law, and a bill on establishing the General Union of Veterans.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 15 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                     April 16, 2014 Wednesday 10:02 AM GMT

Three jailed for New Mill attack in which student was blindfolded, tied up and
beaten;
Student's terror as he was attacked after drinking spree

BYLINE: By Neil Atkinson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 598 words


A student feared for his life after he was beaten, tied up and robbed in a flat
in Holmfirth when a drinking session turned to violence.

The victim Samir Shahid, 27, knew Davie Ferguson through friends and agreed to
"hang out" with him after missing a bus to university on the afternoon of
November 5 last year.

Mehran Nassiri prosecuting told Leeds Crown Court yesterday initially the pair
and a woman, Natalie Daley went to a house in New North Road, Huddersfield where
they were drinking, smoking and listening to music but then all three took a
taxi to Daley's flat in Lydgate Drive, New Mill, Holmfirth.

On the way they stopped at an off licence and bought a bottle of Jack Daniels
before continuing to drink that at her flat.

At that time things were amicable between them but that changed after a claim Mr
Shahid had behaved inappropriately towards Daley. That was disputed but
something clearly happened to change the mood, said Mr Nassiri.

Daley came in from the kitchen wielding a knife which Ferguson stopped her
aiming at the student, getting a wound to his left hand in doing so. But he then
punched Mr Shahid and demanded "Why are you trying it on with Natalie?"

Mr Nassiri said Ferguson grabbed the student's phone and made a call saying
"We're coming round" before he and Daley forced Mr Shahid to a flat nearby in
Lydgate Close covering his eyes on the way.

He was very frightened and once at the flat found William John Lynch and an
unknown man who pulled him on to a mattress in the living room. All three men
then punched him egged on by Daley and when he put his arms up to protect
himself he heard Ferguson say to tie him up.

His hands and ankles were then bound with electrical flex before he was punched
and kicked again.

Daley then grabbed his wallet and demanded to know his pin numbers.
Disorientated and in pain he gave them what he could remember and Daley and one
of the men went out to test them.

His attackers then decided to strip him and the flex was undone, he was stripped
to his shorts before he was tied up again and was then hit with a chain by the
third unknown man. He was screaming and at one point Ferguson pushed some
material into his mouth.

When Daley returned she said the numbers did not work after withdrawal efforts
had been met with a message of insufficient funds. Andrew Walker for Ferguson
said things had got out of hand and events happened so quickly none of them had
considered the consequences.

Jason Pitter QC for Daley said she had not inflicted any of the violence during
the false imprisonment and the robbery although unpleasant was spontaneous after
the group had consumed a significant amount of alcohol.

Carl Kingsley for Lynch said he was a chronic alcoholic and suffered paranoia
since he was the victim of violence himself some seven years ago when he was
attacked with swords.

Lynch, 42 of Lydgate Close, New Mill, Holmfirth and Ferguson, 26 of Cecil
Street, Springwood, Huddersfield were both jailed for a total of eight years
after they admitted robbery and false imprisonment.

Daley, 30 of Lydgate Drive, New Mill, who admitted the same offences was jailed
for five years.

Recorder Gurdial Singh told the gang their actions were "cowardly" and said:
"There was no justification for what took place."

Click here to take you back to more Huddersfield news.

Want to read, watch and hear more? You can download the FREE Examiner Apple App
here, the FREE Examiner Android App here or you can view the paper as an
e-edition on your Apple, Android or Kindle device by clicking here

To follow us on Twitter click here

Facebook Page plug in like bar

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 16, 2014 Wednesday 3:53 PM GMT

Is this brazen meeting of hundreds of al-Qaeda leaders a sign they are planning
a new round of terrorist attacks?

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 494 words



     ·    Video filmed hundreds of Al-Qaeda members meeting in Yemen in March
     ·    'Crown prince' of AQAP seen speaking of 'removing America'
     ·    Shot during celebration of mass breakout from Yemeni prison


A Yemeni faction of al-Qaeda may be planning on attacking western targets,
including the United States, a recent video indicates.

The video allegedly shows a gathering of hundreds of al-Qaeda members, filmed
during a celebration of a mass jailbreak of fighters in Sana'a, Yemen.

During the 15-minute clip, which was reportedly shot last month and just
emerged, the leader of  Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) speaks of
'removing America'.

Scroll down for video

The video was posted on several YouTube channels, including terrorism and
political violence watchdog TRAC - Terrorism Research and Analysis Consortium -
and is dated March 2014.

It shows masked men waving al Qaeda's black flag and celebrating the arrival of
members who were freed from the main prison in Sana'a, the capital of Yemen.

The jailbreak in February saw attackers mount a bomb, grenade and gun assault on
the prison, freeing 29 inmates, including 19 jailed for terrorism-related
crimes.

At the centre of the film is Nasser al-Wuhaishi, a man who has been named the
'crown prince' of AQAP.

'We have to remember that we are always fighting the biggest enemy,' says
al-Wuhaishi. 'We have to remove the cross, (and) the bearer of the cross,
America.'

Although the authenticity of the video has not yet been independently verified,
U.S. officials told CNN they believe it to be real.

Security experts have criticized American intelligence for allowing such a
meeting to take place without their knowledge.

'The U.S. intelligence community should be surprised that such a large group of
al-Qaeda assembled together, including the leadership, and somehow they didn't
notice,' Peter Bergen, CNN national security analyst said.

Abdulrazzaq al-Jamal, a journalist who has interviewed members of AQAP, said it
was the largest known gathering of al Qaeda in Yemen.

'It included about 400 people, and these are not all the members of the group.
This gathering is a confirmation that al Qaeda is gaining strength and
influence,' he said.

Formed in 2009, AQAP has attacked military targets, tourists and diplomats in
Yemen and taken over territory for long periods.

U.S. drone attacks have killed several suspected AQAP figures, including Anwar
al-Awlaki, a U.S.-born Islamist cleric accused of links to a plot to bomb a
Detroit-bound airliner in 2009 and U.S. cargo planes in 2010.

'Al Qaeda will gain strength as there continues to be division and weakness in
security performance,' said Ali al-Sarari, political adviser to Prime Minister
Mohammed Salem Basindwa.

'The last appearance (the video) shows that Yemen is confronting a dangerous
challenge. And if the security performance continues in this manner, then Yemen
will face an even bigger failure than what it has faced in the past.'

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 17, 2014 Thursday

Kenyan paper condemns online hate speech in wake of terror attacks

LENGTH: 224 words


Text of editorial entitled "Punish hatemongers" published by Kenyan
privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 17 April

The focus is again on an upsurge of hate speech in social media, arising from
recent terrorist attacks and security operations.

The National Steering Committee on Media Monitoring, an outfit under the
Ministry of Information, reported yesterday that incendiary messages spewing
religious and ethnic hatred and incitement have spiked on social media
platforms.

Facebook, Twitter, blogs and other social media spheres might well represent the
greatest advance in unfettered freedom of speech over the last century. They
have given every individual the platform to directly share thoughts and ideas
across the globe.

But freedom must come with responsibility. While the blogosphere is largely free
of government controls, that does not mean it should provide shelter for those
who want to spread hatred and incite religious or communal strife.

Kenya is already going through challenging times with the present security
situation that has had the effect of accentuating religious tensions.

Incitement through social media must not be allowed to add fuel to an already
incendiary mix. The authorities must make an example of some of those behind the
most dangerous messages.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 17 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            April 17, 2014 Thursday

Boston Marathon 12 months after three died in terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 140 words


Boston Marathon - 'the world's oldest annual marathon', first run in 1897 and
one of the six World Marathon Majors (others are New York, Chicago, London,
Berlin, and Tokyo). Champions Lelisa Desisa and Rita Jeptoo expected to return
to defend their titles, along with several top Americans.
 Sponsored by John Hancock Financial Services.
 Last year's race was marred by explosion of two bombs near the finish line,
with 17,000 of the 23,000 participants having finished, leaving three dead and
over 260 wounded. This year, those who were unable to complete the race were
invited back and were the first to enter, with the event seeing an increase in
field size to 36,000 official entrants. Over one million spectators expected to
watch from alongside the route

Event Start Date: 2014-04-21

Event End Date: 2014-04-21

Event URL: http://www.baa.org

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2014 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 18, 2014 Friday

Thai terror suspect admits plan to attack Israeli tourists

LENGTH: 534 words


Text of report by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 18 April

Investigations into two suspected foreign terrorists are progressing swiftly as
one of the men admitted to a planned attack on Israeli tourists in Khao San Road
during Songkran, according to an investigator.

The source announced progress in the probe after Thai media yesterday reported
the suspected terrorists have been held for questioning since the beginning of
Songkran.

They were arrested on suspicion of links to militant Islamist group, Hezbollah.

The men have been identified as French-Lebanese national Daoud Farhat and
Lebanese-Filipino national Youssef Ayad.

The source said Mr Farhat held a French passport and Mr Ayad carried a
Philippines passport.

According to their passports, both were born in Lebanon, though authorities have
yet to confirm if the travel documents are genuine.

Mr Farhat is visiting Thailand for the first time, while this is Mr Ayad's 17th
visit to the country.

Both arrived several days before the Songkran festival started on April 13.

Assistant national police chief Winai Thongsong said the men were arrested at
different locations in Bangkok after Thai police received intelligence from
Israel about a planned attack on Israeli tourists during Passover, the Jewish
festival which coincided with Songkran.

The source said investigators believe at least nine suspected foreign terrorists
connected to Hezbollah are somewhere in Thailand. Authorities are attempting to
track them down, he said.

The source also said Mr Ayad had given useful information to police.

He admitted his group entered Thailand to carry out a bomb attack against
Israeli tourists and other Israeli groups on Khao San Road during Songkran.

"Now we can seize materials, such as nails and bolts, used in making bombs from
their homes in Bangkok.

"We are taking the holder of the Philippines passport to Rayong province to
search for more bomb-making material kept there," the source said.

The location of the stash in Rayong has not been revealed as the suspect did not
know the name of the place, but told investigators he could remember where it
was.

"If we had been unable to arrest the men during Songkran, a bomb attack would
certainly have taken place somewhere on Khao San Road," he said.

Khao San Road is a popular destination among Israeli tourists.

Pol Lt Gen Winai said the two suspected foreign terrorists will be deported back
to the last countries they travelled from immediately after Thai police finish
questioning them.

He did not name the countries.

"They are still being questioned thoroughly. We have not yet pressed any charges
against them.

"Once we finish questioning them, we will deport them," Pol Lt Gen Winai said.

Meanwhile, National Security Council chief Lt Gen Paradorn Pattanatabut
confirmed Thai authorities are focusing on the capture of another foreign
terrorist.

Both Mr Farhat and Mr Ayad are listed on the website Stop910.com, which collects
information on suspected terrorist cells operating in Asia, and carries notices
of financial rewards for information.

According to immigration police, the third suspect, Bilal Bahsoun, may not have
entered Thailand.

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 18 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 18, 2014 Friday

Russia condemns terrorist attack in Israel - official text

LENGTH: 194 words


Text of report in English by the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on
17 April

Comment by the Information and Press Department of the Russian Ministry of
Foreign Affairs regarding the terrorist attack on the West Bank of the Jordan
River in the Hevron [Hebron] Region

874-15-04-2014

According to the incoming messages, Palestinian extremists carried out a firearm
attack on an Israeli car in the evening of the 14 April near Hevron, on the West
Bank of the Jordan River. A family in this car (husband, pregnant wife and
child) were injured, the man died in hospital from wounds he received. Moscow
decisively condemns these criminal actions and any manifestations of terrorism,
which cannot be justified. In the current situation, we deem it especially
important that all the parties demonstrate intolerance to such actions, which
seriously complicate an already uneasy atmosphere in the region and objectively
deteriorate the efforts aimed at the achievement of a fair and stable settlement
of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict on a known international and legal basis.

15 April 2014

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Moscow, in English 17 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 19, 2014 Saturday

Tanzania thwarted terror attacks on Kenya during elections

LENGTH: 442 words


Excerpt from report by David Kalinaki and Zadock Angira entitled "How Tanzania
foiled terror attack on Kenya poll" published by Kenyan privately-owned
newspaper Daily Nation website on 19 April

Tanzania helped foil terrorists attacks intended to disrupt last year's General
Election in Kenya and President Uhuru Kenyatta's swearing-in ceremony.

In an exclusive interview with Saturday Nation, President Jakaya Kikwete
revealed, however, that the terrorists were arrested, scuttling the attack
plans.

"I remember we had to deal with some groups that wanted to disrupt the Kenyan
elections; they were trying to hide here and we had to arrest them before the
Kenyan elections but these are issues that we always deal with quietly," the
Tanzanian Head of State said.

His account was confirmed by senior Kenyan security officials on condition of
anonymity as the matter was of utmost secrecy.

Acting on information from the Tanzanian authorities, four suspects were picked
up on the eve of the March 2013 elections.

About three others were arrested just before President Kenyatta and Deputy
President William Ruto formally took the oath of office at the Kasarani Stadium
in front of thousands of spectators and over a dozen African Heads of State.

President Kenyatta and senior security officials have previously hinted that
Kenya has on several occasions nipped in the bud, plans for major terrorist
attacks, even though some, such as the Westgate Mall attack, succeeded.

In a recent interview, President Kenyatta praised security forces for stopping
terror attacks but declined to divulge details.

In Dar es Salaam, President Kikwete said early this week that terrorism and
religious extremism remain key threats to peace and stability in the region.

He said religious extremism went beyond the scope of domestic political
tensions.

"The religious extremism has nothing to do with the Union. It is a phenomenon
that we all have to grapple with all of us.

It is very much related to the Al-Qa'idah movement; the number of cells that
they have established all over the world.

It is something that we have been working on jointly, sharing a lot of
intelligence information," he said.

The threat of terrorism has forced the neighbouring countries to be on a
constant state of alert and to build capacities to carry out investigations and
remain ahead of those planning such attacks.

"It is a serious matter; a worldwide problem. That time they were targeting US
establishments but these days they are targeting our own people and our own
establishments, so it is something we are concerned about."[Passage omitted].

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 19 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 20, 2014 Sunday 6:20 AM GMT

Man, 20, accused of pulling the beard of a Sikh Columbia University professor
and calling him 'Osama' and 'terrorist' while attacking him has been charged
with a hate crime

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 349 words



     ·    Christian Morales, 20, was charged with aggravated harassment in
          agianst Sikh Columbia University professor Prabhjot Singh
     ·    Singh suffered a broken jaw after being attacked in Harlem in
          September
     ·    Singh, 31, was walking home with a friend in upper Manhattan when he
          was approached by a group of 12 to 15 young men, he said days after
          his attack


A man accused of pulling the beard of a Sikh professor before a group of young
men who had called the professor 'Osama' and a 'terrorist' attacked him, has
been arrested and charged with a hate crime, police said on Saturday.

Christian Morales, 20, was charged with aggravated harassment in connection with
September's attack on Columbia University professor Prabhjot Singh, who suffered
a broken jaw.

Singh, 31, was walking home with a friend in upper Manhattan when he was
approached by a group of 12 to 15 young men, he said days after his attack.

'I heard, "Get him. Osama." I heard "terrorist." And I felt somebody grab my
beard,' Singh said then.

He was then kicked and punched in an attack that ended after other people
intervened, police said.

Singh didn't return a message seeking comment Saturday.

Morales was in custody and was unavailable for comment. A phone number for him
was out of service, and it was unclear if he had an attorney.

Detectives from the hate crimes task force are investigating the case.

Sikhism is a peace-loving religion that originated in India and preaches
equality and a commitment to justice. Its practitioners have been targeted by
attackers who in some cases confuse Sikhism and Islam because Sikh men and boys
are required to wear turbans and beards.

Singh co-authored a 2012 op-ed in The New York Times accusing the federal
government of failing to accurately measure the extent of anti-Sikh violence in
response to the August 2012 shooting at a Sikh temple in suburban Milwaukee that
left six people and the white supremacist gunman dead.

In the op-ed, Singh and his co-author argued that it is wrong 'to assume that
every attack against a Sikh is really meant for a Muslim.' They said Sikhs have
historically been targeted.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 21, 2014 Monday

Saudi to execute five for involvement in 2003 Riyad terror attack

LENGTH: 256 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Saudi Gazette website on 21 April

[Report by Mansur al-Shahri: "Five Terrorists Given Death Sentences"]

The Special Court sentenced to death five terrorists from one of the biggest
terrorist cells known as the cell of 85 (Turki Al-Dandani) that was behind the
three blasts in Riyadh in 2003 (1424H). The blasts resulted in the death and
injury of 129 people including children, women and men.

After three years of litigations, the court issued its verdicts Sunday against
42 defendants forming the first batch. The court issued death penalties against
defendants No 10, 12, 16, 36 and 39 while the rest of the defendants (37)
received various prison sentences ranging between three and 35 years. They were
also banned from travelling abroad for similar periods to their jail sentences.

The main charges against the five defendants No 10, 12, 16, 36 and 39 beginning
with the 10th included breach of trust during work as a private in Al-Hayer
Prison, as he sheltered one of the wanted terrorists and participated with a
number of people in confronting security personnel in Al-Roushan apartments.

He fired at security personnel and then escaped from the scene. He was in
possession of a pistol and a hand grenade before and after the Al-Roushan
confrontation and received training in sabotage against the country. Other
charges against the terrorists included joining Al-Qa'idah and enabling its
members to fight against security personnel.

Source: Saudi Gazette website, Jedda, in English 21 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 21, 2014 Monday

Algerian paper says recent terrorist attack questions army effectiveness

LENGTH: 654 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 21
April

The AQLIM [Al-Qa'idah in the Islamic Maghreb] emir, Abdelmalek Droukdel, is
still on the run. It is highly possible that he is hiding in the mountains of
Kabylie where a deadly attack targeted an ANP [People's National Army] convoy on
Saturday [19 April] night.

Given the heavy toll of this attack (16 soldiers killed and nine wounded), more
than an act of terrorism has been committed, it was an act of war. If the
activities of the former GSPC [Salafi Group for Call and Combat] have notably
diminished in other parts of the country, it is not the same in Kabylie where
hordes of the Droukdel supporters still have their rear bases and manage to
organize operations with military men and armament. This is not questioning any
national reconciliation policy, but it is akin to the pursuit of an all-out war
waged by armed Islamism which observes periods of respite only to reorganize
itself better and rearm its troops.

Questions come back to mind after each major terrorist attack perpetrated in the
region: Why is terrorism still not defeated, nor even weakened in Kabylie, where
the rejection of radical or militant Islam is nevertheless historically the
strongest? Why is it that the part of the country where democratic struggle
movements were born becomes the breeding ground for fanatics, proponents of
obscurantism, jihad and death? A few years ago, when asked why the attacks,
especially kidnappings, were increasing in the region, a police officer
responded: "It is the headquarters of the GSPC, you should know this..."

In addition to being bad news, this assertion is still valid and has never been
denied. This information which presents Kabylie as the Droukdel den was
confirmed by the former GSPC, now Al-Qa'idah in the [Islamic] Maghreb, after the
bloody attack against an ANP observation post on 15 April 2011 near Azazga.
Thirteen soldiers were killed and several others injured on the very premises of
their camp. A few weeks later, video footage was distributed to motorists at a
bogus roadblock on the Yakouren road. The terrorist "assault" was filmed by
Droukdel's men showing themselves supervising the preparation of the operation
in broad daylight, not far from the military camp which was "zoomed-in" by
Islamist cameras.

The deadly attack and provocation by audio-visual means could have only one
response from the security services: A military response to destroy the Droukdel
bases in the region, with the priority of putting this sinister terrorist leader
out of action, and the police dismantling everything that could gravitate
towards, support or give supplies to those groups hiding in the bush.
Counter-terrorism operations have multiplied in recent years, but their
effectiveness has been dramatically challenged by the armed Islamists' attack in
Iboudrarène on Saturday [19 April] night.

Military presence across the region has been repeatedly reinforced through
installing numerous checkpoints on all roads. Aside from the inconvenience
caused to the inhabitants who are showing less understanding of the presence of
heavy military presence in the region, local opinion and observers in the
security arena have difficulty understanding the effectiveness of this presence
given the terrorists' ongoing capacity to harm.

The questions are even more vivid when one observes the political agenda of the
armed groups, whose actions coincide with or punctuate particular moments of
national life. The terrorist attack that decimated a military camp on 15 April
2011 in Azazga occurred the same day as the president's speech announcing
political reforms to ward off the "Arab Spring" wave. The attack that targeted
an ANP convoy last Saturday took place the day after the announcement of the
results of the presidential election that took place on Thursday, 17 April.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 21 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             April 22, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hamza 'happy at 9/11 terror attacks';
world in brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 79 words


THE jury in the New York trial of cleric Abu Hamza, right, has been shown TV
clips of him saying he was "happy" about the 9/11 World Trade Center attack and
also praising the bombing of a US warship off Yemen which killed 17 sailors.

Prosecutors also claim police found a video on terrorist training when they
raided Hamza's home in London in 2003. Hook-handed Hamza, 56, denies all charges
including helping a Yemen hostagetaking in which three Britons died. The trial
continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 22, 2014 Tuesday 8:45 AM GMT

Abu Hamza was 'happy' about September 11 attacks and praised hijackers, terror
trial jury hears for first time

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 918 words



     ·    Hamza said attacks left Muslims and non-Muslims around the world happy
     ·    Tape played for the jury at his terrorism trial on Monday in New York
     ·    Said World Trade Center was legitimate target because of globalisation
          role


Abu Hamza told how he 'happy' he was about the September 11 attacks in a
broadcast interview, saying it left Muslims and non-Muslims around the world
rejoicing, according to a tape played for the jury at his terrorism trial on
Monday.

He did not hesitate when asked about the attack that killed nearly 3,000 people
and could be heard casually speaking of the attacks in the undated interview
with a Canadian broadcaster, even equating what Al Qaeda did to the hero in
American movies.

He is currently on trial in New York after being extradited to the US to face
terrorism charges.

'Everybody was happy when the planes hit the World Trade Center,' Hamza said in
the interview.

'Anybody who tell you he was not happy, they are hypocrites.'

He said the World Trade Center was a legitimate target because of its role in
globalisation.

'It's the centre of, of, of evil,' Hamza said. 'Political and financial evil for
the whole world.'

The interview was played after U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest last week
turned down a request by defence lawyers to exclude it from trial on the grounds
that it would unfairly prejudice their client.

'Expressing clear and unequivocal support for terrorism is no doubt
prejudicial,' the judge said.

'However, the defendant is charged with just those sorts of crimes.'

Hamza, 56, has pleaded not guilty to charges that he conspired to support Al
Qaeda by trying to set up a terrorist training camp in 1999 in Oregon.

He also is accused of helping to abduct two American tourists and 14 others in
Yemen in 1998. Four hostages died.

The tape was played during the testimony of a terrorism investigator for the
prosecutor's office in Manhattan.

'This is what you teach your people in cowboy films when you see the aggressors
being, doing bad things, and then the hero comes and gives him a couple of
punches in his face,' Hamza said during the interview.

'That's exactly like this. So I would be hypocrite if I tell you no. All Muslims
are happy, even non-Muslims are happy.'

According to the taped interview, Hamza said it was right to use airplanes
against those who use planes to 'oppress nations and kill them and maim them.'

He added: 'What do you call this when you go and bombard people and kill them by
thousands just because you have ability to fly higher?'

In the interview, Hamza also said he agreed with the 2000 bombing of the USS
Cole in Yemen. The attack killed 17 American sailors.

David Smith, one of his former worshippers, said Hamza was like 'two different
people' and was able to switch between the two whenever he wanted - aggressive
and outrageous when at the pulpit but was a 'nice guy' when talking amongst his
followers.

The testimony reveals one of the techniques Hamza used to manipulate his
followers and spread hate in North London at the notorious mosque before police
closed it down in 2003.

Under cross-examination from Hamza's lawyer Jeremy Schneider, Mr Smith said that
he first heard Hamza's preachings on tapes of his sermons that he bought in
Seattle.

Mr Smith was so impressed that in 1999 he flew to London to talk in person to
Hamza.

He agreed with Mr Schneider that during their 45-minute meeting at the Finsbury
Park mosque that the preacher was a 'nice guy' who seemed 'cool'.

Mr Schneider said: 'Is it fair to say that when you met him [Hamza] and talked
to him personally, it was like two different people, the person you met and the
person you hear on those tapes?'

Mr Smith replied: 'If you believe like him, yes'.

Mr Schneider suggested that in his sermons Hamza had 'one personality' and in
private he had a 'different approach'.

Mr Smith said: 'If you mean he's not screaming and hollering at you, yes'.

Mr Schneider asked: 'When he was at the podium, that's when he gets fiery?'

Mr Smith replied: 'Yes'.

This week the trial is due to hear from James Ujaama, a former follower of Hamza
from Seattle who moved to London and worshiped at Finsbury Park mosque.

He has been waiting 11 years to testify against Hamza under the terms of a 2003
plea deal which meant he only served two years for terrorism-related offences
instead of up to 30.

If convicted of the most serious charges, the Egyptian-born Hamza would face
life in prison.

He previously served several years in prison in Britain for inciting his
followers to kill non-believers.

Extradited from Britain in 2012 under the condition that he would be tried in
civilian court and not face the death penalty.

Defense lawyers have argued that Hamza, known for his fiery sermons in London,
is responsible only for using inflammatory words, not for any overt criminal
acts.

Prosecutors intend to use his rhetoric against him via video and audio
recordings that show him denouncing non-Muslims and preaching Islamic
fundamentalism and encouraging followers to become militants.

Prosecutors also played several other tapes, some in Arabic, for the jurors, who
were given English transcripts.

Some of the tapes were seized from the Finsbury Park mosque or from Hamza's
residence.

Hamza lost both hands and one eye in Afghanistan in the 1980s and was known in
London for wearing a prosthetic metal hook on his right arm.

In court, he has taken notes with a pen wedged in his hook.

Hamza plans to testify at the trial at Manhattan's Federal Court which is
expected to last about a month.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 22, 2014 Tuesday 1:43 AM GMT

NYC jury hears tape defending 9/11 terror attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 429 words


NEW YORK (AP) - An Egyptian cleric defended the Sept. 11 attacks in a broadcast
interview, saying it left Muslims and non-Muslims around the world happy,
according to a tape played for the jury at his terrorism trial on Monday.

Mustafa Kamel Mustafa could be heard casually speaking of the attacks in the
undated interview with a Canadian broadcaster, even equating what al-Qaida did
to the hero in American movies.

"Everybody was happy when the planes hit the World Trade Center," Mustafa said
in the interview. "Anybody who tell you he was not happy, they are hypocrites."

He said the World Trade Center was a legitimate target because of its role in
globalization.

"It's the center of, of, of evil," Mustafa said. "Political and financial evil
for the whole world."

The interview was played after U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest last week
turned down a request by defense lawyers to exclude it from trial on the grounds
that it would unfairly prejudice their client.

"Expressing clear and unequivocal support for terrorism is no doubt
prejudicial," the judge said. "However, the defendant is charged with just those
sorts of crimes."

Mustafa has pleaded not guilty to charges that he conspired to support al-Qaida
by trying to set up a terrorist training camp in 1999 in Oregon. He also is
accused of helping to abduct two American tourists and 14 others in Yemen in
1998. Four hostages died.

The tape was played during the testimony of a terrorism investigator for the
prosecutor's office in Manhattan.

"This is what you teach your people in cowboy films when you see the aggressors
being, doing bad things, and then the hero comes and gives him a couple of
punches in his face," Mustafa said during the interview. "That's exactly like
this. So I would be hypocrite if I tell you no. All Muslims are happy, even
non-Muslims are happy."

According to the taped interview, Mustafa said it was right to use airplanes
against those who use planes to "oppress nations and kill them and maim them."

He added: "What do you call this when you go and bombard people and kill them by
thousands just because you have ability to fly higher?"

In the interview, Mustafa also said he agreed with the 2000 bombing of the USS
Cole in Yemen. The attack killed 17 American sailors.

Mustafa plans to testify at the trial, which is expected to last about a month.

He was extradited in 2012 from England, where he turned London's Finsbury Park
Mosque in the 1990s into a training ground for Islamic extremists, attracting
men including Sept. 11 conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui and shoe bomber Richard
Reid.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 22, 2014 Tuesday 12:23 AM GMT

NYC jury hears tape defending 9/11 terror attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 128 words


NEW YORK (AP) - A New York jury has heard a broadcast interview in which an
Egyptian cleric defended the Sept. 11 attacks, saying it left Muslims and
non-Muslims around the world happy.

The tape was played Monday in the second week of the trial of Mustafa Kamel
Mustafa (muh-STAH'-fuh kah-MEHL' muh-STAH'-fuh).

Mustafa is charged with conspiring to support al-Qaida by trying to set up a
terrorist training camp in 1999 in Oregon. He also is accused of helping abduct
two American tourists and 14 others in Yemen in 1998. Four hostages died.

The tape consisted of portions of an interview Mustafa had with a Canadian
broadcaster. In it, Mustafa also says he agrees with the 2000 bombing of the USS
Cole in Yemen that killed 17 American sailors. Mustafa has pleaded not guilty.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 22, 2014 Tuesday 7:55 PM GMT

England coach Paul Farbrace still mourns victims of terrorist attack on Sri
Lanka team in Lahore;
Coach was among injured but his thoughts are still with the eight killed in
Pakistan in 2009 as he says chance to work for home country was massive pull he
had to accept

BYLINE: By Derek Pringle Cricket Correspondent

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 875 words


Paul Farbrace comes to the role of England 's assistant coach with a reputation
for being well grounded, so it is typical that his first thought when asked
about the terrorist attack he and the Sri Lanka team endured in Lahore five
years ago is not about how it affected him but with the people who died trying
to protect them.

"Thilan Samaraweera was shot in the leg and several of us had nasty wounds but
whenever I recall the incident my mind turns to the eight people who lost their
lives trying to take us to a game of cricket," said Farbrace on Tuesday. "We
were desperately lucky unlike the brave people trying to protect us."

Farbrace, one of those injured, needed two operations to remove the pieces of
shrapnel from his arm, parts of the team bus that had fragmented when struck by
a rocket-propelled grenade just outside the Gaddafi Stadium prior to the third
day's play of the second Test against Pakistan.

"The team were always superstitious so we all sat in the same seats every day on
the bus," said Farbrace, who was Sri Lanka's assistant coach at the time.

"I was in the third seat back, cleaning my sunglasses and looking out of the
window when there was a whoosh and a loud bang [the grenade] and this bloke
running and firing at us. Suddenly, we were all on the floor taking cover though
some were already bleeding from their wounds."

Whatever the worst the England job throws at him, as Peter Moores's deputy, it
will pale when compared to that terrifying moment. Not that Farbrace believes it
has changed him much except to underline how lucky he and the players were that
nobody on the bus lost their life that day.

"It's not been life-altering and I felt I got over it reasonably quickly," he
said. "For a while I didn't like people walking behind me but the experience
brought us very close together as a group. Thilan was back playing again four
months later and although he has now settled in Australia I still keep in touch
with him and one or two others who are no longer in the side."

Those close bonds meant it has been very difficult for him to give up his
current role as head coach. He even flew to Colombo over the weekend to explain
his decision to the cricket board.

We spoke as he was about to take the plane back to England and he was thanked
profusely at every turn by grateful Sri Lankans at the airport after the team's
recent victories in the World T20 and Asia Cup.

"I didn't have to fly to Colombo and see them face to face, I could have emailed
them. But we go back a fair way so I felt I owed them an explanation. To accept
the England offer was a very tough decision and it is not a financial one. To be
asked to coach your home country and with it the chance to be at home more often
is a massive pull, and I had to take it."

Farbrace, whose coaching experience extends from the England women's team to
Kent, Yorkshire and Sri Lanka, has a reputation for being relaxed and sensible,
but he says that was not always the case.

"The Kent boys would probably not agree with the relaxed or sensible tag when I
coached them four years ago and I was kicking water bottles and screaming at
them. It was my first job as head coach and I used to take it very personally
when we did badly. But you realise that it is no good to anyone being like that
and I've learnt a few lessons."

His tenure as coach of the England women's team for two years at the turn of the
millennium coincided with lottery funding. As a result, Farbrace introduced them
to greater professionalism without trying to impose a version of the men's game
on them, something Clare Connor, the captain, was grateful for.

"Paul listened to us and did not talk at us like most coaches in that era did,"
said Connor on Tuesday. "He was passionate and while that occasionally accounted
for numerous expletives and the odd chair going across the dressing-room, it was
what we wanted and needed.

"He came in as our coach in an uncanny echo of the current situation with the
men, after we had been beaten 5-0 by Australia. There was upheaval too as the
captain was replaced and one of the senior players. That's what stood out about
him, he was a really good bloke, but one who was not afraid to make tough,
unpopular decisions."

At Yorkshire, where he has worked as assistant to Jason Gillespie, he has been
equally well regarded, especially in his preparation of the younger players on
the staff. It is no coincidence that Alex Lees, 21, has been talked about as the
next Yorkshire batsmen to break into the England side.

Farbrace's role as Moore's deputy is unusual in that he was not picked directly
by Moores, the usual courtesy afforded a freshly appointed head coach when
choosing his backroom staff. Instead, he was sounded out by Paul Downton, the
managing director of England cricket, but only after he had recommended they
headhunt Moores for the main job, a trio of former wicketkeepers taking the
notion of a safe pair of hands too literally.

"I've spent a lot of time with Peter over the years," said Farbrace. "It has all
moved very quickly since last Thursday but we've had a few chats over the past
few days. We seem to be a good fit and with a one-day international coming up
against Scotland on May 9, I want to get started as soon as possible."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 23, 2014 Wednesday

Army attacks Gaza terror cell preparing to launch rockets into Israel

LENGTH: 155 words


Excerpt from report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem
Post website on 23 April

[Report by Ya'aqov Lappin: "IAF Strikes Gaza Terror Cell Preparing To Launch
Rockets Into Israel"]

The Israel Air Force fired on a terror cell in the Gaza Strip that was preparing
to fire rockets into Israel on Wednesday, security sources said.

The terror cell was identified by the Shin Bet and constituted an imminent
threat to Israeli security, according to the sources.

[Amir Buhbut reports at 1428 GMT in leading news website Walla! in Hebrew: "The
strike is believed to have targeted the Palestinian responsible for the attacks
on Israel's south at the end of Passover, on Monday of this week, that saw six
rockets fired at Gaza-region communities."]

The IAF could not confirm that the target was hit. [passage omitted on news
agency and Palestinian reports]

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 23 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Crawley News

                            April 23, 2014 Wednesday

Mum's terror as scissors thrown in sudden attack

BYLINE: Sam Satchell; sam.satchell@essnmedia.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:999; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 419  words


A YOUNG father has admitted forcing his way into his partner's home and throwing
a pair of   scissors at her hip.

Joe Masterson turned up at his on-off girlfriend Georgie Worsfold's home in
Fisher Close, Southgate, under the influence of drink and drugs, and repeatedly
banged on the door until he was let in.

While inside, he cornered the victim and threw the scissors at her, causing her
to bleed, and then smashed a mirror as she called police from the safety of
another room in the house.

The 23-year-old, of Copthorne Road, in Felbridge, pleaded guilty to charges of
assault by beating and criminal damage when he appeared at Crawley Magistrates'
Court last Wednesday.

Elizabeth Green, prosecuting, said: "This is a domestic violence matter.  The
victim and defendant have been in an on-off relationship for the past three
years and have two young children together, though the mother lives on her own.

"On (Sunday) March 2, the victim was at home with her two children and a friend,
when at 3pm there was a knock on the front door from Mr Masterson.

"He appeared to be under the influence of drink and drugs so the victim closed
the door, at which point the defendant repeatedly kicked it until she opened it
again.

"While inside, he paced around the kitchen and he put a selection of knives and
a pair of scissors in his trousers pockets.

"The children were removed from the room by the friend, and the defendant
followed the victim through the house and cornered her in another room.

"He became verbally aggressive and she felt threatened.

Ms Green went on: "He then threw the scissors at her, causing a cut to her hip.
She managed to call police from her bedroom and while she was on the phone she
heard a loud smash. She later realised the defendant had smashed a mirror.

"The defendant then slapped the victim on the back of her head as she left the
room."

Masterson's defence solicitor told the court he was "shocked" by his own actions
and that he proactively sought advice from his GP, believing he may have bipolar
disorder.  But he was found not to suffer from this condition and is now
awaiting test results for ADHD.

His solicitor added: "It's quite clear that the victim does wish to rekindle
this relationship, as she has texted him this morning asking him if he's coming
back."

Masterson, who lives at home with his father, was released on conditional bail
and must not visit the victim's address before his next hearing. He is scheduled
to appear at the same court again for sentencing on May 15.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            April 23, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror as masked thugs attack bar;
IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 150 words


WHALLEY RANGE: Masked thugs terrorised a bar in Whalley Range. Three men raided
the Hillary Step on Upper Chorlton Road at around 1am yesterday and threatened
staff with metal bars. Staff handed over cash and the thieves fled the scene in
a car which was parked nearby.

One of the offenders was about 6ft tall with a medium build. He was wearing a
balaclava, a dark grey hooded top and black tracksuit bottoms.

The other two were also 6ft with a medium build. They both wore balaclavas and
dark clothing. All three were holding metal bars and spoke with Liverpudlian
accents.

Det Con Phil Whiting said: "Thankfully, no one was physically hurt but all the
staff members were shaken after their ordeal. To be confronted and threatened by
these men holding metal bars must have been terrifying.

"I would urge anyone who may have seen three men acting suspiciously in the area
to contact police immediately."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      April 24, 2014 Thursday 11:53 AM GMT

Lothian Running Club member takes part in Boston Marathon one year after terror
attack;
Stephen Malcolm represented the club as more than one million people took to the
streets of Boston

BYLINE: By Callum Carson

SECTION: SPORT,LOCAL SPORT

LENGTH: 253 words


Lothian Running Club's Stephen Malcolm represented the club in the Boston
Marathon on Monday.

An estimated one million people lined the route of the course in a display of
defiance and celebration following the terrorist attacks that killed three
people near the finish line during last year's race.

Stephen was following in the footsteps of club mate              Shona Young who
was caught up in the incidents of 12 months ago.

Happily, this time the race, which is the oldest of its kind in the world, went
off without a hitch and Stephen crossed the sun-lit finish line in three hours
26 minutes and two seconds.

Back on home soil, running in the Men's 5000 metres event at the recent Scottish
Athletics League match at Grangemouth Stadium, Lothian Running Club's Max McNeil
(above) recorded a massive PB for the distance.

Finishing in second place in the race, Max recorded a time of 15 minutes 14.36
seconds which chopped almost 18 seconds off his previous best of 15:32.40 set in
August 2012 in a BMC regional race at Scotstoun in Glasgow.

John Malcolm and Paul Young were the Lothian Club's representatives in
Saturday's Hunters Bog Trot Hill Race from Holyrood Park.

John finished in 35th place in 35 minutes 6 secs with Paul 45th in 36 minutes 57
seconds.

A total of 95 runners completed the course.

The first match in the Forth Valley League for junior athletes took place at
Grangemouth Stadium on Saturday.

The Lothian club athletes in action were Hannah Steel, Natalie Miller, Robyn
MacDonald, and Louis MacDonald.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 25, 2014 Friday

Kenyan daily calls for vigilance in wake of terror attacks

LENGTH: 427 words


Text of editorial entitled "Pangani tragedy shows need for vigilance by all"
published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The People on 25 April

The details may not be out yet but the Wednesday [23 April] blast at the Pangani
Police Station [Nairobi], which cost the lives of two policemen bore the
hallmarks of purveyors of terror. It need not be gainsaid that this country is
at war imposed by terrorists who now stalk us everywhere. Witnesses say the
explosion from the car which police on patrol had intercepted and were directing
to the police station, was so powerful as to be heard many kilometres away.

There cannot be a clearer pointer that the mission of the suspects was even more
deadly and aimed at causing massive casualty. About a month ago, it will be
recalled, a near-similar incident happened in Mombasa [coastal region].
Policemen at a roadblock flagged down a Land Cruiser whose occupants they
suspected to be up to no good. They set them free but impounded the vehicle
which they commandeered to Mombasa County police headquarters, which is less
than a 100 metres from Mombasa's State House.

Like in any war, vigilance, anticipation, facilitation and being prepared are,
needless to say, crucial. In a war against faceless enemies, the imperative for
alertness is even more compelling. Kenyans can ill-afford to be sitting ducks.
We say this because in the case of the Land Cruiser parked at the police
station, it was not until FBI officers on another mission in the town
intercepted a suspicious signal which they traced to the parked vehicle.

Upon searching the vehicle, they found a cache of explosives wired to the
dashboard. The deadly cargo had capability to flatten any building within 100
metres radius - including State House! The Land Cruiser incident and Wednesday
Pangani tragedy both indicated a lack of anticipation and the 'take-no-chances'
training instilled in officers. We are instinctively wired to self-preserve and
more so, those trained to deal with situations constantly stalked by potential
harm.

Going forward, our security personnel can ill-afford to be casual in dealing
with potentially dangerous persons and situations. Waving a car down and
directing it to the police station itself implies felony so boarding such a
vehicle is not without risks - even fatal risks. As we condole with the
families, relatives, friends and colleagues of the fallen officers, we want to
restate that all compatriots must be alive to the reality that we are at war
with terrorists.

Source: The People, Nairobi, in English 25 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       April 25, 2014 Friday 5:03 PM GMT

Trojan Horse investigation: Park View pupils allowed to speak positively about
terrorism, claims Humanist Association;
Teachers at Alum Rock academy allowed students to express positive views about
9/11 and 7/7 terror attacks, it has been claimed

BYLINE: By Jane Tyler

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 653 words


The Birmingham school at the centre of the Trojan Horse investigation has been
accused of allowing pupils to express "positive views" about the 7/7 and 9/11
attacks.

The British Humanist Association said the opinions of some children at Park View
School in Alum Rock into the terrorist atrocities were not challenged because of
"cultural sensitivity".

It alleged members of staff had been advised not to bring soldiers to the school
for visits and claimed one employee spoke of wanting an "Islamic state".

The Association said the allegations were made by "several" former workers at
Park View - a maths and science academy - who wanted them made public because
the school had repeatedly denied many of the claims.

Other allegations included claims that:Creationism and intelligent design were
taught by at least one science teacher;Worksheets handed to Year 11 boys said a
woman must obey her husband;Sex education lessons contained the message that
"wives are not allowed to say no";The school held Islamic instead of Christian
collective worship, with students sitting segregated side-by-side based on
gender;Some male teachers expected boys to be sat at the front of the class and
girls at the back, and ignored girls when they wanted to answer a question;A
teacher told pupils that females belonged in the kitchen and another agreed when
a pupil commented "women should not be allowed to drive";Some girls were forced
to wear a headscarf and female members of staff and pupils were treated as
inferior by male Muslim staff;Girls were not allowed to take part in PE or sport
activities with boys because it made male Muslims "feel uncomfortable".

The Association is a charity promoting a secular state and equal treatment,
regardless of religion or belief.

It said some of the allegations dated back to 2011 but the whistleblower who
made contact at the time decided not to press for action.

The Association said it was contacted by other ex-Park View employees in January
of this year, leading to contact with the original complainant.

It said the findings of its own investigation into the school's RE teachings
were passed to the Department for Education and Ofsted on January 31.

Pavan Dhaliwal, the Association's Head of Public Affairs, said: "It is vital
that all our state schools teach a broad and balanced curriculum, actively
contribute to community cohesion and foster an environment inclusive of every
child, parent and member of staff, regardless of their religious or
non-religious beliefs."

Three separate inquiries are currently under way into the Trojan Horse plot,
which centres on claims of a conspiracy by hardline Islamists to take over
control of schools.

The investigations are being carried out by Ofsted, the Government and
Birmingham City Council.

Park View Educational Trust, which runs the school, responded to some of the
claims in a statement.

It said: "Park View Academy has a clear curriculum policy which governs the
teaching of all subjects within the school.

"Our sex and relationships education (SRE) is taught in single sex groups and
makes clear that the basis of all sexual relationships is informed consent.

"After a lesson that took place around 2011 it became clear to the school that
boys had misunderstood a historical reference to do with cultural expectations
of sex within marriage.

"As soon as the school became aware that this was the case it took immediate
action and held a special assembly of Year 10 boys to make it clear that sex
without informed consent is rape.

"The allegation that boys were informed via a worksheet that wives have to give
sex to their husbands is categorically untrue.

"The teaching of Creationism in Science is not school policy.

"Without having received any complaints in relation to the allegation that
Creationism has been taught it is very difficult for us to comment further.

"Had we received a complaint we would of course have investigated it fully."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             April 25, 2014 Friday

UN Security Council slams terrorist attack in Algeria

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 187 words


UNITED NATIONS - The UN Security Council condemned Thursday "in the strongest
terms" a terrorist attack in Algeria, where 14 soldiers were killed by a
terrorist group last week.

In a statement, the council slammed the attack in the town of Tizi Ouzou and
stressed the need to combat "threats to international peace and security caused
by terrorist acts".

"The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to
justice," it said, urging all member states to cooperate actively with the
Algerian authorities in this regard.

Algerian media reported on Sunday that as many as 14 soldiers were killed by
al-Qaida's north African branch, al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb in Tizi Ouzou,
about 120 km east the capital Algiers. Following the attack, the Algerian army
launched a large-scale military operation backed up by air strikes to hunt down
suspected militants, the report said.

The attack came just one day after incumbent President Abdelaziz Bouteflika was
announced to have won a fourth term in the North African nation.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             April 25, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

FAMILY'S TERROR AT RACIST GUN ATTACK;
Travellers escape injury after their home is sprayed with bullets

BYLINE: VICTORIA McMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 405 words


A MAN has spoken of his terror after his family home was sprayed with gunfire in
a racist attack.

The victims, who are from the Travelling community, were targeted by gunmen
shooting through a window at the house in Whiterock Gardens, West Belfast, at
about 10pm on Wednesday.

The family, who are originally from England, had only moved into the property
less than two weeks ago.

How many in the house gunman The couple, their five daughters and four
grandchildren - the youngest aged just one year old - were in the house at the
time.

Mr Doherty said: "I was very, very shocked and my family is petrified.

"I was in the living room and had just left to go to the kitchen before I heard
the gunshots.

"I hit the floor in the kitchen when I heard the 'bang, bang, bang'.

"There were nine shots - four went through the window.

"There were gunshots and then I heard them shout, 'Gypsies come and get out of
there'. Then there was another shot.

"The grandchildren are aged one, three, four and five, they were upstairs
asleep."

Mr Doherty, who did not want his first name revealed, added council officers had
visited their home after complaints of noise. But the grandfather denied the
allegations. The family now plans to leave the area after the terrifying attack.

He said: "We're trying to rehouse us.

We've never encountered anything like this in my life before.

"We don't want any trouble and don't give any trouble.

"You can't tar everyone with the one brush. This has terrified my family."

Sinn Fein MLA Pat Sheehan said: "Guns have no place on our streets and the fact
that anyone in the house at the time could have been seriously injured or worse
highlights the recklessness of this attack.

people were when the opened fire "All residents want to get on with their lives
in peace without this type of incident."

Meanwhile, police are investigating another hate crime in East Belfast after
three people were attacked with golf clubs. It happened at Lawnmount Street
between 9pm and 9.30pm on Monday, but details have just been released.

A woman and two men said they were attacked by a group of 15 thugs, one of whom
was a woman. All of those attacked suffered bruising and cuts, while one of the
men lost two teeth.

victoria.mcmahon@mgn.co.uk

my e s my 11 How many people were in the house when the gunman opened fire n -
the

I hit the floor when I heard the shots. I was very shocked and my family are
scared SHOOTING VICTIM WEST BELFAST YESTERDAY

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: firing line Bullet holes in windows yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 26, 2014 Saturday

Security tightened in northwest Pakistan following terror attack threats

LENGTH: 189 words


Text of report published by Pakistan newspaper The News website on 26 April

Peshawar: The security in the provincial capital remained on high alert Friday
following threats of possible militant attacks.

Heavy police contingents were deployed all over the city and the suburban areas
while patrolling was also increased around the sensitive places.The road near
the headquarters of the Frontier Constabulary was also closed and traffic was
diverted to other roads.

This caused traffic jam in the Saddar area.Some parts of the Sunehri Masjid Road
where the Frontier Constabulary headquarters is located was closed some days ago
and the Diljan Plaza and other markets were also shut due to specific threats of
an attack.

The shopkeepers in this area had staged protest at the Peshawar Press Club
following closure of these markets as they felt it affected their business.The
extraordinary security measures have been taken following threats of militant
attacks in the wake of the killing of a top commander near Matani and shelling
by the Pakistan Air Force jet-fighters in Khyber Agency.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 26 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 26, 2014 Saturday

Terror attack injures 18 citizens in southern Syria - report

LENGTH: 71 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus Countryside, (SANA) - A source at the Police Command told SANA that
terrorists fired a number of mortar shells on Jaramana City in Damascus
Countryside, injuring 18 citizens, including 7 children and 4 women, in addition
to causing material damage to the citizens' properties.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1455 gmt 25 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 27, 2014 Sunday 8:33 PM GMT

School at heart of alleged Muslim 'Trojan Horse' plot 'allowed students to speak
positively about 7/7 and 9/11 terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: SOPHIE JANE EVANS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1050 words



     ·    Park View School allegedly let students speak 'positively' about
          terrorism
     ·    Reportedly failed to challenge pupil's opinions about 7/7 and 9/11
          attacks
     ·    Also apparently advised staff not to bring soldiers into school for
          visits
     ·    Claims made by ex-employees, according to British Humanist Association
     ·    Many have been denied by the maths and science academy in Alum Rock
     ·    Comes days after 18 schools at centre of alleged plot were named in
          list
     ·    Institutions include Gracelands Nursey School and Golden Hillock
          School
     ·    Among 25 schools under investigation by Ofsted over 'Trojan Horse'
          plot


A Birmingham school at the heart of an alleged Islamist plot to take over state
institutions allowed students to express 'positive views' about terrorism, it
has been claimed.

Park View School in Alum Rock, which is under investigation over the 'Trojan
Horse' plot, allegedly failed to challenge children's opinions about the 7/7 and
9/11 atrocities due to 'cultural sensitivity'.

It also reportedly advised staff not to bring soldiers into the school for
visits, while one employee allegedly spoke of wanting an 'Islamic state',
according to the British Humanist Association.

The allegations were made by 'several' of the maths and science academy's former
employees, who have only recently chosen to make them public, said the
Association.

Other claims against the school include:


     ·    Creationism and intelligent design were taught by at least one science
          teacher.
     ·    Worksheets handed to Year 11 male students said that a woman must obey
          her husband.
     ·    Sex education lessons contained the message that 'wives are not
          allowed to say no'.
     ·    The school held Islamic instead of Christian collective worship, with
          students segregated based on gender.
     ·    Some male teachers expected boys to be sat at the front of the class
          and girls at the back - and ignored female students when they wanted
          to answer a question.
     ·    A teacher told pupils that females belonged in the kitchen and another
          agreed when a pupil commented 'women should not be allowed to drive'.
     ·    Some girls were forced to wear a headscarf and female members of staff
          and pupils were treated as inferior by male Muslim staff.
     ·    Girls were not allowed to take part in PE or sport activities with
          boys because it made male Muslims 'feel uncomfortable'.


The Association, a charity promoting a secular state and equal treatment
regardless of religion, said some of the allegations dated back to 2011.

However, the whistleblower who made contact at the time decided not to press for
action, it said.

Former Park View employees subsequently contacted the charity in January this
year - resulting in contact with the original complainant.

The Association said the findings of its own investigation into the school's RE
teachings were passed to the Department for Education and Ofsted on January 31.

Park View Education Trust, which runs the school in Alum Rock, has defended the
institution, saying its curriculum 'makes clear that the basis of all sexual
relationships is informed consent'.

It added that claims that male pupils were informed via a worksheet that wives
had to give sex to their husbands were 'categorically untrue', while the school
has not yet received any complaints in relation to the Creationism acccusations.

The trust has not yet commented specifically on allegations that it failed to
challenge some children's opinions about terrorism.

Pavan Dhaliwal, the Association's Head of Public Affairs, said: 'It is vital
that all our state schools teach a broad and balanced curriculum, actively
contribute to community cohesion and foster an environment inclusive of every
child, parent and member of staff, regardless of their religious or
non-religious beliefs.'

Three separate investigations are currently under way over claims that hardline
Islamists are seizing control of government bodies, segregating male and female
pupils and banning sex education.

One school is even being investigated over allegations that the al Qaeda-linked
Muslim preacher Anwar al-Awlaki, who died in a U.S. drone strike in Yemen in
2011, was praised in assembly.

The inquiries are being carried out by Ofsted, the Government and Birmingham
City Council.

On Wednesday, the names of 18 schools at the centre of the allegedly plot were
revealed in a list by the city council.

As well as Park View, they include Gracelands Nursery school in Sparkbrook and
Golden Hillock School in Sparkhill.

They also feature Adderley Primary School, Highfield Junior and Infant School,
Nansen Primary, Alston Primary School and Saltley School and Specialist Science
College, all in Saltley, Birmingham.

Earlier this week, Sir Albert Bore, council leader, said Ofsted was not
intending to publish its final inspection reports until 'the first or second
week of May'.

He added that he has not yet seen the draft version of the inspection reports,
which have been carried out at the request of Education Secretary Michael Gove.

The council's investigation is being headed by former headteacher Ian Kershaw,
who is sifting through about 200 concerns raised since the alleged 'Trojan
Horse' plot emerged.

Park View Education Trust said in a statement: 'Park View Academy has a clear
curriculum policy which governs the teaching of all subjects within the school.

'Our sex and relationships education (SRE) is taught in single sex groups and
makes clear that the basis of all sexual relationships is informed consent.

'After a lesson that took place around 2011 it became clear to the school that
boys had misunderstood a historical reference to do with cultural expectations
of sex within marriage.

'As soon as the school became aware that this was the case it took immediate
action and held a special assembly for Year 10 boys to make it clear that sex
without informed consent is rape.

'The allegation that boys were informed via a worksheet that wives have to give
sex to their husbands is categorically untrue. The teaching of Creationism in
Science is not school policy.

'Without having received any complaints in relation to the allegation that
Creationism has been taught it is very difficult for us to comment further.

'Had we received a complaint we would of course have investigated it fully.'

MailOnline has attempted to contact the school regarding allegations that it
allowed students to express 'positive' views about terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 27, 2014 Sunday 6:46 PM GMT

School at heart of alleged Muslim 'Trojan Horse' plot 'allowed students to speak
positively about 7/7 and 9/11 terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: SOPHIE JANE EVANS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 951 words



     ·    Park View School allegedly let students speak 'positively' about
          terrorism
     ·    Reportedly failed to challenge pupil's opinions about 7/7 and 9/11
          attacks
     ·    Also apparently advised staff not to bring soldiers into school for
          visits
     ·    Claims made by ex-employees, according to British Humanist Association
     ·    Most have been denied by the maths and science academy in Alum Rock
     ·    Comes days after 18 schools at centre of alleged plot were named in
          list
     ·    Institutions include Gracelands Nursey School and Golden Hillock
          School
     ·    Among 25 schools under investigation by Ofsted over 'Trojan Horse'
          plot


A Birmingham school at the heart of an alleged Islamist plot to take over state
institutions allowed students to express 'positive views' about terrorism, it
has been claimed.

Park View School in Alum Rock, which is under investigation over the 'Trojan
Horse' plot, allegedly failed to challenge children's opinions about the 7/7 and
9/11 atrocities due to 'cultural sensitivity'.

It also reportedly advised staff not to bring soldiers into the school for
visits, while one employee allegedly spoke of wanting an 'Islamic state',
according to the British Humanist Association.

The allegations were made by 'several' of the maths and science academy's former
employees, who have only recently chosen to make them public, said the
Association.

Other claims against the school include:


     ·    Creationism and intelligent design were taught by at least one science
          teacher.
     ·    Worksheets handed to Year 11 male students said that a woman must obey
          her husband.
     ·    Sex education lessons contained the message that 'wives are not
          allowed to say no'.
     ·    The school held Islamic instead of Christian collective worship, with
          students segregated based on gender.
     ·    Some male teachers expected boys to be sat at the front of the class
          and girls at the back - and ignored female students when they wanted
          to answer a question.
     ·    A teacher told pupils that females belonged in the kitchen and another
          agreed when a pupil commented 'women should not be allowed to drive'.
     ·    Some girls were forced to wear a headscarf and female members of staff
          and pupils were treated as inferior by male Muslim staff.
     ·    Girls were not allowed to take part in PE or sport activities with
          boys because it made male Muslims 'feel uncomfortable'.


The Association, a charity promoting a secular state and equal treatment
regardless of religion, said some of the allegations dated back to 2011.

However, the whistleblower who made contact at the time decided not to press for
action, it said.

Former Park View employees subsequently contacted the charity in January this
year - resulting in contact with the original complainant.

The Association said the findings of its own investigation into the school's RE
teachings were passed to the Department for Education and Ofsted on January 31.

However, most of the claims have been denied by Park View Education Trust, which
runs the school in Alum Rock.

Pavan Dhaliwal, the Association's Head of Public Affairs, said: 'It is vital
that all our state schools teach a broad and balanced curriculum, actively
contribute to community cohesion and foster an environment inclusive of every
child, parent and member of staff, regardless of their religious or
non-religious beliefs.'

Three separate investigations are currently under way over claims that hardline
Islamists are seizing control of government bodies, segregating male and female
pupils and banning sex education.

One school is even being investigated over allegations that the al Qaeda-linked
Muslim preacher Anwar al-Awlaki, who died in a U.S. drone strike in Yemen in
2011, was praised in assembly.

The inquiries are being carried out by Ofsted, the Government and Birmingham
City Council.

On Wednesday, the names of 18 schools at the centre of the allegedly plot were
revealed in a list by the city council.

As well as Park View, they include Gracelands Nursery school in Sparkbrook and
Golden Hillock School in Sparkhill.

They also feature Adderley Primary School, Highfield Junior and Infant School,
Nansen Primary, Alston Primary School and Saltley School and Specialist Science
College, all in Saltley, Birmingham.

Earlier this week, Sir Albert Bore, council leader, said Ofsted was not
intending to publish its final inspection reports until 'the first or second
week of May'.

He added that he has not yet seen the draft version of the inspection reports,
which have been carried out at the request of Education Secretary Michael Gove.

The council's investigation is being headed by former headteacher Ian Kershaw,
who is sifting through about 200 concerns raised since the alleged 'Trojan
Horse' plot emerged.

Park View Education Trust said in a statement: 'Park View Academy has a clear
curriculum policy which governs the teaching of all subjects within the school.

'Our sex and relationships education (SRE) is taught in single sex groups and
makes clear that the basis of all sexual relationships is informed consent.

'After a lesson that took place around 2011 it became clear to the school that
boys had misunderstood a historical reference to do with cultural expectations
of sex within marriage.

'As soon as the school became aware that this was the case it took immediate
action and held a special assembly for Year 10 boys to make it clear that sex
without informed consent is rape.

'The allegation that boys were informed via a worksheet that wives have to give
sex to their husbands is categorically untrue. The teaching of Creationism in
Science is not school policy.

'Without having received any complaints in relation to the allegation that
Creationism has been taught it is very difficult for us to comment further.

'Had we received a complaint we would of course have investigated it fully.'

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 28, 2014 Monday 9:33 AM GMT

Teenage mother, 19, set to give birth to her second child in prison for
attacking woman in reign of terror across town

BYLINE: MARK DUELL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 760 words



     ·    Natalie Harvey became a mother aged 16 and brought misery to Burnley
     ·    Campaign of abuse and intimidation against shoppers and council staff
     ·    Now she is 29 weeks pregnant by serial conman boyfriend Wayne Kinvig
     ·    20-year-old has already served jail terms for charity scams on the
          elderly
     ·    She already has 26 convictions and was hauled back to court last week
     ·    Launched 'shocking' attack on woman and admits witness intimidation
     ·    Bailing until June, judge says: 'You may still have your baby in HMP
          Styal'


A tearaway teenage mother could have to give birth to her second child in jail
after behaving like a 'caged animal' during a reign of terror.

Natalie Harvey, 19, became a mother aged 16 and brought misery to her hometown
of Burnley, Lancashire, with a campaign of abuse and intimidation against
shoppers and council staff.

She already had 26 convictions - several for violence - and was issued with an
Asbo banning her from her regular haunts in the town, including a shopping
centre and a public library.

Now Harvey is 29 weeks pregnant by her serial conman boyfriend Wayne Kinvig, 20,
who has already served jail terms for charity scams after getting cash out of
elderly victims by claiming he was collecting for a sick little brother.

Last Friday, Harvey was hauled back to court after launched a 'shocking' attack
on a woman in a busy McDonald's restaurant.

A judge adjourned her case for reports but warned her she faced giving birth
behind bars at HMP Styal, a women's prison in Cheshire.

She received an interim Asbo in November last year after police said she was
'out of control' and regularly causing trouble across Burnley.

She was due to face a full Asbo hearing which would have heard the full extent
of her offending.

But four days later she got a supervision order for assaulting a woman called
Ann-Marie Gornall and resisting a police officer. She was also arrested on
suspicion of kidnapping and a sexual offence.

The latest offence in McDonald's occurred when Harvey spotted Miss Gornall and
told her: 'You're going to get stabbed up - why have you got me done? You are
going to get me sent down for this.'

When Miss Gornall tried to leave, Harvey grabbed her, pulled her to the floor
and kicked her. Burnley Crown Court heard how one horrified diner shouted to
Harvey: 'This is a public place.'

He told police the assault was completely unprovoked, malicious and quite
shocking. Staff and customers went to assist Miss Gornall, who did not suffer
any visible injuries.

Harvey, who made no comment when questioned by police, admitted witness
intimidation.

In mitigation, her barrister Tim Brennand said his client was recently robbed of
£2,000 at knifepoint, and added that Harvey was a 'product of the care system'.

'She behaved almost like a caged animal. Although she didn't know it, she was
crying out for help and attention'

Tim Brennand, defending

She was fostered and placed into care at the age of three, had been moved from
institution to institution and became a mother at the age of 16. She had also
recently discovered her biological father had been murdered.

'There had been issues in relation to substance abuse, no stability, no job, no
parental figure and no control,' said Mr Brennand.

'When I first met her, she had poor eye contact, was rebellious, had clear
disregard for her social worker and seemed to resent and resist efforts being
made to help and assist her.

'She behaved almost like a caged animal. Although she didn't know it, she was
crying out for help and attention. She has exasperated just about everyone who
has offered her help.

'The citizens of Burnley are heartily weary of her but she is equally heartily
weary of Burnley. She doesn't want to give birth in Styal. She shows the first
glimmerings of maturing.

'You may still go to Styal. You may still have your baby in Styal'

Judge Simon Newell

'This year, she is offence-free. That is a small landmark, given her record. She
is really trying to put her life in some semblance of order.'

Judge Simon Newell gave Harvey bail until June, but told her: 'You may still go
to Styal. You may still have your baby in Styal.'

Police have said locals have not made any complaints about Harvey since she was
issued with her Asbo which bans her from using abusive or threatening behaviour,
or hand gestures.

Burnley Council is also seeking a closure order on her flat, to stop anyone
entering or living there.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 29, 2014 Tuesday

Several killed in terrorist attack in Syria's Al-Abbasiyah region

LENGTH: 62 words


Damascus Syrian Satellite Channel Television in Arabic at 1047 GMT on 29 April
carries the following screen caption:

"News correspondent in Homs: A terrorist attack using a boobytrapped car
followed by a rocket occurred on Al-Abbasiyah roundabout, causing several deaths
and injuries among citizens."

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 0000 gmt 29 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 29, 2014 Tuesday

Syrian cabinet denounces terrorist attacks on civilians

LENGTH: 361 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

During its weekly session held on Tuesday [29 April] and chaired by Prime
Minister Dr Wael al-Halqi, the Cabinet saluted the Syrian working class on
occasion of Labour Day, stressing that the working class played a vital role in
creating economic, social and development changes in Syria and strengthening the
state's capabilities.

Premier al-Halqi said that the working class performed admirably during the
crisis, confronting the economic war against Syria and strengthening national
economy with its determination to keep working and giving.

The Cabinet also denounced the heinous terrorist attacks on civilians,
particularly today's mortar attack on Badr-Eddin al-Hossni Institute for Islamic
Sharia Sciences and the schools area in al-Shaghour neighbourhood in Damascus,
and the two terrorist bombings which targeted civilians in al-Abbasiye
roundabout in Homs city.

Al-Halqi asserted that the government has provided all that is necessary to
ensure that the electoral process will proceed smoothly so that citizens will be
able to practice their right to vote fairly and transparently.

The Prime Minister then reviewed the Cabinet's work during the past week,
including his visits to Lattakia and Tartous province, saying that the
government's plan for this stage is to develop all sectors, particularly the
industrial sector, calling on the Industry Ministry to prepare a study on
establishing a new cement factory and deal with issues affecting existing cement
factories, in addition to taking steps to rellaunch work on the stalled steel
factory in Hama.

Deputy Prime Minister for Services Affairs, Minister of Local Administration
Omar Ghalawanji, reviewed the state of the services and utilities sector and the
damages caused to it due to terrorist attacks during the past week, specifically
damage to the electricity and power sector.

The Cabinet also discussed a number of issues and proposals to improve the work
of various sectors, provide citizens' needs, and control the prices of goods and
ensure their availability.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 29 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      April 30, 2014 Wednesday 7:35 PM GMT

BREAKING: Three people killed and dozens wounded after 'terror' attack in China

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 105 words


AT LEAST three people have been killed and another 70 injured after a suspected
terrorist attack at a train station in western China.

According to reports armed people attacked commuters at the Urumqi station with
knives while explosions went off at the same time.

Chinese President Xi Jinping has promised "decisive actions" against
"terrorists" in Xinjiang region.

He told official news agency Xinhua: "The battle to combat violence and
terrorism will not allow even a moment of slackness, and decisive actions must
be taken to resolutely suppress the terrorists' rampant momentum."

MORE FOLLOWS

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      April 30, 2014 Wednesday 7:35 PM GMT

Three people killed and dozens wounded after terror attack in China

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 258 words


AT LEAST three people have been killed and another 70 injured after a suspected
terrorist attack at a train station in western China.

According to reports armed people attacked commuters at the Urumqi station with
knives while explosions went off at the same time.

Chinese President Xi Jinping has promised "decisive actions" against
"terrorists" in Xinjiang region.

He told official news agency Xinhua: "The battle to combat violence and
terrorism will not allow even a moment of slackness, and decisive actions must
be taken to resolutely suppress the terrorists' rampant momentum."

Train services were suspended for about two hours before they reopened under the
watch of armed police, the official Xinhua News Agency said.

A woman working at a convenience store near the train station said she heard a
loud explosion shortly after 7 p.m.

"The whole area now has been cordoned off by police and military police," said
the woman.

Photos circulating briefly on Chinese social media sites showed scattered
luggage near the station's exit and a heavy presence of armed men.

Xinhua said the blast was centered on some luggage left on the ground between
the station's exit and a bus stop.

Ethnic tensions have been simmering for years in Xinjiang, the home of the
Muslim Uighur minority group.

In 2009, a series of riots broke out in Urumqi, leaving nearly 200 people dead,
according to official figures.

Despite a heavy crackdown, violence has continued in the region and began
spreading elsewhere in the country last year.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 1, 2014 Thursday

Security expert tells vernacular radio Kenya's laws to blame for terror attacks

LENGTH: 1574 words


Privately-owned Kenyan vernacular radio station Kameme FM broadcasting in Kikuyu
language to an audience in Nairobi, its environs and diaspora on 23 April 2014
engaged Tutah Richard, security expert and consultant on homeland security and
counter terrorism trained in Israel, in an interview held at its talk studios to
discuss on security matters focusing on terror activities in the country.

The interview was held during the stations breakfast show Arahuka (wake up )
hosted by presenter Njogu Njoroge between 0829 and 0900 local time. Interview
was conducted in Kikuyu language. The following is a selection of comments from
the show .

(Njogu) In studio we have Tutah Richard, a security expert trained in Israel on
homeland security and counter terrorism. Welcome to our studios.

(Tutah) Thank you and I would like to send my greetings to all our listeners.

(Njogu) When one speaks about homeland security and counter terrorism what are
they referring to?

(Tutah) Most of the times people hear about the country's security. When you
speak about homeland security you are referring to not just terror attacks, or
criminal activities. Homeland security also includes disasters that may occur
and food security, but basically it is matters security.

(Njogu) On the issue of terrorism, why is it that some particular countries have
always been targeted for instance a country like the United States of America.
Kenya has now joined the list. We cannot go a day without mentioning terrorism?

(Tutah) It is important that we look at how terrorism began. In Islam there are
various schools of thought. There are those who believe that there are two
worlds, Dar es Salaam and Dal hab. In the Dal hab it is where the people engage
in criminal acts. There are those in Islam who believe that they can, like
Christians, change people by building schools and hospital for instance the
Muslim brothers in Egypt. There are those who do not believe that they can
slowly change people. They believe that they have to attack people. In 1986 we
had someone by the name Bin Baz and Dr Abdallah Zam, both in Saudi Arabia. Bin
Baz said that all Muslim countries across the world were under attack, by the
Israelis and by Christians, and they had to be stopped. Dr Abdallah Zam, who
recruited Usamah Bin-Ladin to terrorism said that we need not change the people
slowly and it is during his time that jihad or the holy war was born. This saw
the emergence of jihadists, people who believe that Americans and Israelis are
their main target in attacks, not forgetting those who support them.

(Njogu) Many are the times Islam has been linked to terror attacks. It is not
all members of the Muslim community who are engaged in these attacks. How can
you distinguish these terrorists and Islam so that people can desist from
lamenting that Muslims are attacking us and Islam is linked to terrorist
activities?

(Tutah) The difference is in the three groups, those who embrace dawa, that is
transform people by building schools and hospitals just like the Christian
churches do, for instance the PCEA and the Catholic churches. There is the other
group in Islam that believes that by engaging in politics they will hold senior
positions in government and will be in a position to implement their policies.
There is now the third group which is the jihadists and these are our biggest
problem because they attack people in what they refer to as jihad (holy war) all
in an effort to transform the people to embracing Islam and impose the shari'ah
law on them. Not all Muslims are bad. Our enemies are the jihadists.

(Njogu) How did Kenya find itself in this jihad war in such an intense manner.
In fact we are now being attacked more than America ?(laughs)

(Tutah) Njogu, if you are to ask many people they will tell you let us re-deploy
our soldiers from Somalia because the Al-Shabab has been saying that we are
paying the heavy price for sending our soldiers there to attack them. People
forget that even before we sent our soldiers there we were still being attacked.
Why? Because the jihadists believe that if they attack us we will give in to
their wish and embrace Islam and shari'ah law. Let us not cheat ourselves that
we are being attacked because we are supporting America or because we went into
Somalia. We are being attacked because the jihadists want to create what is
referred to as Umah (to transform Kenya to a Muslim nation).

(Njogu) What should our government do because this is a war it has taken up on.
Tourism and investment need to be protected. We are using a lot of funds in the
fight against terror. Where do you think the government failed in this war? What
can we do to ensure that Kenya is secure from these terrorists?

(Tutah) Criminals or terror gangsters are like businessmen. They strategize for
their business. These terrorists ask themselves what they stand to gain before
they launch an attack. They ask themselves the probability of being arrested and
what would happen after they are arrested. As a country where we lost it is when
the terrorists began to attack us are arrested and set free or on bail . the
terrorists have learnt that it is easy to attack us than attack Uganda or
Ethiopia.

(Njogu) What do we need to do? Do we need more reforms in our judiciary should
we amend Chapter 4 of our constitution that addresses the bill of rights ?

(Tutah) Kenyans need to ask themselves this one question. Do they value Chapter
4 or their own security? We cannot lay the blame on our judicial system because
it is governed by the law. The laws we passed in the new constitution are the
main problem. According to what the terrorists know that it is easier to attack
Kenya than Ethiopia and Uganda. Ask yourself this Njogu, both Ethiopia and
Uganda have their soldiers in Somalia. How come they are never attacked? As
Kenya we value human rights more. That is why terrorists have found it easier to
open and operate shop here. Should we fail to amend our laws here so that the
notion that it is easier for the terrorists to operate here can change we will
continue being attacked.

(Njogu) You are a security expert. Are the bombs assembled in Somalia or how do
the explosives used to assemble the bombs and grenades transit for close to a
thousand kilometres and find their way to Nairobi?

(Tutah) The biggest blunder the government makes is that for instance a bomb is
transported let us say from Isiolo to Nairobi they deal with it once it is
recovered in Nairobi without asking themselves how it found its way here. And
along all the roads it passed through were there security checks? It also
happens when the illegal immigrants are arrested. No one bothers with the
security officers who gave them a pass to come and settle in Kenya.

(Njogu) Let us consult here. Tutah needs to help prevent these bombs and
explosives from being brought into our country.

(Tutah) There is what we refer to as deterrence. People have reached a point of
undermining the police that they cannot use the firearms they have. Terrorists
know that the police do not use these firearms. We need to recharge this
deterrence and we have done so with the police swoops and so far we have not
witnessed any attacks.

(Njogu) Mombasa County Commissioner Nelson Marwa did issue a shoot to kill
order. Kimaiyo came in and countered this but when he met with security officers
he supported the order. Now what with the contradicting statements?

(Tutah) Nelson Marwa is doing a very commendable job along the coast. We go back
to the issue we have just discussed on deterrence. These terrorists need to know
we have a government in place. Why should we arm our policemen yet we deter them
from using them when necessary and more so when dealing with these terror
suspects. We need to free our police from these shackles. We need to review our
security policies.

(Njogu) What about our National Intelligence Service (NIS)? Many are the times
they have been put on the spot following terror incidents.

(Tutah) If there are people I sympathize with is the National Intelligence
Service. Because even with all the accusations levelled against it, it is not in
a position to come out and counter them. It is time it is empowered to act and
arrest just like in other countries. Remember it is only Kenya where the NIS is
not empowered yet we are a democracy like other countries.

(Njogu) Final question Tutah. Civil societies and matters security?

(Tutah) On civil societies. First and foremost putting into the account the
challenges our police officers face when they act they are blamed just like when
they fail to act. Civil societies will remain as they are and their main role
has always been to make noise and should be left to do so. There is one thing we
were taught while I was in Israel. The Israelis say, and allow me to say it in
English, that it does not matter what the gentiles are saying, what matters is
what the Jews are doing. If I were the police boss today I would tell the police
that all those noises that are being made, those are gentiles. What matters is
what the police are doing because the civil societies do not see anything being
done right. You know Njogu, some of these civil societies even serve the
interests of the terrorists themselves. They are the public relations (PR) wing
of the terrorist organizations and should one decide to listen to their protests
our country will not develop.

(Njogu) Thank you.

Source: Kameme FM, Nairobi, in Kikuyu 0529 gmt 23 Apr 14

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                              May 1, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SON TELLS OF DAD'S GAS SIEGE HORROR;
Movie looks at impact of terror attack on family

BYLINE: JOHN SIDDLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 434 words


A MERSEYSIDE student whose dad who survived the Algeria gas plant terrorist
attack has made a moving film exploring the lasting impact of the horrific siege
on his family.

Kirkby engineer David Murray, 48, was among 800 people held hostage by Islamic
militants during the attack on the In Amenas gas facility in January last year.

Thirty-nine hostages were slaughtered during the bloody siege including
Liverpool men Paul Morgan, 46, and Garry Barlow, 49.

Dad-of-two David and seven colleagues risked execution by daring to flee across
the Sahara desert after being holed up inside the compound for almost two days.

His son Jonathan, 20, a student filmmaker, is behind an emotional five-minute
video showing how the tragedy affected his dad a year on from the escape.

In the film, Jonathan tells of his dad's grief for the colleagues he lost,
including his close friend Mr Barlow.

He said: "He returned but something was missing.

"Along with post-traumatic stress, he lost many good friends - one of which was
Garry Barlow.

"Just over one year has passed since the attack. My dad has been pushing on
trying to get back to normal. He is angry, sad, hurt. The thing is I can't do
anything to help.

"This part of his life he will have to fight on his own. All I can give is
support."

Everton fan Mr Murray, who had spent time working in Algeria since 1998, hid
beneath a desk for hours before barricading himself in a cupboard when the
terrorists struck.

Jonathan interviewed his dad in the video about how he felt when he made it back
home to his two sons and wife, Anna.

In the video, Mr Murray said: "Everything was a dream, nothing was real.
Everything was just crazy - couldn''t sleep, couldn''t settle. I didn't know
where my friends where, didn''t know where I was."

David is asked about how often he thinks about the attack.

He replies: "Every day, every night when I go to sleep, every quiet moment, just
all the time - constantly.

"It is always there in the back of your mind. I don't think it will ever go
away. I've just got to deal with it, control it so when I do think I don''t get
upset."

The film shows Jonathan and his dad travel to the memorial arboretum in
Staffordshire, where a bench and a plaque was laid in memory of Allerton
dad-of-two Mr Barlow.

David says: "Garry was a good Blue. I know there''s no other type.

"On the day of the attack we were actually together because we were talking
about the football results the night before.

"Garry was a great bloke, he really was."

Jonathan, who is in his final year of a film and TV diploma course at Liverpool
Media Academy, wants to become a screenwriter.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RESCUED: David Murray fled the hostage situation with colleagues
ATTACKED: The In Amenas gas facility in Algeria

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2014 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 1, 2014 Thursday 2:48 PM GMT

Jay Carney fumbles on bombshell email showing how the White House steered
Benghazi terror-attack narrative toward an anti-Islam video

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, U.S. POLITICAL EDITOR and JESSICA JERREAT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1562 words



     ·    Ben Rhodes, the president's deputy national security adviser, wrote
          three days after the terror attack about coaching then-UN Ambassador
          Susan Rice for upcoming TV appearances
     ·    Rice falsely told five different Sunday talk-show audiences that the
          devastation in Benghazi was the result of anti-America protests that
          spiraled out of control
     ·    Demonstrations in other Middle East cities that week were reportedly
          sparked by a crude anti-Islam video, which Rice, Obama and Hillary
          Clinton all blamed for Benghazi
     ·    Rhodes' email said that a prep session with Rice would prepare her 'to
          underscore that these protests are rooted in an Internet video, and
          not a broader failure of policy'
     ·    Jay Carney insisted that Rhodes was writing generally about protests
          in the Muslim world, and that his email 'was explicitly not about
          Benghazi'
     ·    But the State Department included the same document in a batch of
          materials it released to a congressional committee on April 17,
          writing that it was 'responsive' to its subpoena for Benghazi-related
          files


White House Press Secretary Jay Carney endured a sustained grilling from
reporters on Wednesday as he struggled to explain an email showing the White
House's involvement in spinning a false account of why four Americans died in
Benghazi, Libya less than two months before the 2012 presidential election.

The email, written by Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes, described a
'prep call' with then-UN Ambassador Susan Rice which took place four days after
the September 11, 2012 terror attack, and less than a day before she was to be a
guest on five different Sunday morning political talk shows.

During the initial weeks after the attack, the White House and congressional
Democrats told the public that Muslim protesters, upset over a crude
American-produced YouTube video mocking Islam, demonstrated outside U.S.
diplomatic facilities in Benghazi before channeling their anger toward arson and
artillery.

Rhodes informed the West Wing communications team - including Carney - that one
'goal' of the Sept. 15, 2012 call would be to prepare Rice 'to ​underscore that
these protests are rooted in an Internet video, and not a broader failure or
policy.'

Scroll down for video

Carney insisted Wednesday during a White House press briefing that Rhodes' email
'was explicitly not about Benghazi. It was about the overall situation in the
region, the Muslim world, where you saw protests outside of embassy facilities
across the region, including in Cairo, Sana'a, Khartoum and Tunis.'

But Wednesday night the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform sent
MailOnline a cover letter showing that on April 17, the U.S. Department of State
provided committee staff with copies of a batch of documents in response to a
subpoena for Benghazi-related materials.

The Rhodes email was among them, although committee staff told MailOnline that
most of it was redacted, or blacked-out.

'As part of the Department's ongoing document production we are providing an
additional set of documents in connection with the Committee's investigation
into the attacks on the U.S. Special Mission in Benghazi,' State Department
Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs Julia Frifield wrote.

'This production consists of documents responsive to the Committee's subpoena of
August 1, 2013.'

The Rhodes email, declared 'classified' by the White House prior to the release
of related materials in May 2013, would likely have remained out of public view
but for a Freedom Of Information Act lawsuit filed against the State Department
by Judicial Watch, a center-right watchdog group.

Its later pages also specifically refer to Benghazi.

Rhodes wrote that Rice needed to be prepared to answer the question: 'What's
your response to the Independent story that says we have intelligence 48 hours
in advance of the Benghazi attack that was ignored?'

A scripted answer provided for the 'prep call' read: 'We are not aware of any
actionable intelligence indicating that an attack on the U.S. Mission in
Benghazi was planned or imminent. The currently available information suggests
that the demonstrations in Benghazi were spontaneously inspired by the protests
at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo.'

Utah Republican Rep. Jason Chaffetz told former CBS investigative reporter
Sharyl Attkisson  that the White House seems to have tried to keep the Rhodes
email out of public view by declaring it 'classified' out of convenience.

'They retroactively changed the classification,' Chaffetz said. 'That was an
unclassified document and they changed it to classified.'

Judicial Watch communications director mocked the White House press secretary on
Wednesday evening for downplaying the significance of the documents her group
surfaced.

'The Benghazi documents we released were produced by a LAWSUIT,' she emphasized
in a statement to MailOnline. 'That Carney would imply that the State Department
gave us some random document doesn't pass the giggle test.'

'Now we know the Obama White House's chief concern about the Benghazi attack was
making sure that President Obama looked good,' Judicial Watch president Tom
Fitton said Wednesday.

'And these documents undermine the Obama administration's narrative that it
thought the Benghazi attack had something to do with protests or an Internet
video. Given the explosive material in these documents, it is no surprise that
we had to go to federal court to pry them loose from the Obama State
Department.'

Republican National Committee chair Reince Priebus mocked the Obama
administration for what now appears a ham-fisted attempt to keep sensational
details about its response to a deadly terror attack out of public view.

'If the White House felt this talking points memo was classified, what else
don't we know about Benghazi and is all of this stonewalling just to protect
Hillary?' he jabbed.

President Obama stood for re-election eight weeks to the day after the Benghazi
attack, and ultimately shifted gears to emphasize that the attack was
premeditated, highly organized, ruthless and coordinated by al-Qaeda-affiliated
Islamist militants.

The question of who inserted the video, titled 'Innocence of Muslims,' into his
administration's official narrative about the murderous chaos that ensued has
been a political football since Rice told those five TV audiences that it was
the lit match that set off a deadly powder keg.

'Based on the best information we have to date,' she told CBS's 'Face the
Nation' in one example, 'what our assessment is as of the present is in fact
what began spontaneously in Benghazi as a reaction to what had transpired some
hours earlier in Cairo where, of course, as you know, there was a violent
protest outside of our embassy - sparked by this hateful video.'

South Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham told reporters Wednesday that the
emails Judicial Watch released 'show that Benghazi, in the eyes of the White
House, was a political problem for re-election and they approached it from that
point of view.'

The email setting Rice's talk-show agenda, he added, 'clearly shows that Ben
Rhodes was trying to be a political operative rather than a national security
spokesman.'

On TV that Sunday, Rice was working from a series of talking points that
Democrats in Congress had requested for their own use in media interviews. That
document's initial draft, prepared by the CIA, declared that 'we do know that
Islamic extremists with ties to al-Qaeda participated in the attack.'

By the time the talking points filtered down to Rice, however, that notice was
gone - along with other declarations about terror threats in Benghazi during the
previous months, including some from an al-Qaeda-affiliated group called Ansar
al-Shariah.

Many of those edits, it emerged later, were made at the State Department, with
then-spokeswoman Victoria Nuland objecting just days after the attacks in an
email that the administration shouldn't name specific terror groups because 'we
don't want to prejudice the investigation.'

Carney assured reporters in November 2012 that 'the White House and the State
Department have made clear that the single adjustment that was made to those
talking points by either of those two institutions were changing the word
"consulate" to "diplomatic facility" because "consulate" was inaccurate.'

Sen. Graham told Attkisson that 'the political shop at the White House took over
early on. They understood it was a terrorist attack, that they had a political
problem, and were going to handle it politically.'

'They weren't going to entertain anything other than what they wanted the public
to hear.'

Graham co-signed a letter Monday with fellow Republicans Kelly Ayotte of New
Hampshire and John McCain of Arizona, asking the House Foreign Affairs and
Senate Foreign Relations committees to force Obama administration figures to
explain whether State Department or White House personnel were involved in
briefing Rice.

They referred former deputy CIA director Michael Morell, who testified this year
that Rice linked the YouTube video to the attacks despite the CIA never making
that connection in its analysis.

'How could former Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice, during the five
Sunday talk shows on September 16, 2012, claim that the attacks on our compounds
were caused by a hateful video,' the senators wrote, 'when Mr. Morell testified
that the CIA never mentioned the video as a causal factor?'

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 1, 2014 Thursday 12:20 PM GMT

China's President vows 'decisive action' against terror attacks after three
people are killed and 79 injured in knife and bomb attack

BYLINE: JULIAN ROBINSON and JAMES RUSH

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 695 words



     ·    Attackers slashed civilians with knives and set off explosives at
          Urumqi station
     ·    Three dead and 79 injured in attacks in far west region of China
     ·    Came on day that President Xi Jinping ended visit to Xinjiang district
     ·    He has promised 'decisive actions' following blast at train station
     ·    Comes weeks after 29 killed in stabbing spree at Kunming in Yunnan
          province


The president of China has demanded 'decisive actions' against terrorism after
three people were killed and 79 injured in a bomb and knife attack at a railway
station.

Unidentified assailants used explosives and knives during the attack at the
station in Xinjiang's capital Urumqi.

State media called the incident in the far-western region a premeditated
terrorist attack.

The violence came as President Xi Jinping wrapped up a four-day visit to the
area that has witnessed rising violence against civilians and authorities blamed
on radical Islamists and separatists.

'The battle to combat violence and terrorism will not allow even a moment of
slackness, and decisive actions must be taken to resolutely suppress the
terrorists' rampant momentum,' Mr Xi said.

The official Xinhua News Agency quoted eyewitnesses as saying at least two
blasts went off at the South Station, while a large group of attackers went
after passengers.

There was no immediate word on arrests and it was unclear whether Mr Xi was
still in the region at the time of the attack.

'At the moment, it is acknowledged to be a terrorist attack. What is yet to be
found out is who did this and for what purpose under whose instigation,' Xinhua
said.

Train service was suspended for about two hours, Xinhua said, and security was
tightened at all transport hubs in the city, which has a mainly Han Chinese
population who are distinct from Xinjiang's native Turkic Muslim Uighur ethnic
group.

A woman working at a convenience store near the train station said she heard a
loud explosion shortly after 7pm local time yesterday.

'The whole area now has been cordoned off by police and military police,' she
said, refusing to give her name.

Photos circulating briefly on Chinese social media sites showed scattered
luggage near the station's exit and a heavy presence of armed men.

Xinhua said the blast was centred on some luggage left on the ground between the
station's exit and a bus stop.

Tensions between Chinese and Uighurs have been simmering for years in Xinjiang,
particularly since 2009 rioting in Urumqi left nearly 200 people dead.

Beijing has at times blamed the violence on overseas-based instigators, but has
offered little evidence.

Last year, three Uighurs rammed a vehicle into crowds in a suicide attack near
the Forbidden City gate in the heart of Beijing, killing themselves and two
tourists.

In March, five knife-wielding men and women believed to be Uighurs slashed at
crowds indiscriminately at a railway station in south-western China, killing 29
people.

While Beijing faults separatists for raising ethnic tensions, government critics
say restrictive and discriminatory policies and practices have alienated the
Uighurs.

They say Han people have flooded Xinjiang and benefited from its economic growth
while Uighurs have felt excluded.

China has smothered Xinjiang with additional security and imposed additional
restrictions on Uighur travel rights, culture and religious practices. That, say
Uighur activists, is exacerbating the resentments driving the violence.

'The Urumqi explosion again proves that forceful repression is not a solution to
the problem,' said Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress based
in Germany.

During his visit to the region, Mr Xi urged government officials to maintain
social stability, promote growth, improve living standards and strengthen ethnic
unity, according to state media reports.

'Local police stations are the fists and the daggers. We must work hard at the
grass-roots level of the police stations,' he said.

'We must take care of our front-line offices. You need to protect yourselves and
make achievements at tasks such as better serving the people in the future and
safeguarding social stability.'

Mr Xi said China would deploy a 'strike-first strategy' in its fight against
terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 1, 2014 Thursday 5:19 AM GMT

China vows to halt terrorists' 'rampant momentum' after attack kills three;
Xi Jinping, the Chinese president, orders 'decisive actions' against militant
groups after assailants kill three people during an attack on a railway station
in China's far west

BYLINE: By Tom Phillips in Shanghai

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 535 words


The Chinese president has vowed to crush terrorist activity in the country's
west after at least three people were killed and 79 injured when extremists
armed with explosives and knives attacked a train station in the capital of the
restive province of Xinjiang.

The attack - which came as president Xi Jinping wrapped up a four-day tour of
the troubled region - took place at around 7.10pm on Wednesday, state media
reported.

State media said "knife-wielding mobs" launched the evening assault on Urumqi's
South Railway Station. Witnesses reported hearing two detonations.

Just hours earlier president Xi had toured a local mosque. It was unclear if he
had still been in Xinjiang's capital at the time of the incident.

"The explosion was so powerful that I thought it was an earthquake," a local
hotel worker told Xinhua, China's official news agency.

"I've never expected such a thing could happen to me. If this was deliberate, I
can't understand why they hurt innocent people?" said Zhang Bin, who was injured
while picking friends up from the station in Urumqi, which is nearly 2,000 miles
west of Beijing.

The attack came less than two months after 33 people were killed in a similar
attack on a Chinese train station in the southwestern city of Kunming. That
incident was dubbed "China's 9/11" by state media.

On Wednesday night, president Xi called for "decisive actions against violent
terrorist attacks".

"The battle to combat violence and terrorism will not allow even a moment of
slackness, and decisive actions must be taken to resolutely suppress the
terrorists' rampant momentum," he was quoted as saying by Xinhua.

In a ferociously worded editorial the state news agency labelled the attack "a
crime against humanity". "What is yet to find out is who did this for what
purpose under whose instigation," it added.

The explosion came as Xi Jinping concluded his first presidential visit to
Xinjiang, a trip designed to promote Beijing's war on terrorism.

On the eve of the trip, Xi told senior leaders: "[We must] make terrorists
become like rats scurrying across a street, with everybody shouting 'beat
them!'".

Xinjiang has witnessed repeated outbreaks of bloodshed in recent years including
inter-ethnic rioting in July 2009 that left more than 150 dead.

Government critics say repressive policies towards Xinjiang's native Uighur
population, a largely Muslim, Turkic-speaking people, have contributed to the
surge in violence. Beijing meanwhile blames the bloodshed on Islamic extremists
and separatists.

Tensions between China's Uighur and Han Chinese communities have been running
especially high in the wake of two recent attacks. In March masked attackers
hacked 29 people to death in a train station in Kunming. Last October a car
slammed into tourists in Beijing's Tiananmen Square and caught fire killing
five. Beijing blamed both attacks Islamic extremists from Xinjiang. Dilxat
Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress exile group, said he feared
Wednesday's incident would pave the way for even more severe repression. "It's
extremely worrying. No matter what happens, China first of all represses the
Uighurs, leading to many innocent Uighurs being locked up," he told Reuters.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 1, 2014 Thursday 4:00 AM GMT

China vows to halt terrorists' 'rampant momentum' after attack kills three;
Xi Jinping, the Chinese president, orders 'decisive actions' against militant
groups after assailants kill three people during an attack on a railway station
in China's far west

BYLINE: By Tom Phillips in Shanghai

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 553 words


The Chinese presidet has vowed to crush terrorist activity in the country's west
after at least three people were killed and 79 injured when extremists armed
with explosives and knives attacked a train station in the capital of the
restive province of Xinjiang.

The attack - which came as president Xi Jinping wrapped up a four-day tour of
the troubled region - took place at around 7.10pm on Wednesday, state media
reported.

State media said "knife-wielding mobs" launched the evening assault on Urumqi's
South Railway Station. Witnesses reported hearing two detonations.

Just hours earlier president Xi had toured a local mosque. It was unclear if he
had still been in Xinjiang's capital at the time of the incident.

"The explosion was so powerful that I thought it was an earthquake," a local
hotel worker told Xinhua, China's official news agency.

"I've never expected such a thing could happen to me. If this was deliberate, I
can't understand why they hurt innocent people?" said Zhang Bin, who was injured
while picking friends up from the station in Urumqi, which is nearly 2,000 miles
west of Beijing.

The attack came less than two months after 33 people were killed in a similar
attack on a Chinese train station in the southwestern city of Kunming. That
incident was dubbed "China's 9/11" by state media.

On Wednesday night, president Xi called for "decisive actions against violent
terrorist attacks".

"The battle to combat violence and terrorism will not allow even a moment of
slackness, and decisive actions must be taken to resolutely suppress the
terrorists' rampant momentum," he was quoted as saying by Xinhua.

In a ferociously worded editorial the state news agency labelled the attack "a
crime against humanity". "What is yet to find out is who did this for what
purpose under whose instigation," it added.

The explosion came as Xi Jinping concluded his first presidential visit to
Xinjiang, a trip designed to promote Beijing's war on terrorism.

On the eve of the trip, Xi told senior leaders: "[We must] make terrorists
become like rats scurrying across a street, with everybody shouting 'beat
them!'".

Xinjiang has witnessed repeated outbreaks of bloodshed in recent years including
inter-ethnic rioting in July 2009 that left more than 150 dead.

[
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/5754804/China-riots-death-t
oll-from-Xinjiang-unrest-rises.html ] Government critics say repressive policies
towards Xinjiang's native Uighur population, a largely Muslim, Turkic-speaking
people, have contributed to the surge in violence. Beijing meanwhile blames the
bloodshed on Islamic extremists and separatists.

Tensions between China's Uighur and Han Chinese communities have been running
especially high in the wake of two recent attacks. In March masked attackers
hacked 29 people to death in a train station in Kunming. Last October a car
slammed into tourists in Beijing's Tiananmen Square and caught fire killing
five. Beijing blamed both attacks Islamic extremists from Xinjiang. Dilxat
Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uyghur Congress exile group, said he feared
Wednesday's incident would pave the way for even more severe repression. "It's
extremely worrying. No matter what happens, China first of all represses the
Uighurs, leading to many innocent Uighurs being locked up," he told Reuters.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 2, 2014 Friday

Afghan government questions US for not attacking terrorist bases in Pakistan

LENGTH: 432 words


Text of report by Afghan Channel One (1TV) on 1 May

[Presenter] The Afghan Taleban, Haqqani network and Al-Qa'idah fighters have
sanctuaries in Pakistan. The 2013 annual report by the US Department of State
shows that most terrorist attacks carried out in Afghanistan were drawn up and
masterminded in Pakistan and says that Kabul has been seriously fighting
terrorists, but Islamabad has never taken any practical actions in this war.
Hasib Mowdudi has more details.

[Correspondent] Islamabad is an ally of Washington, but it has been pursuing
double-standard policies. For instance, Kabul has been making efforts to
dismantle terrorist nests, but Islamabad has not taken any actions against
terrorist groups. The annual report of the US department of State emphasizes
that most terrorist groups have sanctuaries in Pakistan and they have been
fighting the Afghan and foreign forces in Afghanistan.

[Passage omitted, part of USDS report]

[Correspondent] This report was sent to the US Congress the other day. It
discloses that most terrorist attacks in Afghanistan stem from Pakistan, but as
usual Islamabad is denying its link with terrorists.

[Passage omitted; archive footage of Pakistani prime minister talking to his
British counterpart]

[Correspondent] However, the USDS report shows that in addition to Al-Qa'idah's
attacks, the Taleban's and Haqqani network's attacks are also masterminded in
Pakistan.

[Gen Zaher Azimi, spokesman for National Defence Ministry, captioned, talking to
camera] It is a matter of concern. The report by the US Department of Statement
says all terrorist centres, bases and sources of finance, drawing up programmes
for and equipping terrorists are in Pakistan. Now, the question is this when all
these centres are in Pakistan, why is not the international community,
particularly the USA, taking any actions against these terrorist centres.

[Correspondent] Now, the Afghan people are relying on the domestic forces who
seriously fought terrorists in 2013. They will have to take over the
responsibility of ensuring security across the country until the end of this
year. Washington, the biggest ally of Kabul, is praising the Afghan forces for
their performance.

[Video shows the Afghan Defence Ministry's spokesman talking to camera, text of
the USDS report, archive footage of spokeswoman of the US Department of State
speaking at a news conference, American Congressmen attending a session, Afghan
forces fighting, Taleban insurgents, Pakistani prime minister talking to the
British prime minister]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1315gmt 01 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                               May 2, 2014 Friday

UK strongly condemns terror attack in Xinjiang

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 61 words


A senior UK diplomat Thursday strongly condemned Wednesday's terrorist attack in
a railway station in Urumqi, Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region.

"UK strongly condemns the terrorist attack yesterday in Xinjiang. Thoughts and
condolences for victims and their families, " Hugo Swire, Minister of State at
the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, wrote in his twitter entry.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 2, 2014 Friday 6:12 PM GMT

Republicans subpoena John Kerry and Boehner launches new investigative committee
into Benghazi as shocking new documents emerge showing State Dept. knew
immediately it was a terror attack

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, U.S. POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1069 words



     ·    House Oversight Committee demands to hear from Secretary of State
          Kerry about why Benghazi emails were kept from Congress and the public
     ·    House Speaker John Boehner has green-lighted a special investigative
          committee that will have broad powers
     ·    President Obama and then-Secretary of State Clinton insisted the
          Benghazi attack was a protest gone wrong, but the State Dept. knew
          otherwise
     ·    An al-Qaeda-linked militant group was responsible, Assistant Secretary
          of State Beth Jones wrote the agency's senior staff hours after the
          attack
     ·    Jones' email said she told Libya's ambassador 'the group that
          conducted the attacks - Ansar Al Sharia - is affiliated with Islamic
          extremists'
     ·    Obama was busily campaigning for re-election on the promise that the
          terror group was 'on the run'
     ·    'At this point, they're lying about their lies,' says the Republican
          National Committee chairman


Angry congressional Republicans have commanded Secretary John Kerry to testify
in a May 21 hearing about why the State Department hid documents showing how the
aftermath of the deadly 2012 terror attack in Benghazi unfolded.

They are also launching a new investigative committee to dig further into the
scandal, which erupted just weeks before President Obama's re-election. He
insisted at the time that al-Qaeda was 'on the run,' but documents now confirm
that the State Department knew immediately that it was a terror attack carried
out by an al-Qaeda-affiliated group.

Two emails have emerged in the past 24 hours that suggest Obama administration
officials knew immediately that the group, Ansar al-Shariah, laid waste to U.S.
diplomatic facilities in the Eastern Libyan city.

But the president, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, then-UN Ambassador
Susan Rice and other officials told the public that the deadly attack was the
result of a spontaneous anti-America protest sparked by an anti-Islam video.

The State Department had concealed both documents from the public.

One showed Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes setting up a conference
call to coach Rice on emphasizing the video during TV interviews. That email was
only made public on Wednesday because of a lawsuit from the center-right group
Judicial Watch.

Utah Republican Rep. Jason Chaffetz released the other email  Thursday night.

Former CBS investigative reporter Sharyl Attkisson  first reported that it
showed Assistant Secretary of State Beth Jones writing to senior officials
within hours of the Benghazi attack to explain that she had told Libya's U.S.
ambassador 'the group that conducted the attacks - Ansar Al Sharia - is
affiliated with Islamic extremists.'

'If the video was a cause' of the Benghazi attack,' Chaffetz asked Attkisson,
'why did Beth Jones of the State Department tell the Libyan Ambassador that
Ansar al-Shariah was responsible for the attack?'

Another State Department email in the same chain, sent while the attacks were
still underway, noted that 'the extremist group Ansar Al Sharia has taken credit
for the attack in Benghazi,' and that the U.S. had asked Libya's president and
prime minister 'to pursue Ansar al Sharia.'

Four Americans, including U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens, were killed in
the Benghazi attacks.

President Obama, who appeared in a joint press conference on Friday with German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, was not asked about Benghazi. He answered questions
about cyber-snooping, Russian aggression in Ukraine, and the death penalty.

Republicans have ratcheted up the pressure on the Obama administration in recent
weeks.

'My instincts tell me that this story is never going to go away as long as they
keep lying,' South Carolina Republican Rep. Lindsey Graham told Fox News on
Friday.

California Republican Rep. Darrell Issa, who chairs the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, wrote to Kerry on Friday to demand his testimony,
saying that the State Department has 'shown a disturbing disregard' for its
'legal obligations' to comply with congressional demands.

'Compliance with a subpoena for documents is not a game,' Issa wrote.

'The fact that these documents were withheld from Congress for more than 19
months is alarming. The Department is not entitled to delay responsive materials
because it is embarrassing or implicates the roles and actions of senior
officials.'

South Carolina Rep. Trey Gowdy will reportedly chair the special 'select'
committee, a bipartisan panel that will have broad subpoena power and the
ability to interrogate witnesses at length.

A Gowdy spokeswoman wouldn't confirm his selection on Friday, referring
questions to House Speaker John Boehner's office.

Ordinary congressional committees typically allow members five minutes each for
questions, a short enough time for witnesses to stall for time.

Boehner said Friday that the House will vote to establish the committee, a
formality since his Republican conference is the controlling majority.

'Americans learned this week that the Obama Administration is so intent on
obstructing the truth about Benghazi that it is even willing to defy subpoenas
issued by the standing committees of the People's House,' Boehner said in a
statement.

'The administration's withholding of documents - emails showing greater White
House involvement in misleading the American people - is a flagrant violation of
trust and undermines the basic principles of oversight upon which our system of
government is built.  And it forces us to ask the question, what else about
Benghazi is the Obama administration still hiding from the American people?'

The select committee will take over the work previously done by the Ways & Means
and Oversight committees, and will likely count among its members many of those
committees' members.

'Four Americans died at the hands of terrorists nearly 20 months ago, and we are
still missing answers, accountability, and justice,' Boehner said.

Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus said in a statement that
'the American people want and deserve to know why the Obama White House and
Democrats decided their political press strategy was more important than
providing honest answers to the American people.'

'After a federal court forced the White House to turn over emails about
Benghazi, it became clear that the administration attempted to mislead the
American people. When confronted with this evidence, they continue to offer
denials, non-answers, and lies. At this point, they're lying about their lies.'

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 2, 2014 Friday 5:34 PM GMT

Republicans subpoena John Kerry and Boehner launches new investigative committee
into Benghazi as shocking new documents emerge showing State Dept. knew
immediately it was a terror attack

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, U.S. POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 915 words



     ·    House Oversight Committee demands to hear from Secretary of State
          Kerry about why Benghazi emails were kept from Congress and the public
     ·    House Speaker John Boehner has green-lighted a special investigative
          committee that will have broad powers
     ·    President Obama and then-Secretary of State Clinton insisted the
          Benghazi attack was a protest gone wrong, but the State Dept. knew
          otherwise
     ·    An al-Qaeda-linked militant group was responsible, Assistant Secretary
          of State Beth Jones wrote the agency's senior staff hours after the
          attack
     ·    Jones' email said she told Libya's ambassador 'the group that
          conducted the attacks - Ansar Al Sharia - is affiliated with Islamic
          extremists'
     ·    Obama was busily campaigning for re-election on the promise that the
          terror group was 'on the run'
     ·    'At this point, they're lying about their lies,' says the Republican
          National Committee chairman


Angry congressional Republicans have commanded Secretary John Kerry to testify
in a May 21 hearing about why the State Department hid documents showing how the
aftermath of the 2012 terror attack in Benghazi unfolded.

They are also launching a new investigative committee to dig further into the
scandal, which erupted just weeks before President Obama's re-election. He
insisted at the time that al-Qaeda was 'on the run,' but documents now confirm
that the State Department knew immediately that it was a terror attack carried
out by an al-Qaeda-affiliated group.

Two emails have emerged in the past 24 hours that suggest Obama administration
officials knew immediately that the group, Ansar al-Shariah, laid waste to U.S.
diplomatic facilities in the Eastern Libyan city.

But the president, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, then-UN Ambassador
Susan Rice and other officials told the public that the deadly attack was the
result of a spontaneous anti-America protest sparked by an anti-Islam video.

The State Department has concealed both documents from the public.

One showed Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes setting up a conference
call to coach Rice on emphasizing the video during TV interviews. That email was
only made public on Wednesday because of a lawsuit from the center-right group
Judicial Watch.

Utah Republican Rep. Jason Chaffetz released the other email Thursday night.
Former CBS investigative reporter Sharyl Attkisson first reported that it showed
Assistant Secretary of State Beth Jones writing to senior officials within hours
of the Benghazi attack to explain that she had told Libya's U.S. ambassador 'the
group that conducted the attacks - Ansar Al Sharia - is affiliated with Islamic
extremists.'

Republicans have ratcheted up the pressure on the Obama administration in recent
weeks.

'My instincts tell me that this story is never going to go away as long as they
keep lying,' South Carolina Republican Rep. Lindsey Graham told Fox News on
Friday.

California Republican Rep. Darrell Issa, who chairs the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, wrote to Kerry on Friday to demand his testimony,
saying that the State Department has 'shown a disturbing disregard' for its
'legal obligations' to comply with congressional demands.

'Compliance with a subpoena for documents is not a game,' Issa wrote.

'The fact that these documents were withheld from Congress for more than 19
months is alarming. The Department is not entitled to delay responsive materials
because it is embarrassing or implicates the roles and actions of senior
officials.'

South Carolina Rep. Trey Gowdy will reportedly chair the special 'select'
committee, a bipartisan panel that will have broad subpoena power and the
ability to interrogate witnesses at length.

Ordinary congressional committees typically allow members five minutes each for
questions, a short enough time for witnesses to stall for time.

House Speaker John Boehner said Friday that the House will vote to establish the
committee, a formality since his Republican conference is the controlling
majority.

'Americans learned this week that the Obama Administration is so intent on
obstructing the truth about Benghazi that it is even willing to defy subpoenas
issued by the standing committees of the People's House,' Boehner said in a
statement.

'The administration's withholding of documents - emails showing greater White
House involvement in misleading the American people - is a flagrant violation of
trust and undermines the basic principles of oversight upon which our system of
government is built.  And it forces us to ask the question, what else about
Benghazi is the Obama administration still hiding from the American people?'

The select committee will take over the work previously done by the Ways & Means
and Oversight committees, and will likely count among its members many of those
committees' members.

'Four Americans died at the hands of terrorists nearly 20 months ago, and we are
still missing answers, accountability, and justice,' Boehner said.

Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus said in a statement that
'the American people want and deserve to know why the Obama White House and
Democrats decided their political press strategy was more important than
providing honest answers to the American people.'

'After a federal court forced the White House to turn over emails about
Benghazi, it became clear that the administration attempted to mislead the
American people. When confronted with this evidence, they continue to offer
denials, non-answers, and lies. At this point, they're lying about their lies.'

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 2, 2014 Friday 5:28 PM GMT

Republicans subpoena John Kerry and Boehner launches new investigative committee
into Benghazi as shocking new documents emerge showing State Dept. knew
immediately it was a terror attack

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, U.S. POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 802 words



     ·    House Oversight Committee demands to hear from Secretary of State
          Kerry about why Benghazi emails were kept from Congress and the public
     ·    House Speaker John Boehner has green-lighted a special investigative
          committee that will have broad powers
     ·    President Obama and then-Secretary of State Clinton insisted the
          Benghazi attack was a protest gone wrong, but the State Dept. knew
          otherwise
     ·    An al-Qaeda-linked militant group was responsible, Assistant Secretary
          of State Beth Jones wrote the agency's senior staff hours after the
          attack
     ·    Jones' email said she told Libya's ambassador 'the group that
          conducted the attacks - Ansar Al Sharia - is affiliated with Islamic
          extremists'
     ·    Obama was busily campaigning for re-election on the promise that the
          terror group was 'on the run'


Angry congressional Republicans have commanded Secretary John Kerry to testify
in a May 21 hearing about why the State Department hid documents showing how the
aftermath of the 2012 terror attack in Benghazi unfolded.

They are also launching a new investigative committee to dig further into the
scandal, which erupted just weeks before President Obama's re-election. He
insisted at the time that al-Qaeda was 'on the run,' but documents now confirm
that the State Department knew immediately that it was a terror attack carried
out by an al-Qaeda-affiliated group.

Two emails have emerged in the past 24 hours that suggest Obama administration
officials knew immediately that the group, Ansar al-Shariah, laid waste to U.S.
diplomatic facilities in the Eastern Libyan city.

But the president, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, then-UN Ambassador
Susan Rice and other officials told the public that the deadly attack was the
result of a spontaneous anti-America protest sparked by an anti-Islam video.

The State Department has concealed both documents from the public.

One showed Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes setting up a conference
call to coach Rice on emphasizing the video during TV interviews. That email was
only made public on Wednesday because of a lawsuit from the center-right group
Judicial Watch.

Utah Republican Rep. Jason Chaffetz released the other email Thursday night.
Former CBS investigative reporter Sharyl Attkisson first reported that it showed
Assistant Secretary of State Beth Jones writing to senior officials within hours
of the Benghazi attack to explain that she had told Libya's U.S. ambassador 'the
group that conducted the attacks - Ansar Al Sharia - is affiliated with Islamic
extremists.'

Republicans have ratcheted up the pressure on the Obama administration in recent
weeks.

'My instincts tell me that this story is never going to go away as long as they
keep lying,' South Carolina Republican Rep. Lindsey Graham told Fox News on
Friday.

California Republican Rep. Darrell Issa, who chairs the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, wrote to Kerry on Friday to demand his testimony,
saying that the State Department has 'shown a disturbing disregard' for its
'legal obligations' to comply with congressional demands.

'Compliance with a subpoena for documents is not a game,' Issa wrote.

'The fact that these documents were withheld from Congress for more than 19
months is alarming. The Department is not entitled to delay responsive materials
because it is embarrassing or implicates the roles and actions of senior
officials.'

South Carolina Rep. Trey Gowdy will reportedly chair the special 'select'
committee, a bipartisan panel that will have broad subpoena power and the
ability to interrogate witnesses at length.

Ordinary congressional committees typically allow members five minutes each for
questions, a short enough time for witnesses to stall for time.

House Speaker John Boehner said Friday that the House will vote to establish the
committee, a formality since his Republican conference is the controlling
majority.

'Americans learned this week that the Obama Administration is so intent on
obstructing the truth about Benghazi that it is even willing to defy subpoenas
issued by the standing committees of the People's House,' Boehner said in a
statement.

'The administration's withholding of documents - emails showing greater White
House involvement in misleading the American people - is a flagrant violation of
trust and undermines the basic principles of oversight upon which our system of
government is built.  And it forces us to ask the question, what else about
Benghazi is the Obama administration still hiding from the American people?'

The select committee will take over the work previously done by the Ways & Means
and Oversight committees, and will likely count among its members many of those
committees' members.

'Four Americans died at the hands of terrorists nearly 20 months ago, and we are
still missing answers, accountability, and justice,' Boehner said.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 2, 2014 Friday 5:15 PM GMT

Republicans subpoena John Kerry and Boehner launches new investigative committee
into Benghazi as shocking new documents emerge showing State Dept. knew
immediately it was a terror attack

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, U.S. POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 591 words



     ·    President Obama and then-Secretary of State Clinton insisted the
          Benghazi attack was a protest gone wrong, but the State Dept. knew
          otherwise
     ·    An al-Qaeda-linked militant group was responsible, Assistant Secretary
          of State Beth Jones wrote the agency's senior staff hours after the
          attack
     ·    Obama was busily campaigning for re-election on the promise that the
          terror group was 'on the run'
     ·    House Oversight Committee members demand to hear from Secretary of
          State Kerry about why emails were classified and kept from the public
     ·    Jones' email said she told Libya's ambassador 'the group that
          conducted the attacks - Ansar Al Sharia - is affiliated with Islamic
          extremists'


Angry congressional Republicans have commanded Secretary John Kerry to testify
in a May 21 hearing about why the State Department hid documents showing how the
aftermath of the 2012 terror attack in Benghazi unfolded.

They are also launching a new investigative committee to dig further into the
scandal, which erupted just weeks before President Obama's re-election. He
insisted at the time that al-Qaeda was 'on the run,' but documents now confirm
that the State Department knew immediately that it was a terror attack carried
out by an al-Qaeda-affiliated group.

Two emails have emerged in the past 24 hours that suggest Obama administration
officials knew immediately that the group, Ansar al-Shariah, laid waste to U.S.
diplomatic facilities in the Eastern Libyan city.

But the president, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, then-UN Ambassador
Susan Rice and other officials told the public that the deadly attack was the
result of a spontaneous anti-America protest sparked by an anti-Islam video.

The State Department has concealed both documents from the public.

One showed Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes setting up a conference
call to coach Rice on emphasizing the video during TV interviews. That email was
only made public on Wednesday because of a lawsuit from the center-right group
Judicial Watch.

Utah Republican Rep. Jason Chaffetz released the other email Thursday night.
Former CBS investigative reporter Sharyl Attkisson first reported that it showed
Assistant Secretary of State Beth Jones writing to senior officials within hours
of the Benghazi attack to explain that she had told Libya's U.S. ambassador 'the
group that conducted the attacks - Ansar Al Sharia - is affiliated with Islamic
extremists.'

Republicans have ratcheted up the pressure on the Obama administration in recent
weeks.

'My instincts tell me that this story is never going to go away as long as they
keep lying,' South Carolina Republican Rep. Lindsey Graham told Fox News on
Friday.

California Republcacn Rep. Darrell Issa, who chairs the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, wrote to Kerry on Friday to demand his testimony,
saying that the State Department has 'shown a disturbing disregard' for its
'legal obligations' to comply with congressional demands.

'Compliance with a subpoena for documents is not a game,' Issa wrote.

'The fact that these documents were withheld from Congress for more than 19
months is alarming. The Department is not entitled to delay responsive materials
because it is embarrassing or implicates the roles and actions of senior
officials.'

Rep. Trey Gowdy will chair the special investigative committee, which will have
broad subpoena power and the ability to interrogate witnesses at length.
Ordinary congressional committees typically allow members five minutes each for
questions, a short enough time for witnesses to stall for time.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 2, 2014 Friday 6:14 AM GMT

Attacks show bolder terror threat growing in China

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 967 words


BEIJING (AP) - Recent deadly attacks in China blamed on Islamic extremists are
getting bolder and bloodier, targeting civilians rather than the authorities and
further challenging Beijing's ability to stop them.

The latest attack on Wednesday at a train station in the far-western region of
Xinjiang - where extremists among the Turkic Uighur Muslim population have been
waging a simmering insurgency against Beijing for years - left three people dead
and 79 injured, prompting Chinese President Xi Jinping to demand "decisive
actions" against terrorism.

Authorities said two of the dead were assailants, marking the attack as an
apparent suicide bombing that hints at a further escalation in tactics, said
Raffaello Pantucci, a terrorism expert at the Royal United Services Institute
for Defense and Security Studies in London.

Prior to that, in March, five knife-wielding men and women believed to be
Uighurs (pronounced WEE'-gurs) slashed at crowds indiscriminately at a railway
station in southwestern China, killing 29 people. And last year, three Uighurs
rammed a vehicle into crowds in a suicide attack near the Forbidden City gate in
the heart of Beijing, killing themselves and two tourists.

While these attacks are still relatively crude and bear little sign of
specialized training, they seem to have an audaciousness and deliberateness that
wasn't present before, said Andrew Small, an expert on China and Central Asia at
the German Marshall Fund in Washington, D.C.

"The capacity of groups inside China to mount effective, politically targeted
attacks does seem to be growing," Small said. "It's a step beyond the sort of
localized incidents in western Xinjiang that were taking off a few years ago."

Embarrassingly, the latest incident came as Xi wrapped up a four-day trip to the
region that included a visit to an anti-terror unit and bold talk from the
leader about the need to maintain social stability at all costs. It also came on
the eve of the May Day holiday, possibly targeting Xinjiang's growing tourism
industry.

Pantucci said the fact that the attack took place in a relatively secure major
city was also significant.

"The nature of this attack and its location is a further demonstration of the
growing intensity of the problems," Pantucci said.

Urumqi was the scene of ethnic riots that killed nearly 200 people in 2009, but
has been relatively quiet since.

No arrests have been reported and no one has claimed responsibility for the
train station attack in the regional capital Urumqi, about 2,500 kilometers
(1,550 miles) west of Beijing.

For years, militants in Xinjiang have carried out attacks on police and
government officials using knives, vehicles and homemade explosives. The
extremists want to overthrow Chinese rule while many others want greater
autonomy and freedom to practice their culture and religion.

Uighur activists say the violence is being fueled by restrictive and
discriminatory policies and practices directed at Uighurs and a sense that the
benefits of economic growth have largely accrued to Chinese migrants while
excluding Uighurs. The knowledge that Muslims elsewhere are rising up against
their governments also seems to be contributing to the increased militancy.

China's response has generally been to crack down ruthlessly on the one hand,
while promising economic benefits on the other.

The most recent attacks deviate from previous ones in that they are increasingly
targeting civilians and attempting violence on a larger scale, apparently
pointing to a greater level of organization and planning.

Such attacks are designed to "instill fear by sheer randomness" and provoke
retaliation from Beijing that would boost resentment among Uighurs and further
support for the extremists, said Ahmed A.S. Hashim, a terrorism expert at
Singapore's Nanyang Technical University.

China's ability to gather useful intelligence and analyze it to prevent attacks
has long been criticized as weak, Hashim said, adding that security forces also
lacked effectiveness.

"A purely military counterinsurgency or counter-terrorism campaign may not
suffice if movement isn't made on the political front to assuage Uighur
political demands," Hashim said.

It isn't clear whether the recent incidents of violence are being directed by
some sort of larger organization, as Beijing frequently alleges. China has
blamed numerous incidents on overseas-based separatist radicals in the East
Turkistan Islamic Organization, although it has presented little evidence.

"The big unknown is whether there is now a higher level of coordination taking
place, or whether these are just individual groups employing similar methods,"
Small said.

Hashim said he expects to see a further evolution of the Uighur insurgency,
possibly into a more sophisticated form that would include the use of improvised
explosive devices, car bombs, ambushes and major attacks on infrastructure.

The point, he said, would be to "undermine China's showcasing of Xinjiang as a
developing region where different ethnic groups live in harmony."

A further concern for Beijing is the effect the U.S. withdrawal from neighboring
Afghanistan will have on Xinjiang's security.

Instability in Afghanistan and Pakistan, where some Uighurs are reportedly
hiding among jihadi groups in the lawless northwest, could allow insurgents
greater freedom to set up camps and cross the border into China, Small said.

Government adviser and anti-terrorism researcher Li Wei agreed that change and
instability in the fragile states along China's periphery had a direct effect on
Xinjiang's security.

"Due to changes in the domestic and international situations, terrorists are
becoming more rampant in some western Asian regions and some neighboring
countries. Therefore, the anti-terror situation becomes increasingly serious in
China," Li said.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 3, 2014 Saturday

Syrians in Slovakia condemn terrorist attacks in Damascus, Homs, Hama

LENGTH: 153 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

The Syrian community and students in Slovakia strongly condemned the terrorist
explosions targeted the innocent civilians in Damascus, Homs and Hama, killing
and injuring dozens of citizen.

In a joint statement Saturday [3 may], the National Union for Syrian Students,
Slovakia branch and the Syrian community said that this cowardly terrorist act
indicates the bankruptcy of the armed terrorist groups and their regional and
international supporter states.

They held the countries which support and finance the terrorist groups
responsible for these criminal acts.

They reiterated support to homeland and the Syrian army under the leadership of
President Bashar al-Assad.

Three terrorist attacks targeted Damascus Homs and Hama last week, killing and
injuring dozens of citizens.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0725 gmt 3 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 3, 2014 Saturday

S. Africa condemns terror attack in China

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 126 words


CAPE TOWN - The South African government on Friday condemned in the strongest
possible terms the terrorist attack which took place at a railway station in
Urumqi, the capital of the  Uygur autonomous region in Northwest China.

In the attack on April 30, three people were killed and 79 others injured.

"The South African government condemns all forms and manner of terrorism. We
believe that terrorism in any form and from whichever quarter cannot be
condoned," the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO)
said in a statement.

The South African government sends its deepest condolences to the Chinese
government and the people, and in particular to the families of the deceased and
wish the injured speedy recoveries, the statement said.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 3, 2014 Saturday

Security beefed up after terror attacks

BYLINE: Wang Qian

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 347 words


Several cities have enhanced security after a terrorist explosion killed three
people including two assailants in a railway station in Urumqi, capital of the
Uygur autonomous region, on Wednesday.

The blast, which happened on the day President  concluded his visit to the
region, left 79 people injured, including four in serious condition.

Medical teams were sent to Urumqi by the National Health and Family Planning
Commission to help the injured.

After the attack, security authorities in major cities, including , Shanghai and
Guangdong's provincial capital Guangzhou, and such provinces as Jiangsu and
Liaoning, said more armed police are being deployed for regular patrols on the
streets, and at scenic spots and rail and bus stations.

Beijing police are on high alert, with officers patrolling the streets around
the clock during the May Day holidays from Thursday to Saturday.

The municipal government said more police will be deployed, especially in public
areas, such as railway stations and high-traffic areas.

Police started an antiterrorist exercise at the Beijing Railway Station at 11:55
pm on Thursday.

Officers arrived at the drill scene 50 seconds after a warning was issued. All
of the forces had arrived and had established a temporary command headquarters
within 15 minutes.

The exercise ended early on Friday morning.

Security authorities have been dealing with a recent increase in terrorist
attacks. On March 1, knife-wielding terrorists killed 29 people and injured 143
at a railway station in Kunming, capital of Yunnan province.

Amid rising public security concerns, Shanghai's public security bureau has
deployed more than 1,000 police officers equipped with revolvers to patrol the
streets since late April.

Security authorities in Jiangsu province have deployed 4,000 armed police
officers and 12,000 assisting personnel for regular patrols from Thursday to
Saturday.

On the streets of Guangzhou, more than 10,000 police officers and assisting
personnel have been on patrol since Thursday. The city has installed 397,000
surveillance cameras.

wangqian@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 3, 2014 Saturday

Sri Lanka condemns terrorist attack in China

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 248 words


COLOMBO - Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa has sent a message to his
Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping, condemning the terrorist attack targeting
civilians at a railway station in Urumqi, capital of China's northwest Xinjiang
Uygur Autonomous Region last Wednesday, the Sri Lankan External Affairs Ministry
said on Saturday.

The president said the perpetrators of the cowardly attack had targeted innocent
civilians, a large number of whom have been injured, adding that attacking
unarmed civilians demonstrates the cruel and barbaric nature of terrorism.

"The government and the people of Sri Lanka join me in extending our heartfelt
condolences to the government and the people of China, particularly the members
of the bereaved family, and also wish a speedy recovery for those who have been
injured in this incident. The people of Sri Lanka who had suffered immensely
under the yoke of terrorism for almost three decades, until its eradication from
Sri Lankan soil just five years ago, share the pain and anguish of the Chinese
people over this wanton act of terrorism," he said.

President Rajapaksa noted that the Xinjiang incident yet again underscores the
danger that terrorism poses to all humanity, and the urgent need for decisive
and concerted action to eradicate the menace.

While condemning the heinous attack unreservedly, the president assured Sri
Lanka's steadfast solidarity with the government of China in fighting against
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 3, 2014 Saturday 12:22 AM GMT

The secret royal pardons for IRA terrorists: MP attacks 'cover-up' after it's
revealed 365 people have been given amnesties in Northern Ireland since 1979

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 454 words



     ·    True total 'much higher' as records for 1987 and 1997 have gone
          missing
     ·    Number 'have been handed to loyalist and republican 'super-grasses''
     ·    Bulk of cases are non-terrorism related and predate the peace process


IRA terrorists were among hundreds of people in Northern Ireland to receive
royal pardons signed by the Queen, MPs were told yesterday.

Northern Ireland Secretary Theresa Villiers revealed that the royal prerogative
of mercy was exercised in the province at least 365 times between 1979 and 2002.

The true total will be much higher, since the Northern Ireland Office claims
records for the ten-year period between 1987 and 1997 have gone missing.

Critics now say there appears to have been a 'cover-up' over the use of
amnesties, issued by the Queen on the advice of ministers. The bulk of the cases
- 347 - from the period 1979 to 1986 are non-terrorism related and predate the
peace process.

A number are thought to have been handed to loyalist and republican
'super-grasses' who gave key evidence at court cases during the Troubles.

However, it is believed that around 10 per cent of the earlier pardons - and the
majority of those issued under Tony Blair's government between 1997 and 2002 -
did relate to terror offences.

In this period, royal pardons were granted to escaped IRA terrorists as part of
the Northern Ireland peace deal. Among those to benefit were Angelo Fusco, Paul
Patrick Magee and Robert Campbell who were convicted for their part in the
murder of SAS Captain Herbert Westmacott but were among a group who escaped from
a north Belfast jail in June 1981.

Former Labour minister Kate Hoey, who uncovered the pardon figures via
Parliamentary questions, suggested the Queen had been put in an 'invidious'
position. 'I want to know who all these people are. I think that the public will
want to know,' she said.

She asked why the pardons had apparently not been listed in official government
journals, the Belfast Gazette or the London Gazette, as would normally be the
case.

Miss Hoey also insisted that the Government must explain how a decade of records
covering a key period, during which John Major's administration was advancing
the peace process, could have vanished.

'There was clearly a cover-up. How can records not be found on something that
the Queen has to sign off?' she said.

Former Labour MP Andrew MacKinlay, an expert in Northern Irish politics, added:
'It would be laughed at like a Carry On film were the scale of the incompetence
and the gravity of the cover-up not so serious. Why were the records lost? Who
"lost" them?'

The Northern Ireland Office said the figures related to decisions taken under
previous governments and said no amnesties have been issued by the current
administration.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                               May 4, 2014 Sunday

SCO strongly condemns terrorist attack in Xinjiang

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 230 words


TASHKENT - The executive body of the Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure of the
Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) has issued a statement to strongly
condemn the April 30 terrorist attack at a train station in northwest China's
Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region.

The statement calls the attack a criminal act targeting innocent people, and
shows resolute support for severe crackdown by the Chinese government on various
forms of terrorist activities of violence.

The statement says that the Tashkent-based Executive Committee of the Regional
Anti-Terrorist Structure of the SCO expresses profound sympathy and condolences
to the innocent victims of the terrorist attack and their family members, and,
at the same time, strongly condemns such a criminal act of indiscriminate
killing of innocent people.

It resolutely supports the Chinese government in adopting all necessary measures
for fighting various forms of terrorist crimes of violence, striking at the
arrogance of violent terrorists, and maintaining public security and stability.

In the attack, two suspects and one civilian were killed Wednesday evening at a
railway station in Urumqi, capital of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur
autonomous region.

An initial police investigation found knife-wielding mobs slashed people at the
exit of the South Railway Station of Urumqi and set off explosives, local
authorities said.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                         May 4, 2014 Sunday 2:09 AM GMT

Missing Malaysia Airlines plane: Live updates as terrorists with links to Al
Qaeda are questioned over vanished jet;
The suspects are said to be members of a violent new terror group said to be
planning bomb attacks in Muslim countries

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 9 words


Searching for missing Flight Mhl 17th April

Malaysia May 3

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                         May 4, 2014 Sunday 2:09 AM GMT

Missing flight Mhl70: Live updates as government denies arrested al Qaeda
militants are being questioned over plane's disappearance;
The suspects are said to be members of a violent new terror group said to be
planning bomb attacks in Muslim countries

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 9 words


Searching for missing Flight Mhl 17th April

Malaysia May 3

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        May 4, 2014 Sunday 12:49 AM GMT

Missing Malaysia Airlines plane: 11 terrorists with links to Al Qaeda being
questioned over vanished jet;
The suspects are said to be members of a violent new terror group said to be
planning bomb attacks in Muslim countries

BYLINE: By Dominic Herbert

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 251 words


Searching for missing Flight Mhl 17th April

A group of 11 terrorists with links to Al Qaeda were last night being quizzed on
whether they are behind the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines flight Mhl.

The suspects were arrested in the capital Kuala Lumpur and in the state of Kedah
last week and are said to be members of a violent new terror group said to be
planning bomb attacks in Muslim countries.

In a dramatic development, investigators, including the FBI and MI6, asked for
the militants, who are aged from 22 to 55, to be interrogated.

They include students, odd-job workers, a young widow and business
professionals, to be questioned intensively about Flight Mhl.

The Beijing-bound plane vanished nearly two months ago soon after take-off from
Kuala Lumpur and no trace has been found despite a huge sea search costing
hundreds of millions of pounds. It is thought to have crashed into the Indian
Ocean with 239 people on board.

An officer with the Counter Terrorism Division of Malaysian Special Branch said
yesterday the arrests had heightened suspicion that the flight's disappearance
may have been an act of terrorism.

'The possibility that the plane was diverted by militants is still high on the
list and international investigators have asked for a comprehensive report on
this new terror group,' the officer said.

In interviews conducted so far, some suspects have admitted planning 'sustained
terror campaigns' in Malaysia but denied being involved in the disappearance of
the airliner, he added.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 4, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Victims of IRA deserve payouts';
Exclusive Cameron in bid to persuade Libya to pay compensation for supporting
terror attacks Drive for Libyan payouts for UK victims of IRA bombs

BYLINE: ROBERT MENDICK; TIM ROSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 1314 words


DAVID CAMERON has appointed his senior security adviser to lead a new drive for
compensation for British victims of IRA terrorism.

The Prime Minister has asked Sir Kim Darroch to negotiate with Libya in an
effort to secure money for the families of those who died or were maimed in
republican attacks that used plastic explosive supplied by Colonel Muammar
Gaddafi's regime.

It follows a Sunday Telegraph investigation which showed how an intervention by
Tony Blair led to a deal in which US victims of IRA bomb attacks received
millions of pounds in compensation from Libya, while British victims received
nothing.

Pressure is growing on Downing Street to secure greater help for British
families affected by Irish republican terrorism. Yesterday, a series of senior
politicians, including Lord Tebbit, Lord Mandelson and Boris Johnson, lent their
support to a concerted new campaign to end what has been described as a
"disgraceful" injustice.

The devastation wreaked by the IRA in Northern Ireland on the mainland came to
prominence again last week with the arrest of Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn
Féin, over the murder of a mother of 10 children in Belfast in 1972.

Yesterday Mr Adams continued to be interviewed by police for a third day.

Last week, Mr Cameron met informally senior Unionist politicians, including
Peter Robinson, the First Minister, over the issue of compensation. According to
one MP present, Mr Cameron promised "to lead a reinvigorated effort" in the
case.

Nigel Dodds, the deputy leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, said after the
meeting: "This provides us with an opportunity to breathe fresh momentum into
the Libyan compensation case." Mr Cameron told the Unionists he would meet
victims' representatives and was appointing Sir Kim, his National Security
Adviser, "to make progress on the issue".

Mr Dodds added: "I have pressed David Cameron for a further meeting with
victims. It is important he hears directly from the victims themselves."

As disclosed by The Sunday Telegraph earlier this year, political interference
led to the collapse in 2008 of a class action claim being brought against Libya
by 150 victims of the IRA in the US courts.

As a result of a deal, in which Mr Blair intervened on Gaddafi's behalf, US
victims of Libyan terrorism - including victims of IRA bombings - received a
share of £1billion paid out by Libya. However, British victims were excluded and
have received nothing.

Victims' anger has been compounded by the disclosure that IRA suspects on the
run had received letters effectively granting them immunity in a move authorised
by Mr Blair to keep the Good Friday peace deal on track.

Victims are now demanding a full investigation into the deals done by the
previous government, which they say have deprived them of justice and recompense
for injuries and deaths.

Last night, Mr Johnson, the London Mayor, said: "This is a totally disgraceful
set of circumstances. The previous government buttered up to Gaddafi's regime in
Libya instead of going after terrorists. It is nauseating.

"It is certainly not right that there should be one regime of compensation
applying to citizens of the US and another for British victims."

Lord Tebbit, whose wife was left wheelchair-bound when the IRA bombed the Grand
Hotel in Brighton during the Conservative Party conference in 1984, said: "This
is a sordid affair which has had a terrible detrimental effect on the victims.
There should have been compensation for victims and there would have been had it
not been for Blair and the Labour government making bargains with Gaddafi."

Lord Tebbit said he backed any campaign that called for greater transparency
over the issue.

Lord Mandelson, who was the most senior minister in Gordon Brown's Cabinet and a
former Northern Ireland secretary under Mr Blair, also backed the victims'
campaign. He said he had held talks with Libya on compensation for victims of
IRA terrorism while he was a minister and urged Mr Cameron to renew efforts to
reach a settlement.

Securing compensation from the Libyan government would "be a strong gesture of
goodwill and recompense and would mean a lot", he added.

It is understood that the Prime Minister is receptive to compensation being paid
by the Libyan government in recognition of Gaddafi's role in sponsoring IRA
terrorism.

Options include a one-off payment, although there is a recognition that
stability needs to return to Libya before any deal could be reached. After
Gaddafi's fall in 2011, an interim government committed Libya to paying damages
to IRA victims, but since then the country has fallen into chaos.

A spokesman for Downing Street said the Prime Minister had praised the efforts
of Mr Robinson, Mr Dodds and Jeffrey Donaldson MP to ensure that victims and
their families were not forgotten and acknowledged "the deep wounds that people
affected still feel".

"The UK Government continues to urge the Libyan authorities to engage with UK
citizens affected by Gaddafi-sponsored terrorism," the spokesman added.

"The Libyan authorities are in no doubt of the importance the UK attaches to
resolving this and other outstanding legacy issues arising from the actions of
the Gaddafi regime.

"The Prime Minister con-firmed he was committed to achieving the objective of
broad and lasting reconciliation between Libya and UK communities affected by
Gaddafi's sponsorship of IRA terrorism and that he would ensure that this issue
is given the attention its deserves across government." The role of the former
government and the involvement of Mr Blair, when out of office, were disclosed
in an email obtained by The Sunday Telegraph.

The email sent by Sir Vincent Fean, the then British ambassador to Libya, to Mr
Blair's private office in June 2008 showed how Mr Blair, a frequent visitor to
Libya, had been enlisted by Gaddafi to help him in negotiations with President
George W Bush.

The consequence of that deal, signed two months later, was to leave UK citizens
out of the compensation agreement.

Sir Vincent added in his email: "HMG is not involved in the talks, although some
British citizens might be affected by them (... some UK Northern Irish litigants
going to US courts seeking compensation from Libya for IRA terrorist acts
funded/fuelled by Libya)."

Colin Parry, whose son Tim, 12, died when a bomb using Libyan-supplied plastic
explosive detonated in Warrington town centre, has described the deal which
deprived him and other families of compensation as "grubby".

Last night, Matthew Jury, a managing partner at McCue and Partners, who
represented families in the class action lodged in the US, said: "We welcome the
news that, after a long campaign, the Prime Minister has now agreed to meet with
UK victims of Libyan IRA terrorism who, for so long, have been denied justice
and compensation.

"The Prime Minister's assurance that officials are working to progress this is
encouraging."

Mr Blair has categorically denied interfering in the legal cases that were being
brought in the US against Gaddafi's regime.

A spokesman for Mr Blair said: "The email you refer to does not say what you
allege. It merely refers to the fact that once the issue was resolved between
the US government and the Libyan government - not an issue for Tony Blair or the
UK but for those two Governments - it was important to move on to areas of
cooperation so that Libya could be part of the international community not
hostile to it.

"The idea that Tony Blair as UK Prime Minister would argue to remove UK victims
from the terms of compensation is absurd."

"Boris Johnson It is not right that there should be one regime of compensation
applying to US citizens and another for British victims

"Lord Mandelson Securing compensation would be a strong gesture of goodwill and
recompense and would mean a lot

"Lord Tebbit There should have been compensation for victims and there would
have been had it not been for Blair

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Sunday Telegraph investigation that showed Tony Blair's involvement
in a deal in which US victims of IRA bomb attacks received millions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 5, 2014 Monday

Kenyan paper says terror attacks demand "resolute response" from authorities

LENGTH: 461 words


Text of editorial entitled "Terror wave calls for restrategising, unity in
approach" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The People website
on 5 May

That our country which has known tranquillity for several decades is under siege
and on the crosshair of determined diabolical forces out to shed innocent blood
cannot be gainsaid. And as we have - most unfortunately - been forced to say
time and again in recent weeks, the new wave of terrorist attacks, including
twin blasts on Thika Highway yesterday [4 May] and Saturday evening explosions
in Mombasa that claimed several lives now reflects an unacceptable brazenness
that demands resolute response.

Like at no other time before, it's imperative that our security agencies go back
to the drawing board, re-evaluate our counter-terrorism action plan and
re-strategize accordingly. Admittedly, dealing with deranged faceless enemies
blinded by hatred with some considering their dastardly acts ultimate personal
sacrifices for spiritual investment is challenging.

That is why tackling the terror stalking motherland must never be allowed to
become a divisive matter. A person who throws a grenade to kill innocent people
at a bus terminus or into a matatu, plants an IED to kill innocent people on a
highway or blows himself and others with him vehicle must be seen for what they
are - killers and treated as such by every Kenyan, including human rights
activists, political and religious leaders, their religious persuasions and
party leanings notwithstanding.

Kenyans cannot afford a scenario where leaders, including those who pack
considerable political influence are unable to read from same page on matters of
life and death. We doubt that pulling out KDF [Kenya Defence Forces] from
Somalia will bring an end to the terrorism. A strategy must be rolled out which
makes assault our defence.

True, ethnic profiling, religious intolerance have no place in this country but
it's naive to continue debating the fine lines when dealing with merchants of
terror and those fanning radicalism among the youth. In any case, it cannot be
by coincidence that known extremists associated with Masjid Musa misadventure
are being linked to the Mombasa terror attacks with one reportedly having been
out on bail.

Where some people are prepared to unleash terror killing and maimings,
destroying vital national interests, including crippling the economy by cutting
off tourists flow, there is little validation in the argument that terror as an
ideology cannot be encountered by force. Terror must not mean different things
based on party or religion. This country has vast potential for growth as
outlined in Vision 2030 that must not be subverted by terrorists.

Source: The People website, Nairobi, in English 5 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 5, 2014 Monday

Some five citizens injured in terrorist attack in Syria's Salamiyah countryside

LENGTH: 91 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Hama - 5 citizens among them 2 children and a woman were injured Monday when an
explosive device, planted by an armed terrorist group, went off on
Al-Se'in-Sheikh Hilal road in the eastern countryside of Salamiyeh, Hama.

A source in Hama province told SANA that the device blew up in a pick-up while
passing the road, causing the injury of 5 citizens as they were hospitalized to
Salamiyeh national Hospital.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0935 gmt 5 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 5, 2014 Monday

Kenyan deputy president urges citizens to be vigilant following terror attacks

LENGTH: 154 words


Kenyan Deputy President William Ruto has asked Kenyans "to be responsible" and
to uphold the "patriotic duty" of being vigilant enough to identify "suspicious"
people bent on carrying out terror attacks. Mr Ruto was addressing a news
conference broadcast live on  privately-owned NTV television. His speech follows
series of bombings in the Kenyan capital Nairobi and Mombasa.

Mr Ruto has also asked the judiciary to do more by not releasing suspects facing
terror charges on bond. He said two suspects released on bond last year had
since fled to Somalia.

He said Kenyan forces were doing a good job in Somalia fighting Al-Shabab and
that withdrawing from Somalia because of increased attacks in Kenya will be an
"act of cowardice". He said Al-Shabab "was on the run".

Seven people have died in the latest spate of bomb attacks on public transport
buses in Nairobi and Mombasa.

Source: NTV, Nairobi, in English 1155 gmt 5 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 5, 2014 Monday

Kenyan police foil possible "terror" attack in northeastern town

LENGTH: 367 words


Text of report by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 5
May- subheadings as published

Police in Garissa on Monday [5 May] afternoon foiled a possible terror attack
after detonating a grenade.

The grenade was found at Boystown Primary School playground and was neatly
wrapped and put in twenty litre jerry can.

Police said they suspected the grenade, which was had been set up by unknown
people, was targeting school children playing in the field.spected the grenade,
which was had been set up by unknown people, was targeting school children
playing in the field.

"We believe those who set this deadly object were targeting school children who
normally play around after classes.

Luckily enough, members of the public noted its presence and informed us and we
acted swiftly," said Mr Musa Yego, the head of investigations, Northern region.

KDF experts

Police called in experts from the Kenya Defence Forces who detonated the device
was detonated by bomb .

The impact of the explosion left a big crater on the ground with shrapnel
spreading all over the place.

"This could have cost many innocent lives of Kenyans. We want to thank members
of the public who were quick to report to us.

We are appealing to them to continue in the same spirit if we are to ensure that
peace prevails in Garissa town," said Mr Yego.

Police believe that the grenades which have been used on several occasions to
attack innocent people find their way through the porous Kenya-Somalia border.

Rifle recovered

At Ifo 1 refugee camp in Dadaab District, police on Sunday night recovered an AK
47 rifle with 21 rounds of ammunition after a thug who had gone to attack a
person in his house dropped the gun after the man screamed.

Mr Yego said officers who were on patrol rushed to the scene and found the gun
dropped after the robbers had already escaped.

He said police were still pursuing the robbers who were suspected to be hiding
in the camp.

The detonation of the grenade in Garissa comes just a day after three people
were killed and scores of others injured after two commuter buses were attacked
with explosives by unknown people on Nairobi's Thika Superhighway.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 5 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 5, 2014 Monday

Nigerian army denies reports of terrorist attack in Borno State 3 May

LENGTH: 490 words


Text of report by US-based Nigerian news site Huhu Online on 4 May

[Unattributed report: "No terrorist attack on Maiduguri - Military"]

There was no attack on Maiduguri metropolis, Borno State, as widely reported by
some media on Saturday, Army spokesman and Coordinator of Military Information,
Major-General Chris Olukolade has said.

In a statement released on Saturday, Olukolade, said what actually happened was
that, a distress call was received at about 2 a.m. and that Nigerian troops
launched a counter-attack using mainly mortar shells on a group of terrorists
who had attacked and killed four persons in Margimari village and other
settlements in the outskirts of Maiduguri.

"There was no fighting or attack around the university or any barrack in
Maiduguri either, as reported," the statement read.

Meanwhile, a Chadian, Usman Mecheka, allegedly operating with the terrorists
group around Lake Chad, has been arrested by the Multi National Joint Task
Force.

According to Olukolade, Mecheka was apprehended by the Task Force while trying
to extract a ransom from herdsmen and farmers in the area, after an earlier
attack on the community.

Olukolade said troops of the Special Task Force in Plateau State have also
raided a camp maintained by an armed gang operating in a settlement in Shendam
Local Government Area of the state.

A gun fabricating machine as well as some arms and ammunition from the hideout
were recovered during the raid. Also recovered during the raid, were local
single barrel guns, pistols, an automatic rifle, bullet pellets and a large
quantity of materials for producing gun powder.

The raid equally yielded vital details to track down the operators of the gun
fabricating hideout who are now on the run. The area is also being combed in the
search for similar criminal outfits.

In another development in Tanabu community in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area
of Plateau state, troops of the Special Task Force successfully repelled an
attack by a gang of cattle rustlers who had invaded the community after a
shoot-out.

The statement said the troops had the encounter when they responded to a
distress call from herdsmen in the area, leaving one of the cattle rustlers dead
while others fled when they were overpowered by the troops.

Also in Abuja, eight persons are currently being interrogated after raid
operations by troops of security agencies on joint surveillance and patrols
mission in the Federal Capital Territory.

The arrested persons are helping ongoing investigation with useful information
after the operation, sequel to intelligence reports.

Most of those arrested are foreigners who were picked up around Kugbo and areas
adjoining the Nyanya site of the recent bombings in the Federal Capital.

"Those confirmed to constitute threat to security will be handed over to
appropriate prosecutorial agency on conclusion of the preliminary
investigations," Olukolade said.

Source: Huhuh Online in English 4 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 5, 2014 Monday

US terror alert warns of possible attack on hotel in Nigeria's Lagos

LENGTH: 713 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper This Day website on 5 May

[Report by Chiemelie Ezeobi: "Security Beefed Up in Lagos Over US Terror Alert"]

Sequel to the warning issued by the United States of a possible attack on
Sheraton Hotel in Lagos, security has been beefed up in strategic locations
across the state.

Such strategic locations include worship centres, market places, shopping malls,
hotels, financial institutions and government installations.

US had issued a warning at the weekend urging its citizens to avoid travelling
to Adamawa, Yobe and Borno, three North-east states under state of emergency due
to deadly attacks by Boko Haram. It also warned of a possible attack on Sheraton
Hotel in Lagos. Though the US warning did not state which of the two Sheraton
Hotels in Lagos may be targeted, security operatives in the state are not
leaving things to chance.

While the military Headquarters and the State Security Service (SSS) in Abuja
and Lagos respectively said they would not take the warning lightly, the Lagos
State Police said they were yet to get empirical evidence that gives credence to
the warning issued by the US government.

Currently, there are about 103 Boko Haram members at the Kirirkiri Maximum
Prison, Apapa, who were arrested by security personnel of the 81 Division under
the command of the then General Officer Commanding (GOC), Major General Obi
Umahi.

Also, THISDAY had exclusively reported last year March on how plans by Boko
Haram to simultaneously bomb 16 landmarks in Lagos with well trained suicide
bombers were uncovered and the kingpins including the armourer were arrested.

The security operatives which included the Army, DSS and Operation Mesa had
carted away a large cache of explosives with their detonators.

Months later, the then Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lieutenant General Azubuike
Ihejirika, had in an interview with THISDAY disclosed that the insurgents
smuggled in the explosives through empty fuel tankers, thereby beating the eagle
eye of security operatives.

At the Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja yesterday, security men at the main gate were seen
using metal/bomb detectors to screen vehicles coming into the premises. There
were also plain-clothes security operatives keeping watch on movements in and
around the hotel.

Attempts to get some of the hotel staff to comment on the security beef up were
not successful.

When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Ngozi Braide, a
Deputy Superintendent of Police, said though the command would not despise the
US information, there were still no concrete proof of a possible attack.

She said: "As a responsible law enforcement agency, we do not trivialise
information, though there is nothing empirical that gives credence to that
information.

"While we are evaluating this information, we have taken proactive measures by
tightening up security in strategic places such as worship centres, market
places, shopping malls, hotels, financial institutions and government
installations.

"Lagosians are advised to go about their normal duties as enough security and
intelligence have been put in place by the state Commissioner of Police, Umar
Manko."

In a telephone conversation with THISDAY, the Director, Defence Information
(DDI), Major General Chris Olukolade, said the defence headquarters could not
confirm the accuracy of the US claim.

He said: "Let the embassy confirm their claim. However, we are generally alert
because any information imperative for the nation's security is taken
seriously."

Asked whether there were plans to evacuate the hotel and if people could still
lodge there, he said: "We are not disposed to telling people to lodge or not to
lodge."

Also, the state Director of SSS, Mr Ben Achu-Olayi, said the choice to lodge in
a hotel was purely a personal decision for individuals to make.

He said: "People can still lodge there. If you say a car will have an accident,
you still cannot prevent people from entering the vehicle. They are safe.

"We are an intelligence-driven organization. When we pick up any information, we
start working on it. We don't want to discountenance it. The important thing is
for us to have a peaceful environment. We are not waving it off and we are not
taking it lightly."

Source: This Day website, Lagos, in English 0000 gmt 5 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 5, 2014 Monday

Kenyan president says security forces foiled "numerous terror attacks" - paper

LENGTH: 174 words


Text of report by Cyrus Ombati entitled "President Uhuru Kenyatta says state
foiled terror attacks" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The
Standard website on 5 May

Kenya: President Uhuru Kenyatta has said security forces have foiled numerous
terror attacks as he condemned the Saturday [3 May] night killing of four people
in a bomb attack in Mombasa. Uhuru said security forces had already thwarted a
number of attempted attacks and assured them of "further support that they need
to keep us safe."

"Kenyans of different faiths have lived together in peace throughout our
history. The terrorists would like a war of religion, bringing to an end our
history of tolerance. This country will not allow it," he said in a statement.

President Kenyatta said the government will support the families of the victims
of the attack as he condoled them, saying terrorists want to divide Kenyans.

Uhuru called for public support to get those behind the attacks by providing
information.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 5 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 6, 2014 Tuesday

Yemeni government condemns terrorist attack on Frenchmen in Sanaa

LENGTH: 172 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sanaa, 5 May - The Yemeni government strongly condemned the cowardly terrorist
attack that targeted French citizens in the capital Sanaa on Monday [5 May] and
resulted in the death of one of them and wounding another.

In a statement to Saba, an official source at the Foreign Ministry reaffirmed
that "the Yemeni government will pursue the perpetrators of this crime until
they are arrested and brought to a fair trial".

"These terrorist acts aim at destabilizing security and damage Yemen's relations
with the brotherly and friendly countries, especially at a time when the heroes
of the armed forces and security forces are carrying out operations to clear the
country of terrorism."

The source expressed condolences of the government and people of Yemen to the
French people and the family of a French citizen who was killed as a result of
this attack, wishing the injured a speedy recovery.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 0255 gmt 6 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 6, 2014 Tuesday

Kenya: House team issues ultimatum to minister over terror attacks

LENGTH: 569 words


Text of report by John Ngirachu entitled "House team issues ultimatum over
terror attacks" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation
website on 6 May

Parliament's committee on national security has issued a two-week ultimatum to
the Cabinet Secretary for Interior to come up with better strategies to curb
terror attacks.

Stressing that the buck stops with the executive, the committee said it was
prepared to ask those in charge, among them Cabinet Secretary Joseph ole Lenku,
to resign.

Members of the committee led by chairman Asman Kamama issued the ultimatum after
a meeting with the cabinet secretary and the heads of the police.

"We'll ask them whether they're prepared to make this country safe and if
they're not, they are going to be asked to hang their boots," Mr Kamama said at
Parliament Buildings.

The committee said after their meeting with Mr Lenku and his team earlier
Tuesday [6 May], it was obvious the security agencies are "not on top of things"
as claimed repeatedly by Deputy President William Ruto on Monday.

Mr Kamama listed those who would be dealt with as the cabinet secretary,
Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo, Inspector-General [of Police] David Kimaiyo
and his two deputies Samuel Arachi and Grace Kaindi.

The committee is perceived in the National Assembly as being too protective of
the executive, as seen when its report on the Westgate attack was rejected, and
this is the first time it is taking a clear stand against the executive.

Asked how it was that the Jubilee-dominated team could appear to oppose the
executive, Mr Kamama was keen to stress that they were speaking as MPs playing
their oversight role. [Jubilee is Kenya's ruling coalition of political parties]

"Enough is enough," said Mr Kamama. "Now is the time to take action. Kenyans are
becoming hopeless and we're putting the executive on notice."

He said the committee is not satisfied with the strategies employed to deal with
the threat of terror.

They also asked the counter-terrorism department of the National Intelligence
Service to come up with safety guidelines on how to deal with suspicious
packages.

The intelligence agency has also been asked to come up with specific and
actionable information that can help security agencies foil these attacks.

Like Deputy President William Ruto, the committee has asked Kenyans to cooperate
with security agencies and report suspicious people and packages.

"It is not an easy assignment and we are calling for the cooperation of all
Kenyans," said Mr Kamama.

Separately, members of the Defence and Foreign Relations Committee said Kenya
shouldn't lose focus because of the attacks in Nairobi on Sunday and Mombasa on
Saturday.

They asked security agencies to step up and Kenyans to cooperate to stem terror.

"Al-Shabab can only be fought when all citizens are alert," said Bare Shill
(Fafi [MP], URP [United Republican Party]).

Mr Shill, the vice-chairman of the Defence and Foreign Relations Committee, also
supported the resolve by the deputy president that the Kenya Defence Forces
would remain in Somalia and not withdraw as proposed by the opposition Cord
[Coalition for Reforms and Democracy].

Ibrahim Sane (Garsen, URP) said corruption is also one of the weaknesses in the
fight against terror.

"Corrupt individuals are worse than terrorists as they are the ones allowing
terrorists into Kenya," he said.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 6 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                              May 6, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

RESIDENTS FACE YOB MOB TERROR;
Teen gang launches attack on street

BYLINE: JOE THOMAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 421 words


A GANG of youths hurled bricks and stones at residents of a Merseyside street.

Terrified homeowners said the attack was just the latest in the same group's
campaign of terror in the area.

In the latest incident, several neighbours on Penrith Street, in Birkenhead, had
left their homes after thinking they had heard a car being damaged outside.

But as they inspected their vehicles they came under attack from a barrage of
stones, bricks and bottles.

One witness told the ECHO there had been problems in the area for several weeks,
with parked cars proving popular targets for vandalism. Liam Washington, who
lives in a block of flats off Penrith Street, said: "Last night one of the cars
was attacked again, and this is the third time in the last four weeks. Two weeks
ago I had £2,500 of damage to my car. When I went out last night to see whose
car had been hit, the youths came back and started shouting at us, calling us
grasses and saying they are going to firebomb us.

Watch See www."The next thing is we are under a hail of bricks, bottles, stones,
anything they could lay their hands to. The road outside was strewn with
bricks."

Mr Washington said the incident took place between 9.30pm and 10pm on Sunday,
and that the gang attacking residents was between 15 and 20 strong.

He added: "It was scary for us.

Attacking blokes is one thing but we had women there and children dodging
bricks, it's outrageous ... we are all very, very worried and the thought of
having to go out and having to get a pint of milk at night is one no-one would
even contemplate and that is shocking."

Merseyside police were called to the scene at around 9.55pm following a number
of reports that a group of youths had been throwing bricks and stones.

It is believed a car was damaged during the incident although no-one was
injured. Patrols attended and carried out enquiries in the area, including
speaking to a number of potential witnesses. CCTV opportunities are also being
explored by the force. A full investigation into the circumstances is under way.

Chief Inspector Nick Gunatilleke said: No-one should have to put up with
behaviour of this kind and I want to reassure the local community that tackling
anti-social behaviour is one of our key priorities.

We are taking a number of measures to crack down on the problem, including
working with the local authority and helping to secure anti-social behaviour
orders wherever we can."

People can contact officers in Birkenhead via the 101 number or call
Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANGUISH: Liam Washington, centre, and other residents facing a
nightmare in their homes

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2014 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              May 6, 2014 Tuesday

Security Council decries deadly terrorist attack in Yemeni capital

LENGTH: 310 words


May 5, 2014

The United Nations Security Council strongly condemned today's deadly terrorist
attack in Sana'a, as well as other recent terrorist attacks in Yemen, and
stressed its support for President Abd Rabu Mansour Hadi and his Government to
combat terrorism.



The members of the Security Council expressed their deep sympathy and
condolences to the family of the one person killed in today's attack -- a French
citizen -- and extended their sympathies to those injured, as well as to the
Governments of Yemen and France.

In today's statement , the body's 15 members reaffirmed that terrorism "is
criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of its motivation, wherever, whenever and
by whomsoever committed", and "should not be associated with any religion,
nationality, civilization or ethnic group".

Reiterating their determination to combat all forms of terror, in accordance
with the responsibilities listed under the UN Charter, Council members further
"urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law
and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Yemeni
authorities" so that perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of these
reprehensible acts of terrorism can be brought to justice.

In March, the Council condemned an attack in Hadramawt, Yemen, in which 20
soldiers were killed.

Yemen has been undergoing a democratic transition, with a Government of National
Unity, which came to power in an election in February 2012 following the
resignation of former President Ali Abdullah Saleh.

Security Council members have voiced strong support for the political process in
Yemen. In February of this year, they set up a sanctions regime that includes an
asset freeze and travel ban against potential 'spoilers' who would obstruct or
undermine the successful completion of the political transition.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 6, 2014 Tuesday 11:30 PM GMT

'I'd rather see another terrorist attack' than let the TSA keep screening
airline passengers, says congressional hopeful

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, U.S. POLITICAL EDITOR and FRANCESCA CHAMBERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 673 words



     ·    Bob Johnson is a surgeon and a former Army Ranger running for Congress
          in Georgia's first congressional district as a Republican
     ·    At a public event in February, Johnson accused the TSA of
          'indoctrinating' Americans to allow government agents to probe them
          'like sheep'
     ·    'I'd rather see another terrorist attack - truly I would - than to
          give up my liberty as an American citizen,' he said
     ·    Johnson apologized on Tuesday after a video of his remarks went online
     ·    He's competing against five other candidates in a May 20 Republican
          primary, and is considered a serious contender in a right-leaning
          district


A congressional candidate in Georgia said during a public candidate forum that
he would rather see more terror attacks in the United States than continue to
allow Transportation Security Administration agents screen airline passengers.

Bob Johnson, a Savannah, Georgia surgeon who hopes to survive a May 20
Republican primary and stand for election to the House of Representatives in
November, made the stunning remarks in February.

'The TSA is doing something really profound,' Johnson said, according to a video
first obtained by Politico. 'They're indoctrinating generations of Americans to
walk through a line and be prodded and probed by uniformed personnel, agents of
the government, like sheep.'

'Now this is going to sound outrageous,' he continued. 'I'd rather see another
terrorist attack - truly I would - than to give up my liberty as an American
citizen.'

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

'"Give me liberty or give me death": Isn't that what Patrick Henry said at the
founding of our... republic?' he concluded.

Johnson, an Army Ranger veteran, tried to thread the needle between airline
safety and civil liberties, but ended up outraging voters.

'People are saying, "Now everyone wants security before anything else. I want a
perfectly safe flight," he insisted. 'You're not going to have it. We're going
to have jack-boot uniformed people in our backyards.'

The Atlanta Journal-Constitution  posted the video online Tuesday afternoon.

Shortly afterward on his Facebook  page, Johnson said that he regretted the
remarks.

'In the heat of the moment, while making the point that I would much rather
fight the enemy than our federal government, I said something stupid and should
have chosen my words more carefully,' Johnson wrote.

In other parts of the statement, however, he seemed to double down.

'As a 26 year Army Ranger, head and neck surgeon and even a Christian medical
missionary, I've sworn my life to defending this country and keeping people
safe,' Johnson wrote.

'And as a Constitutional conservative, it angers me that we are giving up our
liberty to the bureaucratic TSA and spying on our own people in the name of
false security and that has to stop.'

"I'm very passionate about the ideals of liberty, freedom and maintaining a
strong national defense,' he added, 'and these conservative ideals shouldn't be
at odds with each other.'

Johnson's gaffe now threatens to risk his high profile in the GOP pack, along
with his public support.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hw72RXiO3a8]

As the candidate in the race most closely identified with tea party
conservatives, he has won endorsements from Freedomworks and Georgia Right to
Life.

In a video ad, he touts his 'Christian conservative' credentials and pledges to
help repeal the Affordable Care Act.

'I'll fight every day to stop Obama's liberal assault on our values,' Johnson
says in the ad, titled 'Oath.'

'This president might not respect our constitutionally protected religious
freedoms, but I do - and I'll never back down.'

Johnson is hoping to end up among the top two primary finishers. If no candidate
wins 50 percent of votes, there will be a runoff.

The other leading candidates include state Senator Earl 'Buddy' Carter, state
Rep. Jeff Chapman and former Newt Gingrich aide John McCallum.

Each hopes to emerge as the successor to Republican Rep. Jack Kingston, who is
leaving the House of Representatives to run for a U.S. Senate seat.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 6, 2014 Tuesday 4:55 PM GMT

Westerner among six people stabbed in latest 'terrorist' knife attack targeting
Chinese train station

BYLINE: DAMIEN GAYLE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 533 words



     ·    Assailants carrying long knives pounced on passengers leaving the
          station
     ·    Armed police shot one suspect and wounded him, another was caught
          later
     ·    Officials blamed the violence on Muslim separatists from Xinjiang in
          the west


A middle-aged Westerner is among six victims wounded in a knife attack at a
Chinese train station today, according to witnesses.

Two women and three men, including a European man his 50s, were said to be among
those injured by assailants wielding foot-and-a-half-long knives at Guangzhou
Railway Station in Guangdong province.

Armed officers shot and wounded one of the attackers, said Guangzhou police.
Local media reported that a second suspect was captured fleeing the scene.

Officials are blaming the attack on 'terrorists' from Xinjiang, a mainly Muslim
western province in the grip of a separatist insurgency. Police later denied a
Westerner had been involved in the attack, despite the witnesses' reports.

Scroll down for video

A group of men sat on steps outside the station for two hours this morning
before, at 11 o'clock, they let out a shout, pulled 20in knives from their bags
and began attacking people, said a shopkeeper who witnessed it.

He told the Guangzhou Daily that police were on the scene within a minute and
began shooting.

Guangzhou police said its officers 'arrived quickly on the scene' and shot one
of the attackers. The official Nanfang Daily said another suspect had been
caught by police after fleeing the scene.

'After verbal warnings were ineffective, police fired, hitting one male suspect
holding a knife, and subdued him,' Guangzhou police said on an official
microblog.

Provincial television showed pictures of what it said was an apparently injured
suspect being pressed to the ground by police and plain-clothed security, as
they removed a bloodied white t-shirt.

It was not possible to see the man's face.

City newspaper the Guangzhou Journal wrote on its microblog that the attackers
carried half-metre (20-inch) knives, wore white clothes, including white hats,
and launched their assault as passengers were leaving the station.

Three witnesses told the South China Morning Post that a Westerner was among
those the assailants targeted in the blood-soaked rampage.

This afternoon armed police had cordoned off the empty plaza outside Guangzhou
station while street cleaners mopped pools of blood from the flagstones.

Victims were earlier seen being loaded into an ambulance.

Nervousness about Islamic militancy has grown since a car exploded on the edge
of Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October and 29 people were stabbed to death in
March in the southwestern city of Kunming.

The government blamed militants from Xinjiang for both those attacks and a more
recent bomb and knife attack at a train station in Urumqi, Xinjiang's capital,
that killed one and wounded 79 last Wednesday.

Resource-rich and strategically located, the province on the borders of central
Asia has for years been beset by violence blamed by the Chinese government on
Islamist militants.

Exiles and many rights groups say the real cause of the unrest in Xinjiang is
China's heavy-handed policies, including curbs on Islam and the culture and
language of the Muslim Uighur people.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 7, 2014 Wednesday

US warns of terror attacks in Uganda

LENGTH: 395 words


Text of report by Andrew Bagala entitled "Terrorists planning to strike
churches, US warns Uganda" published by leading privately-owned Ugandan
newspaper The Daily Monitor website on 7 May

Terrorists are planning to hit Kampala this month or in June, an alert by the US
embassy to its citizens in Uganda indicates. The alert, which was issued
yesterday, says places of worship, especially those frequented by expatriates,
are the key targets. "The threat information indicates a group of attackers may
be preparing to strike places of worship in Kampala, particularly churches,
including some that may be frequented by expatriates, in May or June," reads the
alert, posted on the embassy website.

The message also advises American citizens to keep away from places of worship
for at least two months. Churches have been the target of attacks by terrorists
in Kenya and Nigeria in the recent past.

Mr Daniel Travis, the US embassy public affairs officer, said the terror threat
is real and they have an obligation to inform their citizens. The alert comes a
day after this newspaper reported a new raft of measures for buses crossing
Uganda's borders and tourists, announced by the police in wake of terrorist
attacks in Kenya. Terrorists last Sunday [4 May] planted bombs on two buses in
Nairobi, killing two people.

Meanwhile, the police have announced the arrest of a suspect thought to have
been working with a Muslim cleric it detained last week. Dr Ismail Kalule was
arrested last week from his home in Kiwatule, a Kampala suburb, where he was
reportedly in possession of literature on how to manufacture bombs.

Mr Fred Enanga, the police spokesperson, on Tuesday said the new suspect was
associated with the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF). "The person in custody has
been driving ADF rebels into Uganda. These rebels were left with no areas to run
to after they were attacked by the Congolese forces. Right now, the ADF rebels
are slowly coming back to Uganda," Mr Enanga said.

Police on Monday night also carried out an operation, arresting 86 people at
Arua Park. "We got intelligence information of wrong elements linked to Nairobi
attacks hanging around Arua Park. Police swung into action rounding-up 86
suspects," Kampala Metropolitan Police spokesperson Patrick Onyango told the
Daily Monitor on Tuesday.

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 7 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             May 7, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Students in Africa knife attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 69 words


Students in Africa knife attack terror TWO students were subjected to a
horrifying attack by men wielding a knife in South Africa.

The women are in their early 20s, one from Gwynedd, the other from Flintshire,
were robbed of their money, passports and phones by three men.

They had just arrived in the country on a volunteer scheme organised by Chester
University working alongside the Edge of Africa project. PAGE 5

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 7, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Six stabbed in China station terror attack

BYLINE: Leo Lewis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 427 words


China faced fresh terror on the railways yesterday after a knife rampage at one
of the country's busiest stations left six people injured and revived fears that
the country may be at risk of more attacks.

Witnesses and early state media reports suggested that as many as five people
attacked lunchtime crowds outside Guangzhou station, but police in China's
third-largest city said last night that just one man had been responsible for
the bloodshed.

The first reports described a small group of attackers wielding long, sword-like
melon knives and wearing small white hats - similar to recent incidents blamed
on Muslim extremists. However, the authorities played down the descriptions,
forcing state media to retract earlier reports. According to the official
version of events, police, already on high alert, shot a single assailant.

Thousands of Chinese took to the internet yesterday to proclaim their new fear
of rail travel. "It's so scary now. I dare not take the train, I dare not take
the subway. I dare not go out at all," wrote one user called Sysu.

Liu Yuying, a tourist from Inner Mongolia who was visiting Guangzhou, said that
she walked out of the station and into the attack. "Suddenly two assailants
chopped at us with watermelon knives," she said. She fell down and broke a leg
while attempting to flee. Her sister and brother were injured in the attack, she
said.

China remains on alert after three people died and 79 were injured in an attack
at a railway station in Urumqi, Xinjiang province, last Wednesday. One of the
attackers detonated a suicide vest full of explosives, while his accomplices
slashed at passers-by with knives.

The attack came a few hours after President Xi Jinping had completed a four-day
tour of Xinjiang province, promising a "strike first" policy against terrorism
in the unsettled region.

The Chinese government suspects that members of the restive Uighur Muslim
minority in the far west of the country may be receiving terrorist training at
camps in Pakistan or Afghanistan. Uighur militants - branded "separatists" and
more recently "terrorists" by the government - have been blamed for a series of
atrocities over the past year, including an incident in which a car was driven
into a crowd in Tiananmen Square, Beijing. Five people died and 38 were injured.

In March, five Uighur men and women wearing black uniforms and wielding long
knives hacked their way systematically through crowds at a busy railway station
in the southwestern provincial capital, Kunming. At least 29 people were killed
and more than 100 injured.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 8, 2014 Thursday

Paper underscores need to screen passengers in wake of Kenya terror attacks

LENGTH: 233 words


Text of editorial entitled "Screen all passengers" published by Kenyan
privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 8 May

Five operators of the buses blown up by suspected terrorists on Sunday [4 May]
have been charged with negligence. Reason: they allegedly failed to take any
measures to screen passengers, which resulted in the death of three people and
50 wounded.

It would be only fair to find out just what the authorities have done to educate
the owners and crew of public service vehicles on the urgency of taking security
measures to pre-empt such attacks.

Secondly, it would have been expected that the vehicle owners would be charged
alongside their workers for this negligence.

Should it be established that the crew actually had the hand-held metal
detectors but refused to use them, the owners will have no case to answer. But
if it is they who have failed to buy the devices, then they should be held
liable.

A recent television interview at a populous bus terminus in the city revealed
that no PSV [public service vehicle] uses the device, which costs 12,000
shillings [140 dollars] and above.

Indeed, some of the touts were reported as asking the government to buy the
devices. But why should it? Public transport is a private business.

With that kind of attitude, there is no wonder terrorists are getting away with
mass murder.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 8 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                              May 8, 2014 Thursday

China in damage control mode as terror attacks spread beyond Xinjiang

BYLINE: Jonathan Kaimantheguardian.com

LENGTH: 827 words

ABSTRACT

Experts say that without resolving restive region's underlying problems, shows
of force by security forces may be only a patch

FULL TEXT

The attacks began decades ago. The assailants used knives, guns, even grenades.
They ambushed police officers and officials in places few had heard of: Akto,
Kuqa, Xinhe and other dusty counties in Xinjiang, a sprawling region in China's
north-west. State media would issue a pithy statement about the violence, and
the rest of the country would shrug its shoulders and march on.

But in recent months the spasms of public violence have spread beyond Xinjiang's
borders, raising concerns nationwide about the government's ability to keep its
citizens safe. Assailants armed with knives and bombs have struck at three major
train stations since March. Authorities blamed the first two incidents on Muslim
Uighur "terrorists" from the region, intent on waging holy war.

So on Tuesday when a knife-wielding man wounded six people at a train station in
the southern city of Guangzhou, people immediately assumed the worst. While the
attacker's identity and motives remained unclear - police shot and detained him
at the scene - security authorities snapped into damage control mode. That
night, three high-ranking public security officials paid separate inspection
visits to railway stations in Beijing, Shanghai and the southern city of
Changsha. In the central city of Zhengzhou, about 100,000 police, security
guards and firefighters paraded through the streets, setting up roadblocks and
inspecting hotels and internet cafes.

Experts say that without resolving Xinjiang's underlying problems, the shows of
force may be only a patch. Uighur groups abroad call the attacks a cry of
despair caused by religious repression and economic marginalisation. The
government defends its regional policies as open and tolerant, blaming the
attacks on "separatists" and "hostile forces" from abroad.

"Perhaps each of these incidents has its own rationale, its own origins," said
Yitzhak Shichor, a Xinjiang expert at the University of Haifa in Israel. "But
these attackers certainly could not imagine that they could overcome the system.
They went in with the idea that they were going to lose, given the balance of
power. And this is an indication that these people feel they have no choice.
They're people who have been backed into a corner, and they have nothing to
lose."

China's terrorism problem is getting worse, according to the official China
National Security Studies annual report for 2013, released this week. Last year
marked a particularly active period for attacks, "whether you're looking at the
number of them or their severity", Wu Shaozhong, a professor at the Chinese
People's Public Security University, wrote in the report.

In late April, a quarter of Shanghai's police began carrying guns during regular
patrols. Some Beijing subway stations have stepped up security checks,
conducting X-ray scans of passengers as well as their bags.

Magnus Ranstorp, of the Swedish National Defence College, said measures such as
patrols were never sufficient in countering terrorism but were one part of the
response. He said exchanging ideas internationally could help. "The US and
Canada have huge experience with school shootings and have active shooter
protocols based on research. If you can't prevent it, how do you take the person
out?"

Some experts say that an ongoing security crackdown in Xinjiang often takes the
form of increased repression, which in turn fuels more social unrest. "There's a
rage against the state, which is sometimes expressed in religious terms," said
Raffaello Pantucci, a senior research fellow at the Royal United Services
Institute. "Mosques are being damaged, women being told to take off their veils,
people being told to report other people with long beards - clearly the
religious element is causing friction."

Last Wednesday, two Uighur attackers detonated explosives at a train station in
Xinjiang's regional capital, Urumqi, killing themselves and one other person. In
March, five assailants turned a train station in the south-west city of Kunming
into a scene of carnage, slashing and hacking 29 people to death. Authorities
responded to both incidents by vowing to step up anti-terror campaigns in the
region.

The government must "make terrorists like rats scurrying across a street, with
everybody shouting 'beat them'," the president, Xi Jinping, said in late April
before a trip to the ethnically riven city Kashgar.

Experts say the unpredictability, even spontaneity of many attacks make them
difficult to pre-empt, both in China and abroad. James Leibold, of La Trobe
University in Melbourne, said events such as the Oklahoma City and Boston
marathon bombings had made Americans aware that "if a small group of people are
intent on carrying out a terror event, it is hard to stop them".

He added: "If it's one guy with a knife and the will to do it, how do you stop
someone like that?"

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                              May 8, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hundreds die in terror attack;
BRITAIN TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 105 words


ISLAMIC militants have killed hundreds of people in an attack on a border town
in Nigeria's remote north-east, escalating the country's violent insurrection in
which more than 270 schoolgirls have been kidnapped.

As many as 300 people were killed when a band of extremists attacked the town of
Gamboru Ngala, on Nigeria's border with Cameroon, according to local press
reports. The attack and hundreds of casualties were con-firmed today by Borno
state information commissioner Mohammed Bulama.

The news of the attack adds to Nigeria's growing crisis from the Islamic
extremists' violent campaign of bombings, attacks and abductions.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2014 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 8, 2014 Thursday 5:41 PM GMT

More police officers have died from Ground Zero illness than were killed in the
terrorist attacks on September 11

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER and ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 606 words



     ·    A total of 71 police officers have died from illnesses linked to
          inhaling toxic dust and smoke from Ground Zero
     ·    Sixty officers were killed in the attacks on September 11, 2001
     ·    Six police officer deaths in 2013 were blamed on Ground Zero illness,
          four in 2012 and three in 2011


More police officers have died from Ground Zero illness contracted during the
rescue and recovery operations at the World Trade Center than were killed in the
September 11 terrorist attacks, officials have revealed.

The shocking news shows that the death toll from the destruction of the Twin
Towers continues to rise - more than 12 years after the fact.

The names of 20 more officers were added to a granite memorial for first
responders in Albany, New York, on Tuesday, bringing the total death toll to 71.

Six died last year, four in 2012, and three before that.

According to authorities, the 13 of the 20 new causalities died from cancers
attributed to rescue and recovery work at the collapsed World Trade Center
towers in Manhattan.

By contrast, 60 police officers were killed on September 11, 2001 after they
rushed into the World Trade Center before it collapsed.

GROUND ZERO ILLNESS IS CLAIMING LIVES 13 YEARS AFTER 9/11

Ground Zero illness is a catch-all term used to describe the cancers,
respiratory problems and other diseases that researchers say effect thousands of
people who worked at Ground Zero in the wake of the 9/11 attacks.

The dust and debris from the wreckage of the World Trade Center has been
described as 'wildly toxic.

Workers at Ground Zero breathed in a mixture of pulverized glass, cellulose,
asbestos, lead and mercury - combined with dioxins and other contaminants from
the smoke of the burning wreckage.

The result, say suffers and several public health experts, is a higher rate of
cancer and a slew of other diseases in the people who were exposed to Ground
Zero in the months after the attacks.

The government slowly began to recognize Ground Zero illness after the 2006
death of 34-year-old NYPD Detective James Zadroga.

In 2011, President Barack Obama signed a law - the James Zadroga Act - that
created a $4.2billion program to provide health care to Ground Zero illness
sufferers.

'I live near the World Trade Center. I inhaled the toxic smoke that permeated
every square inch of lower Manhattan,' New York State Assembly Speaker Sheldon
Silver said.

'I know how nobly and heroically the NYPD carried out their duties on that
tragic September day and the terrible days that followed.'

Silver addressed hundreds of police, relatives and officials who gathered for
the annual remembrance ceremony Tuesday at the memorial located in the Empire
State Plaza in downtown Albany to honor officers who died from duty-related
causes.

He acknowledged it was small condolence for surviving families that the
experience of what their loved ones endured will prevent a similar fate for
other first responders.

After the ceremony, several declined to talk, saying both the ceremony and what
they'd experienced were difficult.

For those who died later as a consequence of the trade center attacks, it has
also meant several years of disabling injuries and illness, Lieutenant Governor
Robert Duffy said. More than half of the 1,360 names on the wall were members of
the NYPD, he said.

Also added this year were the names of four state troopers, a Buffalo officer
who died last year from a gunshot wound she received responding to a 911 call
from a convenience store in 2006, a Yates County deputy killed in 1957 and a
state conservation game protector killed in 1914.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               May 9, 2014 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Intruder sex attack terror

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 61 words


A woman has been indecently assaulted after she woke to find an intruder in her
home in the middle of the night.

Police said the "extremely distressing" assault happened at a property in the
Eliburn area of Livingston, West Lothian.

The 27-year-old woke to find a man in her home, who indecently assaulted her
before leaving the property. She immediately contacted police.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2014 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                               May 9, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I feared they'd kill my wife and son, says paralysed dad in house-raid terror;
Machete-wielding thugs attack family as disabled father is being given medicine.
.

BYLINE: Neal Keeling

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 530 words


APARALYSED man has told how a masked gang threatened to kill him and his family
during a terrifying raid.

Sucha Singh, who is confined to a wheelchair after breaking his neck eight years
ago, watched helplessly as the men held a machete to his wife's neck and a knife
to his son's throat.

Three men, all wearing full-face balaclavas, used bricks to smash their way into
the family's home in Cheetwood, Cheetham Hill.

The raid came eight months after another burglary on the home in which masked
men escaped with jewellery and £700 savings meant for a holiday to Disneyland
for his son and wife. It is believed the family was deliberately targeted.

During the raid one of the men told Mr Singh's wife: "We know he is disabled."

Mr Singh, 44, said: "I thought 'my family is finished - they are going to kill
my wife and son'.

"I felt helpless. My wife and son needed help and I couldn't do anything. I felt
like the worst father and husband."

He lay in his downstairs bed as the gang ransacked the house, and ripped off his
wife's necklace, bracelets and earrings, then kicked in a locked bedroom where
his petrified son was barricaded.

His wife, Angela Loey, 45, a former receptionist at a doctor's surgery, who is
Sucha's full-time carer, said: "I was giving my husband his medication, which he
needs for pain, high blood pressure, depression and for a heart condition.

"I do it every night. Then I was going to go to bed. I gave him the medicine and
a sip of water and there was an almighty crash. There was glass on the floor and
three men coming in through the patio doors.

"They started shouting because I was screaming my head off. I felt panic and my
first thought was 'my son, where is my son?' One with a machete grabbed me and
held it to my neck."

The couple's son, Akash, 14, fled to his bedroom and locked the door. But one of
the gang smashed it down and dragged the teenager downstairs.

He then stood shaking with fear next to his father's bed as one of the gang
threatened to kill him if his parents did not hand over money and more
jewellery.

Mr Singh said: "I heard my wife screaming and at first I couldn't see what was
happening. I was panicking, thinking what is happening? They pushed my wife
against a wall in my room with a big knife to her neck and I was watching it in
bed. I couldn't do anything.

"I couldn't move. I said to them 'leave my wife alone, don't hurt her. If you
want to kill someone kill me'.

"One of them said 'we will kill you if you don't shut up. Give us all the money,
all the jewellery in the house'."

The gang mistakenly thought the family had a car parked in a car park at the
rear of their home and demanded the keys.

Mr Singh worked as a machine operator in a shoe factory before his injury caused
by a fall at home.

Angela said: "Emotionally, mentally, we are in a bad way - we can't eat and we
can't sleep. I will never forgive them. I hope they get sentenced, I hope they
rot in hell, it was vicious. You don't do that to a kid, a woman and a disabled
man."

The gang escaped with jewellery, three laptops and a mobile phone.

Anyone with information about the raid can call police on 0161 856 6318.

'We can't eat, we can't sleep - I hope they rot in hell'

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sucha Singh, wife Angela Loey and son Akash are recovering from the
terrifying raid on their home. VINCENT COLE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 10, 2014 Saturday 8:05 PM GMT

Egypt to try 200 suspected of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 1140 words


CAIRO (AP) - Egypt's chief prosecutor charged 200 suspected militants Saturday
with carrying out over 50 terrorist attacks, killing 40 policemen and 15
civilians and conspiring with the Palestinian militant group Hamas, in the first
mass trial of a Jihadi group since the country's recent turmoil.

The defendants, 98 of whom remain on the run, are all suspected members of the
al-Qaida-inspired Ansar Beit al-Maqdis group, or Champions of Jerusalem, which
has claimed responsibility for the bloodiest attacks since a wave of violence
picked up following the military overthrow of Islamist President Mohammed Morsi
last summer.

The prosecutor's statement refers to the group as "the most dangerous terrorist
group," and accuses the defendants of receiving military training in the
Palestinian Gaza Strip under the patronage of Hamas. It also says they traveled
to Syria where they took part in fighting against government forces before
returning to Egypt.

Washington designated the group as a terrorist organization in April, accusing
it of carrying out attacks in Israel, against security forces and tourists in
Egypt.

Officials in Egypt accuse Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood of orchestrating the
violence. The government has gone further, outlawing the Brotherhood and
branding it a terrorist organization.

Although producing little evidence of any links, authorities, including
ex-military chief Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi, allege the militant groups are a front
for the Brotherhood. In this referral, the prosecutors say Morsi had dealings
with the group while in office but gave no further evidence of the alleged
links.

The Brotherhood, which officially renounced violence in the 1970s, denies the
accusations and calls them a pretext to wipe out the government's top political
rival, which won a string of elections since the 2011 fall of longtime autocrat
Hosni Mubarak.

El-Sissi, who overthrew Morsi, is the front-runner in the presidential elections
scheduled later this month, and has vowed to fight terrorism and said he will
not allow the Brotherhood to return to politics during his term.

In the first rally to back el-Sissi's bid for presidency since the campaigning
began last week, supporters of the former military chief organized an evening
event in the gardens of a Cairo conference center, drawing several thousand
people but far less than the 30,000 organizer and media personality Mahmoud
Bakry had expected. The rally, not part of the official campaign's events,
included dancing bands and speeches by supporters of the retired military chief.

So far, el-Sissi, who is riding an overwhelming media frenzy lauding him as
Egypt's savior for overthrowing Morsi, has appeared in one pre-recorded
interview, and met privately with representatives of professional groups,
businessmen, and tribal leaders. His campaign is expected to include few street
appearances, mainly because of security concerns. In the interview, he said two
assassination plots against him have already been uncovered, without giving
details.

"El-Sissi saved Egypt. We pushed him to finish off his good deed and run for
president," 63-year Abdel-Aal Darwish, the head of a bakers association, said at
the rally. Asked about the lack of el-Sissi appearances in public, he said: "It
is an honor for us to come see him wherever he is. He doesn't have to come to
us."

Since Morsi's ouster, authorities have cracked down heavily on Islamists,
arresting thousands and putting hundreds on trial, including Morsi, on charges
that include instigating violence and holding illegal protests. Morsi is also
accused of conspiring with foreign groups to destabilize Egypt.

In the Saturday referral, prosecutors charged the defendants with founding and
leading a terrorist group, attacking state institutions, conspiring with Hamas,
premeditated murder and possession of weapons. A date for the trial will be set
later.

The statement said the defendants carried out 51 attacks in recent months,
including a spectacular bombing of the capital's security headquarters in
January that left six killed. The attacks also include a failed assassination
attempt against the interior minister in September, and a December attack
against the security headquarters in the Nile Delta city of Mansoura that killed
16, almost all policemen.

The attacks also included the assassination of a senior police officer, who was
the main investigator and a key witness in one of the trials in which Morsi is
the main defendant.

The group had claimed responsibility for the attacks.

The statement also said the prosecutor's investigation revealed that Morsi had
negotiated with the group while in office to ensure it abstained from violence
during his rule in exchange for a presidential pardon to their colleagues in
prison.

The prosecutor's statement said the group had operated in eight clusters, which
oversaw eight different cells handling recruitment, explosives making, arms
smuggling from Libya, Sudan and Gaza, documenting attacks, monitoring targets
and implementation and planning of attacks.

The statement said the group's leading figure, Tawfiq Freij, and Mohammed Badawi
of Yemen's al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula had helped organize the training of
Ansar Beit al-Maqdis recruits in Gaza with Hamas. Ansar Beit al-Madqis said in
March Freij died when he accidentally set off a bomb he was transporting in a
car.

The statement said the group is linked to another little known militant group
known as Furqan Bridages, which claimed responsibility for an attack on a
carrier ship in the strategic Suez Canal. The prosecutors said Furqan Brigades
members were recruited among supporters of former presidential hopeful and
ultraconservative Islamist preacher Hazem Abu Ismail, a Morsi supporter who is
favored by many young conservatives and who is currently on trial.

The prosecutors also refer to Hamas as the military wing of the Muslim
Brotherhood, saying the trainees adopted the more radical ideology of a late
Egyptian Brotherhood leader. Hamas is an offshoot of the Brotherhood.

Ansar Beit al-Maqdis first arose in the Sinai Peninsula, lobbing rockets into
neighboring Israel and at times opening fire on military and police. Attacks
escalated after the fall of Mubarak, when militants turned their guns more
directly against Egyptian soldiers and police.

But after Morsi's July 3 overthrow, militants dramatically stepped up their
campaign, and it has since spread to cities of the Nile Delta and in Cairo. In
recent months, al-Qaida leader Ayman al-Zawahri took up the cause, urging
Egyptians to join the fight against the man who removed Morsi. Al-Qaida in Yemen
also praised the group.

In February 2014, the group expanded its targets to include foreign tourists,
claiming responsibility for the bombing of a bus in Sinai carrying South Korean
tourists, killing three of them and the Egyptian driver.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 10, 2014 Saturday 6:05 PM GMT

Egypt charges 200 suspected militants with terrorist attacks and conspiring with
al-Qaeda and Hamas

BYLINE: EMMA GLANFIELD

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 477 words



     ·    Egypt's chief prosecutor's office has charged 200 people with 51
          attacks
     ·    Defendants are suspected members of Ansar Beit al-Maqdis militant
          group
     ·    Also charged with conspiring with al-Qaeda and Palestinian group Hamas


Hundreds of suspected militants have been charged with carrying out a wave of
terrorist attacks in Egypt that killed 40 police officers and 15 civilians.

The country's chief prosecutor's office confirmed 200 people had been charged in
connection with the attacks and with conspiring with al-Qaeda and the
Palestinian militant group Hamas.

In a statement released today, the office said the defendants - 98 of whom
remain on the run - are all suspected members of the al-Qaeda-inspired Ansar
Beit al-Maqdis group, also known as the Champions of Jerusalem.

The militant group has claimed responsibility for a number of attacks which were
carried out following the military overthrow of Islamist President Mohammed
Morsi last summer.

The prosecutor's statement refers to the group as 'the most dangerous terrorist
group', and accuses the defendants of receiving military training in the
Palestinian Gaza Strip under the patronage of Hamas, and of travelling to Syria
where they took part in fighting against government forces there before
returning to Egypt.

Officials accuse Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood of orchestrating the violence - a
charge the group denies.

The prosecutors, bringing one of the country's largest terrorism-related cases,
accuse the defendants of carrying out 51 attacks in recent months and receiving
training with Hamas in Gaza and in Syria.

The attacks are said to include a bombing of the capital's security headquarters
in January which killed six people, a failed assassination attempt against the
interior minister in September, and a December attack against the security
headquarters in the Nile Delta city of Mansoura which killed 16, almost all
policemen.

The attacks also include the assassination of a senior police officer, who was
the main investigator and a key witness in one of the trials in which Morsi is
the main defendant.

The group, which had originally operated mostly in the restive north Sinai
governorate, had claimed responsibility for the attacks.

Since Morsi's ouster, authorities have cracked down heavily on Islamists,
arresting thousands and putting hundreds on trial, including Morsi, on charges
that include instigating violence and holding illegal protests. Morsi is also
accused of conspiring with foreign groups to destabilise Egypt.

The Brotherhood denies the charges and says authorities are seeking to associate
them with violence to further undermine the group.

The statement also said the prosecutor's investigation revealed that Morsi,
while in office, had negotiated with the group to ensure it abstained from
violence during his rule in exchange for a presidential pardon to their
colleagues in prison.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 10, 2014 Saturday 5:26 PM GMT

Egypt to try 200 suspected of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 399 words


CAIRO (AP) - Egypt's chief prosecutor charged 200 suspected militants Saturday
with carrying out terrorist attacks that killed 40 policeman and 15 civilians
and of conspiring with Palestinian militant group Hamas in one of Egypt's
largest terrorism-related cases.

The defendants, 98 of whom remain on the run, are all suspected members of the
al-Qaida-inspired Ansar Beit al-Maqdis group, or Champions of Jerusalem, which
has claimed responsibility for a wave of attacks that picked up following the
military overthrow of Islamist President Mohammed Morsi last summer.

The prosecutor's statement refers to the group as "the most dangerous terrorist
group," and accuses the defendants of receiving military training in the
Palestinian Gaza Strip under the patronage of Hamas, and of traveling to Syria
where they took part in fighting against government forces there before
returning to Egypt.

Officials accuse Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood of orchestrating violence in Egypt,
a charge the group denies.

The statement said the defendants carried out 51 attacks in recent months,
including a spectacular bombing of the capital's security headquarters in
January that left six killed. The attacks also include a failed assassination
attempt against the interior minister in September, and a December attack
against the security headquarters in the Nile Delta city of Mansoura that killed
16, almost all policemen.

The attacks also included the assassination of a senior police officer, who was
the main investigator and a key witness in one of the trials in which Morsi is
the main defendant.

The group, which had originally operated mostly in the restive north Sinai
governorate, had claimed responsibility for the attacks.

Since Morsi's ouster, authorities have cracked down heavily on Islamists,
arresting thousands and putting hundreds on trial, including Morsi, on charges
that include instigating violence and holding illegal protests. Morsi is also
accused of conspiring with foreign groups to destabilize Egypt.

The Brotherhood denies the charges and says authorities are seeking to associate
them with violence to further undermine the group.

The statement also said the prosecutor's investigation revealed that Morsi,
while in office, had negotiated with the group while in office to ensure it
abstained from violence during his rule in exchange for a presidential pardon to
their colleagues in prison.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 10, 2014 Saturday 4:37 PM GMT

Egypt to try 200 suspected of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 139 words


CAIRO (AP) - Egypt's chief prosecutor's office says it has charged 200 suspected
militants with carrying out terrorist attacks that killed 40 policeman and 15
civilians, and of conspiring with al-Qaida and the Palestinian militant group
Hamas in one of the country's largest terrorism-related cases.

The Saturday statement said the defendants, 98 of whom remain on the run, belong
to the al-Qaida-inspired Ansar Beit al-Maqdis group, or Champions of Jerusalem,
which has claimed responsibility for a wave of attacks that picked up following
the military overthrow of Islamist President Mohammed Morsi last summer.
Officials accuse Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood of orchestrating the violence, a
charge the group denies.

The prosecutors accuse the defendants of carrying out 51 attacks, and receiving
training with Hamas in Gaza, and in Syria.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                              May 11, 2014 Sunday

Calls to class far-right Jewish settlers as terrorists after Israeli soldiers
attacked

BYLINE: Orlando Crowcrofttheguardian.com

LENGTH: 623 words

ABSTRACT

Senior ministers Tzipi Livni and Yitzhak Aharonovitch condemn 'price-tag'
attacks as author Amoz Oz calls militants neo-Nazis

FULL TEXT

Calls are mounting for hardline Jewish settlers to be classified as terrorists
after a spate of attacks on Palestinian property in the West Bank and Israel,
and threats of violence towards Israeli soldiers.

Last week, the justice minister, Tzipi Livni, and the internal security
minister, Yitzhak Aharonovitch, both argued that rightwing extremists should be
classified as terrorists following attacks on soldiers at the hardline West Bank
settlement of Yitzhar.

And on Friday, the Israeli prize laureate author Amos Oz described the hardline
Jewish settlers that carry out so-called "price tag" attacks on Palestinians as
neo-Nazis.

"Our neo-Nazi groups enjoy the support of numerous nationalist or even racist
legislators, as well as rabbis who give them what is in my view pseudo-religious
justification," the 75-year-old said at an event in Tel Aviv.

It is not the first time that politicians and public figures in Israel have
called for the branding of rightwing settlers as terrorists, but recent events
have coalesced into something of a perfect storm.

A spate of vandalism in Jerusalem and Galilee has seen rightwing groups target
Christians ahead of the visit of Pope Francis, including a graffiti attack on
the Vatican building where he is due to stay later this month.

Meanwhile, in the hardline settlement of Yitzhar, police arrested a woman for
inciting violence towards the IDF, just weeks after Israeli soldiers were
attacked when they attempted to dismantle a settler outpost.

It also coincides with the failure of the recent round of peace talks, with
senior politicians and peace-talks negotiators in the US, Israel and Palestine
attributing the breakdown to settlement activity, among other factors.

But in the hillside West Bank village of Asira al-Qibliya, which is just 300
metres from Yitzhar, Palestinian villagers see the recent backlash as a case of
too little, too late.

"It is only words. We don't want words, we want deeds," said Bassem Salah, 50, a
construction worker.

His neighbour Ibrahim Makhlouf, 52, a teacher, also dismissed the comments of
Israeli politicians, given the support that the Israeli state provides to
settlements in the West Bank.

"They say it is a minority, but it is a minority supported by both the
government and the army - they receive free water, free electricity, the
government spend millions of dollars on them. Who are they trying to kid?" said
Makhlouf.

His two-storey home is the closest in the village to Yitzhar, and last year a
French NGO installed a metal grate across one side of the building after his
windows were broken regularly by stone-throwing radical Zionists.

He says that the situation has improved since 2012, when villagers were given
cameras to document the attacks. In the past, settlers would tell the IDF that
they were provoked, he said, but faced with video evidence the soldiers have
been forced to act.

But the father-of-four still believes that settlements such as Yitzhar remain
the biggest barrier to peace between Israel and Palestine.

"As long as there is a settlement here I don't see a future. This settlement
needs to be evacuated. We don't want Palestine from the river to the sea, we
just want them to leave our home town," he said.

"Abu Mazen [Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas] should stop security
co-operation, he should stop negotiations. Before the [1994] Oslo Accords the
settlement was 9km away, now it is 300 metres. What have we received from the
peace process? More settlements."

"There is no compromise," added Salah, "it is us or them."

A spokesperson for Yitzhar did not reply to requests for comment.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 11, 2014 Sunday 3:11 AM GMT

MI5 record explodes Abu Hamza court claims: Close to arresting hate preacher
four years before the 9/11 terror attacks

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 234 words



     ·    On trial in New York Hamza claims he helped to keep British streets
          safe
     ·    MI5 agent: 'He had come close to being culpable for incitement to
          violence'
     ·    MI5 did not realise his significance - regarded Hamza as 'a clown'


MI5 and Scotland Yard were close to arresting hate preacher Abu Hamza four years
before the 9/11 terror attacks in 2001, court papers reveal.

The documents represent a blow to Hamza's claims in a New York Court that he had
been working with the security services while he was at Finsbury Park Mosque in
north London as a force for good.

Hamza was eventually jailed in 2005 for inciting murder and racial hatred.

The 56-year-old was extradited to the US nearly two years ago on terror charges.

Recording a meeting with Hamza in October 1997, an MI5 officer wrote: 'I
reasserted the view that over the past few months in particular, he had walked a
dangerous tightrope and had come close to being culpable for incitement to
violence.  .  . the Security Service, in particular, took a dim view of those
advocating violence, even if the violence was perpetrated overseas.'

MI5 agent Reda Hassaine, who infiltrated the mosque, said: 'Hamza was able to
recruit and brainwash vulnerable young men and raise huge amounts of cash for
his contacts overseas.

'The security services seemed incapable of putting it in its proper al-Qaeda
context.

'They continued to view it as a little local skirmish by a clown.'

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 11, 2014 Sunday 7:15 AM GMT

IRA victims call for payouts from Gaddafi wealth;
The frozen assets of Colonel Muammar Gaddafi and his henchmen should be used to
pay compensation to victims of IRA terrorist attacks using explosives supplied
by Libya

BYLINE: By Robert Mendick Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 728 words


Victims of Libyan-sponsored IRA terrorism are asking the Government to use
Muammar Gaddafi's frozen assets to pay them the compensation they should have
received while the dictator was alive.

The demand follows The Telegraph's disclosure that David Cameron has appointed
his senior security adviser to lead a new drive for justice for victims and
their relatives.

Gaddafi funded and armed the IRA from the mid-Eighties onwards, supplying the
terrorists with the Semtex plastic explosive used in a series of atrocities both
in Northern Ireland and on the British mainland.

Investigations by this newspaper have shown how intervention by Tony Blair led
to a deal in which American victims of IRA bombings received millions of pounds
in compensation from Libya, while British victims received nothing.

It meant that US victims of the Harrods bombing in 1983, for example, received
millions of pounds in compensation while Britons killed or wounded were left out
of the deal.

Pressure is now growing on Downing Street to put that injustice right by
securing compensation from the present Libyan government.

Lawyers for victims' families are calling on Mr Cameron to explore the
possibility of using the Gaddafi regime's frozen assets.

More than 35 Libyan nationals and 20 organisations remain on a combined European
Union and UN list of targeted sanctions, almost three years after the overthrow
of the Gaddafi regime.

Gaddafi and his henchmen are reckoned to have stashed hundreds of millions - if
not billions - of pounds in bank accounts around the world or else invested in
property and in companies. Saadi Gaddafi, one of his sons, owned a house in one
of London's most expensive streets.

Others on the sanctions list include Abdullah al-Senussi, the country's former
head of intelligence, who was heavily involved in orchestrating the supply of
Semtex shipments to the IRA.

The country's sovereign wealth fund - the Libyan Investment Authority (LIA)
-also remains on the sanctions list, as well as its UK subsidiaries.

The LIA, which had cash reserves estimated at £80 billion, has an office in a
£15 million town house in Mayfair in London and owns offices in prime London
locations - including opposite the Bank of England - and a 10 per cent stake in
a five-star hotel.

The LIA is one of a number of institutions, as well as individuals, being
investigated by the new Libyan government over claims that the former dictator
and his supporters embezzled billions of pounds.

The Wall Street Journal claimed last week that one of Britain's best-known
estate agents, Chesterton Humberts, was "quietly acquired by the family of a
Gaddafi insider". The estate agents has issued a statement strongly denying the
allegations.

Matthew Jury, managing partner at McCue & Partners, the London law firm that
brought a claim against Gaddafi and his regime in 2006 in the US courts on
behalf of IRA victims, said: "Hundreds of millions of pounds in personal assets,
of Gaddafi and others directly responsible for providing Semtex to the IRA,
remain frozen by the UK Government and throughout Europe.

"Both morally and legally, it seems appropriate that such assets be used to
settle the victims' outstanding claims. We have proposed this to Her Majesty's
Government before and, in the light of the Prime Minister's welcome statement of
support last week, we hope it may give it renewed and proper consideration."

Jason McCue, the firm's founding partner, said: "Billions of dollars belonging
to the Gadaffi regime remain frozen around the world. The precedent has been set
- several other countries have, in the past, not hesitated to use the frozen
assets of other rogue regimes to finance the compensation claims of their own
citizens."

Securing a one-off payment from Libya would be difficult, especially given the
current state of the nation, which was plunged into chaos by civil war. But the
country has abundant oil and gas resources.

A Treasury source said it was unclear why the assets remained frozen so long and
that this was a matter for the UN and the EU.

In 2008, lawyers were confident of securing a payout for victims of
Libyan-supported IRA terrorism in the US courts but the case was abruptly halted
as a deal was struck between president George Bush and Gaddafi. An email
suggested Gaddafi enlisted the help of Mr Blair in limiting the damages.

Mr Blair denies that he intervened.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 12, 2014 Monday 7:15 PM GMT

'What'd you expect her to do in Benghazi?': Michael Bloomberg defends Hillary
Clinton on 2012 terror attack

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, U.S. POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 799 words



     ·    The former mayor accused House Republicans of 'cheap politics' for
          questioning Clinton's actions before and after the 2012 terror attack
     ·    An aide to a member of the new House Select Committee on Benghazi says
          it will probe Clinton's failure to heed security warnings before the
          attack
     ·    The focus on the former secretary of state comes as she is the
          Democrats' undeniable presidential front-runner
     ·    The State Department had numerous warnings, including knowledge of a
          terrorist rally and parade in Benghazi months before the attack
     ·    The group that led the assault on the U.S. diplomatic compound and
          killed the American ambassador also warned of 'assassinations' to come


Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg is coming out swinging on behalf of
both Hillary Clinton and President Barack Obama, insisting that neither should
be second-guessed on their foreign policy records.

The nanny-state pol, now a registered independent after years in both the
Republicans and Democratic parties, said Clinton likely did all she could about
the situation in Libya that led to the deaths of the U.S. ambassador and three
other Americans.

'I think most of the criticisms of Hillary are totally unfounded - you can maybe
disagree with her policies, but what'd you expect her to do in Benghazi?' he
said in a recent interview.

Bloomberg's backing comes as a new House committee is set to focus intensely on
the Clinton-led State Department's failure to protect its Benghazi diplomatic
compound in the months before armed terrorists laid waste to it, a congressional
source told MailOnline on Monday.

'I mean, it's that kind of cheap politics which I don't like. She's very
competent,' Bloomberg told

Politico

of Republicans' tactics to date.

Clinton has come under fire from Republicans for initially blaming the September
11, 2012 terror attack in the eastern Libya port city on a spontaneous protest
allegedly sparked by a crude anti-Muslim video.

Her statements immediately after the attack, and just weeks before Obama's
re-election, were later proven false when intelligence reports and internal
White House emails made it clear that the administration knew immediately that
an al-Qaeda-linked Islamist terror group was responsible.

But amid House Republicans' zeal to paint Clinton as a serial fabricator in
advance of her decision on whether to run for president, they have asked few
questions publicly about State Department policies and decisions before the
attack took place.

A 2014 Senate report concluded that the Benghazi terror strike was 'likely
preventable' because State knew about security lapses and received several prior
warnings about a deteriorating situation there.

And evidence emerged in November that an al-Qaeda affiliate held  a 2012 rally,
parade and press conference in central Benghazi months before the 9/11 attack
that year, and that the State Department was notified. At the event, terror
leaders warned that 'assassinations' would follow.

That same group, Ansar al-Shariah, led the September attack that killed four.

In the five months before the deadly attack, the U.S. facility that would later
fall was assaulted twice by armed militants.

On April 6, 2012, two former security guards there threw IEDs over a fence at
the compound. And on June 6 of that year terrorists detonated an explosive at
the main perimeter gate, blowing a hole in it that a whistle-blower later told
Congress was 'big enough for forty men to go through.'

Republicans' strategy is set to change with the seating of a new select
committee in the House of Representatives charged solely with investigating the
terror attack.

'Believe me, the committee will be less concerned with how the administration
spun what happened than with why it happened in the first place,' an aide to a
Republican member of that committee told MailOnline on Monday.

The aide requested anonymity since he is not authorized to speak publicly about
the committee's plans.

That posture will likely dredge up the less-incendiary questions about why the
Clinton-led State Department denied multiple requests for added security forces
at the U.S. diplomatic post in Benghazi, and at a nearby CIA annex facility.

Clinton addressed the GOP's investigative forward motion last week, telling a
New York City audience that 'I do not believe there is any reason for it to
continue in this way, but they get to call the shots in the Congress.'

On Fox News Sunday, committee chair Rep. Trey Gowdy suggested Clinton was
derelict for not pulling diplomats out of Benghazi after every other Western
nation had done so.

'Why were we still in Benghazi?' he asked. 'The British ambassador was almost
assassinated. Our facility was attacked twice. There were multiple episodes of
violence. We were the last flag flying in Benghazi and I would like to know
why.'

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        May 12, 2014 Monday 12:32 AM GMT

Muslim extremists 'targeting prisoners' - and prison chiefs fear radicalised
inmate could one day commit terror attacks;
Over the last 10 years the number of incarcerated Muslims has doubled to nearly
12,000, including around 100 Islamist terrorists

BYLINE: By Adrian Shaw

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 673 words


Young Muslim criminals are being radicalised behind bars by hardline Islamist
inmates, according to a BBC Panorama programme to be screened tonight.

Prison and probation chief Michael Spurr, chief executive of the National
Offender Management Service of England and Wales, said: "There is a significant
risk, given the fact that we manage some very dangerous people.

"Our job is to minimise that risk becoming a reality, that somebody in prison
becomes radicalised and commits a terrorist offence."

He warned there could be a "whole range of different potential scenarios where
people could be hurt" if they failed in their job to protect the public from
extremists.

Over the last 10 years the number of Muslims in prisons in England and Wales has
doubled to nearly 12,000 including around 100 Islamist terrorists.

Tonight's programme also features an interview with Jordan Horner, 20, who now
calls himself Jamaal Uddin, who was recently released from a 17 month prison
sentence for campaigning for the introduction of hardline Sharia law.

He said he had converted others inside and added: "The prison officers witnessed
people become Muslim and in front of them I was giving them what we call
Shahada, an invitation and acceptance of Islam."

He said in less than a year he was transferred by the prison service four times
in an effort to disrupt his activities.

Muslim terrorists behind bars include Michael Adebolajo, 29, and Michael
Adebowale, 22, who were jailed for life earlier this year for the murder of
soldier Lee Rigby, 25, outside Woolwich barracks in South London a year ago.

Panorama reporter Raphael Rowe followed a former self-proclaimed 'gangster' who
converted to Islam whilst in prison, after he was taken under the wing of
well-known extremists and convicted terrorists.

The programme witnessed the moment Michael Coe, whose Islamic name is Mikaeel
Ibrahim was released from Manchester prison to be met by convicted extremists
Abdul Muhid and Mizanur Rahman.

Usually inmates identified as a potential threat because of their extreme views
are met by police officers or the probation service when they are released on
licence. But because Ibrahim had served his whole sentence he was free to be met
by who ever he chose.

He was jailed in 2006 for eight years for threatening police officers with a
shotgun while out on parole for carjacking at knifepoint.

Ibrahim told Panorama: "I always hung around with Muslims and you know after a
little time it rubs off on you...you start listening to people and believing
people.

"In the end I decided this is the way forward and my life has been much better
since."

Ibrahim told Panorama that he is not an extremist, but he has appeared in a
Salafi Media video praising Osama Bin Laden and since his release he has taken
part in protests and associated with radicals such as Anjem Choudary.

The governor of Whitemoor high security prison in Cambridgeshire - which holds
around 10 convicted terrorists and three times as many inmates with extremist
links - says that these prisoners pose a significant challenge.

Damian Evans said his staff were trained to observe prisoners and gather
information. He told Panorama: "We are generally good at identifying risk and
acting on it."

One former prisoner and ex-gang member Robert Mohid, who served nine years for
armed robbery at various prisons, told the programme that some criminals convert
to Islam in prison for safety.

He said: "They want protection and they see that a lot of Muslim brothers stick
together. They try and practise religion just to not be harmed by any of the
people. If you mess with one Muslim you mess with them all."

Chief Inspector of Prisons Nick Hardwick said Muslim prisoners have consistently
reported feeling more unsafe than non-Muslims.

He said: "They feel threatened by other prisoners and sometimes they'll feel
threatened by staff.

"The danger of prisoners feeling unsafe is they look for protection and if they
don't feel they're being protected by staff, they'll join a group that they
think can provide that protection."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                              May 12, 2014 Monday

Bromley ambulance officer who worked on IRA bombings, 7/7 terrorist attacks and
Stephen Lawrence inquiry, honoured for 40 years' service

BYLINE: Patrick Grafton-Green

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 236 words


A retiring Bromley London Ambulance Service (LAS) officer, who worked on the IRA
bombings, 7/7 terrorist attacks and Steven Lawrence inquiry, has received an
award for his 40 years' service.

Assistant Chief Ambulance Officer Russell Mansford was presented with the award
by LAS Chairman Richard Hunt at a ceremony with 34 of his colleagues in
Westminster.

After working on the road briefly, he became a call-taker in the control centre,
taking charge of services in Bromley.

He attended the Moorgate train crash in 1971, numerous incidents in the IRA
bombing campaign including an explosion at Canary Wharf in 1996 and led
operations from the emergency operations centre during the Paddington train
crash.

During the terrorist attacks in July 2007, he was the link between ambulance
headquarters in Waterloo and COBRA, the Government's emergency response
committee.

He also gave evidence at the public inquiry into the death of Stephen Lawrence
in 1997.

Mr Mansford said: "It was a blessing to work for the London Ambulance Service
and very hard to give up. I was lucky to do so much during my career.

"I met a number of cabinet ministers and practically all the royal family. In
fact, in 2000, while giving the Queen Mother a tour of the emergency operations
centre, I thought at one point she might fall and I put out my arm to catch her.

"Instead I got a telling off for breaching royal protocol. I'll never forget
that."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 12, 2014 Monday 9:10 AM GMT

Beijing deploys armed anti-terror units after attacks;
In the wake of a spate of vicious attacks on civilians, new mobile anti-terror
units are tasked with cracking down on 'terrorists, mass violence and gun
crimes'

BYLINE: By Tom Phillips Shanghai

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 593 words


Beijing has reacted to a spate of deadly attacks on civilians by deploying 150
armed response units "to fight terrorism and maintain stability" in the Chinese
capital, state media announced on Monday.

The 13-man units are intended to counter "street terrorism" and "severe
violence," Xinhua, China's official news agency, said.

Their main focus will be incidents "involving guns, bombs as well as mass
violence or terrorism," Xinhua added.

Security is currently being tightened in cities across China in response to a
recent wave of attacks, which have claimed dozens of lives.

Already this year there have been three separate attacks on Chinese train
stations which state media say were carried out by "knife-wielding" assailants.
Beijing has blamed at least two of these attacks on religious extremists from
the western province of Xinjiang.

In the most severe incident - a March 1 assault on a station in Kunming - 29
people and four attackers were killed. State media called that attack "China's
9/11".

The Foreign Office updated its advice for UK citizens travelling to China last
week after a knife attack at a train station in the southern megacity of
Guangzhou.

"Be vigilant and take extra care when transiting public transport hubs," the new
advice says .

Security has also been visibly increased in Shanghai, where 1,000 armed police
officers were deployed in "densely populated areas, such as urban centers and
transport hubs" on April 20, according to Xinhua.

Uniformed police officers have been ordered to start patrolling religious venues
in Shanghai, The Telegraph understands.

Calls to the propaganda office of Shanghai's Public Security Bureau went
unanswered on Monday afternoon.

It is not clear whether the increased presence of security forces reflects
specific intelligence about plans for new attacks or is simply an attempt to
reassure the public and deter potential attackers.

Li Juan, an anti-terrorism expert from the Xinjiang Police College, told the
China Daily high profile troop deployments needed to become "regular and
permanent features of public safety, not merely a short-term campaign".

Raffaello Pantucci, a senior research fellow and anti-terrorism expert from
London's Royal United Services Institute, said it was not clear if the recent
attacks were connected.

"The similarities in tactics could be something that is due to imitation or
strategy. What would be surprising would be if it proved that these were linked
to people outside the country. The level of capability and tactics suggest
something more home-grown," he said.

Pantucci said Beijing was likely to take "a quite hardline view in the
short-term".

"We have already seen a number of measures being put in place - like armed cops
wandering Shanghai's streets or police more generally taking a more proactive
approach to stopping and searching people in the streets - and I imagine this
will only increase."

Monday's deployment of armed units also comes just ahead of the 25th anniversary
of the 1989 Tiananmen crackdown on June 4, an event that has left Beijing
jittery.

Pu Zhiqiang, one of China's most respected human rights lawyers, was arrested
last week on charges of "picking quarrels and provoking trouble" after taking
part in a seminar about the deadly military crackdown. Activists believe the
Communist Party is attempting to silence Mr Pu and other dissidents before the
anniversary.

Drawing attention to "the June 4th incident... clearly crossed the red line of
law," the state-run Global Times newspaper argued last week, without explaining
why.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 13, 2014 Tuesday

Pakistani editorial urges 'use of force' against Khyber Province terror attacks

LENGTH: 330 words


Text of editorial headlined "Peshawar Bombing" by Pakistani newspaper Jang
website on 13 May

Rawalpindi: Terror attacks are continuing in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province.
Bombings are being carried out in Peshawar and other parts of the province,
defying all the security measures.

The persons who have migrated from the Tirah valley were being registered at the
football stadium adjoining Pardah Bagh on the Peshawar-Charsadda road when a
suicide bomber entered the stadium. When the security officials offered
resistance, he blew himself up. Five persons were killed and 14 injured as a
result. Around 10 to 12 kg of explosive was used in the bombing. In addition,
one security official was killed and three injured as a bomb was detonated near
a security forces' convoy in Bajaur Agency. A youth was killed and four persons
were injured as a planted roadside bomb exploded when a convoy of security
forces passed by in Loi Mamund area.

Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is the target of the terrorists. Gunfire and suicide bombings
have become the order of the day. Even the polio workers are being targeted. As
a result, the campaign to vaccinate children has been paralyzed and there has
been an increase in polio cases. The World Health Organization has taken notice
of these cases.

Talks are being held with the banned Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan [TTP], in which
the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government is not only involved but is also extending
cooperation in every possible way to take these talks forward.

Yet, there appears to be no end to the terror attacks and innocent people are
being killed. Although the provincial government has put security on high alert
across the province and pickets have been installed everywhere, suicide bombings
still continue. The provincial government needs to identify the terrorists with
the help of the federal Interior Ministry and mount an operation against them.
The use of force is the only answer to these attacks.

Source: Jang, Rawalpindi, in Urdu 13 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 14, 2014 Wednesday

Italy: Calabrian mafia said involved in terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 730 words


Text of report by Italian privately-owned centrist newspaper La Stampa, on 11
May

[Report by "gui.ruo.": "Clans, Informants, and the Signs of an Unprecedented
'Subversive Attack'"]

Reggio Calabria - An impressive sequence of "warnings" is making analysts and
Anti-Mafia heads say that "we are dealing with subversive terrorist attacks by
the 'Ndrangheta." Weapons have been found, announcements have been made about
carabinieri barracks, bullets, casings, and cartridges have been found outside
Finance Police barracks, and there have been bombs against retailers in the
centre.

This is very scary and very disturbing. Since the then Reggio public prosecutor
Giuseppe Pignatone announced in 2011 at the inauguration of the judicial year
that the state had decided to launch an offensive against "the gray area that is
represented by the Mafia middle class," the settling of scores is getting
closer. Now that the baton has passed from Pignatone to Federico Cafiero De Raho
we have entered a tunnel from which there is no way back. [sentence as
published]

"For now we are dealing with symbolic acts," said Prosecutor Federico Cafiero De
Raho, "which have the aim of sending a message to the city. We do not know
whether this is just the 'Ndrangheta or also that gray area that includes people
from the state, the institutions, and freemasonry." Nevertheless, the
'Ndrangheta planning massacres has never been seen before. Is it possible that
it can jeopardize its fortunes, its capital, and its activities? Prosecutor
Cafiero De Raho does not see the two strands of the 'Ndrangheta as being at odds
with each other: "The business wing going underground and the military wing
conducting a subversive strategy that could be serving several different
interests are not at odds with each other."

The arrest of Claudio Scajola and Amedeo Matacena [former minister and MP
respectively] - though it was almost "incidental," meaning that the discovery of
the organization of friends and relatives that was set up in order to ensure the
escape of the former Forza Italia MP from Reggio Calabria happened by chance -
is now a piece of the puzzle that investigators want to put together, a puzzle
that could ultimately provide a snapshot of crime in Reggio that has never been
seen before. In other words: extras and main actors alike - professionals,
lawyers, and politicians who have been (almost) unscathed in 30 years of
criminal history - could end up in the defendants dock for their role as
"invisible people."

Let us return to the disturbing signs and list the various episodes. Let us
start from 23 November: in the area of the Gioia Tauro port, close to the
Finance Police headquarters, 110 9x21-bullets were found, and 47 casings of the
same caliber. Two days later, in the same area 16 casings of the same caliber
were found, along with a bullet.

At the beginning of December, a confidential source revealed that on New Year's
Eve, on 31 December, attacks could be carried out on carabinieri barracks: an
alert was launched, and every precaution was taken, with barracks being warned
and even sand bags being placed.

On 11 February, at around 0030, a device went off, destroying the Malavenda
cafe, in Via Santa Caterina. On 3 March, a similar device destroyed the Romeo
food store, in Via Pietro Foti, in the centre - this could have been a massacre.
On 31 March, in Rizziconi [small town in Reggio Province], a person with no
criminal record was stopped and on the back seat of his car he had 10 machine
guns with 20 magazines (1,000 bullets), two small machine guns with eight
magazines (320 bullets), and five guns.

What were all these weapons for, considering that there are no 'Ndrangheta feuds
or wars? Were they to be sold? And why did they end up in Rizziconi, in the
interior near Reggio? To assault some truck transporting money? But the
'Ndrangheta is so loaded that even its cushions are filled with euros and
dollars.

These are the news events, to which one must add that disturbing warnings have
been made to the family of the outgoing governor, Giuseppe Scopelliti, who is a
candidate in the European elections for the NCD [New Centre Right] led by
Alfano, and who has been sentenced to six years in jail, pending appeal, in
connection with the financial management of the Reggio municipality when he was
the city's mayor.

Source: La Stampa, Turin, in Italian 11 May 14 p 6

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 15, 2014 Thursday

Terrorist mortar attacks kill four in Aleppo, Damascus Countryside - state media

LENGTH: 155 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Provinces: A source in Aleppo province told SANA that terrorists fired mortar
shells on al-Ashrafiyeh neighbourhood in Aleppo city, claiming lives of 3
civilians and injuring 20 others.

Terrorist attack claims life of worker in al-Bayrouni hospital

Terrorists fired mortar shells on al-Bayrouni Hospital in Harasta area in
Damascus Countryside, claiming the life of a worker and injuring two others.

A source at the Police Command told SANA that a mortar shell landed in front of
the entrance of the rescue department of the hospital specialized in tumour
treatment, claiming the life of a worker and injuring two others, in addition to
causing material damage to several cars.

The source added that two other shells fell near Harasta bridge, causing
material damage without human casualties.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1450 gmt 15 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Exeter Express and Echo

                             May 15, 2014 Thursday

City bomber regrets terror attack

SECTION: NEWS:PEOPLE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 703  words


THE bomber who detonated a device at a cafÃ© in Princesshay has said sorry for
bringing terror to the streets of Exeter.

Nicky Reilly is currently serving a life sentence for the attempted suicide bomb
after being radicalised by Islamic extremists.

But his mother Kim Reilly said her son has now said he regrets his attempt to
blow up the Giraffe restaurant packed with diners with a home-made device in
2008.

He admitted the attack in which he accidentally set off a home-made nail bomb in
a toilet cubicle as he prepared to target dozens of innocent people.

But Mrs Reilly believes her son was turned into "a loaded gun" by extremists.

Some of those caught up in the drama and chaos of the day have told the Echo
they welcome the apology, but had doubts to how genuine it was.

Reilly had changed his name to Mohammad Abdulaziz Rashid Saeed-Alim in 2004 in
tribute to the 9/11 New York attackers.

Investigating officers said it was believed Reilly, who has a history of mental
illness, had adopted the Islamic faith and was "preyed upon, radicalised and
taken advantage of".

The explosion sent dozens of restaurant customers fleeing in panic, and caused
the mass evacuation of Princesshay, while the bomber staggered out of the
restaurant suffering serious facial injuries.

"He has told me that he regrets it," said Kim, referring to her son's actions
that day.

She claimed that in 2008 Nicky was radicalised in a matter of weeks by two men
in Pakistan via the internet.

She said: "They were telling him how to make the bomb step my step."

She says they told him who to target, and how to target them.

In the three days before the attack she says they went "on and on" at Nicky with
details ensuring he would get it right - but he still did not.

Mrs Reilly said: "They were telling him he would be in paradise with 44 virgins,
and he believed it."

She said she only found out details and updates of what had happened through the
media, and was unable to talk to Nicky for weeks after the explosion as police
told her Nicky was undergoing operations.

She added: "I just had a phone call from Exeter Hospital saying that my son had
been in an explosion.

"My mind was in turmoil, it was like a bomb went off in our lives."

Mrs Reilly describes the following months as "absolutely horrific" as her life
was turned upside down.

She says when she first got to see Nicky she was unable to speak. She said:
"When I first saw him I just broke down, I couldn't even speak at first."

She added: "I've got a child who had never committed a crime... he had gone from
no trouble at all to the top of the scale -  from one extreme to the other."

She says her head was "pickled" and added: "It is just so hard to get your head
round it. It still is now."

On January 30, 2009, Reilly was jailed for life with a minimum term of 18 years
having admitted attempting to launch a suicide bomb attack.

Information released after his guilty plea revealed that Reilly was obsessed
with martyrdom and wanted to cause as much death and injury as possible.

Nicky occasionally writes letters and cards to his mother, and even recently
embarked upon a creative writing course which saw his poem published in a small
book which Kim keeps at home.

Among those caught up in the incident was Paul Smith, who was Lord Mayor at the
time.

He was on his way into  Giraffe to get something to eat when the bomb went off.

He said:  "He was obviously led by somebody, but he constructed that explosive
and mechanism himself and there was no evidence that other people were with him.

"I think you have to look at the motivations behind apologising now. If it is
genuine and his mother feels it is genuine then that is a positive step. I
understand the mother's upset - she must have been totally bewildered at the
time. But if it is an attempt to lessen his sentence that is a different story.

"I think an apology would mean a lot to the staff who were at Giraffe on the day
although I don't suppose many are still there. There is a touch of me that
thinks saying sorry and regretting it now is easy. Luckily no-one came to any
harm."

"People were worried and Exeter seemed just a strange place for something like
that to happen. I do remember and admire how well everyone coped on the day."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 15, 2014 Thursday 3:29 PM GMT

'Those we lost live in us': Obama dedicates National September 11 Memorial
Museum 'a sacred place of healing and hope' that tells the stories of the
terrorist attacks from the last voicemails of victims to the columns of the twin
towers

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER and MICHAEL ZENNIE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 552 words


President Barack Obama has dedicated the National September 11 Memorial Museum
on a rainy day in Lower Manhattan, declaring 'those that we lost live in us.'

Obama toured the museum earlier in the day with Hillary Clinton and former New
York Mayor Michael Bloomberg.

'I think all who come here will find it to be a profound and moving experience,'
he declared, calling it 'a sacred place of healing and hope.'

September 11 survivors, rescuers and victims' relatives were on hand to mark the
opening of the museum, where the story of the terrorist attacks is told on a
scale as big as the twin towers' columns and as intimate as victims' last
voicemails.

It opens to the general public May 21.

By turns chilling and heartbreaking, the ground zero museum leads people on an
unsettling journey through the terrorist attacks, with forays into their lead up
and legacy.

There are scenes of horror, including videos of the skyscrapers collapsing and
people falling from them. But there also are symbols of heroism, ranging from
damaged fire trucks to the wristwatch of one of the airline passengers who
confronted the hijackers.

'You won't walk out of this museum without a feeling that you understand
humanity in a deeper way,' museum President Joe Daniels said Wednesday.

The museum and memorial plaza above, which opened in 2011, were built for $700
million in donations and tax dollars.

Work on the museum was marked by construction problems, financial squabbles and
disputes over its content and the appropriate way to honor the dead, but its
leaders see it as a monument to unity and resilience.

And its opening is prompting reflection from presidents and the everyday people
whose lives were changed by the attacks.

Obama is mindful of 'the need to remember and the power of memory in a nation's
history, as well as the need to properly grieve and rebuild,' White House
spokesman Jay Carney said Wednesday.

Former President George W. Bush issued a statement saying the museum 'will help
ensure that our nation remembers the lessons of Sept. 11.'

Charles G. Wolf, who lost his wife, Katherine, awaited Thursday's ceremonial
opening with a mix of anticipation and dread.

'It brings everything up,' he said Wednesday.

Visitors start in an airy pavilion where the rusted tops of two of the World
Trade Center's trident-shaped columns shoot upward.

From there, museumgoers descend stairs and ramps, passing through a dark
corridor filled with the voices of people remembering the day and past the
battered 'survivors' staircase' that hundreds used to escape the burning towers.

At the base level - 70 feet below ground, amid remnants of the skyscrapers'
foundations - there are such artifacts as a mangled piece of the antenna from
atop the trade center and a fire truck with its cab shorn off.

Then, galleries plunge visitors into the chaos of September 11: fragments of
planes, a set of keys to the trade center, a teddy bear left at the impromptu
memorials that arose after the attacks, the dust-covered shoes of those who fled
the skyscrapers' collapse, emergency radio transmissions and office workers
calling loved ones, even a recording of an astronaut solemnly describing the
smoke plume from the International Space Station.

Sprinkled in are snippets about the 19 hijackers, including photos of them on an
inconspicuous panel.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 15, 2014 Thursday 5:18 PM GMT

Barack Obama says 'nothing can break us' at opening of 9/11 memorial museum;
President vows that 'generations yet unborn will never forget' the 2001 terror
attacks that forever changed America

BYLINE: By Raf Sanchez Washington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 448 words


President Barack Obama vowed that "no act of terror can match the strength or
the character of the United States" as he opened the new September 11 memorial
museum beneath the site of the fallen World Trade Center.

Nearly 13 years after the terrorist attacks that forever scarred America, Mr
Obama promised that the cavernous museum beneath lower Manhattan would ensure
"that generations yet unborn will never forget" what happened on the morning of
September 11, 2001.

"Like the great wall and bedrock that embrace us today, nothing can ever break
us," he said. "Nothing can change who we are as Americans ."

Mr Obama, wearing a black tie, devoted most of his short speech to the story of
Welles Crowther, a 24-year-old investment banker who worked on the 78th floor of
the South Tower.

Mr Crowther wrapped his signature red handkerchief over his face and helped
carry injured survivors to safety only to be killed when the skyscraper
collapsed at 9.58am.

"From this day forward, all those who come here will have a chance to know the
sacrifice of a young man who, like so many, gave his life so others might live,"
Mr Obama said.

The president never mentioned Osama bin Laden by name but said he returned to
the site of the World Trade Center in 2011 "after our SEALs made sure that
justice was done".

There he met Alison Crowther, Mr Crowther's mother, who spoke after he left the
stage.

"It is our greatest hope that when people come here and see Welles' red
bandanna, they will remember how people helped each other that day," she said.
"And we hope that they will be inspired to do the same in ways both big and
small."

Mr Obama, accompanied by his wife, toured the museum early on Thursday morning,
guided by Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York City and chairman of
the September 11 memorial.

He also met Bill and Hillary Clinton. Mrs Clinton had been a senator for New
York for less than a year when the hijacked airliners brought down the Twin
Towers.

The museum, set 70 feet underground, is an unsparing reminder of the horrors of
September 11. It includes a mangled fire truck and the "Ground Zero Cross", a
17ft cross made of the ripped beams from 6 World Trade Center.

But it also includes more intimate objects from the victims' lives, including
one of Mr Crowther's bandannas and helmets worn by fallen New York fire
fighters.

While the dedication ceremony was presented as a moment of unity, the museum's
opening has been long delayed by wrangling between New York's politicians.

Mr Bloomberg and Andrew Cuomo, the governor of New York, spent several years
arguing over the cost of $1 billion museum and it was not open in time for the
11th anniversary in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Crawley Observer

                              May 16, 2014 Friday

Crawley mum tells of arson attack terror

LENGTH: 498  words


A mother said her daughter and niece could have died from smoke inhalation after
a wheelie bin was set on fire in an alleyway behind her home.

Samantha George, 29, of Shipley Road, Ifield, said her son Kyle saved his sister
Daisie-May, 5, and cousin, Ruby George, 7, who were asleep when smoke filled
their room during a firefighters' strike.

She said: "If my ten-year-old was asleep we wouldn't have known any different.

"They wouldn't have woken up.

"He saved my little girl and my little niece."

Samantha and her partner Lee Brown, 43, were watching TV downstairs when Kyle
alerted them to the danger after 11pm on May 4.

Daisie-May and Ruby, who was visiting her cousin, slept while their room on the
first floor filled with smoke coming in from a small open window.

Samantha said: "It absolutely stunk in there."

West Sussex Fire and Rescue Service (WSFRS) attended after the fire was out.

Samantha said: "The fire brigade said if it had been ten minutes my girls
would've needed hospital treatment  - if they weren't already dead."

Kyle and his brother, Mason, 2, slept in a different room.

Samantha noticed the wheelie bin in her front garden was missing after she and
Lee ruled out the fire started in their home.

She said: "I checked down the alleyway and saw it was all on fire."

The bin was carried from the front garden to the alleyway between the house and
its conservatory.

Samantha said: "To realise somebody had put that there, it was terrifying. I was
sick in the garden."

Lee carried the still burning bin to their front garden after he doused the
flames with water from a washing up bowl.

Samantha said: "I was screaming at him.

"As he put it down it burst into flames."

Samantha and Lee put the fire out together.

The fire happened while firefighters' were taking industrial action because of
an ongoing dispute with the Government over pensions.

A WSFRS spokesman said a retained crew from Midhurst were called to the scene at
11.48pm.

Samantha said the crew did not arrive until around 12.15am.

The spokesman said the fire was out on arrival.

None of the family needed medical treatment.

Kyle was disturbed by the fire.

Samantha said: "He was crying and shaking.

"He didn't sleep, he was very worried."

The other children went to sleep.

She said: "We just told them a drunk had put a cigarette in the bin, they don't
need to know that kind of stuff."

Samantha said she relived the fear of that night when the bins were collected.
She said: "It's the noise of the bins, I'm looking out the window."

Samantha, a full-time mother, said she and Lee, a ground worker, bought £500
worth of CCTV and security lights for their home following the fire.

Lee's father, Robert Brown, 65, who suffers from Alzheimer's Disease, also lives
with them.

A spokesman for Sussex Police said it was investigating the incident.

The spokesman said: "The fire is being treated as deliberate.

"Anyone who saw what happened is asked to contact police via 101 or email
101@sussex.pnn.police.uk quoting serial 0007 of 4/5."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPCO


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              May 16, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

football star in ram raid terror at home;
MOPED GANG ATTACK PLAYER AS THEY STORM INTO LONDON HOUSE ; Football star's
doorstep fight with gang

BYLINE: John Dunne; Benedict Moore-Bridger

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 421 words


A PROFESSIONAL footballer was robbed at his home by a gang who tried to batter
down his front door with mopeds.

The four attackers, all clad in black, tried to smash their way into Alexander
Merkel's Hampstead house then stormed in as he opened the door to investigate.

The German, 22, was renting the property while on loan to Championship side
Watford from Italian club Udinese.

One suspect, thought to have an Irish accent, asked for "Jonny" and a struggle
broke out as he attempted to grab the midfielder's watch, said police.

A second suspect raced inside and grabbed a bag as the fight continued. The two
Continued on Page 2 Continued from Page 1 raiders then jumped on to mopeds, one
black and the other blue, driven by two other suspects and made a getaway.

A neighbour said: "I saw guys shouting and banging on the door and the young man
living there came out.

"It was a frightening scene. I called police immediately. The man who lives
there drives a Maserati and obviously has a lot of money. He is a footballer and
has not lived there long."

Another resident said: "Two mopeds with four people on the back were outside a
neighbour's front door.

"One tried to kick it in but bounced off in a comical fashion. They then tried
to ram it with their bikes. It seemed they knew which house they wanted to get
into - it's quite concerning."

Another, who heard "shouting and revved engines", said: "It really was scary. We
spoke to the victim afterwards and he looked quite shocked." The attack took
place at 10.30pm on May 2 ahead of Watford's final game of the season next day.
Merkel, tipped as a rising star of German football, was not with the squad
because of injury.

He joined Watford on loan in January until the end of the season just finished.
He was sent off on his debut in a 1-0 defeat by Reading and scored his only goal
in a 3-0 win against Barnsley.

A source close to the player said he was now on holiday but would cooperate with
any requests by police. The source added: "Luckily they did not manage to take
very much and he is fine."

A similar but unsuccessful moped raid is understood to have happened in West
Hampstead an hour earlier.

It came after similar "moped gang" raids forced residents in Hampstead Garden
Suburb to fit metal bars on to windows and reinforce front doors.

Police said the two male suspects are aged between 18 and 25. One was 6ft tall,
of slim build and with an Irish accent. The other was 6ft 2in and of medium
build.

Watford FC said: "Merkel is not with us now so it is nothing to do with us."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Struggle at door: Alexander Merkel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 16, 2014 Friday 11:18 PM GMT

Terror attack kills 13 in Kenya as hundreds of Western tourists are evacuated
under armed guard over safety fears

BYLINE: WILLS ROBINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1915 words



     ·    At least 13 people are feared to have died in twin bomb attacks on
          Nairobi
     ·    Reports suggest around 70 people have been injured in the attacks
     ·    One blast reportedly came from a minibus near Gikomba Market
     ·    UK and US authorities recently imposed warnings on travel to Kenya


At least 13 people are feared to have died during two bomb attacks in the Kenyan
capital of Nairobi.

The blasts, which are said to have taken place near Gikomba Market, come the
week hundreds of Western tourists have been evacuated from the country due to
increasing terror threats.

The first explosion came from a 14-seater tour bus left the near the area, and
the second came from within the market.

Reports suggest that two suspects have been arrested as a result of the attack,
which took place just four miles away from the Westgate Mall, where 67 people
were killed by gunmen last September.

Scroll down for videos

Jared Ojuk, Kenya's deputy police spokesman, said police suspected the blasts
were caused by an improvised explosive device (IED).

President Uhuru Kenyatta, who began a previously planned news conference only
minutes after the Nairobi blasts, offered his condolences but dismissed the US
and UK travel warnings, saying that terrorism is a common problem, including in
New York and Boston.

Earlier this week, 11 people were hospitalised after a fire in the same market.

Before the blasts, the US embassy sent out a new travel alert to American
citizens warning of a continued terrorist threat in a country where their
Embassy suffered a devastating attack in 1998.

An earlier US warning this week said for the first time that the embassy itself
is taking new steps to increase security 'due to recent threat information
regarding the international community in Kenya'.

The British government also warned its citizens this week to avoid the coastal
city of Mombasa and beach towns nearby, prompting a travel company to cut short
the vacations of hundreds of British citizens and fly them home.

Security concerns have long been high in Kenya because of its proximity to
Somalia and the al-Qaeda-linked terrorist group, al-Shabab that operates there.

In September, four al-Shabab gunmen attacked a shopping mall in Nairobi, killing
at least 67 people.

The 1998 embassy bombing killed more than 200.

Since the mall attack, Kenya has suffered numerous smaller bombings in Nairobi
and Mombasa. Kenyan authorities, with the help of the FBI, also discovered a
huge car bomb that could have caused massive damage.

A number of UK travel companies suspended holidays to the nation as tourists
were watched in airports under armed guard before returning home.

Tour operators Thomson and First Choice are bringing holidaymakers home after a
change in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) travel advice.

The two companies have cancelled all flights to the East African country until
the end of October, while long-haul travel company Kuoni is, for the time being,
not offering holidays to the Kenyan coast.

Earlier this month, a bomb attack at a bus station in the coastal city of
Mombasa killed three people and injured around 16.

Another explosion also damaged a hotel in the city during rising tensions and a
a recent spate of al-Shabab-linked incidents.

The US Embassy says that more than 100 people have been killed in shootings,
grenade attacks and small bombs in Kenya over the past 18 months.

Around 100,000 Britons travel to the country every year, and many have been
devastated by the change in circumstances.

Andy Coughlan was on 'a dream holiday' after with his wife Irene, 53, who was
told she had gone into remission after suffering breast cancer.

'We're absolutely devastated,' Mr Coughlan, 53, told The Daily Telegraph. 'Ren
had been seriously ill for a long time and this was the first time after all the
chemo that she was ready to travel.

'She said she wanted to wait for her hair to grow back. As soon as it did, we
were on our way here.'

The couple from Swansea were staying at the luxury Diani beach and had only
arrived in Kenya on Tuesday.

Earlier this week the FCO changed its advice for Kenya to advise against all but
essential travel to Mombasa island and within 3.1 miles of the coast from Mtwapa
creek in the north to Tiwi in the south.

Kuoni said today: 'Although the advice does not include Moi International
Airport, Diani beach or Malindi, the main road to access these resorts goes
through the restricted area defined by the FCO advice.

'This means that we are no longer able to offer holidays to the Kenyan coast at
present.'

The company added that it would contact all customers who were due to travel in
the next seven days and this would continue on a rolling basis until the FCO
advice changed.

Kuoni said that any customers travelling from the UK within the next seven days
with an itinerary that included the coast were able to cancel free of charge or
amend to an alternative destination with no administration fee but at the
applicable cost.

CONCERNS HIGH IN KENYA OVER AL-QAEDA-LINKED GROUP AL-SHABAB

Islamic militant group Al-Shabab, which means 'The Youth' in Arabic, was formed
in 2006 as a radical offshoot of the Islamic justice system.

It is thought to have between 9,000 and 15,000 members and in 2012, it joined
the militant Islamist organisation al-Qaeda as a cell.

The group wants to overthrow the UN-backed government in Somalia, and is
suspected of links to a string of attacks in neighbouring Kenya.

It has been pushed out of most of the main towns it once controlled, but it
remains a potent threat.

As of 2013, pressure from African Union Mission In Somalia (AMISOM) and
Ethiopian forces has largely degraded Al-Shabab                     's control
and conflict among senior leaders has exacerbated fractures within the group.

Following the death of British Army soldier Drummer Lee Rigby in May 2013, it
emerged one of his murderers had travelled to Kenya to train with Al-Shabab.

Michael Adebolajo, 29, was arrested in Kenya in 2010 with five others. At the
time, the head of Kenya's anti-terrorism unit said he believed Adebolajo was
planning to train with Al-Shabab                     , yet he was released to
British authorities in Kenya and deported.

Adebolajo and accomplice Michael Adebowale, 22, were convicted in December last
year of murdering Fusilier Lee Rigby outside his barracks in Woolwich.

The British Muslim converts ran him over in a car, almost decapitated him and
then dragged him into the middle of the road while ordering onlookers to film
them.

Adebolajo was given a whole-life term and Adebowale was jailed for a minimum of
45 years.

The company went on: 'For any customers who are travelling to other parts of
Kenya on safari or staying in a lodge and don't have Mombasa included in their
itinerary, they will not be affected by the current FCO advice and holidays will
continue as normal.'

Thomson and First Choice said they had been continuously monitoring the
situation as it developed and have been working very closely with the FCO and
follow its advice at all times.

The companies went on: 'As a result of the change in FCO advice, the decision
has been taken to cancel all our outbound flights to Mombasa, Kenya, up to and
including October 31.

'As a precautionary measure, we have also taken the decision to repatriate all
customers currently on holiday in Kenya, including our Air Fare passengers, back
to the UK on Thursday and Friday this week.'

According to reports, Thomson has about 400 customers in Kenya, including those
in Mombasa and on safari.

The FCO advice reads: 'There is a high threat from terrorism, including
kidnapping. The main threat comes from extremists linked to Al Shabaab, a
militant group that has carried out attacks in Kenya in response to Kenya's
military intervention in Somalia.

'There has been a spate of small-scale grenade, bomb and armed attacks in
Nairobi (especially the area of Eastleigh), Mombasa, and North Eastern Province.

'You should take care in public places where people gather, and exercise a
heightened level of vigilance.'

A spokeswoman for the FCO said: 'We estimate there are 5,000 British nationals
resident along the coast and approximately 500 in Mombasa and surrounding area.'

TRAVEL TO KENYA: YOUR QUESTIONS ANSWERED BY TRAVELMAIL

Where exactly have tourists been warned they cannot go?

The latest advice for tourists is to avoid all but essential travel to Mombasa
Island and within 5km of the coast from Mtwapa creek, north of the city, and
Tiwi in the south.

However, the warning does not include the popular beach resort of Diani or Moi
international airport, which is the gateway to the coast.

I have a holiday booked on Kenya's coast, will it be cancelled?

Tour operators will cancel any holidays that are based in the areas that have
now been declared off-limits.

They are not obliged to cancel trips to other parts of Kenya. However, some
companies, such as Thomson and First Choice, have also evacuated holidaymakers
from Diani, which is not included in the latest advice.

Therefore it is advisable to contact your holiday company to see what its policy
is.

My holiday has been cancelled, what are my rights?

Rest assured, if you have booked through a tour operator you are entitled to a
full refund or you will be offered an alternative trip.

Customers who have booked flights and accommodation separately should expect to
be refunded as long as their accommodation is

If you have booked your trip independently and have travel insurance it should
pay out for any trips cancelled due to changing travel advice. Always make sure
you check your policy closely.

I am booked for a safari holiday and am not going near the south coast, will my
trip still go ahead?

Tour operators offering trips to areas that are not affected by the latest
travel update will go ahead as usual.

What if I have a holiday to Kenya booked but don't want to go following this
news?

Unless your trip is to one of the affected areas which tourists have been
advised to avoid then your booking still stands.

Companies in general will not allow customers to cancel bookings to other parts
of the country which are still considered safe according to government
organisations.

Where is considered safe?

Almost all of the rest of Kenya, including popular safari areas, is considered
safe. The only new areas tourists have been told to avoid are Mombasa island and
within 5km of the coast from Mtwapa creek in the north down to and including
Tiwi in the south.

Long-standing advice about non-essential travel includes areas within 37 miles
of the Kenya -Somali border, Kiwayu Island and coastal areas north of Pate
Island (in the south east of the country), the Garissa district (in the east),
the Eastleigh area of Nairobi and the slum areas of the Kenyan capital.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 16, 2014 Friday 4:57 PM GMT

Terror attack kills 13 in Kenya as hundreds of Western tourists are evacuated
under armed guard over safety fears

BYLINE: WILLS ROBINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1567 words



     ·    At least 13 people are feared to have died in twin bomb attacks on
          Nairobi
     ·    Reports suggest around 70 people have been injured in the attacks
     ·    One blast reportedly came from a minibus near Gikomba Market
     ·    UK and US authorities recently imposed warnings on travel to Kenya


At least 13 people are feared to have died during two bomb attacks in the Kenyan
capital of Nairobi.

The blasts, which are said to have taken place near Gikomba Market, come the
week hundreds of Western tourists have been evacuated from the country due to
increasing terror threats.

The first explosion came from a 14-seater tour bus left the near the area, and
the second came from within the market.

Reports suggest that two suspects have been arrested as a result of the attack,
which took place just four miles away from the Westgate Mall, where 67 people
were killed by gunmen last September.

Scroll down for videos

Jared Ojuk, Kenya's deputy police spokesman, said police suspected the blasts
were caused by an improvised explosive device (IED).

President Uhuru Kenyatta, who began a previously planned news conference only
minutes after the Nairobi blasts, offered his condolences but dismissed the US
and UK travel warnings, saying that terrorism is a common problem, including in
New York and Boston.

Earlier this week, 11 people were hospitalised after a fire in the same market.

Before the blasts, the US embassy sent out a new travel alert to American
citizens warning of a continued terrorist threat in a country where their
Embassy suffered a devastating attack in 1998.

An earlier US warning this week said for the first time that the embassy itself
is taking new steps to increase security 'due to recent threat information
regarding the international community in Kenya'.

The British government also warned its citizens this week to avoid the coastal
city of Mombasa and beach towns nearby, prompting a travel company to cut short
the vacations of hundreds of British citizens and fly them home.

Security concerns have long been high in Kenya because of its proximity to
Somalia and the al-Qaeda-linked terrorist group, al-Shabab that operates there.

In September, four al-Shabab gunmen attacked a shopping mall in Nairobi, killing
at least 67 people.

The 1998 embassy bombing killed more than 200.

Since the mall attack, Kenya has suffered numerous smaller bombings in Nairobi
and Mombasa. Kenyan authorities, with the help of the FBI, also discovered a
huge car bomb that could have caused massive damage.

A number of UK travel companies suspended holidays to the nation as tourists
were watched in airports under armed guard before returning home.

Tour operators Thomson and First Choice are bringing holidaymakers home after a
change in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) travel advice.

The two companies have cancelled all flights to the East African country until
the end of October, while long-haul travel company Kuoni is, for the time being,
not offering holidays to the Kenyan coast.

Earlier this month, a bomb attack at a bus station in the coastal city of
Mombasa killed three people and injured around 16.

Another explosion also damaged a hotel in the city during rising tensions and a
a recent spate of al-Shabab-linked incidents.

The US Embassy says that more than 100 people have been killed in shootings,
grenade attacks and small bombs in Kenya over the past 18 months.

Around 100,000 Britons travel to the country every year, and many have been
devastated by the change in circumstances.

Andy Coughlan was on 'a dream holiday' after with his wife Irene, 53, who was
told she had gone into remission after suffering breast cancer.

'We're absolutely devastated,' Mr Coughlan, 53, told The Daily Telegraph. 'Ren
had been seriously ill for a long time and this was the first time after all the
chemo that she was ready to travel.

'She said she wanted to wait for her hair to grow back. As soon as it did, we
were on our way here.'

The couple from Swansea were staying at the luxury Diani beach and had only
arrived in Kenya on Tuesday.

Earlier this week the FCO changed its advice for Kenya to advise against all but
essential travel to Mombasa island and within 3.1 miles of the coast from Mtwapa
creek in the north to Tiwi in the south.

Kuoni said today: 'Although the advice does not include Moi International
Airport, Diani beach or Malindi, the main road to access these resorts goes
through the restricted area defined by the FCO advice.

'This means that we are no longer able to offer holidays to the Kenyan coast at
present.'

The company added that it would contact all customers who were due to travel in
the next seven days and this would continue on a rolling basis until the FCO
advice changed.

Kuoni said that any customers travelling from the UK within the next seven days
with an itinerary that included the coast were able to cancel free of charge or
amend to an alternative destination with no administration fee but at the
applicable cost.

The company went on: 'For any customers who are travelling to other parts of
Kenya on safari or staying in a lodge and don't have Mombasa included in their
itinerary, they will not be affected by the current FCO advice and holidays will
continue as normal.'

Thomson and First Choice said they had been continuously monitoring the
situation as it developed and have been working very closely with the FCO and
follow its advice at all times.

The companies went on: 'As a result of the change in FCO advice, the decision
has been taken to cancel all our outbound flights to Mombasa, Kenya, up to and
including October 31.

'As a precautionary measure, we have also taken the decision to repatriate all
customers currently on holiday in Kenya, including our Air Fare passengers, back
to the UK on Thursday and Friday this week.'

According to reports, Thomson has about 400 customers in Kenya, including those
in Mombasa and on safari.

The FCO advice reads: 'There is a high threat from terrorism, including
kidnapping. The main threat comes from extremists linked to Al Shabaab, a
militant group that has carried out attacks in Kenya in response to Kenya's
military intervention in Somalia.

'There has been a spate of small-scale grenade, bomb and armed attacks in
Nairobi (especially the area of Eastleigh), Mombasa, and North Eastern Province.

'You should take care in public places where people gather, and exercise a
heightened level of vigilance.'

A spokeswoman for the FCO said: 'We estimate there are 5,000 British nationals
resident along the coast and approximately 500 in Mombasa and surrounding area.'

TRAVEL TO KENYA: YOUR QUESTIONS ANSWERED BY TRAVELMAIL

Where exactly have tourists been warned they cannot go?

The latest advice for tourists is to avoid all but essential travel to Mombasa
Island and within 5km of the coast from Mtwapa creek, north of the city, and
Tiwi in the south.

However, the warning does not include the popular beach resort of Diani or Moi
international airport, which is the gateway to the coast.

I have a holiday booked on Kenya's coast, will it be cancelled?

Tour operators will cancel any holidays that are based in the areas that have
now been declared off-limits.

They are not obliged to cancel trips to other parts of Kenya. However, some
companies, such as Thomson and First Choice, have also evacuated holidaymakers
from Diani, which is not included in the latest advice.

Therefore it is advisable to contact your holiday company to see what its policy
is.

My holiday has been cancelled, what are my rights?

Rest assured, if you have booked through a tour operator you are entitled to a
full refund or you will be offered an alternative trip.

Customers who have booked flights and accommodation separately should expect to
be refunded as long as their accommodation is

If you have booked your trip independently and have travel insurance it should
pay out for any trips cancelled due to changing travel advice. Always make sure
you check your policy closely.

I am booked for a safari holiday and am not going near the south coast, will my
trip still go ahead?

Tour operators offering trips to areas that are not affected by the latest
travel update will go ahead as usual.

What if I have a holiday to Kenya booked but don't want to go following this
news?

Unless your trip is to one of the affected areas which tourists have been
advised to avoid then your booking still stands.

Companies in general will not allow customers to cancel bookings to other parts
of the country which are still considered safe according to government
organisations.

Where is considered safe?

Almost all of the rest of Kenya, including popular safari areas, is considered
safe. The only new areas tourists have been told to avoid are Mombasa island and
within 5km of the coast from Mtwapa creek in the north down to and including
Tiwi in the south.

Long-standing advice about non-essential travel includes areas within 37 miles
of the Kenya -Somali border, Kiwayu Island and coastal areas north of Pate
Island (in the south east of the country), the Garissa district (in the east),
the Eastleigh area of Nairobi and the slum areas of the Kenyan capital.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 16, 2014 Friday 3:54 PM GMT

'Fear and panic': Australia criticised for strong travel warning as hundreds of
tourists are evacuated from Kenya after terror attack

BYLINE: SARAH DEAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 773 words



     ·    Australians are told to 'exercise a high degree of caution' and in
          some areas 'reconsider travel' to the African country following
          attacks
     ·    13 people feared to have died in two bomb attacks in Nairobi on Friday
     ·    Kenya's Foreign Affairs and International Trade Ministry Principal
          Secretary Karanja Kibicho spoke out about the Australian government's
          advice
     ·    British tour operators are evacuating holidaymakers and cancelling
          flights
     ·    Explosion in Mombasa earlier this month killed three and injured 16


A Kenyan government official has criticised Australia for installing 'fear and
panic' in tourists wishing to travel to the African country as hundreds of
Western tourists were being evacuated following a terror attack.

Kenya's Foreign Affairs and International Trade Ministry Principal Secretary
Karanja Kibicho's outburst came the day before two bomb attacks in the Kenyan
capital of Nairobi, on Friday.

At least 13 people are feared to have died in the blast at Gikomba market.

The Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade issued a stern warning on
Monday to tourists visiting Kenya.

The advice on the government's Smart Traveller website said: 'We continue to
advise Australians to reconsider their need to travel to Nairobi and the Mombasa
region, including Diani Beach, due to the high threat of terrorist attack and
high level of crime.'

And it ruled out travel to border regions with Somalia, Ethiopia and South
Sudan, because of the 'extremely dangerous security situation'.

It added: 'Elsewhere in Kenya we advise Australians to exercise a high degree of
caution.'

Mr Kibicho responded to the warning on Thursday, expressing his disappointment
with the governments of Britain, Australia, France and the United States who
have all issued messages to tourists.

'The challenges arising from acts of terrorism require concerted efforts to
fight it and not behaving in a manner that accelerates it by causing fear and
panic,' Kibicho said in a statement issued in Nairobi.

'Issuance of such travel advisories only plays to the whims of bad elements in
society whose aims is to spread fear and panic among otherwise peace loving
people.'

However, unlike the British government - who is evacuating its citizens from
Kenya - the Australian government is yet to put such strong measures in place.

A spokesperson for the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade told MailOnline
on Friday: 'The level of the Australian travel advice for the Mombasa region and
Nairobi is "reconsider your need to travel" (level 3 of 4 levels) and remains
under close review.'

Meanwhile, a number of UK travel companies suspended holidays to the nation as
tourists were watched in airports under armed guard before returning home.

British tour operators Thomson and First Choice are now bringing holidaymakers
home after a change in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) travel advice.

The two companies have cancelled all flights to the East African country until
the end of October, while long-haul travel company Kuoni is, for the time being,
not offering holidays to the Kenyan coast.

Earlier this month, a bomb attack at a bus station in the coastal city of
Mombasa killed three people and injured around 16.

Another explosion also damaged a hotel in the city during rising tensions and a
a recent spate of al-Shabab-linked incidents.

Around 100,000 Britons travel to Kenya every year, and many have been devastated
by the change in circumstances.

Andy Coughlan was on 'a dream holiday' after with his wife Irene, 53, who was
told she had gone into remission after suffering breast cancer.

'We're absolutely devastated,' Mr Coughlan, 53, told The Daily Telegraph. 'Ren
had been seriously ill for a long time and this was the first time after all the
chemo that she was ready to travel.

'She said she wanted to wait for her hair to grow back. As soon as it did, we
were on our way here.'

The couple from Swansea were staying at the luxury Diani beach and had only
arrived in Kenya on Tuesday.

The FCO advice reads: 'There is a high threat from terrorism, including
kidnapping. The main threat comes from extremists linked to Al Shabaab, a
militant group that has carried out attacks in Kenya in response to Kenya's
military intervention in Somalia.

'There has been a spate of small-scale grenade, bomb and armed attacks in
Nairobi (especially the area of Eastleigh), Mombasa, and North Eastern Province.

'You should take care in public places where people gather, and exercise a
heightened level of vigilance.'

A spokeswoman for the FCO said: 'We estimate there are 5,000 British nationals
resident along the coast and approximately 500 in Mombasa and surrounding area.'

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 16, 2014 Friday 3:17 PM GMT

Terror attack kills ten in Kenya as hundreds of Western tourists are evacuated
under armed guard over safety fears

BYLINE: WILLS ROBINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1108 words



     ·    At least ten people are feared to have died in twin bomb attacks on
          Nairobi
     ·    Reports suggest around 70 people have been injured in the attacks
     ·    One blast reportedly came from a minibus near Gikomba Market
     ·    Tour operators Thomson and First Choice are bringing back
          holidaymakers
     ·    The companies have cancelled all flights to Kenya until the end of
          October


At least ten people are feared to have died during two bomb attacks in the
Kenyan capital of Nairobi.

The blasts, which are said to have taken place near Gikomba Market, come the
week hundreds of Western tourists have been evacuated from the country due to
increasing terror threats.

The country's National Disaster Operations Centre (NDOC) confirmed on Twitter
that the first explosion came from a 14-seater matatu (minibus), and the second
came from within the market.

Reports suggest that one suspect has been arrested as a result of the attack,
which took place just four miles away from the Westgate Mall, where 67 people
were killed by gunmen last September.

Scroll down for video

Jared Ojuk, Kenya's deputy police spokesman, said police suspected the blasts
were caused by an improvised explosive device (IED).

President Uhuru Kenyatta, who began a previously planned news conference only
minutes after the Nairobi blasts, offered his condolences but dismissed the US
and UK travel warnings, saying that terrorism is a common problem, including in
New York and Boston.

Before the blasts, the US embassy sent out a new travel alert to American
citizens warning of a continued terrorist threat in a country where their
Embassy suffered a devastating attack in 1998.

An earlier US warning this week said for the first time that the embassy itself
is taking new steps to increase security 'due to recent threat information
regarding the international community in Kenya'.

The British government also warned its citizens this week to avoid the coastal
city of Mombasa and beach towns nearby, prompting a travel company to cut short
the vacations of hundreds of British citizens and fly them home.

Security concerns have long been high in Kenya because of its proximity to
Somalia and the al-Qaeda-linked terrorist group, al-Shabab that operates there.

In September, four al-Shabab gunmen attacked a shopping mall in Nairobi, killing
at least 67 people.

The 1998 embassy bombing killed more than 200.

Since the mall attack, Kenya has suffered numerous smaller bombings in Nairobi
and Mombasa. Kenyan authorities, with the help of the FBI, also discovered a
huge car bomb that could have caused massive damage.

A number of UK travel companies suspended holidays to the nation as tourists
were watched in airports under armed guard before returning home.

Tour operators Thomson and First Choice are bringing holidaymakers home after a
change in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) travel advice.

The two companies have cancelled all flights to the East African country until
the end of October, while long-haul travel company Kuoni is, for the time being,
not offering holidays to the Kenyan coast.

Earlier this month, a bomb attack at a bus station in the coastal city of
Mombasa killed three people and injured around 16.

Another explosion also damaged a hotel in the city during rising tensions and a
a recent spate of al-Shabab-linked incidents.

The US Embassy says that more than 100 people have been killed in shootings,
grenade attacks and small bombs in Kenya over the past 18 months.

Around 100,000 Britons travel to the country every year, and many have been
devastated by the change in circumstances.

Andy Coughlan was on 'a dream holiday' after with his wife Irene, 53, who was
told she had gone into remission after suffering breast cancer.

'We're absolutely devastated,' Mr Coughlan, 53, told The Daily Telegraph. 'Ren
had been seriously ill for a long time and this was the first time after all the
chemo that she was ready to travel.

'She said she wanted to wait for her hair to grow back. As soon as it did, we
were on our way here.'

The couple from Swansea were staying at the luxury Diani beach and had only
arrived in Kenya on Tuesday.

Earlier this week the FCO changed its advice for Kenya to advise against all but
essential travel to Mombasa island and within 3.1 miles of the coast from Mtwapa
creek in the north to Tiwi in the south.

Kuoni said today: 'Although the advice does not include Moi International
Airport, Diani beach or Malindi, the main road to access these resorts goes
through the restricted area defined by the FCO advice.

'This means that we are no longer able to offer holidays to the Kenyan coast at
present.'

The company added that it would contact all customers who were due to travel in
the next seven days and this would continue on a rolling basis until the FCO
advice changed.

Kuoni said that any customers travelling from the UK within the next seven days
with an itinerary that included the coast were able to cancel free of charge or
amend to an alternative destination with no administration fee but at the
applicable cost.

The company went on: 'For any customers who are travelling to other parts of
Kenya on safari or staying in a lodge and don't have Mombasa included in their
itinerary, they will not be affected by the current FCO advice and holidays will
continue as normal.'

Thomson and First Choice said they had been continuously monitoring the
situation as it developed and have been working very closely with the FCO and
follow its advice at all times.

The companies went on: 'As a result of the change in FCO advice, the decision
has been taken to cancel all our outbound flights to Mombasa, Kenya, up to and
including October 31.

'As a precautionary measure, we have also taken the decision to repatriate all
customers currently on holiday in Kenya, including our Air Fare passengers, back
to the UK on Thursday and Friday this week.'

According to reports, Thomson has about 400 customers in Kenya, including those
in Mombasa and on safari.

The FCO advice reads: 'There is a high threat from terrorism, including
kidnapping. The main threat comes from extremists linked to Al Shabaab, a
militant group that has carried out attacks in Kenya in response to Kenya's
military intervention in Somalia.

'There has been a spate of small-scale grenade, bomb and armed attacks in
Nairobi (especially the area of Eastleigh), Mombasa, and North Eastern Province.

'You should take care in public places where people gather, and exercise a
heightened level of vigilance.'

A spokeswoman for the FCO said: 'We estimate there are 5,000 British nationals
resident along the coast and approximately 500 in Mombasa and surrounding area.'

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 16, 2014 Friday 1:18 PM GMT

Terror attack kills four in Kenya as hundreds of British tourists are evacuated
under armed guard over safety fears

BYLINE: WILLS ROBINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 766 words



     ·    At least four people are feared to have died in twin bomb attacks on
          Nairobi
     ·    Reports suggest around 20 people in the attacks
     ·    Tour operators Thomson and First Choice are bringing back
          holidaymakers
     ·    The companies have cancelled all flights to Kenya until the end of
          October
     ·    Follows change in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office travel advice
     ·    Explosion in Mombasa earlier this month killed three and injured 16


At least four people are feared to have died during two bomb attacks in the
Kenyan capital of Nairobi.

The blasts, which are said to have taken place near a market, come on the day
hundreds of British holidaymakers were evacuated from the country due to
increasing terror threats.

A number of UK travel companies suspended holidays to the nation as tourists
were watched in airports under armed guard before returning home.

Tour operators Thomson and First Choice are bringing holidaymakers home after a
change in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) travel advice.

The two companies have cancelled all flights to the East African country until
the end of October, while long-haul travel company Kuoni is, for the time being,
not offering holidays to the Kenyan coast.

Earlier this month, a bomb attack at a bus station in the coastal city of
Mombasa killed three people and injured around 16.

Another explosion also damaged a hotel in the city during rising tensions and a
a recent spate of al-Shabab-linked incidents.

Around 100,000 Britons travel to Kenya every year, and many have been devastated
by the change in circumstances.

Andy Coughlan was on 'a dream holiday' after with his wife Irene, 53, who was
told she had gone into remission after suffering breast cancer.

'We're absolutely devastated,' Mr Coughlan, 53, told The Daily Telegraph. 'Ren
had been seriously ill for a long time and this was the first time after all the
chemo that she was ready to travel.

'She said she wanted to wait for her hair to grow back. As soon as it did, we
were on our way here.'

The couple from Swansea were staying at the luxury Diani beach and had only
arrived in Kenya on Tuesday.

Earlier this week the FCO changed its advice for Kenya to advise against all but
essential travel to Mombasa island and within 3.1 miles of the coast from Mtwapa
creek in the north to Tiwi in the south.

Kuoni said today: 'Although the advice does not include Moi International
Airport, Diani beach or Malindi, the main road to access these resorts goes
through the restricted area defined by the FCO advice.

'This means that we are no longer able to offer holidays to the Kenyan coast at
present.'

The company added that it would contact all customers who were due to travel in
the next seven days and this would continue on a rolling basis until the FCO
advice changed.

Kuoni said that any customers travelling from the UK within the next seven days
with an itinerary that included the coast were able to cancel free of charge or
amend to an alternative destination with no administration fee but at the
applicable cost.

The company went on: 'For any customers who are travelling to other parts of
Kenya on safari or staying in a lodge and don't have Mombasa included in their
itinerary, they will not be affected by the current FCO advice and holidays will
continue as normal.'

Thomson and First Choice said they had been continuously monitoring the
situation as it developed and have been working very closely with the FCO and
follow its advice at all times.

The companies went on: 'As a result of the change in FCO advice, the decision
has been taken to cancel all our outbound flights to Mombasa, Kenya, up to and
including October 31.

'As a precautionary measure, we have also taken the decision to repatriate all
customers currently on holiday in Kenya, including our Air Fare passengers, back
to the UK on Thursday and Friday this week.'

According to reports, Thomson has about 400 customers in Kenya, including those
in Mombasa and on safari.

The FCO advice reads: 'There is a high threat from terrorism, including
kidnapping. The main threat comes from extremists linked to Al Shabaab, a
militant group that has carried out attacks in Kenya in response to Kenya's
military intervention in Somalia.

'There has been a spate of small-scale grenade, bomb and armed attacks in
Nairobi (especially the area of Eastleigh), Mombasa, and North Eastern Province.

'You should take care in public places where people gather, and exercise a
heightened level of vigilance.'

A spokeswoman for the FCO said: 'We estimate there are 5,000 British nationals
resident along the coast and approximately 500 in Mombasa and surrounding area.'

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        May 16, 2014 Friday 1:36 AM GMT

British-born student accused of being ringleader of Boko Haram threatened to cut
hands off non-believers;
Aminu Sadiq Ogwuche, 29, is believed to be in custody in Sudan after he was
arrested on suspicion of carrying out terror attacks in Nigeria which killed
more than 90 people

BYLINE: By Adam Aspinall

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 884 words


A British-born student accused of being a ringleader of Islamist group Boko
Haram dubbed himself 'The Lion of God' and threatened to cut the hands and feet
off non-believers while living in Britain, The Daily Mirror can reveal.

Aminu Sadiq Ogwuche, 29, is believed to be in custody in Sudan after he was
arrested on suspicion of carrying out terror attacks in Nigeria which killed
more than 90 people.

Militant group Boko Haram are also behind the abduction of 300 schoolgirls a
month ago, who are currently being held captive in a forest near the border with
Cameroon.

But the Mirror has learned Ogwuche is a British university drop-out who appears
to have become radicalised while studying for a business degree at the
University of South Glamorgan in Wales from 2007 to 2010.

Ogwuche studied for a degree in Business Science while living in various
addresses in the quiet valleys town of Pontypridd.

He was a member of the university's debating society and wrote on an online
professional profile: "I used to be in the military back at home and my goal now
is to be a successful businessman."

He failed to finish the course but was a regular at the campus prayer room where
he would regularly pray with fellow students.

Yesterday, friends spoke of their shock that he was alleged to be involved with
the Nigerian terror group which outraged the world after it seized 300
schoolgirls.

Mustafa Ja, a Dutch student who studied at the university from 2009 to 2011,
said he had met Amin several times in the prayer room on campus.

Boko Haram video claims to show missing Nigerian schoolgirls

He said: "I'm shocked. Wow, I'm just really shocked.

"I used to meet him during Friday prayers and whenever we broke our fast at the
mosque on campus.

"He didn't seem to have any extremist views then - police officers would come
and visit the prayer room regularly, so I don't see how he could."

A former house mate who said he knew him briefly during his time in Pontypridd
said former students found it "very creepy" that Ogwuche may have become caught
up in terrorism.

Anju Moro said: "He was very devout but then many people are, he would often
just spend time in his room in between go to and from prayers but he seemed
harmless, if very serious.

"It is very creepy that he could have been having thoughts like that but he
disappeared years ago so I suppose you can never know can you?"

While living in South Wales Ogwuche's posts on social media he was becoming
increasingly extreme.

In one post in 2011 he wrote: "The only punishment of those who wage war against
Allah and His Messenger and strive to make mischief in the land is that they
should be murdered, or crucified, or their hands and their feet should be cut
off on opposite sides, or they should be imprisoned."

In another chilling post he wrote: "We warn you to give up your disobeyance to
Allah and surrender to him or wait we bring your humiliation then you will be
regretful and on the knees."

His profile picture is of a lion with the word "Asadullah", meaning 'Lion of
God'.

He is a member Paltalk - the world's largest online video chat community
boasting more than four million members.

But it has also been abused by Muslim extremists to preach hate.

Anjem Choudary, founder of the banned group Islam 4 UK, Omar Bakri Mohammed, who
caused outrage in Britain by praising the hijackers behind the September 11,
2001 attacks and was banned from re-entering the UK in the wake of the 7/7
bombings, and Abdullah el-Faisal, who was deported in 2007, were said to have
joined forces to use the site to preach their message around the world.

At the same time as Ogwuche was seemingly posting messages of hate, he was
advertising himself as a respectable business professional online where he
claimed he had completed his degree course in business studies.

He also claimed he had prevoiusly worked for the Nigerian Army's intelligence
division.

After leaving Britain in November 2011 he was arrested at Abuja airport on
arrival from the UK on suspected terrorism-related activities but was released
to the care of his father, a retired army colonel, following protests from
rights groups.

He has since been arrested in Sudan where he is suspected of being the
co-mastermind of a two bomb attacks in the past month in a suburb of Abuja, the
Nigerian capital, which more killed than 90 people.

Five Boko Haram militants had been arrested as suspects in the car bombings in
Nyanya on April 14 and May 1 this year, security officials said.

Information they provided pointed to Ogwuche and another man, Rufai Abubakar
Tsiga, as masterminds.

Ogwuche reportedly served in the intelligence unit of the Nigerian army but
deserted in 2006, according to Nigeria's Ministry of Information.

A spokesperson for the University of Mid Glamorgan said, "Aminu Ogwuche was a
student at the former University of Glamorgan between 2007 and 2010 but didn't
go on to complete his studies at the University.

"The University has a strong community ethos with no history or evidence of
extremist behaviour across any of its campuses so it is surprised to hear of his
apparent involvement with terrorist group Boko Haram.

"There were no reported indications of extremist behaviour during his time as a
student.

"There has been no contact between Mr Ogwuche and the University following his
departure in 2010."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 17, 2014 Saturday

"Terrorist attack" kills two in Syria's Aleppo

LENGTH: 76 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

(SANA) -Aleppo, SANA, Two citizens were killed Saturday, while 19 others were
injured of a terrorist attack with mortar shells on Bab al-Faraj neighbourhood
in Aleppo.

A source in Aleppo told SANA that mortar shells fired by terrorists fell on Bab
al-Faraj in Aleppo, claiming the lives of two citizens and wounding 19 others.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 17 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 17, 2014 Saturday 11:22 AM GMT

Girl kidnappers Boko Haram launch new attack amid fears BRITONS are joining
terror group

BYLINE: Benjamin Russell

LENGTH: 861 words


ISLAMIST militants who captured nearly 300 Nigerian schoolgirls have launched a
new attack in Cameroon, amid fears a new wave of radicalised Britons could join
the terror group.

The BBC has reported at least one Chinese person was killed in the attack
[IG/REUTERS]

The governor of Cameroon's Far North region, Augustine Fonka Awa, confirmed the
attack on a Chinese plant but declined to give details.

The BBC has reported at least one Chinese person was killed in the attack and at
least one other taken hostage.

The attack comes amid rising concerns that a new wave of British extremists
could soon bolster the ranks of Boko Haram.

A suspected ringleader of the group is alleged to have become radicalised while
studying at a university in South Wales.

Aminu Sadiq Ogwuche dubbed himself "The Lion of God" and threatened to cut the
hands and feet off non-believers while living in Britain.

It is believed the 29-year-old is in custody in Sudan after being arrested on
suspicion of carrying out terror attacks in Nigeria which killed more than 90
people.

Ogwuche appears to have developed extremist views while studying at the
University of Glamorgan, now the University of South Wales, from 2007 to 2010.

He lived in Pontypridd while he studied for a degree in Business Science at the
university.

He failed to finish the course but was a regular at the campus prayer room where
he would pray with fellow students.

Mustafa Ja, a Dutch student who studied at the university from 2009 to 2011,
said he had met Ogwuche several times in the prayer room on campus.

He said: "I'm shocked. Wow, I'm just really shocked. I used to meet him during
Friday prayers and whenever we broke our fast at the mosque.

"He didn't seem to have any extremist views then - police officers would come
and visit the prayer room regularly, so I don't see how he could."

A former housemate who said he knew him briefly during his time in Pontypridd
said former students found it "very creepy" that Ogwuche may have become caught
up in terrorism.

Anju Moro said: "He was very devout but then many people are.

He would often just spend time in his room between going to and from prayers but
he seemed harmless, if very serious.

"It is very creepy that he could have been having thoughts like that but he
disappeared years ago so I suppose you can never know, can you?"

While living in South Wales, posts on his social media page became more and more
extreme.

Aminu Sadiq Ogwuche is believed to have attened university in Wales [BPM]

In early 2010 a chilling post on Facebook said: "Those who strive in the path of
Allah love death like the kuffar love life, hahaha.

"Let them know, we are always ready to meet our lord anytime he wills."

In 2011, after a series of increasingly extreme posts, he wrote: "The only
punishment of those who wage war against Allah and His Messenger and strive to
make mischief in the land is that they should be murdered, or crucified, or
their hands and their feet should be cut off on opposite sides, or they should
be imprisoned."

Another post said: "We warn you to give up your disobeyance to Allah and
surrender to him or wait we bring your humiliation then you will be regretful
and on the knees."

His profile picture is of a lion with the word "Asadullah", meaning "Lion of
God".

After leaving Britain in November 2011 he was arrested at Abuja airport in
Nigeria on arrival from the UK on suspected terrorism-related activities but was
released to the care of his father, a retired army colonel, following protests
from rights groups.

He has since been arrested in Sudan where he is suspected of being the
co-mastermind of two bomb attacks in the past month in a suburb of Abuja, the
Nigerian capital, in which more than 90 people were killed.

Ogwuche reportedly served in the intelligence unit of the Nigerian army but
deserted in 2006, according to Nigeria's Ministry of Information.

A spokesperson for the University of South Wales said: "Aminu Ogwuche was a
student at the former University of Glamorgan between 2007 and 2010 but didn't
go on to complete his studies at the university.

"The university has a strong community ethos with no history or evidence of
extremist behaviour across any of its campuses so it is surprised to hear of his
apparent involvement with terrorist group Boko Haram.

"There were no reported indications of extremist behaviour during his time as a
student.

"There has been no contact between Mr Ogwuche and the university following his
departure in 2010."

A previous Nigerian extremist who was educated in Britain, Umar Farouk
Abdulmutallab, trained in Yemen with al-Qaeda.

However, a security expert has claimed it might not be long until radicalised
young Britons travel to Nigeria instead.

Robin Simcox, of the Henry Jackson Societyn think-tank, told the Independent:
"It's a surprise it has taken this long, really,"

"Boko Haram is an increasingly powerful group but it hasn't been as notorious as
a group like al-Shabaab or al-Qaeda in Pakistan or Afghanistan. It has not been
a notorious group that has been able to attract Westerners.

"With Boko Haram getting increased publicity with kidnapping, maybe that will
draw more to Nigeria than to the Yemen."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Daily Press

                             May 17, 2014 Saturday

Terrorist attacks in wake of Kenya alert

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 73  words


Two explosions in Nairobi have killed at least 13 people, Kenya's National
Disaster Operation Centre has said. The National Disaster Operation Centre said
one blast targeted a mini-van that Kenyans use for public transportation. It
said that a second blast went off in a market. Many injuries were reported. The
attacks come in the same week that the United States and the UK issued renewed
warnings about possible terror attacks in Kenya.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Sunday Sun

                                  May 18, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Dash home after terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 199 words


A COUPLE'S dream holiday turned into a nightmare when they had to be own out of
Kenya for their own safety.

Neil Allison, from Redcar, and his wife ew to Kenya from Gatwick on Monday for a
week's holiday at Diani Beach resort - an hour away from Mombasa.

But a relaxing break in the sun took a dark turn when their holiday rep told
them on Wednesday that Kenya was now on "terror alert" and they were to be ying
home the following day.

Following the terror alert, two explosions in the kenyan capital Nairobi killed
at least 10 people and injured around 70 others.

"We had just booked a Trip to go on safari for Žursday but instead we ended up
coming home," said Neil, 45, who has a " nine-year-old son.

"It was pretty frightening at the time especially with little information on
what was going on - and I don't scare easily."

although they ha" another 24 hours in the east African country before they ew
home, neither of them felt safe enough to leave the hotel.

Že couple had own with Žomson and Neil says that it was the right decision to
remove holidaymakers when they did.

Tour operators Žomson and First Choice cancelled allights to Mombasa until
October and said 400 holidaymakers would be own back.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SSN


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 19, 2014 Monday

USA condemns terror attacks in Kenya

LENGTH: 263 words


Text of report by Owino Samuel and Fred Mwangi entitled "US condemns Gikomba
terror attacks" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The People
on 18 May

United States Ambassador to Kenya Robert Godec has termed Friday's [16 May]
Gikomba market attack cowardly. "We extend our deepest sympathies to all who
were affected. This is the latest in a series of despicable and cowardly attacks
on innocent civilians, from the capital to the Coast," he said. Godec also
affirmed that the US will continue to support the government in any way and will
firmly remain an ally of Kenya in the fight against terror.

"The US is a firm ally of Kenya in the fight against terror and our resolve to
stand with Kenya in combating terrorism," he said.

Meanwhile 36 victims of the Gikomba twin blasts on Friday are still admitted at
Kenyatta National Hospital after sustaining multiple fractures, soft tissue and
shrapnel injuries on the limbs and abdomen. Kenyatta National Hospital chief
executive officer Lily Koros said 47 patients were treated and discharged by
Friday evening.

Koros said one patient who sustained 10 per cent burns is admitted in the Burns
Unit where he is still undergoing treatment while one patient is admitted in the
Critical Centre Unit.

The CEO said they had to transfer 12 patients to other hospitals to decongest
the facility since they received 103 casualties after the blast. Koros also
appealed to Kenyans to donate blood especially blood group O positive for the
hospital to effectively manage the casualties.

Source: The People, Nairobi, in English 18 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 19, 2014 Monday

Terrorist group behind attack

BYLINE: Gao Bo in Urumqi and Xinhua

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 327 words


A group on the United Nations' terrorist list was confirmed to have masterminded
a deadly incident in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region last month.

The East Turkistan Islamic Movement was identified as orchestrating the attack
in Xinjiang's capital Urumqi on April 30, killing three and injuring 79, the
provincial publicity department said on Sunday.

ETIM member Ismail Yusup, who lives outside China, planned the incident, it
said, and on April 22 ordered 10 associates to launch the attack. Eight days
later, the gang set off explosives and slashed people with knives at the exit of
the South Railway Station of Urumqi around 7:10 pm.

Two members of the gang, Saderdin Sawut and Memetabudula Ete, died in the
explosion.

Police identified the rest of the gang and recently arrested them.

The ETIM, which advocates the violent separation of Xinjiang from China, has
been identified as a terrorist group by China, the US, the European Union and
the United Nations. It has been held responsible for terrorist plots in Dubai
and Norway in 2010.

Investigations show that the main members of the gang started to preach Islamic
extremism in 2005. Ismail Yusup fled abroad after becoming wanted by police for
making explosives, and he joined the ETIM in 2013.

China has asked Interpol to help arrest him and senior members of cells.

The "Turkestan Islamic Party", the other name of the ETIM, reportedly released a
video on how to make a briefcase bomb that was used in the April 30 attack.

Li Wei, an anti-terrorism researcher at the China Institute of Contemporary
International Relations, said the fact that ETIM terrorists released a video and
claim responsibility shows domestic and overseas terrorist forces are more
synchronized.

Meng Nan, a Central Asia researcher at Xinjiang University, said the use of the
Internet to spread religious extremism and terrorism and brainwash Chinese
people who go overseas is more frequent.

Contact the writer at

gaobo@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 19, 2014 Monday 6:14 PM GMT

Yemen on alert over fears of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 132 words


SANAA, Yemen (AP) - Yemen's Interior Ministry says its forces are on high alert
over fears of possible terrorist attacks in the capital.

In a statement Monday, the ministry said authorities received tips of al-Qaida
plots in which militants were to attack government agencies while disguised in
military uniform. The ministry said it has given instructions to checkpoints to
inspect identification cards of military personal.

The measures came after a nearly three-week government offensive in southern
cities and towns where suspected al-Qaida militants have a strong presence.

On Monday, the Defense Ministry announced death of Galbeeb al-Yamani, a militant
it described as an al-Qaida leader in the central province of Baida, in clashes
with armed forces. It did not provide any further details.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 20, 2014 Tuesday

Iran FM: Operations beyond some Islamic countries to stop "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 118 words


Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Marziyeh Afkham has said that some
operations should go beyond the borders of some Islamic countries to stop
operations of "terrorist" groups, Iran's state-run English-language Press TV
channel reported on 20 May.

"We have always said that if there is no serious action, terrorist operations of
Takfiri and extremist groups of various forms will not be limited to a certain
region. So we need some [operations] beyond borders of Islamic countries. Some
operations should go beyond all those borders in order to stop the operations of
those terrorist groups," Marziyeh Afkham said at her weekly news conference on
20 May.

Source: Press TV, Tehran, in English 0544gmt 20 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 20, 2014 Tuesday

Belarusian citizen suspected of plotting terrorist attack arrested in Ukraine

LENGTH: 204 words


Text of report in English by Belarusian privately-owned news agency Belapan

Minsk, 19 May: A citizen of Belarus has been arrested in Ukraine's Odessa on
suspicion of preparing to carry out a car bombing attack in the city on 18 May,
the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) reported on 19 May.

SBU described the man, a certain Shabalin, as an "activist of a radical
pro-Russian organization" who had conspired with three officers of a private
security company to blow up a car during an anti-government protest in Kulikovo
Pole Square on 18 May, the SBU said.

The officers, who maintained "hidden visual observation" of the square, have
also been arrested. Criminal proceedings have been instituted over the plot. The
Belarusian man confessed to taking part in deadly clashes in Odessa on 2 May,
the SBU said. He reportedly established and maintained contacts with pro-Russian
separatist leaders, who paid him to set up a criminal group in Luhansk Region to
disrupt the presidential election scheduled for 25 May. He was also tasked with
creating the necessary conditions for separatists to stay in Odessa to
destabilize the situation in the region, the report said.

Source: Belapan news agency, Minsk, in English 2033 gmt 19 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              May 20, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Arson attack terror for Lenny and ex Dawn

SECTION: NEWS: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 206 words


ARSONISTS once targeted the home of Black Country comedian Lenny Henry and his
ex-wife Dawn French, she revealed.

++e attack happened at a time when the couple were su-ering racist abuse.

Dawn, 56, said: "It was massively shocking to me. Someone put an oily rag
through our front door and tried to burn us down. Luckily I woke up and smelt
it, otherwise I'm not sure we would be here."

++e comedienne, who has a 23-year-old daughter, called Billie, with Lenny, 55,
is concerned that racist attitudes have not changed in 30 years.

Lenny, whose home town is Dudley, recently found himself at the centre of a race
row after a Ukip candidate said he should leave Britain to live in a black
country.

Dawn added: "It's the little snidey comments or things people think it is OK to
say, a kind of gradual erosion that I OEnd particularly dangerous."

++e pair, who split in 2010 after 25 years of marriage, have previously spoken
of other shocking abuse they su-ered.

++ey were once targeted by members of the Ku Klux Klan who smeared excrement on
their front door and doorstep and daubed gra›ti on their walls.

Dawn talked about the experience on the BBC's Radio 4 Front Row show while
promoting her OErst solo touring show about her life, ++irty Million Minutes.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                              May 20, 2014 Tuesday

Hearing into death of Hampshire man killed during terrorist attack on gas plant

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 293 words


A hearing into the deaths of six Britons and a UK-based Colombian who were
killed when terrorists laid siege to an Algerian gas plant will take place
today.

Carson Bilsland and Kenneth Whiteside, both from Scotland, Sebastian John, from
Norfolk, Stephen Green, from Hampshire, Paul Morgan and Garry Barlow, both from
Liverpool, and Carlos Estrada, a BP executive who was originally from Colombia
but lived in London, were among 40 hostages who were killed at the In Amenas
plant in the north African country during a four-day stand-off which began on
January 16 last year.

Some 29 of the hostage-takers died, while three were captured by Algerian troops
during a special forces mission to end the bloodshed.

During a pre-inquest hearing in January, Detective Superintendent Jim Stokley,
from the Metropolitan Police, said that statements still needed to be taken from
witnesses in the United States, France, Indonesia and the United Arab Emirates.

It is hoped today's hearing at Crawley Town Hall in West Sussex will iron out
any administrative, investigative and legal proceedings which still need to take
place, a spokesman for the West Sussex Coroner said.

Before the last hearing, lawyers for Mr Estrada's family, who live in Chelsea,
west London, said his relatives were still in the dark over the circumstances of
his death more than a year on from the atrocity.

Mr Estrada had worked for BP for 18 years and had risen to the post of
vice-president of non-operated assets.

He was on his first business trip to the In Amenas plant when he was taken
hostage and killed during his time in captivity.

The pre-inquest hearing is the second one to be held in advance of the full
inquest which is expected to start at the Royal Courts of Justice in London on
September 8.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                              May 20, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

I won't let brain injury ruin my life;
Post-traumatic stress disorder is often associated with soldiers or survivors of
a terrorist attack but as TARA HODGES discovered, it can happen to anyone

BYLINE: RUTH ADDICOTT

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 729 words


AT THE age of 34, Tara Hodges was an ordinary wife and mum when a split-second
accident changed her life for ever. In July 2008 she was woken in the night by
her son George, then three. When she went to check on him she slipped and fell
down the stairs.

Her husband Jamie, 41, found her, called an ambulance and Tara was rushed to
Salford Royal hospital near her Manchester home. There she had six hours of
life-saving surgery for a fractured skull and two bleeds on her brain.

The surgery was a success and Tara was determined to get back on her feet.
However she didn't realise how much the trauma had affected her psychologically.

"I didn't feel in control, I could see people but nothing seemed real. It was as
though I had déjà vu all the time," says Tara, now 39. "I felt frightened, alone
and lost as I tried to come to terms with what had happened and I was constantly
worrying about how I was going to manage and how my family would cope."

Her anxiety was made worse by being in hospital and unable to look after George
but when she was discharged and tried to get back to normal, her symptoms
worsened.

She struggled to sleep, lost her appetite - dropping to seven stone - suffered
panic attacks, short-term memory loss and became frightened to even leave the
house.

"I kept hearing noises in my head, even the slightest noise such as a clock
ticking or the clattering of pots and pans in the kitchen would set me off. I
couldn't escape it," she says.

"At one point I couldn't even bear to be around my son. I couldn't look after
him. Life became unbearable. My enthusiasm and positive outlook had disappeared.
My husband and little boy did everything they could to bring me back but nothing
seemed to work."

Tara became so low she felt on the verge of suicide and on the advice of a
neuropsychologist, Jamie got in touch with Basic, a Manchester-based charity
(www.basiccharity.org.uk) which provides support for people and families
affected by brain and spinal injuries.

It proved a lifeline for Tara who was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress
disorder (PTSD) and offered treatment including cognitive behavioural therapy.
Over the next few months, both Tara and Jamie gained a better understanding of
her symptoms and how to cope with them on a daily basis.

"Talking to someone who understood what I was going through and had come out the
other side made me feel as though I wasn't on my own and gave me the hope,
self-belief and determination to go on," she says. "As new people came in, I was
able to encourage them and helping others helped me.

"I have always been a very determined person and wanted to get my life back. I
think there is a lot of ignorance and misunderstanding of people with brain
injuries. Just because you look fine or don't have broken bones it doesn't mean
you can carry on as normal."

Tara joined a gym and took up running with her husband and 12 months after the
accident she completed the Great North Run. In October 2010 she gave birth to
their second son William and now has a new job helping people and their families
rebuild their lives following similar injuries.

"I still get anxiety attacks if I'm tired but I'm not frightened of them any
more because I know it is just my brain telling me to slow down," she says.

Tara's message to others who have suffered trauma is simple. "Don't give up,
stay positive and keep going no matter how hard it is. There is light at the end
of the tunnel."

Interview by RUTH ADDICOTT

WHAT IS PTSD?

POST Traumatic Stress Disorder is a condition that affects people who have
suffered a shocking event.

It could be a serious road accident, losing a loved one, an assault, terrorist
attack or natural disaster.

It affects one in three people who have experienced trauma and can develop
immediately or weeks, months or even years after.

Symptoms include panic attacks, sleep problems, nightmares, flashbacks and
feelings of isolation and guilt.

Some suffer depression, anxiety and suicidal feelings.

Treatment includes cognitive behavioural therapy, antidepressants or
eye-movement desensitisation and reprocessing.

Sue Cowan-Jenssen, psychotherapist at London Psychotherapy and Trauma Centre,
says: "The problem with PTSD is that the brain and the body do not realise that
something is over so they continue to live as if it is still happening. The good
news is that there is effective treatment."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STAYING POSITIVE: Tara with husband Jamie

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 21, 2014 Wednesday

Iran condemns "terrorist" attacks in Nigeria

LENGTH: 342 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News
Agency website

Tehran: The Iranian Foreign Ministry in a statement deplored the Tuesday [20
May] twin bomb attacks in the busy central Nigerian town of Jos, the latest in a
series of attacks that has the country reeling. "The Islamic Republic of Iran
deplores such extremist and terrorist moves and inhumane acts and asks for the
establishment of peace, tranquillity and security in the nation," Foreign
Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham said in the statement on Wednesday.

She also expressed sympathy with the bereaved families of the victims of the
terrorist attacks.

More than 100 people were killed Tuesday in a pair of bombings at a bus terminal
and adjacent market in Jos.

The detonation of two vehicle bombs within half an hour seemed calculated to
exact maximum casualties. Although the tactic has been used by terrorist groups
in other parts of the world, it was the first attack of its kind in Nigeria.

The blasts came two days after a suicide attacker set off a car bomb on a street
lined with bars in the major Northern city of Kano, killing four people. Police
in that city averted another attack when an explosive device was found in an
abandoned car on Monday, according to local news reports.

There is also mounting frustration about the government's seeming inability to
rescue 276 schoolgirls abducted last month by Islamic extremists in northeastern
Nigeria.

The first blast in Jos, in the bus terminal, killed about 10 people, according
to local media. Scores more died in the explosion in the crowded market. The
National Emergency Management Agency put the combined toll at 118.

Police said the explosives were concealed in a minibus and a car. There was no
immediate claim of responsibility for the attacks.

Jos, in Plateau state, has often been associated with sectarian violence. The
city is situated at the crossroads between the mainly Muslim north and
predominantly Christian south.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1440 gmt 21 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday

Putin sends condolences over "terrorist attack" in China's Xinjiang

LENGTH: 144 words


Text of report by Russian presidential website on 22 May

Vladimir Putin has expressed condolences to President of the People's Republic
of China Xi Jinping in connection with human losses as a result of a terrorist
attack in the city of Urumqi.

In the telegram of condolences, the Russian head of state decisively condemned
this bloody crime and expressed confidence that its perpetrators and masterminds
will be found and receive well-deserved punishment.

Further to talks in Shanghai, the Russian president confirmed a commitment to
further strengthen Russian-Chinese cooperation in combating all forms of
terrorism and extremism.

Putin sent his condolences to the relatives and friends of those who died and
wished speedy recovery to all those who were injured [in the attack].

Source: President of the Russian Federation website, Moscow, in Russian 0945 gmt
22 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday

Witnesses describe terror attack in Urumqi

BYLINE: Cui Jia and Sun Li

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 136 words


Explosions at an open-air market in Urumqi, capital of Northwest China's
Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, on Thursday morning, have left 31 people dead
and more than 90 others injured.

China's Ministry of Public Security called the blasts "a serious violent
terrorist incident", and a witness who was buying groceries at the market said
he saw vehicles plough into people and also explosives thrown out of the
vehicles.

"I heard a series of large explosions and the vehicles were soon on fire, with
flames rising so high they could reach the second floor of a building," the
witness said.

Another witness, a man surnamed Wang, cried as he described the scene. "I
started to run as soon as I heard the explosions and one blast was quite close
to me," Wang said, adding he has never felt so scared in all his life.

Related:

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday

Russia, Hungary condemn terrorist attack in Urumqi

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 237 words


MOSCOW - Russia and Hungary on Thursday strongly condemned a terror attack in
the northwest Chinese city of Urumqi, which has claimed dozens of lives.

"Russia is shocked with what has happened in Urumqi. We categorically condemn
that bloody, barbarous act and hope its organizers will be found and
prosecuted," Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich told
reporters.

Moscow had been interested in strengthening anti-terror cooperation with China,
the spokesman said.

Explosions occurred Thursday morning at an open air market in Urumqi, capital of
China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, leaving at least 31 dead and 94
injured.

Two vehicles, without license plates, broke through roadside fences and plowed
into people at the market, and explosive devices were set off, said a statement
issued by the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region's publicity department.

Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged to severely punish terrorists and spare no
efforts in maintaining stability.

The Hungarian Foreign Ministry voiced shock and outrage. The Ministry issued a
statement expressing the country's deepest condolences to the families of the
dead and profound sympathy for the injured and their families.

"Hungary's government deeply condemns all forms of terrorism as a matter of
principle," said the statement, calling all manner of terrorist actions against
innocent people inexcusable and terrible crimes.

Related:

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday

SCO chief condemns Urumqi terror attack

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 145 words


BEIJING - Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Secretary-General Dmitry
Mezentsev on Thursday condemned the deadly terrorist attack in northwest China's
Urumqi City, expressing the SCO's strong indignation and deep sorrow.

"We express deep-felt condolence to the victims and convey sincere solace to
relatives of the victims and the injured people, " Mezentsev said in a
statement.

It is the priority of the SCO to fight terrorism, the statement said, adding the
international community should further boost cooperation to combat terrorist
activities effectively.

Two vehicles, without license plates, broke through roadside fences and plowed
into people at an open air market in Urumqi, capital of northwest China's
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, on Thursday morning. Explosive devices were
set off, causing the deaths of at least 31 people and injuring 94 others.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday

Lee Rigby's mother haunted by images of the Woolwich terrorist attack

BYLINE: Vikram Doddtheguardian.com

LENGTH: 430 words

ABSTRACT

Lyn Rigby tells the Sun she is still plagued by nightmares after the brutal
murder of her son in south London a year ago

FULL TEXT

The mother of Lee Rigby, murdered a year ago today in a terrorist attack in
London, has said she is plagued by "nightmares in which I am running to try and
save my son".

Lyn Rigby spoke about the loss of her son, a soldier, who was run over and then
butchered near Woolwich barracks in south London, by two Islamist extremists.

The attack was the first inspired by the al-Qaida ideology of violent jihad to
claim a life on British soil since July 2005.

Mrs Rigby told the Sun newspaper: "No parent should ever have to bury a child,
but the nature of Lee's death was so violent that I can barely sleep at night,
haunted by the images of my child lying bloodied and fatally wounded on the
street.

"If I close my eyes I see Lee covered in blood. And when I do fall asleep I have
nightmares in which I am running to try and save my son.

"I wake up in cold sweats with my heart thumping and I feel like I am going to
die."

Farooq Murad, secretary general of the Muslim Council of Britain, said: "What
took place last May was a dishonourable act that rejected the core tenets of
Islam - no cause justifies cold-blooded murder. The killers of Lee Rigby
attempted to sow division among British society through a graphic representation
of their crime. The Muslim community, then as now, is united in our
condemnation."

Murad praised the Rigby family, who have chosen a low-key and private
commemoration of the anniversary: "The dignity and composure his family have
displayed ever since this tragic act took place is highly commendable."

Michael Adebolajo, 29, who hacked at Rigby's head, was sentenced to a whole-life
term for leading the first al-Qaida-inspired terrorist attack on British soil to
claim a life since the 7 July bombings nine years ago. The sentence means he
will die in prison.

His accomplice, Michael Adebowale, 22, who stabbed at the soldier's torso, was
ordered to serve a minimum of 45 years in jail. Both men had been convicted
unanimously by a jury in December 2013.

London mayor Boris Johnson said the terrorists failed to divide communities: "It
is some satisfaction that those killers have now been brought to justice but it
is even more important to note that they failed in their intent.

"They wanted to divide this city. They wanted to sow hate and recrimination
among Londoners. Instead, our city has come together as never before - and shown
the world what we are: a place of generosity and openness where no terrorist
will ever win."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Lincolnshire Echo

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday

Family's terror as racist thugs attack home

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 461  words


An Asian family who fended off a gang of racist teenagers trying to kick down
their doors in Gainsborough say they feel let down by police.

Pregnant Aarti Patel, 26, and her dad, Ramesh, used their bodies to barricade
shut the door while the youths tried to force their way into their home and
business, The Corner Shop in Strafford Street.

Windows were  smashed during the attack by between 15 and 20 youths at 1am on
Saturday May 17. The gang initially dispersed, but some of them returned at 4am.

The family called the police again, but there was no sign of a disturbance when
they arrived. The shopkeeper's brother, Shashikant Patel, then tried to detain
one of the youths while the police were there. There was a scuffle and Mr Patel
claims he was punched in the face, but so far, no one has been arrested.

Aarti Patel said: "The whole family was asleep and we were woken up by the noise
outside. There were loads and loads of people kicking the front door of the shop
and the front door to the house at the side.

"We were all panicked. Dad ran downstairs and called 999. There were 15 to 20
kids trying to bombard the place.

"They managed to break the lock on the side door and my dad was holding the door
shut. I got my mum's mobile and called the police and then me and dad were
holding against the door.

"What is one police officer going to going to do with 15 to 20 people?"

Her brother, Chiraag, 18, said: "I think it was teenage lads being teenage lads
and there's an element of racism to it as well.

"We wanted  police to protect and serve us, but I think they failed to do that."

Lincolnshire Police are treating the incident as racially motivated. A force
spokesman confirmed that a single officer was dispatched to the incident, but
other officers were then sent out.

They searched the area at around 1am, but found no trace of the gang.

They then returned at 4am, but Inspector Simon Outen, who heads local policing
in the area, said there was no evidence that the group outside the shop at that
time was responsible for criminal damage, so no arrests were made. He added: "We
have every sympathy for victims who understandably feel angry and frustrated.

"These emotions can sometimes lead to impulsive actions. We had no evidence that
this group were responsible for the previous incident of criminal damage and no
evidence that this specific youth was responsible.

"It was not lawful for him to be detained by a member of the public and nor
would it be lawful for us to have arrested him.

"We would like to reassure the victim in this case that every effort is being
made to progress the investigation into the criminal damage.

"The neighbourhood team went down to the area on Monday and started the house to
house and other aspects of the inquiry."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday

Terrorist Attacks in Nigeria

LENGTH: 124 words


May 21, 2014

Jen Psaki

Department Spokesperson Washington, DC

The U.S Government strongly condemns the multiple bomb blasts in the city of Jos
yesterday, as well as the bombing in the Sabon-Gari neighborhood of the city of
Kano on May 18 that have resulted in the deaths of more than 100 people. These
vicious attacks on defenseless Nigerian civilians and Boko Haram's abduction
last month of more than 200 girls in Chibok are unconscionable, terrorist acts
demanding accountability and justice.



We extend our deepest condolences to the families of the victims. We continue to
stand with the Nigerian Government and people in their efforts to defeat violent
extremism in a manner that protects civilians and ensures respect for human
rights.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 22, 2014 Thursday 5:47 PM GMT

White House condemns terror attack in China

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 147 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - The White House is condemning a bombing attack in Urumqi
(uh-ROOM'-chee), China, calling it a, quote, "despicable and outrageous" act of
violence against innocent civilians.

President Barack Obama's press secretary, Jay Carney, issued a statement Friday
expressing condolences and sympathies to the victims and their families.

He said the United States, quote, "resolutely opposes all forms of terrorism."

Local Chinese officials said attackers hurled bombs from two SUVs that plowed
through shoppers at a busy street market in Urumqi, located in China's volatile
northwestern region of Xinjiang (shihn-jahng). Officials said 31 people were
killed and more than 90 were wounded.

No one had claimed responsibility for the attack. Chinese officials have blamed
other recent violence in the region on radical separatists from the country's
Muslim Uighur (WEE'-gur) minority.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 22, 2014 Thursday 4:53 PM GMT

Boko Haram kill dozens in fresh terror attack as America sends PREDATOR drone to
find Nigerian schoolgirls snatched by Islamists

BYLINE: DAMIEN GAYLE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 982 words



     ·    Militants stormed three villages near Chibok, where the girls where
          snatched
     ·    Most residents fled to the bush but 48 people are reported to be
          killed
     ·    Death toll from car bombings in Jos rises to 130 after more die from
          wounds
     ·    Comes as U.S. deploys armed drone to Chad to help in hunt for Boko
          Haram
     ·    Schools shut as Nigerian teachers stage protest calling for release of
          girls


The death toll of the Nigeria's Islamist insurgency has risen to more than 200
in a single week after 48 people were killed in Boko Haram raids in the
country's north-east.

Militants stormed three villages near the town of Chibok, Borno State, where
Boko Haram snatched nearly 300 girls from their boarding school dorm last month.

Hours after a double car bombing killed at least 130 in a central Nigerian city,
villagers were forced to bolt into the bush as their homes and possessions were
burned and looted.

Scroll down for video

The attacks came as 80 U.S. Air Force personnel arrived in Chad, which shares a
part of its border with Borno state, on a mission to help track down the girls
being held captive by Boko Haram.

They are helping with intelligence by operating a Predator drone in missions
over and around northern Nigeria, the U.S. said.

About 40 of the personnel make up the launch and recovering teams for the drone
and the other 40 are troops acting as the security force for the team, said
Lieutenant Colonel Myles Caggins.

Predators are the main type of unmanned aircraft used for drone strikes in
Afghanistan and the Pakistani tribal areas, where they are armed with 100lb
Hellfire missiles.

Although the the U.S. has said that it is being used for reconnaissance, the
deployment of such a fearsome weapon seems to mark an escalation in the campaign
against Boko Haram.

The deployment will be in addition to unarmed Global Hawks already being used in
the search, said a senior U.S. official who preferred to remain anonymous.

During the latest attack on three northeastern villages, which came overnight on
Tuesday and early Wednesday, residents who fled to the bush watched while Boko
Haram fighters set their thatched-roof mud homes ablaze.

'We saw our village go up in flames as we hid in the bush waiting for the dawn.
We lost everything,' Apagu Maidaga of the village of Alagarno told The
Associated Press by telephone.

The nearby villages of Bulakurbe and Shawa also were attacked.

'We saw our village go up in flames as we hid in the bush waiting for the dawn.
We lost everything'

Schools in Nigeria are shut today as teachers hold a day of protests calling for
the release of the 276 schoolgirls still being held captive by Boko Haram.

Michael Olukoya, president of the Nigerian Union of Teachers, told Nigeria's
Premium Times that his members would not stop campaigning 'until our girls are
brought back safe and alive and the perpetrators of the heinous crimes are
brought to book.'

Another union leader, Segun Raheem, said that teachers were also a target of
Boko Haram - whose name roughly translates to 'Western education is sinful' -
and that authorities must do more to protect them.

'The majority of them are scared. They don't even sleep at home. And when they
go to school, it is with shock,' he told BBC News.

'We feel that enough security has not been put in place... and we call on the
government... not to play politics with the lives of our children and the
teachers.'

In Jos, central Nigeria, the site of two powerful car bombings in a crowded bus
terminal and market on Tuesday, rescue workers with body bags combed the rubble
for more bodies. Scores of people gathered at mortuaries and hospitals to search
for missing loved ones.

Officials reported an additional 12 deaths from the blasts: seven mutilated
bodies were recovered from the scene and five of the wounded died in the
hospital.

Most victims were women and children who worked in the market as vendors, said
Mohammed Abdulsalam of the National Emergency Management Agency. 'We expect to
find more bodies in the rubble,' he said.

Jos was tense with fears that the attack could inflame religious rivalry in the
city, which sits on a volatile fault line dividing Nigeria's Muslim north from
its Christian south.

'Allahu akhbar!' some young men yelled provocatively at an AP photographer near
the scene, using the war cry of Islamic militants within earshot of soldiers at
a checkpoint.

Officials have suggested the extremists are feeding into tribal and religious
tensions to spread the insurgency outside of their stronghold in Nigeria's
north-east, which was part of an Islamic kingdom before colonisation.

Security forces cordoned off the mounds of rubble, burned-out vehicles and
obliterated buildings with the debris of panic scattered around - a sandal here,
a hat there. Exploded mangoes and pineapples rotted in the sun, their sickly
sweet smell mixing with the stench of rotting human flesh.

Despite the spiralling bloodshed, Nigerian army spokesman Brigadier General
Olajide Laleye yesterday insisted that victory was close. He dismissed reports
of troops suffering from low morale and lack of basic equipment, including
bullet-proof vests.

'I make bold to say that the Nigerian Army is steadily and surely reversing the
ugly menace of terrorism and insurgency in the northeast part of this great
nation,' he said at an army recruiting campaign.

But extremist attacks have increased in frequency and deadliness, with more than
2,000 people killed so far this year, compared to an estimated 3,600 between
2010 and 2013.

On Monday, a car bomb at a bus station killed 24 people in the Christian quarter
of the northern Muslim city of Kano, where police later defused another massive
car bomb.

Two separate bomb blasts in April around another bus station, in the nation's
capital of Abuja, killed more than 120 people and wounded more than 200.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 22, 2014 Thursday 5:17 AM GMT

Many feared dead after terrorists 'attack open-air market in China by tossing
explosives out their car windows'

BYLINE: KATE LYONS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 730 words



     ·    Terrorist attack on the Chinese city of Urumqi in the region of
          Xinjiang
     ·    Assailants 'drove into an open-air market and threw explosives out the
          car windows'
     ·    An unknown number of people were killed and injured
     ·    Urumqi is a volatile city, with three people killed in a bombing last
          month


An unknown number of people are dead after assailants drove their car into an
open-air market in Urumqi, in China's north-west and hurled explosives out the
windows this morning.

The attack occurred at 7.50am local time (9.50am AEST) in the city of Urumqi,
the capital of the volatile Xinjiang region.

The official Xinhua News Agency said several people were rushed to hospital,
though did not give an estimate of the number killed or injured in the attack.

Xinhua said the assailants plowed through crowds of shoppers in off-road
vehicles and threw explosives out the window before crashing head-on in the
early morning attack in the city of Urumqi.

One of the vehicles then exploded, said the news service who quoted an
eyewitness as saying there had been up to a dozen blasts in all.

A statement from the Xinjiang regional government said the attack occurred at
7:50 am local time (9:50am AEST) and people had been killed and injured, but
gave no further details.

'I heard four or five explosions. I was very scared. I saw three or four people
lying on the ground,' said Fang Shaoying, the owner of a small supermarket
located near the scene of the blast.

Photos from the scene posted to Chinese social media site Weibo showed bloodied
people lying on the ground, with debris including clothing and stools strewn
across the street.

Other pictures showed a plume of smoke rising from a block of building and fires
on a tree-lined street.

Police arrived at the blast site after the incident, wearing helmets and body
armour as ambulances and fire trucks arrived at the cordoned-off scene, located
near Renmin Park in downtown Urumqi.

Urumqi was the scene of a railway station bomb attack late last month that
killed three people, including two attackers, and injured 79.

Security in the city has been significantly tightened since the attack, which
took place as Chinese leader Xi Jinping was concluding a visit to the region.

The city saw ethnic riots that killed nearly 200 people in 2009, but had been
relatively quiet since then amid a smothering police presence.

The station attack and other violence have been blamed on radicals from among
the region's native Turkic Uighur Muslim population seeking to overthrow Chinese
rule in the region.

The Xinjiang region is 2,5000 kilometres west of Beijing, and borders Mongolia,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Pakistan. Information about events in the area is
tightly controlled.

Tensions between Chinese and ethnic Uighurs in Xinjiang have been simmering for
years, but recent attacks - while still relatively crude - show an audaciousness
and deliberateness that wasn't present before. They are also increasingly going
after civilians, rather than the police and government targets of past years.

In an unprecedented incident last year, three Uighurs rammed a vehicle into
crowds in a suicide attack near the Forbidden City gate in the heart of Beijing,
killing themselves and two tourists.

And in March, 29 people were slashed and stabbed to death at a train station in
the southern city of Yunnan blamed on Uighur extremists bent on waging jihad.

Uighur activists say the violence is being fueled by restrictive and
discriminatory policies and practices directed at Uighurs and a sense that the
benefits of economic growth have largely accrued to Chinese migrants while
excluding Uighurs.

The knowledge that Muslims elsewhere are rising up against their governments
also seems to be contributing to the increased militancy.

Thursday's attack came two days after courts in Xinjiang sentenced 39 people to
prison after being convicted of crimes including organizing and leading
terrorist groups, inciting ethnic hatred, ethnic discrimination and the illegal
manufacturing of guns.

Among those convicted Tuesday was 25-year-old Maimaitiniyazi Aini, who received
five years in prison for inciting ethnic hatred and ethnic discrimination for
comments he made in six chat groups involving 1,310 people, the Supreme Court
said.

In another case, a Uighur man was jailed for 15 years after he preached jihad,
or holy war, to his son and another young man, according to the court.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 22, 2014 Thursday 4:40 AM GMT

Many feared dead after terrorists 'attack open-air market in China by tossing
explosives out their car windows'

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 693 words



     ·    Terrorist attack on the Chinese city of Urumqi in the region of
          Xinjiang
     ·    Assailants drove into an open-air market and threw explosives out the
          car windows,
     ·    An unknown number of people were killed and injured
     ·    Urumqi is a volatile city, with three people killed in a bombing last
          month


Attackers crashed a pair of vehicles and tossed explosives in an attack Thursday
near an open air market in the capital of China's volatile northwestern region
of Xinjiang, leaving an unknown number of people dead and injured, state media
reported.

The official Xinhua News Agency said several people were rushed to hospital and
flames and heavy smoke were seen at the scene, which was cordoned off.

Xinhua said the assailants plowed through crowds of shoppers in off-road
vehicles and threw explosives out the window before crashing head-on in the
early morning attack in the city of Urumqi.

It said one of the vehicles then exploded and quoted an eyewitness as saying
there had been up to a dozen blasts in all.

A statement from the Xinjiang regional government said the attack occurred at
7:50 a.m. and people had been killed and injured, but gave no further details.

'I heard four or five explosions. I was very scared. I saw three or four people
lying on the ground,' said Fang Shaoying, the owner of a small supermarket
located near the scene of the blast.

Photos from the scene posted to popular Chinese social media site Weibo showed
at least three people lying in a street with a large fire in the distance giving
off huge plumes of smoke. Others were sitting in the roadway in shock, with
vegetables, boxes and stools strewn around them.

Police in helmets and body armor were seen manning road blocks as police cars,
ambulances and fire trucks arrived on the scene.

Urumqi was the scene of a railway station bomb attack late last month that
killed three people, including two attackers, and injured 79.

Security in the city has been significantly tightened since the attack, which
took place as Chinese leader Xi Jinping was concluding a visit to the region.

The city saw ethnic riots that killed nearly 200 people in 2009, but had been
relatively quiet since then amid a smothering police presence.

The station attack and other violence have been blamed on radicals from among
the region's native Turkic Uighur Muslim population seeking to overthrow Chinese
rule in the region.

Information about events in the area about 2,500 kilometers (1,550 miles) west
of Beijing is tightly controlled.

Tensions between Chinese and ethnic Uighurs in Xinjiang have been simmering for
years, but recent attacks - while still relatively crude - show an audaciousness
and deliberateness that wasn't present before. They are also increasingly going
after civilians, rather than the police and government targets of past years.

In an unprecedented incident last year, three Uighurs rammed a vehicle into
crowds in a suicide attack near the Forbidden City gate in the heart of Beijing,
killing themselves and two tourists.

And in March, 29 people were slashed and stabbed to death at a train station in
the southern city of Yunnan blamed on Uighur extremists bent on waging jihad.

Uighur activists say the violence is being fueled by restrictive and
discriminatory policies and practices directed at Uighurs and a sense that the
benefits of economic growth have largely accrued to Chinese migrants while
excluding Uighurs.

The knowledge that Muslims elsewhere are rising up against their governments
also seems to be contributing to the increased militancy.

Thursday's attack came two days after courts in Xinjiang sentenced 39 people to
prison after being convicted of crimes including organizing and leading
terrorist groups, inciting ethnic hatred, ethnic discrimination and the illegal
manufacturing of guns.

Among those convicted Tuesday was 25-year-old Maimaitiniyazi Aini, who received
five years in prison for inciting ethnic hatred and ethnic discrimination for
comments he made in six chat groups involving 1,310 people, the Supreme Court
said.

In another case, a Uighur man was jailed for 15 years after he preached jihad,
or holy war, to his son and another young man, according to the court.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Nottingham Post

                             May 22, 2014 Thursday

Blocking out terror attacks on skyscraper

SECTION: BUSINESS:OTHER; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 180  words


SUTTON-in-Ashfield firm Townscape Products Limited has helped to safeguard
London's latest skyscraper, 20 Fenchurch Street, against the threat of
terrorism.

Townscape installed six bespoke counter-terror (CT) blocks, designed to stop
vehicle attacks, to the 32-floor skyscraper dubbed the Walkie Talkie.

Townscape was enlisted by security engineering consultants QCIC to develop a
tailored perimeter security system that would protect the building from hostile
vehicle attacks and  create a "high-quality urban landscape" at its base.

Jonathan Goss, managing director of Townscape, said: "The 20 Fenchurch Street
building will attract thousands of visitors each year, so a hostile vehicle
mitigation system was needed to defend the building, whilst also provide an open
and inclusive perimeter.

"We worked with leading stone masonry firm, Gormley Masonry Services, to develop
and install six PAS 68 CT Blocks, which are topped with granite and include LED
lighting on the sides.  The high-quality granite finish was selected to tie into
the prestigious City of London surroundings."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 22, 2014 Thursday 12:21 PM GMT

China terror attack leaves dozens killed after bombs thrown into busy market;
At least 31 dead and 94 injured after two vehicles smashed through a street
market in the far western city of Urumqi, lobbing homemade bombs and running
down shoppers

BYLINE: By Malcolm Moore Beijing

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 796 words


Two vehicles tore into a popular early morning street market in the western
Chinese city of Urumqi, killing 31 and injuring 94 as they zigzagged to hit
shoppers and lobbed homemade bombs.

It was China's third major terrorist attack since March and the worst yet,
despite a new counter-terrorism campaign that has seen armed police patrols in
several major cities and armoured personnel carriers on the streets of Beijing.

Eyewitnesses said two black vehicles flying flags drove into a street market
near the city's People's Park and deliberately drove into shoppers.

The attack occurred just before 8am Beijing time, or 6am local time, just as the
city's residents, especially the retired and elderly, were out buying food for
the day.

"This is a place where lots of people get together in the morning," said one
woman, whose mother, younger sister and brother-in-law were wounded and being
treated in hospital. She asked not to be named, fearful that she would "get into
trouble" with the authorities.

"There were two vehicles which dropped at least four bombs and they swerved to
hit anyone in their path. Some policemen were shooting at them but it did not
make any difference. My family was running and trying to crouch but other people
fell on top of them in the chaos," she said. "The whole atmosphere in Urumqi is
tense".

Another eyewitness named Zhang Xiaoyu wrote on Weibo, China's version of
Twitter, that the vehicles had carried flags written in Uighur, the language of
the local Muslim population.

"I reacted quickly. One second before the car hit me, I jumped out of its path.
I looked around and saw lots of people lying on the ground. Afterwards a second
car came near me. It looked like a dark green Toyota with a triangle-shaped flag
and lots of slogans sprayed on it," he wrote.

Photographs from the scene showed bodies littered across the road amid small
fires. There were reports that one of the vehicles had exploded at the scene.

Xi Jinping, the Chinese president, visited Urumqi last month, calling it the
"front line" in China's battle against terrorism and watching a police
anti-terrorism drill.

China must "make terrorists like rats scurrying across a street, with everybody
shouting 'beat them!'" he said, according to Xinhua, the official news agency.

In response, terrorists detonated a bomb at Urumqi's train station on the day
that Mr Xi left the city. In March, attackers armed with knives assaulted a
train station in the southern city of Kunming, leaving more than 30 dead.

China has battled small scale terrorism on its Western borders for decades,
claiming that radicals have infiltrated the region from Pakistan and
Afghanistan.

As in Tibet, the local Uighur population complains that Beijing's policies have
left them economically marginalised and second-class citizens.

However the scale of this year's attacks is a step change. "Compared with the
1990s, terrorists are now branching out into more areas of the country and we
are also seeing more suicide attacks, rather than remote-controlled bombs or
poisonings," said Li Wei, the director of the anti-terrorism center at the China
Institute of Contemporary International Relations.

"These terrorists destroy their identification documents beforehand, which shows
their determination to launch a suicide attack. Before the terrorists targeted
police and government officials as well as civilians. Now the police are
upgrading their equipment, and some terrorists are shifting their focus to
civilians to cause panic," he added.

The market was in a predominately Han Chinese part of Urumqi; residents said the
city's Han and Uighur populations have been divided since ethnic riots in 2009.
"The Han live on the North side of Erdao bridge and the Uighurs live on the
South side," said one resident. However, some vendors at the market were ethnic
Uighurs or Hui Muslims.

Mr Li added that China's new counter-terrorism strategy would take time to
produce results. "So far the government is doing well in terms of reacting
quickly and deploying more and more manpower to fighting terrorism," he said.
"But there could be an improvement in collecting intelligence, although of
course intelligence cannot predict every attack."

Meanwhile, two flights from Shanghai to Urumqi were diverted after threats.
Flight HO1255 on Juneyao Airlines left Shanghai at 10am but was stopped at
Lanzhou airport and held, the airport confirmed.

Flight HO1229, also on the same airline, had barely taken off before it was
forced to land at Nanjing in the early afternoon. A friend of one of the
passengers on board said police had taken a man off the plane and that the other
passengers were asked to go through security a second time.

Additional reporting by Adam Wu

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Uzbekistan: SCO anti-terror body condemns "terror attack" in China's Xinjiang

LENGTH: 235 words


Text of report by Uzbek news website 12news.uz on 23 May

Tashkent, 23 May: The Executive Committee of the Shanghai Cooperation
Organization's Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure (SCO's RATS) has strongly
condemned an act of terrorism in China's Urumqi, which occurred on 22 May and
caused numerous casualties among local residents.

Earlier, it was reported that terrorists in SUVs drove into a crowd of people on
one of the streets adjacent to an open-air market yesterday morning, threw at
them explosives and detonated them. As a result of the explosions, 31 people
were killed and 94 were injured.

"The Executive Committee of the SCO's RATS strongly condemns this inhumane
action by terrorists against civilians, and expresses condolences to the
terrorist attack's victims, their relatives and close ones. Taking into
consideration its tasks, the Executive Committee will intensify practical
cooperation between relevant agencies of the SCO's member states in fighting
terrorism, separatism and extremism, as well as in ensuring regional security in
general," a statement of the SCO's RATS said.

The SCO's member states are China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan
and Uzbekistan. And the observer countries in the SCO are Afghanistan, India,
Iran, Mongolia and Pakistan. The organization's partners in dialogue are
Belarus, Turkey and Sri Lanka.

Source: 12news.uz, Tashkent, in Russian 0113 gmt 23 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Pakistan senator condemns China terror attack - paper

LENGTH: 276 words


Text of report by official Pakistani news agency Associated Press of Pakistan
(APP)

Islamabad, 23 May: Chairman Senate Defence Committee, Senator Mushahid Hussain
Sayed Friday [23 May] strongly condemned the act of terrorism yesterday in a
market in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang province in China, in which a number of
innocent persons, who were doing shopping, were killed or injured.

The Senate Defence Committee expressed solidarity with the Chinese people and
government, on this vile attack and re-affirmed that terrorism is a common enemy
of all humanity. The people and parliament of Pakistan, who themselves have seen
the ravages caused by terrorism in Pakistan, also wish to express their full
solidarity with their Chinese brethren and they would like to underline that the
struggle against terrorism is a joint struggle of both Pakistan and China in
which we stand shoulder to shoulder with each other, said a press statement
issued here.

Given the recurrence of such violence not only in China but in other parts of
the region as well in which Pakistan is also located and as a neighbouring
country and strategic partner of China, we feel the time has come to make
efforts to formulate a joint strategy between Pakistan and China to combat and
counter the scourge of terrorism since they are "enemies of humanity".

"Such a joint strategy would help to promote peace, security and stability in
the region. We would also like to extend our heartfelt condolences to the
families of the victims of yesterday's act of terrorism in Urumqi," said Senator
Mushahid.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1020gmt
23 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

DRCongo NGO says December radio, airport attacks perpetrators not terrorists

LENGTH: 459 words


Text of report by French state-funded public broadcaster Radio France
Internationale on 23 May

[Announcer] The assailants who stormed into the Congo national radio and
television station, the military headquarters and Kinshasa airport on 31
December 2013 were not terrorists but angry civilians who belonged to Pastor
Joseph Mukungubila's church. This conclusion is the result of investigations by
various NGO'S in DRCongo. The same violence took place in Lubumbashi and Kolwezi
in Katanga. This recent report by NGOs is contrary to the original version of
facts.

[Reporter] Human rights NGO's said that followers of prophet Joseph Mukungubila,
angry at the inhuman treatment inflicted on the members of their church in
Lubumbashi on 30 December 2013, who were distributing open letters targeting to
speak to all Congolese citizens. They were also angry at the death of a lady,
who was killed by military officers. Mr Sylvain Lumu [secretary-general Voters'
League] had this to say:

[Lumu] Followers of prophet Mukungubila, who felt disenchanted by the wave of
arrests on the individuals who were distributing open letters and also the death
of Ms Kyungubanza [phonetic] and organised themselves to express their anger.
This is why some of them unarmed met at the headquarters of Congo National Radio
and Television (RTNC) media offices, others at the office of the Chief of
General Staff and others at the airport, where they went to free one of the
leaders of their church Mr Pierre Kazadi.

[Reporter] The NGO's equally questioned the outcome of 100 deaths as was
announced by the government spokesman.

[Secretary General of the League of Voters] We counted about 250 people who had
died in this.

[Reporter] The report finally demands a release of all individuals who were
detained.

[Announcer] More than 300 deaths were witnessed in the repression of attacks
that followed the violence of 30 December 2013. According to the NGO, there were
more deaths than the original version presented by the government. The
government has categorically refused these figures. Lambert Mende, DRC
government spokesman said this:

[Lambert Mende] If there was an ounce of truth in what this report says, we
would immediately begin an investigation. The outcome of anything involves
names, physical addresses, people. We are waiting to receive names. The
government is ready to look into the matter if it is presented with the facts of
the report but not numbers alone. 300 deaths, what does that mean? Where are
these people? Where are their families so that we can begin an official inquiry?
I believe we are still politicising human rights, a very important societal
principle and it is very unfortunate.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 0430 gmt 23 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:19:29

