



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:32:36
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           January 01, 2005, Saturday

Terrorist fears over laser attacks on seven planes

BYLINE: By Tom Leonard in New York

SECTION: News; International Pg. 14

LENGTH: 244 words

THE FBI is investigating reports that laser beams have been directed into the
cockpits of seven aircraft flying over America since Christmas, amid fears that
terrorists could use them to blind or disorientate pilots.

Crews have reported two incidents in Colorado Springs and one each in Cleveland,
Washington, Houston, Teterboro, New Jersey, and Medford, Oregon. All the planes
landed safely.

Pilots are not convinced by reports that federal investigators have found no
evidence of terrorist involvement.

"It's not some kid, it's too organised," said Paul Rancatore, the deputy
chairman of the security committee for the Allied Pilots Association. Loren
Thompson, who teaches military technology at Georgetown University in Washington
DC, said: "What we're talking about is a fairly powerful visible light laser
that has the ability to lock on to a fast-moving aircraft.

"That's not the sort of thing you pick up at a military surplus store," he
added. "It sounds like an organised effort to cause airline accidents."

Pilots and safety officials have been concerned for some time about the dangers
of laser light shows, which have caused temporary eye injuries to several pilots
in the past decade.

A recent study commissioned by the Federal Aviation Administration concluded
that "a laser attack could be quickly deployed and withdrawn, leaving no obvious
collateral damage or projectile residue, and would be difficult to detect and
defend against".

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                January 1, 2005

PRIEST ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Niall O'Connor

LENGTH: 169 words


Thugs hammer him to a pulp so they can steal his mobile

A PRIEST was brutally attacked and robbed in his home - in a carbon copy of a
raid on the same house seven years ago.

Two masked young burglars repeatedly battered Fr Jeremiah Cremin, 50, over the
head with hammers as he slept in bed.

They tied him up and left him lying in a pool of blood before ransacking the
house in the Glen area of Cork.

Then they fled with the priest's mobile phone and a small sum of cash.

Last night Fr Cremin was recovering from shock in Cork University Hospital after
having stitches in a gaping head wound. A horrified cop vowed to track down the
"savage" gang.

He said: "This was gratuitous and unnecessary violence."

One parishioner added: "The people who did this are savages. They are the next
generation and it is appalling."

Thugs broke into the same council house in one of Cork's most-deprived areas in
1997.

Another priest who lived there at the time was also beaten up and robbed.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                                January 4, 2005

Attack terror

SECTION: News; 999; CrimePrevention; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 58 words


A 19-year-old woman was assaulted in a Devon town on New Year's Day. She was
grabbed around the stomach by a man while walking along Collett Way, off Brunel
Road, in Newton Abbot.

The man was described as being 5ft 10in tall and was wearing a blue hooded top
and blue jeans. Anyone with information can call Teignbridge Police on 08452
777444.


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2005 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Airline Industry Information

                                January 5, 2005

Laser beam incident near Nashville not a terrorist attack

LENGTH: 89 words


AIRLINE INDUSTRY INFORMATION-©1997-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

A laser beam aimed at a jet flying from Nashville to Chicago may have been a
prank, FBI officials have said.

On Sunday (2 January) pilots of the United Airlines flight reported seeing a
green laser beam shortly after takeoff. The aircraft, which was carrying about
30 people, landed safely in Chicago.

FBI officials said that there was no terrorism involved in the incident, but
declined to disclose any other details.

(Comments on this story may be sent to aii.feedback@m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright  2005 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           January 6, 2005, Thursday

MARY 80: MY CS SPRAY TERROR;
 THUGS ATTACK BETTING SHOP PUNTERS

BYLINE: MARY MURTAGH & GREG O'KEEFFE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 79 words


AN 80-YEAR-OLD woman today told how she was caught up in a terrifying CS spray
attack at a betting shop.

Great-grandmother Mary Murphy was left choking and with streaming eyes after a
gang of thugs released CS spray in the Liverpool bookies before attacking a
21-year-old man.

Mrs Murphy, who had been placing a bet for her husband at Bechers Betting, Hunts
Cross, said: "I was really struggling to catch my breath. I thought they were
going to kill him. "

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK: The betting shop in Hunts Cross

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 11, 2005

Rebels step up terror attacks to wreck poll

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 324 words


VIOLENCE in Iraq escalated yesterday as insurgents stepped up their campaign of
terror to wreck the election planned for January 30.

Fresh doubts were raised over the fledgling security force's ability to protect
voters after rebels dealt more blows to the poll hopes of the U.S.

and Britain.

But as the country appeared to spin further out of control, interim premier Iyad
Allawi insisted voting would go ahead.

In the latest attacks, gunmen assassinated Baghdad's deputy police chief and his
policeman son as they drove to work. Two U.S. soldiers were killed and four
wounded when a roadside bomb hit their armoured vehicle in the city and a
suicide car bomber killed three people at a police station in southern Baghdad.

Meanwhile, the 13-member electoral board in Anbar province, which includes the
battle-scarred cities of Fallujah and Ramadi, quit after receiving death threats
from insurgents. A militant group also warned that snipers would target voters
on election day.

Crucial oil supplies were again hit by saboteurs who have brought refineries in
the north to a virtual halt.

In Baghdad, the shooting of police brigadier Amer Nayef came six days after
insurgents murdered the city's governor. A group led by Al Qaeda ally Abu Musab
al-Zarqawi said it carried out the murders.

In Anbar, electoral commission head Saad Abdul-Aziz Rawi said it would be
impossible to stage a poll. Rebel attacks had succeeded in preventing voter
registration in the area.

Ukraine ordered the withdrawal of its 1,600 troops from Iraq by July at the
latest after eight of its soldiers were killed in a bomb blast at the weekend.

IRAQ BRIEFING

400 more UK soldiers headed to Iraqi frontline for election Allawi insists poll
will proceed but rebels vow to kill voters Zarqawi gang claims murder of Baghdad
deputy police chief Ukraine orders its troops to pull out by July

Oil supply line sabotaged again

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                January 11, 2005

Man stabbed in terror attack by yobs

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 218 words


A THUG stabbed a screwdriver through a Rotherham man's cheek in a terrifying
attack when a gang smashed up a car as its occupants cowered inside.


The screwdriver narrowly missed the 26-year-old victim's eye and plunged into
his mouth, needing stitches inside and out.


Eight yobs smashed all the car windows and battered the panels.


The blue Vauxhall Corsa was seriously damaged but it is not thought anyone else
was hurt. Police believe the incident followed a dispute.


Officers are appealing for witnesses to the attack on Thursday at about 8pm in
Badsley Street, Clifton.


The victim, a passenger in the parked car, is from East Herringthorpe.


A police spokesman said: "This was a nasty attack where the injuries could have
been much worse. This was just inches from the man's eye.


"We are not sure of the exact motive but it seems that this followed some kind
of dispute."


Information to Pc James Crossley: 01709 832312 or Crimestoppers: 0800 555111.


A 17-year-old girl suffered a cut face and hands after a yob hurled a brick
through a bus window in Salisbury Road, Maltby.


A police spokeswoman said: "She was not severely injured but very shaken. This
could have resulted in far worse injuries. It is simply mindless."


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Cheshire

                                January 12, 2005

Man's late night gun attack terror

BYLINE: Nick Lakeman

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: Cheshire


GUN-WIELDING thugs attacked a man in a 'terrifying' ordeal as he walked home
from a night out.

The 28-year-old was left needing hospital treatment in the unprovoked assault in
which he was punched to the floor before being threatened with a handgun.

Police are hunting the two men who escaped empty-handed in the direction of Lime
Grove on the Town Hall estate.

"The man said it was terrifying when they pointed the gun at him " said Det Con
Tim Cope from Runcorn CID.

"He was hurt and very shaken.

"He was dressed in nice clothes with a nice watch and nice ring and with £40 in
cash but no attempt was made to take anything. It seems they set about him for
no reason."

The victim is a visitor to Runcorn who had been staying at a friend's for the
New Year celebrations.

He was walking along a footpath between Lime Grove and Linkway at around 2.15am
on New Year's morning when his attackers struck.

After being knocked to the floor police say he managed to get back to his feet
and at some stage a gun was thrust at him.

It is described as a magazine-loading handgun metallic black and about six or
seven inches long.

The first attacker was white in his mid-20s over 6ft of slim build with dark
hair and scruffy casual clothing.

The second was also white and in his mid-20s but shorter about 5ft 8ins and
stockier and wearing a casual top and possibly a baseball cap.

Anyone with information should contact Det Con Tim Cope at Runcorn CID on
01244-613 933 or Crimestoppers on 0800-555 111.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 13, 2005, Thursday

MY TERROR IN CAFE ATTACK;
 OAP SEES MOTORBIKE PAIR'S GUN RAID

BYLINE: BEN HURST AND GUY NEWEY SHOOTING SCENE: The cafe in Perry Barr

SECTION: Final Edition; ROP; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 386 words


A TERRIFIED pensioner today described how she saw a gangland-style gun attack in
a cafe just yards from her front door.

Four men were shot in the raid at Ruthie's Place, in Aston Lane, Perry Barr,
when a gunman opened fire before speeding off on a motorcycle.

The 79-year-old woman, who asked not to be named for fear of being targeted,
told how she saw the motorbike pull up outside the cafe before she heard a
series of gunshots.

She said: 'I saw a lot of men come running out of the shop and scattering in all
directions. I am not sure how many there were but I suppose they wanted to get
away as far as possible, and you can't blame them.

'It was just a terrifying thing to have happened and you just don't feel safe in
your own home.'

Three men were still in hospital today after undergoing surgery and detectives
are appealing for eye witnesses to the attack.

Jumped

Two men pulled up outside the Caribbean cafe on a motorbike at 2.30pm yesterday.
Customers dived for cover when the pillion passenger went into the cafe and
opened fire with a handgun. The pair then sped off towards Witton Lane and the
Aston Villa football ground.

'I saw the man go into the shop and then I heard a load of loud bangs and the
man came out of the shop in a big hurry and jumped on the bike and they sped
off,' added the witness.

'I was absolutely terrified. I got away from the window then because I was
frightened. There was another shooting just last year outside the chip shop.
These days I try to keep away from my front window and I wish I had done
yesterday.'

Detectives investigating the case said the two men wore motorcycle helmets
during the attack.

'The man who fired the shots is described as a black man, 5ft 10in to 6ft,
medium build and wearing a black bomber-type jacket,' said a West Midlands
Police spokeswoman.

'The driver of the motorbike is described as a black male, of stockier build,
wearing dark clothing.

'One 29-year-old man, not from Birmingham, received a minor injury and three
other men, aged between 21 and 25, all from Birmingham, suffered serious gunshot
wounds.'

Anyone with information can call CID on 0845 113 5000, or text the police in
confidence on 078 999 335 44.

IF YOU CAN HELP POLICE WITH THE INVESTIGATION RING 0845 113 5000

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           January 15, 2005, Saturday

NUCLEAR STATION TO BE GUARDED AGAINST TERROR BOMB ATTACK

BYLINE: ROBERT MERRICK

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 272 words


ARMED police will guard a North Wales nuclear power station as fears of a
terrorist attack mount.

The government ordered the security boost after warnings Wylfa, on Anglesey, is
vulnerable to attack by suicide bombers using trucks loaded with explosives.

Security chiefs rejected the move in successive reviews following the terror
attacks on New York and Washington on September 11, 2001.

But despite the U-turn, the department of trade and industry insisted there had
been "no specific threat" to Wylfa or any of Britain's 12 nuclear generating
plants.

A report by the director of civil nuclear security last year warned the plants
were at risk from hijackers crashing aircraft and from suicide bombers in
vehicles.

Greenpeace campaigners succeeded in breaching security at the Sizewell B plant
in Suffolk two years ago - painting Danger' in 10-ft letters on the plant's
reactor dome. Until now, only unarmed civilian guards have protected the nuclear
plants, which each contain tons of radioactive material.

The armed officers - 500 are expected to have training - will be provided by the
UK Atomic Energy Authority (UKAEA) Constabulary.

The DTI spokesman said: "This is not being done in response to any specific
threat. This is a prudent enhancement of security arrangements. "Security at
nuclear sites is continually reviewed and it has already been upgraded since the
terrorist attacks of September 11. "

But Tony Juniper, director of Friends of the Earth, said the terrorist threat
made it even more more important to wind down nuclear power in favour of safer,
renewable energy sources.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wylfa power plant on Anglesey will be patrolled by armed police

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                January 17, 2005

UN: Secretary-General condemns Palestinian terror attack on Israeli civilians

LENGTH: 203 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-JANUARY 17, 2005-UN: Secretary-General condemns Palestinian terror
attack on Israeli civilians ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesman for Secretary-General
Kofi Annan:

The Secretary-General condemns the Palestinian terror attack that caused the
death of six Israeli civilians and injury to four others at the Karni crossing
between Israel and the Gaza Strip yesterday evening. He wishes to express his
deepest condolences to the families of those killed and injured.

The Secretary-General hopes that this terrible incident will not be allowed to
undermine the recent positive steps made by both parties. He also calls on the
new Palestinian leadership to make all possible attempts to bring to justice the
organizers and perpetrators of this attack.

The Secretary-General emphasizes again that violence cannot provide a solution
to the conflict, and that only through negotiation can peace be achieved.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           January 18, 2005, Tuesday

PETROL BOMB ATTACK TERROR FOR FAMILY-OF-4

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 99 words


A FAMILY-OF-FOUR were subjected to a terrifying petrol bomb attack at their
home.

Thugs hurled the homemade explosive at the terrace house on Castle Rise,
Runcorn, at 4 am yesterday.

The window frame caught fire.

A spokesman for Merseyside Fire and Rescue service said: "The family were
obviously very concerned because they were inside at the time.

"Someone was actually awake and in the front room which the device was aimed at.

"Luckily the device, which was like a Molotov cocktail, didn't break the window
or the consequences could have been far more serious. "

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            January 23, 2005, Sunday

Pakistan joins US in attacking Iran over support for terror

BYLINE: BY MASSOUD ANSARI in Karachi

SECTION: News; International; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 526 words

PAKISTAN, ONE of America's most important allies in the war on terror, has
blamed Iran for fuelling a growing insurgency in Baluchistan, the strategically
sensitive province where militant tribesmen have recently launched a series of
terrorist attacks.

Officials in Islamabad believe Iran is encouraging "intruders" from its own
Bal-och community to cross the 550-mile border with the Pakistani province, and
give support to the rebels.

"All this violence is a part of a greater conspiracy," a senior government
official told The Sunday Telegraph. "These militants would not be challenging
the government so openly without the back-up of a foreign hand."

Pakistan's support would be important for any United States-led action against
Iran, whose fundamentalist regime was last week put firmly in the sights of the
second Bush administration by the vice-president, Dick Cheney, who said: "You
look around the world at potential trouble spots - Iran is right at the top of
the list."

Pakistan's ISI intelligence service set up a unit in the provincial capital,
Quetta, last year to monitor suspected Iranian activity in Baluchistan.
Officials say that in addition to directly supporting the insurgency, Teheran's
state-controlled radio has launched a propaganda campaign against Islamabad.

"Radio Teheran broadcasts between 90 and 100 minutes of programmes every day
which carry propaganda against the Pakistan government," said a former interior
minister. He added that Iran was suspected of providing financial, logistical
and moral backing for the insurgency.

Iran is said to be taking advantage of unrest among tribesmen who claim to have
been denied the benefits of Baluchistan's natural gas fields. Earlier this
month, rebels disrupted gas production in a series of rocket and mortar attacks,
which killed eight people. However, Islamabad is delaying a formal complaint to
Teheran in the hope that private diplomatic channels may prove more effective.
Meanwhile, large numbers of troops are hunting rebels in the province.

In the latest attack, a bomb exploded near an army lorry in a crowded market in
Quetta yesterday, killing eight civilians and a soldier - an assault that Sheikh
Rashid Ahmed, the country's information minister, blamed on "enemies of
Pakistan".

Pakistani officials believe that Teheran - already furious at Pakistan's support
for the US-led war on terrorism - has stepped up its activity in Baluchistan
because of its anger at the construction of a vast deep-water port at Gwadar,
close to the border, which it fears could be used by Washington as a base for
monitoring Iran. America believes that Iran is pursuing an advanced nuclear
weapons programme in addition to sponsoring terrorism, and has repeatedly
accused Teheran of fomenting trouble within Iraq. Last week, the journalist
Seymour Hersh reported in the New Yorker that US special forces had carried out
recent reconnaissance missions inside Iran to identify nuclear, chemical and
missile sites that could be targeted.

Although the Bush administration brushed aside the claims, the report heightened
the belief that America is preparing to take action.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            January 24, 2005, Monday

ANTI-TERROR LAWS ATTACKED

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 82 words


THE solicitors' professional body attacked the Government's anti-terror laws for
the first time yesterday.

The Law Society, which represents 90, 000 solicitors, urged ministers to
"resolve the plight" of the nine men interned under emergency anti-terror laws.
The men have been held without charge at Belmarsh and Whitemoor prisons for
three years and can be held indefinitely. Last month, the Law Lords ruled that
their detention was unlawful as it contravened human rights law.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 24, 2005

Flu feared more than terror attack: Killer virus: Officials prepare for
worst-case pandemic: Ministers' fears of overdue flu pandemic

BYLINE: Sarah Hall and Ian Sample

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 698 words


Ministers are preparing for a flu pandemic that they believe poses a far greater
risk to Britons than a terrorist threat.

Government statisticians have warned that a worldwide outbreak of flu is
overdue, leading ministers to consider contingency plans for inflatable
mortuaries, quarantine facilities, and the evacuation of big cities.

The arrangements follow the outbreak of a bird flu virus in south-east Asia,
which has killed 32 of the 45 humans it has infected. Test results last week
confirmed that two Vietnamese brothers, one of whom has died, were infected,
prompting concerns that the virus can spread between humans. The World Health
Organisation has warned of a potential pandemic that could cause seven million
deaths. Ministers have been told there is a greater probability of this
spreading to Britain than of a September 11-style attack.

One senior government source said: "People think terrorist attacks are the most
serious threat to us but influenza is currently regarded as the most likely. Our
statisticians say an epidemic is overdue. Some of the details are graphic.
They're the things that keep me awake at night."

The strain of avian flu circulating in south-east Asia is a particular concern
to health officials. Their biggest worry is that it might infect someone who is
also suffering from the human form of flu. Because the virus is so good at
swapping genes, it could easily pick up characteristics of human flu, making it
far more infectious - conditions that health officials say could lead to a
pandemic.

The government would aim to prevent a pandemic reaching Britain through
screening centres at south-east Asian airports. The idea was discussed in China
during the Sars outbreak, two years ago, which infected over 8,500 people in at
least 29 countries. "We started this with Sars in 2003," the government source
said. "The real plan is to prevent this getting into the country through border
controls. That's absolutely critical."

If infected passengers manage to get through screening, the government would
want to quarantine them in secure accommodation with residential facilities.

In the worst-case scenario, ministers are preparing for mass evacuations of
healthy people from cities. "This is ab solutely the last resort," the source
said.

Any centre with a large Chinese population - such as Liverpool, Manchester,
Birmingham, Leeds, Glasgow and Newcastle - is believed to be particularly
vulnerable to a flu outbreak: "It could be any big city with a significant
population of people from China if someone were to arrive who had the disease or
came into contact with it and went to live with friends or family in one of
these cities."

The evacuation plan is understood to mirror a blueprint to evacuate affected
parts of London in the event of a terrorist attack. Working on the assumption
that roads would be gridlocked by panicking people, the government would
coordinate a mass evacuation by rail. Officials are also procuring an inflatable
mortuary which can house several hundred dead.

Meanwhile, the Department of Health is assessing how many antivirals it should
stockpile. The new class of drug works by blocking the action of a key flu
protein and stops sufferers passing the virus on.

Research from the Harvard School of Public Health indicates that giving
antivirals to between 50% and 75% of the population would check a virus along
the lines of the 1918-19 outbreak, when 280,000 died in the UK and 40 million
worldwide.

But, while the NHS is understood to have enough doses for groups vulnerable to
flu - the elderly and infirm - it has nowhere near the 30m doses for a pandemic.

Statisticians believe a flu pandemic is long overdue. They normally occur at
fairly regular cycles, but there has not been one since 1968.

The most serious outbreak was the 1918-19 Spanish flu pandemic, which started in
China. In 1957, an Asian flu pandemic, thought to have originated in Russia,
affected 10-35% of the world's population though mortality was much lower than
in 1918. The 1968 outbreak, first detected in Hong Kong, killed around 700,000
people worldwide.

> Page 2

< Page 1


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                January 25, 2005

Mum chased carjack thief after attack;
Terrorised victim was dragged from vehicle

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Alex Robertson Crime Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 401 words



HIGHLIGHT: MUM'S ORDEAL: North Frederick Street, near George Square, where the
attack happened


ABANK worker chased a thief who sped off in her car through the streets of
Glasgow, despite being "frightened to death".

Deborah Paterson, 27, from Uddingston, was threatened and dragged from her car
by a man who raced away in her prized Vauxhall Tigra.

Today the shocked young mum told how she jumped into a friend's car and chased
the thief through city streets.

The carjacker shook off Mrs Paterson in traffic but crashed her car in High
Street and then ran off.

The terrifying incident happened shortly before 6pm on Sunday in North Frederick
Street near the Hogshead pub.

It came just days after the Evening Times issued a warning to women to beware of
carjackers following a spate of incidents.

Mrs Paterson, who is married with a threeyear-old son, was on her way to work in
the Royal Bank of Scotland when she was targeted.

She said: "I'm still in shock, it hasn't fully sunk in yet. I was hysterical,
frightened to death and crying. My car is my pride and joy but at least he never
hurt me.

"There was a guy standing near the car on his mobile phone.

"I was about to take the keys out when the car door opened and he shouted 'get
out the car'.

"I thought it was a joke then saw the rage in his face and thought 'I'm not
going to argue'.

"He pulled me out and sped off with the wheels spinning."

A friend and colleague of Mrs Paterson's was parked close by and both women
chased him while calling the police.

The carjacker crashed the pounds-8000 car into a taxi and another car on High
Street.

Mrs Paterson had parked in the same area for almost two years.

Detective Sergeant Gerry McBride, who is leading the investigation, said: "The
area would have been busy with pedestrians and motorists at the time."

DS McBride is examining CCTV footage taken in the city centre. The suspect is 30
to 35, 5ft 8in, and of medium to stocky build.

He was unshaven with brown receding hair and was wearing a cream, waist-length
jacket and tweed scarf with blue baggy jeans and darkcoloured chunky boots.

It is believed he had been in the Hogshead before the incident took place.

Last week, women drivers were warned to ensure they kept their car doors locked
while driving after two carjackings.

In each case the victim was a woman and driving an exclusive car or carrying a
large amount of cash.

Information can be passed to DS McBride on 0141 532 3000 or free to
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

alex. robertson@ eveningtimes. co. uk

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                January 25, 2005

Solicitors attack UK anti-terror laws

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 281 words


The expected return of the remaining British Guantanamo detainees should act as
a catalyst for the Government's reform of its own anti-terror laws, it was
claimed last night.  President of the Law Society, Edward Nally, said the
impending arrival of the four men from the United States' detention camp on Cuba
should spur Home Secretary Charles Clarke into a major overhaul of the UK's
controversial internment legislation. Nine foreigners have already won their
case in the House of Lords over their indefinite detention without charge or
trial, which was ruled illegal under human rights laws.

Mr Nally said: "What I hope the return of the Guantanamo detainees would do is
provide a catalyst to convince the government to think seriously about whether
it is their responsibility to apply the law, not weave around it." Azmat Begg,
the father of Guantanamo detainee Moazzam Begg, has said he expected to be
reunited with his son today.

The Home Secretary has said he will respond to the Law Lords' ruling in the next
few weeks. Yesterday's comments by the Law Society chief were the first time the
body representing 90,000 solicitors had attacked the Government's anti-terror
laws.

The nine detainees in the UK have been held without charge or trial at Belmarsh
and Whitemoor prison for three years .

Mr Nally added: "Indefinite imprisonment without charge or trial is totally
unacceptable. Some of these prisoners have now been detained for three years and
the time has come for them to be tried or released. The rule of law must prevail
and the Government can no longer ignore the Law Lords' ruling. What is happening
contravenes fundamental legal principles."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2005 Western Morning News

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                January 27, 2005

LENN'S TERROR; STAR DODGES GLASS ATTACK

BYLINE: by STUART MacDONALD

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 178 words


CELTIC star Neil Lennon was left terrified after thugs tried to attack him with
a bottle outside a nightclub.

The Irish midfielder had been enjoying a night out on Saturday after his team's
2-0 win over Motherwell when he was targeted by a gang of yobs.

Lennon, 33, was getting into a taxi outside Cube nightclub in Glasgow city
centre with a friend when he narrowly missed being hit with a glass bottle.

It smashed over the windscreen of the taxi. The cab driver quickly drove off to
avoid further trouble.

Lennon, a target for bigots since joining the Parkhead club in 2000, was shaken
by the incident.

He said last night: "If it wasn't so serious, I'd tell you it was just an
average night out for me."

Celtic manager Martin O'Neill said Lennon was considering "all aspects of life
in Glasgow" when considering whether to sign a new contract.

In May, vandals daubed "you are a dead man Lennon" on the road outside his home.

Rangers players have also been the target of bigots, who daubed "Novo RIP"
outside the home of Nacho Novo.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                January 27, 2005

FEARS GROW KNIFEMAN MAY STRIKE AGAIN AFTER FIVE RANDOM ATTACKS;
Towns' terror over maniac on loose

BYLINE: By Deborah Anderson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 434 words



HIGHLIGHT: ATTACK: Renfrew's Kind Man's pub where fifth stabbing took place
Pictures: Martin Shields


A KNIFEMAN who stabbed five people in apparently random attacks was still at
large today.

Four men were stabbed in Paisley in just over an hour. The fifth man was
attacked four hours later in a Renfrew pub.

All five victims were taken to hospital and one is in a serious condition.

As fears grew that the knifeman may strike again, police today warned that he
was dangerous and should not be approached by the public.

The first attack took place at 4.10pm yesterday in Lochfield Road.

A 29-year-old man was approached just after stepping off a bus. He was stabbed
as he walked down steps leading to Pine Street. Fortunately, school children
from nearby Todholm Primary had already made their way home before the incident
happened.

The knifeman then attacked a 30-year-old man in the Piazza shopping centre.

The victim had just got off a No66 Arriva bus.

The third victim was a 55-year-old man who was stabbed as he walked along High
Street near a charity shop and the Hogshead pub.

Staff from the shop ran out with towels to try to stem the man's bleeding before
he was rushed to hospital.

The fourth attack happened around 5.15pm. A 44-year-old man was stabbed just
after getting off a bus in Marjory Drive in Gallowhill.

More than four hours later, around 9.30pm, a 26-year-old man was stabbed in the
Kind Man pub in Hairst Street, Renfrew.

Police said today that the attacks seemed to be random, but linked.

A spokeswoman added: "We are examining CCTV in the areas the attacks happened to
find the man responsible.

"We want to reassure the public that we are actively looking for this man.

"We are treating this very seriously."

The suspect is in his mid-20s to early 30s, between 5ft8in and 6ft, of scruffy
appearance with short dark hair.

He was wearing a dark bomber-style jacket and dark jeans.

All the victims were taken to the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley.

Hospital staff today described the 55-year-old man as serious but stable. The
men aged 29, 30, and 26 were said to be in a stable condition.

The 44-year-old was released from hospital last night after being treated.

TIMETABLE OF TERROR AS KNIFEMAN RUNS AMOK

1 4.10pm: A 29-year-old man is stabbed after getting off No66 bus in Lochfield
Road, Paisley

2 4.40pm: A 38-year-old man gets off No66 bus and is stabbed as he entered the
Piazza Shopping Centre in Paisley town centre

3 4.45pm A man, aged 55, is stabbed near Hogshead pub and charity shop in High
Street

4 5.15pm Marjory Drive, Gallowhill, a 44-year-old man gets off a No20 bus when
he is struck with a knife

5 9.25pm: A 26-year-old man is stabbed inside the Kind Man pub in Hairst Street,
Renfrew

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Post Magazine

                                January 27, 2005

NEWS; INSURERS WARNED OVER UK TERROR ATTACKS.

SECTION: Pg.2

LENGTH: 209 words

DATELINE: UK


The threat of terrorist attack is more likely in the UK than in the US in 2005,
according to experts, but the commercial impact and loss of life in either
country is likely to be far less than that of 11 September 2001.

This is the opinion of political risk forecasting agency, Exclusive Analysis,
whose managing director, Simon Sole, explained there was potential for an
incident on the scale of last March's bombing of a commuter train in Madrid,
which killed 191 people.

At a briefing held at the offices of the International Underwriting Association,
Mr Sole said: "We expect to see Sunni extremist attacks in both the UK and US in
2005. As both intent and capability have been demonstrated to a greater degree
in Western Europe than the US, a significant attack is more likely in the UK
than in the US in 2005."

However, Mr Sole added that emerging Sunni extremist networks ('green shoots
movements') have so far been intercepted by intelligence services before being
able to stage attacks.

"We have seen arrest quality in the UK rising over the last year, so that more
credible suspects are being caught with better evidence. However, an attack
could occur - possibly on a Madrid level of deaths."

See terrorism feature, p16.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                 Copyright 2005 Timothy Benn Publishing Limited

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Burnley Express

                                January 28, 2005

ATTACK TERROR FOR COUPLE

SOURCE: Burnley Express

LENGTH: 356 words


A COLNE have-a-go hero was recovering this week after a violent thief stole his
car, knocked down his wife, then smashed up his caravan.


Pensioner Mr Allan Emery (65) and his wife Nancy (57), of Collingwood Street,
had been emptying their caravan into their 4x4 at around 8-15 a.m. on Friday, at
a caravan site off Skipton Road, leaving the keys in the car.


What happened next was a terrifying ordeal that they will never forget. Mr Emery
turned round to see that the thief had locked himself in the car and was
starting it up. "I panicked and I was headbutting the window to try and break it
and get hold of him," he said.


After struggling with the gears, the thief sped backwards, dragging Mr Emery,
who was hanging on to the door, behind, and knocking Mrs Emery, who had been
trying to get into the back seat, to the ground.


Continuing backwards, he then smashed into the caravan with such force that he
nearly toppled it over the nearby embankment, before driving off.


The car, which the couple bought just 10 months ago for £22,000, was recovered
on Saturday, written off, on the motorway between Wigan and Preston. It was
attached to another caravan, which police believe the man had stolen from
Leyland.


Goods worth £700, loaded in from the caravan, along with Mrs Emery's handbag,
are still missing.


Mrs Emery said: "It was like something out of a nightmare. That's the only way I
can describe it. We have been lucky really. I have got whiplash and a gash in my
head, but we could both have been killed."


Her husband added: "We can't sleep for it. Every time I close my eyes I can see
his face."


They said that their heroic actions were pure instinct, to protect what they had
worked for all their lives.


The thief was a man of Asian appearance, in his early twenties and of slim
build, wearing a light-coloured jacket.


The car, registration number YJ03 OAP, was damaged at the back from the
collision with the caravan. Anyone with any information about this crime should
call the police on 425001, or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.


LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 28, 2005

Terror crackdown 'will increase risk of attack'

BYLINE: BENEDICT BROGAN

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 582 words


DRACONIAN new anti-terror measures could lead to the creation of extremist
'sleeper cells' poised to launch attacks, Charles Clarke was warned yesterday.

The chairman of the Bar Council, Guy Mansfield QC, said the Home Secretary's
planned internment scheme could make the situation more dangerous.

It would breed resentment among ethnic minority communities.

A string of lawyers and MPs criticised Mr Clarke over his plan to give himself
sweeping new powers to impose strict and indefinite controls on terrorist
suspects.

Legal experts said this would put Britain in the same league as Zimbabwe, Cuba,
Libya and other countries where rights have been limited by the state.

Mr Mansfield said: 'Any steps to protect the people of this country must be
proportionate to the danger, they must be necessary and they must be consistent
with democratic values.

'If you can detain someone indefinitely in their home, it is not very different
from keeping them in prison. It is very different from keeping them in custody
pending a trial, because it is indefinite.

'Quite apart from the individuals concerned and it is absolutely dreadful for
them what you end up doing is radicalising minorities.

We saw that in Northern Ireland.

'You end up then with "sleepers" in the population and you make this country,
ironically, a more dangerous and not a safer place.' He urged Mr Clarke to
consider changing the law to allow the use of phone-tap evidence in court or to
create a new offence covering acts preparatory to terrorism.

This would allow charges to be brought against those suspected of involvement in
terror plots.

Mr Clarke's plan for 'control orders' follows a ruling by the Law Lords last
month that the detention without trial of foreign-born terror suspects was
unlawful.

The new measures would apply equally to foreign and British suspects and could
be used to target not just Al Qaeda associates but Irish terrorists and animal
rights extremists. Mr Clarke said the new system was needed to protect the
public and indicated that security services already had British suspects.

He said: 'If we are aware, as we are, of British citizens who are ready to
engage in terrorist activity to destroy all aspects of the society which we
value, are we to do nothing about that?' 'First we go down the prosecution route
... but in the event that we can't do that I'm not prepared to accept that we
should simply do nothing and allow these people to succeed in their ambitions.'
He said he expected there would be only a 'very small number' of cases.

Mr Clarke insisted that the men covered by the Law Lords' ruling, who include
radical Islamic cleric Abu Qatada, would not be released until the new measures
were in place. He was given strong support by Tony Blair, who argued that the
need to counter the terrorist threat outweighed concerns about civil liberties.

The Prime Minister said: 'There is a new form of global terrorism in our
country, in every other European country and most countries around the world.

'They will cause death and destruction on an unlimited scale and they will and
are trying to organise such terrorist activity in our own country. I just hope
people get this in perspective.' But Labour MPs warned privately that the
Government will face a rebellion by backbenchers who fear the plans are too
extreme. Critics claim they violate all known standards of human and legal
rights.

b.brogan@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 28, 2005, Friday

Authorities confident over terror attacks

BYLINE: Greg Hurst

SECTION: Home news; 27

LENGTH: 153 words


A seminar of 150 fire service chiefs and local authority leaders will be held in
London today to consider the progress made on plans to cope with a large-scale
terrorist attack.

It comes before a British-American anti-terrorism exercise this spring across
two continents. Changes introduced since 9/11 by authorities in England,
particularly the fire service, are set out in a restricted document, seen by The
Times.

Its tone suggests confidence that the authorities could cope with a so-called
Level 4 emergency: an event without warning that threatens death or disruption
on such a scale that the response requires national co-ordination. How-ever,
some steps will not be in place until later this year.

The plans include readiness to respond to a chemical, biological or nuclear
attack. They are not confined to terrorist incidents and could deal with a
natural disaster -such as flooding.


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           January 29, 2005, Saturday

LESS FEAR OF TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 91 words


THE Welsh are the least worried about the chance of a terrorist attack in the
UK, a survey revealed yesterday.

Almost half (44%) of people questioned in Wales confirmed they were "not worried
at all" or "not worried" at the prospect of an act of terrorism.

Londoners were the most anxious.

More than one in three people surveyed (37%) said they had not received the
Government's Preparing for Emergencies booklet.

A quarter of those in Wales and the Midlands said they were now "more fearful"
after reading the material.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 29, 2005, Saturday Edition 1

Machete raiders in terror attack on shop

BYLINE: By Matt Casey, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 429 words


   A security guard was threatened by a machete -wielding attacker and robbed of
a large amount of cash in the latest violent attack on Tyneside.

The guard was outside Booker cash and carry store in Earlsway on Gateshead's
Team Valley Trading Estate when the robber struck at lunchtime.

He threatened the guard with the weapon, grabbed a cash bag from him and ran
off.

The robber then leapt into a waiting getaway car driven by an accomplice and
sped off.

But after only a short distance the car, a black Ford Mondeo was abandoned by
the side of the road.

The two men got out and ran off towards Armstrong Street through an underpass.

The guard, said by police to be shocked but unhurt, raised the alarm and police
were quickly on the scene.

The raid happened at 12.10pm yesterday and a spokesman for Northumbria Police
said today a substantial amount of cash was stolen.

The man with the machete was 5ft 8in, in his early 20s, and was wearing black
trousers and a black hooded top.

The store was open as usual today.

Assistant manager Maureen Robinson said: "I can confirm an incident took place
but we cannot comment further than that."

The robbery came just two days after a man held an elderly woman at gunpoint and
demanded cash in a terrifying bank raid.

The man is believed to be responsible for a series of armed robberies in South
Tyneside.

On Wednesday afternoon he struck at Lloyds TSB in St John's Precinct, Hebburn -
taking Margaret Landless, 70, hostage and making off with a large quantity of
cash.

Police are linking the incident with a robbery at Heron's foodstore in the same
shopping centre on Wednesday, January 19 and a third raid at a Lloyds TSB in
Ellison Road Jarrow on Tuesday this week.

In all cases the man threatened staff with a handgun, ordering terrified workers
to hand over the takings.

A police spokesman said: "We are keeping an open mind on any possible link
between these three robberies, but are obviously very concerned and are keen to
catch the person responsible."

Det Insp Paul Young, of South Shields CID, said of the bank raid on Wednesday:
"This was a particularly nasty incident as the robber effectively took an
elderly customer hostage and demanded money.

"She is extremely upset by what has happened but, fortunately, was not injured.
We would ask anyone who saw anything suspicious or who knows anything about the
incident to contact us."

NPolice are appealing to anyone who saw the Team Valley robbery or who saw
thieves abandon the car to call Gateshead CID on [0191] 454 7555 ext 64343.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          February 2, 2005, Wednesday

ASBO ON YOBS FOR TERROR ATTACK ON PC

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 277 words


A GANG of teenagers was yesterday broken up and banned from a North Wales
council's grounds after rounding on an off-duty policeman.

The three youths and a girl cannot associate in gangs of more than four during
the next two years under an Asbo handed to them.

They must wear electronic tags and stay indoors at night, magistrates at
Llandudno youth court ruled. The order bans them from abusive, insulting,
threatening or abusive behaviour in Conwy, and from entering Bodlondeb.

Court chairman John Davies said magistrates, who watched a video recording,
believed it had been a nasty incident and had considered custody.

The ASBO was being imposed "in view of the problems you are causing in the Conwy
area. "

The youngsters cannot be named because they are aged 13-17.

Magistrates heard as the policeman left a junior cricket match to investigate
when stones were hurled at a roof, he was surrounded, abused and jostled by a
group of yobs.

Nita Dowell, prosecuting, said in an impact statement PC Andrew Davies was
shocked by the attack. He and his family felt disturbed about walking around in
Conwy, where they were known, because of what had happened.

The 17-year-old girl involved in the fracas had shouted offensive names at the
PC's mother during the incident. A group of 25 youngsters assembled at
Bodlondeb, and trouble had started after a fire extinguisher was set off in a
youth club.

Three of the defendants admitted affray and the fourth, a boy of 14, had been
found guilty of the offence.

All are from Conwy apart from a boy of 17 who lives at Penmaenmawr. They must
pay £50 compensation each to PC Davies.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 2, 2005

Lib Dem attack on terror changes

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 293 words


The Liberal Democrats will today strike out against the government's plans for
the house arrest of suspected terrorists by saying they will oppose the measure
in the Lords, arguing that it requires derogation from the European convention
on human rights.

The party will also oppose any deportation agreements signed by the prime
minister if the countries involved have not been endorsed as safe by the
European court. The party fears some countries will break promises not to
torture deported nationals.

The Lib Dem home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, will meet the party's senior
legal experts and figures in the Lords to sign off the proposals today. He
believes they "will strike a balance between the civil liberties implications
and the very serious concerns about suspected terrorists".

Mr Oaten is also likely to oppose the government's proposed control orders on
the grounds that they represent the same loss of liberty as suspected terrorists
being confined in Belmarsh jail, London, and extend it to British nationals. He
will propose that any control orders should be time limited and subject to
judicial review.

He will say the home secretary, Charles Clarke, is not being clear about the
impact of the control orders - using language that suggests they would also
apply to terror suspects' families and friends.

He is expected to argue that control orders could not be issued by the home
secretary alone, as proposed, but would have to be issued by a tribunal or a
judge.

Mr Clarke set out his proposals for house arrest last week in response to a
House of Lords ruling that the detention of foreign suspected terrorists without
trial was discriminatory and in breach of the European convention on human
rights.


LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Worcestershire

                                February 2, 2005

Wrong home theory over terror attack

LENGTH: 240 words

DATELINE: Worcestershire


A WOMAN suffered a terrifying ordeal when two men burst into her Southcrest home
and threatened her - though they may have targeted the wrong house.

The pair forced their way into the house in Laurel Close at about 11.30pm last
Tuesday.

They shouted at the woman and threatened her before searching the house and
leaving.

Det Insp Tony Love of Redditch Police said: "Although the woman was not injured
as a result of her ordeal she was extremely shaken and cannot understand why she
was targeted.

"It may be the offenders made a mistake with the address and this is one line of
inquiry we're following.

"We'd like to hear from anyone who was in the Southcrest Headless Cross or town
centre areas around the time of the incident and saw two males acting
suspiciously or noticed any vehicle they believe may be linked to the incident."

The pair are thought to have fled on foot.

The first raider was a light-skinned black man about 21 5ft 7ins tall of slim
build and with very short dark hair.

He wore a black long-sleeved jumper and black tracksuit bottoms.

The other man was also black with light-coloured skin about 21 5ft 9ins tall had
short hair and was of slim build.

He wore a black hooded top black tracksuit bottoms black and red trainers
baseball cap and a black scarf around his face.

Anyone with information can call Redditch police on 08457 444 888 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                February 4, 2005

ID CARDS WILL NOT PROTECT US FROM TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: Scottish Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 120 words


THE Government is lulling us into a false sense of security by telling the
public - which seems to accept anything it is told - that the UK will be much
safer if identity cards are introduced. Wrong!

The UK wouldn't be any safer than Spain when it came under attack.

Spain has had identity cards for a long time, but that didn't stop terrorists
blowing up trains in Madrid.

The British public shouldn't believe that they would be any safer than those
killed in those atrocities.

The Government will squander thousands - maybe even millions - of pounds on an
ID card scheme that will not even work.

This money would be better spent on improving the Health Service.

Allan Damien Goodwin, Wick

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                February 4, 2005

Two prostitutes in double terror attack

LENGTH: 476 words


A MANHUNT has been launched after a madman attacked two prostitutes in Bolton
with a cosh.

Both women suffered serious injuries in the separate attacks carried out half a
mile apart in the early hours of Friday morning.

One of the attacks was a short distance from Bolton's red light area where
prostitute Danielle Moorcroft was murdered in June 2002.

The attacker struck first in Lever Street just before 12.30am and again just
over an hour later on Orlando Street - not far from Bolton Community College
where pregnant Danielle's body was found.

The two women are being treated in hospital for serious head injuries. Police
cordoned off streets throughout Friday night.

Officers were first called to Heywood Park Lever Street after a call from a
nearby resident who heard screams. The 25-year-old woman was found conscious and
bleeding from three wounds to her head.

At 1.45am police responded to a second report of an attack on a woman outside
Viking House on Manchester Road. The woman who was in her 20s had been hit over
the head several times and also suffered a broken finger before the attacker ran
off in the direction of Orlando Street.

A cosh-type weapon was used in both attacks. Both women were taken to Royal
Bolton Hospital and police are interviewing them.

The scenes were closed off throughout much of Friday as forensic teams and
Tactial Aid officers searched for clues.

The attacker is said to be a white man in his mid-20s with blonde hair a
light-coloured jacket white trousers and black shoes.

A trail of blood was clearly visible leading from the park to Lever Street.
Shabina Nawaz aged 21 whose house backs on to Heywood Park said: "I woke up at
12.30 when I heard some loud shouting and screaming.

"It sounded like it was just kids messing about. After that there were police
running all over the place." Police said they were not linking the attacks to
the disappearance of a man wanted in connection with the murder of Danielle
Moorcroft. Within the last five years two prostitutes have been murdered in
Bolton.

The naked body of 17-year-old Carly Bateman was found in an alleyway in The
Haulgh in November 2001 and seven months later Danielle Moorcroft was battered
to death with a brick on a car park behind Bolton Community College.

Police responded to the two murders by creating a "management zone" in the area
surrounding Shiffnall Street where Danielle and Carly worked. The zone was set
up to keep vice girls safe and drive prostitution away from residential areas
such as the Haulgh.

A police spokesman said that the motive for the two attacks was unclear but they
believe the victims may have robbed.

Anyone who witnessed the attacks or has information is asked to contact Bolton
CID on 0161 856 5740 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                February 5, 2005

Couple feared terror attack after being rudely awoken by men who wanted to pray

BYLINE: Julie Harding

SECTION: News; Consumer; Travel; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 525 words


A Bristol couple, who were woken during a flight by a group of men, thought
terrorists were about to take over the plane.  Psychologist Paul Ford, aged 39,
and his girlfriend were asleep in their seats, which were next to an emergency
exit and the stairs to the flight deck, when they were shaken awake and told to
move by five men holding plastic sacks during the night flight from Tobago to
Gatwick.

Mr Ford, of Imperial Road, Redland said the men were dressed in traditional
Islamic clothing and spoke no English.

After the couple moved, the men pulled shut the curtain in the stairwell area of
the aircraft.

It then emerged that the men, from Pakistan, wanted to use the floor space next
to the emergency exit to pray to Mecca.

But Mr Ford is angry that cabin crew on the flight did nothing either to warn
him and other passengers in advance what was going to happen or to arrange
somewhere more private for the men to pray.

He said: "One of these men bent towards me and indicated I should stand up, by
grunting and moving his head up, while another shook my girlfriend awake.

"They were holding rough plastic sacks the size of pillowcases. We were
terrified, initially thinking the sack was going over my or my girlfriend's
head, so I stood and pulled my partner up with me.

"The man made it clear that we should move away from the group and go down the
aisle, which we did.

"The group of men took over the area by the main exit and the stairwell to the
flight deck by putting down their plastic sheets.

"Four of them knelt down to pray while the fifth stood in front of them holding
the curtain shut in the stairwell area, and to our shock started to call out in
prayer." Mr Ford asked a member of the cabin crew what to do and said the man
told him: "I don't know - I think it's best to just back off." Another suggested
something should be done as the group were blocking an exit and the stairwell
but no action was taken.

Eventually, Mr Ford and his girlfriend returned to their seats.

He said: "When this happened, both myself and my partner were variously
frightened, embarrassed, confused and even ashamed afterwards, for thinking and
fearing the worst of people - that we might have been seeing some kind of
attack.

"I'm sure they are upstanding people.  This is not about being anti-Islam.  It
is the airline's response that is the issue.

"I assumed that staff would have known or at least should have anticipated these
gentlemen's need to pray." On returning to Bristol Mr Ford complained to Virgin
Atlantic and has since learned that it is against flight regulations to allow
groups to gather in such a way.

Mr Ford said that had he himself smoked, been abusive or drunk, the cabin crew
would have taken swift action.

Neil Aspinall of Virgin Atlantic's customer relations department has apologised
for the distress caused and offered a refund of the extra money Mr Ford had paid
for exit seats.

He said: "In the event that a congregation of people does take place on board
the aircraft in a confined area, it is the duty of the cabin crew to be vigilant
of this."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2005 0502BRISEP627coupl

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                February 5, 2005

'We feared we were in a terror attack'

BYLINE: Julie Harding j.harding

SECTION: News; Consumer; Travel; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 506 words


A Bristol couple, who were woken during a flight by a group of men, thought
terrorists were about to take over the plane.  Psychologist Paul Ford, aged 39,
and his girlfriend were asleep in their seats, which were next to an emergency
exit and the stairs to the flight deck, when they were shaken awake and told to
move by five men holding plastic sacks during the night flight from Tobago to
Gatwick.

Mr Ford, of Imperial Road, Redland, said the men were dressed in traditional
Islamic clothing and spoke no English.

After the couple moved, the men pulled shut the curtain in the stairwell area of
the aircraft.

It then emerged that the men, from Pakistan, wanted to use the floor space next
to the emergency exit to pray to Mecca.

But Mr Ford is angry that cabin crew on the flight did nothing either to warn
him and other passengers about what was going to happen or to arrange somewhere
more private for the men to pray.

He said: "One of these men bent towards me and indicated I should stand up, by
grunting and moving his head up, while another shook my girlfriend awake.

"They were holding rough plastic sacks the size of pillowcases. We were
terrified, initially thinking the sack was going over my or my girlfriend's
head, so I stood and pulled my partner up with me.

"The man made it clear that we should move away from the group and go down the
aisle, which we did.

"The group of men took over the area by the main exit and the stairwell to the
flight deck by putting down their plastic sheets.

"Four of them knelt down to pray while the fifth stood in front of them holding
the curtain shut in the stairwell area, and to our shock started to call out in
prayer." Mr Ford asked a member of the cabin crew what to do and said the man
told him: "I don't know - I think it's best to just back off." Another suggested
something should be done as the group were blocking an exit and the stairwell
but no action was taken.

Eventually, Mr Ford and his girlfriend returned to their seats.

He said: "When this happened, both myself and my partner were variously
frightened, embarrassed, confused and even ashamed afterwards, for thinking and
fearing the worst of people - that we might have been seeing some kind of
attack.

"I'm sure they are upstanding people. This is not about being anti-Islam.

"It is the airline's response that is the issue.

"I assumed that staff would have known or at least should have anticipated these
gentlemen's need to pray." On returning to Bristol, Mr Ford complained to Virgin
Atlantic and has since learned that it is against flight regulations to allow
groups to gather in such a way.

Neil Aspinall, of Virgin Atlantic's customer relations department, has
apologised for the distress caused and offered a refund of the extra money Mr
Ford had paid for exit seats.

He said: "In the event that a congregation of people does take place on board
the aircraft in a confined area, it is the duty of the cabin crew to be vigilant
of this."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2005 0502BRISEP324Twefe

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 7, 2005

Police chief attacks terror labelling of Muslims

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 473 words


A police chief whose force has increased its special branch to cold war levels
in the fight against terror appealed yesterday for a more mature public debate
on the threat from extremists.

Colin Cramphorn, the chief constable of West Yorkshire, called for an end to use
of the misleading terms "Islamic" or "Muslim" to describe supporters of violence
against the west.

Drawing on his experience as deputy head of Northern Ireland's police, he warned
that crude labelling damaged continuing, very active anti-terror operations in
Britain.

The slur on the country's overwhelmingly law-abiding Muslim population risked
alienating a significant community which had no sympathy with violence and as
much of a stake in defeating terror as everyone else.

Mr Cramphorn is in charge of policing a sensitive area in the run-up to the
general election, with the far-right British National party fielding its leader,
Nick Griffin, in the West Yorkshire town of Keighley. Mr Griffin is to answer
police bail in Halifax early next month. His arrest followed secret BBC filming
of a BNP meeting in Keighley at which he called Islam "an evil, vicious faith".

Mr Cramphorn, who uses the word "jihadist" to describe groups such as al-Qaida,
said Islamophobia threatened precisely the intelligence work needed to contain
the real threat of terror attacks. The security forces needed the eyes and ears
of everybody to help their work, and to understand what radicalised people such
as the British "shoe bomber" Richard Reid.

"We had a constant flow of information from everywhere during the IRA bombing.
People noticing strangers or unusual goings-on at lock-up garages. If we
alienate a significant part of the community, we damage that work. I am
fortunate indeed to have Muslim colleagues at all levels of the police service,
across the whole organisation, whose professionalism I can draw on."

Mr Cramphorn said people should not delude themselves that the terror threat had
gone just because no catastrophe had occurred in Britain since the September 11
attacks on the US. Trials due to become public this year would show why special
branch had returned to cold war numbers and command structure, along with the
establishment of regional intelligence cells and a 50% staff increase at MI5.

Security professionals and academics are concerned at the use of "crude
caricature" in public discourse. Mr Cramphorn said the use of "Islamic" or
"Muslim" to describe terror groups was widespread in the media, and public
discussion followed suit.

"It is not just post-9/11," he said. "The Runnymede commission and research
commissioned by the Home Office in the late 1990s showed the growth of what you
might describe in the Macpherson report's terms as 'institutionalised'
anti-Islamic feeling."

guardian.co.uk/terrorism


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                February 7, 2005

Police chief attacks crude terror labelling

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 199 words


Colin Cramphorn, chief constable of West Yorkshire, called yesterday for an end
to the use of the terms "Islamic" or "Muslim" to describe supporters of violence
against the west.

Drawing on his experience as deputy head of Northern Ireland's police, he warned
that crude labelling damaged continuing, very active anti-terror operations in
Britain, and risked alienating a significant community which had no sympathy
with violence and as much of a stake in defeating terror as everyone else.

He is policing a sensitive area in the run-up to the election, with the BNP
fielding its leader, Nick Griffin, in Keighley. Mr Cramphorn uses "jihadist" to
describe groups such as al-Qaida, saying Islamophobia threatened precisely the
intelligence work needed to contain the real threat of terror attacks.

He said people should not delude themselves that the terror threat had gone just
because there had been no catastrophe in Britain since the September 11 attacks
on the US. Trials due later this year would show why special branch had returned
to cold war numbers and command structure, along with the establishment of
regional intelligence cells and a 50% staff increase at MI5.


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 10, 2005, Thursday

GUILDFORD FOUR PARDON: TOUGH ANTI-TERROR LAWS ECHO LABOUR'S RESPONSE TO ATTACKS
30 YEARS AGO

BYLINE: ROBERT VERKAIK LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 627 words


FACED WITH differing terrorist threats, separated by three decades, incumbent
British governments have chosen to rush through draconian anti- terrorism
legislation.

Shami Chakrabarti, the director of Liberty, the civil rights group, warned: "On
the day when the Prime Minister apologises for past miscarriages of justice, his
Government is paving the way for many future injustices. The proposal to bring
in house arrest for those suspected of terrorism is the latest in a long line of
assaults on the right to a fair trial. We have yet to learn the lessons of
Northern Ireland. Everyone knows that internment without trial was the best
recruiting sergeant the IRA ever had and yet that is the policy the present
government have adopted on its new war on terror."

So what are the similarities?

RESPONSES

1970S: In 1974, the Labour government introduced the Prevention of Terrorism Act
which allowed suspects to be detained for seven days without charge or access to
a solicitor.

Today: In December 2001 a New Labour government rushed through the Anti-
Terrorism, Crime and Security Act which introduced indefinite detention without
trial for foreign terror suspects.

INTERNMENT

1970S: More than 2,000 people were interned without charge or trial under
earlier legislation between 1971 and 1975.

Today: Since December 2001, 17 foreign terror suspects have been detained under
the new emergency terror legislation.

FURTHER POWERS

1970S: In 1974 a Whitehall committee recommended ministers extend the length of
detention and the powers of search and arrest for suspected terrorists.

Today: Charles Clarke tells Parliament that he wants to use draconian powers of
house arrest.

JUDGE-ONLY COURTS

1970S: The 1973 Emergency Provisions Act created the Diplock Courts where judges
hear terrorist cases without juries

Today: Under the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act judge-only courts,
called the Special Immigration Appeals Commission (SIAC), hear secret evidence.

ID CARDS

1970S: Ministers considered using ID cards to combat terrorism but rejected it
on the grounds that it would be too difficult to police.

Today: David Blunkett, the former Home Secretary, committed the government to
introducing ID cards.

JURISPRUDENCE

1970S: The European Court of Human Rights ruled the Prevention of Terrorism Act
to be in violation of Article Five of the European Convention on Human Rights,
which requires suspects to be "promptly" brought before a judge. Nevertheless,
the British government refused to abandon its detention policy and countered the
European Court's ruling by invoking Article 15's provision for countries to
ignore the Convention on Human Rights "in time of war or other emergency
threatening the life of the nation."

Today: In December the House of Lords ruled that indefinite detention without
trial under the 2001 anti-terror legislation was a breach of the foreign terror
suspects' fundamental human rights. The government's reaction was to say that
the judges were simply wrong.

CONVICTIONS

1970S: Under the terrorism laws hundreds of people are arrested and convicted.
The Irish community demonstrate over discriminatory targeting.

Today: Hours after the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 comes into
force police conduct dawn raids on the homes of suspected terrorists.

MISCARRIAGES OF JUSTICE

1970S: Growing concern that several convictions are unsafe.

Today: SIAC orders the government to release one of the foreign terror suspects
held at Belmarsh after criticising the quality of the evidence used to detain
him. Then without explanation David Blunkett, and later Charles Clarke, free two
more suspects including C, who was released last week.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                          February 10, 2005, Thursday

GUNMAN TERROR;
 RAILWAY WORKERS FLEE AS ATTACKER OPENS FIRE ON MAINTENANCE CREW

BYLINE: JAMES GLOVER CRIME REPORTER

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 265 words


RAILWAY workers ran for cover when they were shot at as they repaired tracks.

The Network Rail staff were fired at several times with what is thought to be an
air gun near Seaforth station in the early hours of yesterday.

Police searched the area but have so far been unable to identify who was
responsible for the attack.

Today Network Rail condemned the shooting as deplorable.

The repair staff were carrying out maintenance work a short distance from the
station on the Seaforth to Bootle stretch of the railway when they were attacked
at 2. 20am.

When the shots rang out, the workers left the lines to take cover and call
police. A patrol visited the scene but could not find any ammunition. Nearby
roads were also searched but officers could not find the gunman.

British Transport Police inspector Neil Moffatt said pellets flew so close to
the rail workers they heard them whizz by. He added that the engineers believed
the attack could have been mounted by people living nearby.

Insp Moffatt said: "The rail staff weren't injured but this was very unsettling
for them.

"They couldn't identify where the shots were coming from but heard them flying
close to them. "They could hear that they were from an air rifle and thought
they were coming from a house close to the line. "

A spokesman for Network Rail expressed anger that workers for the company had
been attacked.

He said: "It's deplorable that people going about their job should be shot at.

Witnesses should call police on 0800 405040 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800
555 111.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          February 10, 2005, Thursday

HORROR OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 78 words


THE bombings of pubs in Guildford and Woolwich in 1974 were among the worst
atrocities carried out by the IRA at the height of its British terror campaign.

The device at the Horse and Groom pub in Guildford, pictured, killed five people
and injured more than 100. Gerry Conlon, Paul Hill, Paddy Armstrong and Carole
Richardson were jailed for life in 1975 for the bombings.

Hill and Armstrong were also jailed for the Woolwich attack in which two died.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               February 10, 2005

'Road rage' attack terror

LENGTH: 311 words


A MOTORIST was left black and blue after being repeatedly punched in the head
during a "despicable" road rage attack.

The 53-year-old man was beaten up while waiting at a red light in Copy Nook
Blackburn moments after it is believed he failed to give way properly at a
roundabout.

Customers queueing at a nearby chip shop prevented the motorist being more
seriously injured by the man after rushing to help as blows were rained on his
head and body.

The road rage thug fled in a blue Uegistered Ford Mondeo as rescuers approached
leaving the man with a severely swollen right eye and bruising to his upper
body.

Police today appealed for two other passengers in the Mondeo who took no part in
the attack to come forward and shop their friend.

Officers have only just released details of the attack which happened last
Wednesday at 10pm after the man failed to report it straight away.

Police said he was too terrified to come forward but that his family persuaded
him to eventually report the incident.

Sergeant Claire Holbrook said: "This is a despicable attack on a retired male
resulting in serious injuries.

"I would urge the other occupants of the vehicle who did not take part in the
attack to seriously consider coming forward and speaking to us."

PC Neil Cookson added: "The aggrieved was very shaken by this cowardly attack.

"The injuries could have been much worse if people had not intervened to assist
him.

"Someone will be able to identify the offender with the descriptions given

"I urge them to do the right thing and come forward."

The two men and a woman in the Mondeo were white and in their 20s. The woman was
overweight and one of the men was wearing a Blackburn Rovers shirt.

Call Blackburn Police on 01254 51212 quoting crime reference number EA050132
with any information.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           February 11, 2005, Friday

US RECEIVED WARNINGS OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 68 words


AVIATION officials in the US received multiple warnings that al Qaida could
strike through airline hijackings in the months leading up to the September 11
attacks, it emerged yesterday.

Some 52 warnings were given to the Federal Aviation Administration between April
and September 10, 2001 about the terror group according to documents released by
the 9/11 commission that investigated the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          February 12, 2005, Saturday

BULLIED GIRL'S KNIFE TERROR;
 FAMILY'S ANGER AFTER SCHOOL ATTACK

BYLINE: By Karen Bale

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 379 words


A TEENAGER brutally stabbed in the stomach thought she was dying, her family
revealed yesterday.

Nazma Akhtar, 14, who has been victimised by a gang of bullies for two years,
collapsed in a pool of blood after a man plunged a sharp weapon into her stomach
just yards from her school gates.

The terrified teenager was attacked as she walked into Hillhead High School in
Glasgow's west end.

Nazma, who has been rushed to hospital twice in the last year as a result of
attacks by bullies, was in so much pain that she thought she was going to die.

She was recovering from severe internal swelling in Glasgow's Western Infirmary
yesterday and has had ultrasound tests.

Sister Shabana, 21, said last night: 'Nazma didn't even realise she had been
stabbed at first. She was walking into school when a man pounced on her and
violently punched her in the stomach.

'A few moments later, she realised blood was pouring from her stomach.

'She made it to the school entrance before collapsing.We are all going out of
our minds with worry.

'Nazma has been in hospital twice in the last year because of bullies. We are
very concerned about her.

'She has been stripped of all her self-confidence and is very nervous.'

Nazma, a third-year pupil at Hillhead, was rushed to hospital after the incident
on Thursday morning.

A passing teacher called an ambulance and the head teacher, Ken Cunningham,
immediately contacted the teenager's family.

Nazma has been subjected to relentless bullying by a gang of girls at her school
for two years.

Last February, she was rushed to hospital after a bully stabbed her in the arm,
leaving severe scarring.

A week later, Nazma was beaten up outside a chip shop at lunchtime.

A police spokeswoman said: 'This would appear to be an unprovoked attack and
there is nothing to suggest the girl was targeted deliberately.'

The attacker was 18-20 years old, around 6ft tall with curly brown hair.

A spokeswoman for Glasgow City Council said: 'There is no current evidence
available to link this incident with any previous events.

'Hillhead High School has a competent anti-bullying policy of overall care and
protection. This is widely reported in the school's hand-book and on homework
diaries.'

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORRIED: Shabana, left, and Hillhead High; ORDEAL: Nazma recovers in
hospital yesterday after she was stabbed in the stomach

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               February 13, 2005

ROYAL WEDDING AND ELECTION ARE NEW TARGETS FOR AL QAEDA CELLS; TERROR ATTACK
WARNING PUTS SECURITY FORCES ON HIGH ALERT

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Tim Shipman Defence Editor

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. , 11

LENGTH: 850 words


A HUGE Al Qaeda attack is being planned by terrorist sleeper cells, according to
Europe's leading counter-terrorism expert.

The warning has put British security on a heightened state of alert for an
atrocity timed to coincide with the royal wedding or the general election.

The Sunday Express has learnt that security chiefs are planning to create an
extended air exclusion zone around Windsor Castle on April 8, the date Prince
Charles is to marry Camilla Parker Bowles.

Security around Tony Blair has been tightened. Broadcasters were asked not to
reveal where the Prime Minister was going as he launched Labour's six election
pledges last week. A senior security source told the Sunday Express: "That is
what you expect to hear when he goes to Baghdad or Israel, not the West
Midlands."

Downing Street insisted it was "standard procedure that is deemed appropriate by
the security services".

Senior royals are thought to be on terrorist hit lists and no expense will be
spared to ensure the royal wedding goes off without incident.

Security chiefs are testing precautions introduced after a comedian
impersonating Osama Bin Laden gained access to Windsor Castle during Prince
William's 21st birthday celebrations in 2003.

Airline traffic out of Heathrow will be re-routed so flight paths steer away
from the wedding. Air traffic controllers have also been undergoing extra
training to ensure that they are ready to cope with an emergency.

Four RAF Tornado interceptors will be on standby to shoot down any aircraft that
poses a threat to Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles.

David Luxton, general secretary of the air traffic control union Prospect, told
the Sunday Express: "There will be an air exclusion zone around Windsor as is
usual on state occasions. There will be some re-routing.

There are all sorts of options which they've been working on refining recently.
Our members have been undergoing training for unforeseen circumstances and
emergencies."

The greatest danger is from small cells of Islamist fanatics. The extent of the
threat was discussed at a meeting of European counter-terrorism experts a week
ago. European Union co-ordinator Gijs de Vrieshe told the gathering: "The threat
of terrorism remains very real and affects us all."

Intelligence officials, including officers from the UK, said Al Qaeda was
maintaining sleeper cells in Europe in preparation for "major attacks" this
year. They warned that Osama Bin Laden and his affiliates would attempt strikes
to rival Al Qaeda's train bombings in Spain in 2004, which killed nearly 200
people, with other mass-casualty strikes in EU states.

William Pope, anti-terrorism coordinator at the US State Department told the
meeting, which was called to improve intelligence sharing with America, that Al
Qaeda survived a crackdown in Europe last year and was preparing to launch
"non-conventional" strikes - a euphemism for chemical and biological weapons or
a dirty bomb - where explosives spread nuclear contamination over a wide area.

He said: "We must all face the fact that we all now find ourselves at risk.

Unfortunately, reality is that Al Qaeda has proven itself resilient despite our
best efforts. It remains an active and dangerous opponent. While less effective
as an organisation, Al Qaeda seems to be becoming more powerful as an idea and
inspiration."

The British security source said that intelligence chiefs in the UK have not yet
picked up signs that a large-scale attack is being plotted here, but said there
is a fear of sleeper cells that remain undetected by MI5.

"Things in Britain remain quiet but that could be because we have lost sight of
people, " said a source with access to the latest intelligence assessments.

British security chiefs believe the royal wedding could be a target but are
convinced that Al Qaeda, or Abu Musab al Zarqawi, leader of the Iraqi insurgency
who has paid homage to Osama Bin Laden, is plotting an attack either in Britain
or Iraq that would attempt to influence the result of the general election.

The Madrid attacks are widely credited with causing the downfall of the pro-war
Spanish government last March and in the US, Democratic challenger John Kerry
claimed that Osama Bin Laden's public statement before the presidential election
in November caused him to lose to George Bush.

British investigators are still probing the cause of the crash of a C130
Hercules transport aircraft on Iraqi election day last month.

"Whatever happened to the C-130, be it a bomb or a missile, the propaganda
follow up by Zarqawi was brilliant, " the security source said.

"Anyone who thinks Mr Zarqawi is going to be silent in the run-up to our general
election is mad.

"The Government has come to the conclusion that something is inevitable. That is
why it used the Queen's Speech to trail a number of bills on security. A lot of
people said it was being hysterical but when something happens it will be able
to say: 'We tried to tell you but you wouldn't listen.' It gives it political
insulation."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               February 14, 2005

Metal-bar attacker left farmer in terror

BYLINE: Suzy Gibson Court Staff

SECTION: News; Courts; CrownCourt; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 375 words


The terrified victim sought refuge in his tractor, but the cab was smashed in
and he was repeatedly bludgeoned with the pole.  Simon Roy Asher, 24, who
carried out the attack, was jailed for two-and-a-half years.

He admitted wounding the farmer on August 30 last year.

Passing sentence at Leicester Crown Court, Judge Michael Stokes, QC, said: "This
was a vicious and completely unprovoked attack on an innocent man going about
his business. "You took a metal bar and smashed the glass of his tractor cab and
repeatedly applied the metal bar to his head, causing serious injury.

"He must have been terrified." Andrew Howarth, prosecuting, told Leicester Crown
Court that the victim, who farmed near Melton, was on Dalby Road when he noticed
two people in a car on his land, at Melton airfield.

When the car stopped on the roadside he got out of his tractor and asked them to
stay off the land.

An argument ensued and Asher, in the passenger seat, threatened: "I'll come over
there and kill you." The farmer hastily returned to his tractor, but Asher
emerged with a 2ft-long metal pole.

Mr Howarth said: "He (Asher) climbed up a step on the tractor and banged on the
glass of the cab until it broke." Meanwhile, the car driver, who has already
been dealt with by a court for criminal damage, smashed the tractor lights.

Mr Howarth said: "Once the window to the cab went through he was struck six
times to his head by the defendant, with the metal pole." Asher was said to have
produced a knife, but he denied that in court.

The injured farmer then drove to a nearby property to get help.

When arrested Asher, formerly of Coronation Avenue, Long Clawson, said the
farmer had put him in fear.

James Varley, defending, said Asher had taken drugs before being approached by
the farmer. Since being remanded into custody he had come off drugs and also
discovered he was the father of a child, whose birth had been kept from him.

Asher was motivated to stay off drugs and wanted to apologise to the victim,
said Mr Varley.

Judge Stokes, QC, told Asher: "Although you have an atrocious record for
violence, including assaulting a police officer, it appears you've started to
reassess your life and there is hope."

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2005 Leicester Mercury

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                               February 15, 2005

Schoolgirl's street attack terror

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 182 words


A Schoolgirl has been assaulted by a man in an Aberdeen street.  The 13-year-old
was approached by a stranger in Park Street at around 3.30pm yesterday.

It is understood he walked up to the girl and pushed her.

The man ran off when disturbed by passers-by and the girl was uninjured. Police
were unable to determine the motive behind the attack.

The man was around 30, tall and tanned with dark stubble and spoke with a
North-east accent.

He was wearing a Burberry-style checked baseball cap and a black jacket with a
fur-lined hood.

The girl has brown hair and at the time of the incident was wearing a white
jacket, blue jeans and black boots.

Constable Martin Brown of Tillydrone Police Station, who is investigating the
incident, said: "This assault would have occurred at a time when it would be
likely that people in the area of Park Street would have seen the man
responsible, either before or after the assault had taken place.

"I would urge anyone who may have information to contact Grampian Police on 0845
600 5700 orCrimestoppers on 0800 555111."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2005 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                          February 19, 2005, Saturday

TERROR ORDEAL;
 DISABLED MUM IS ATTACKED BY THUGS

BYLINE: MARY MURTAGH

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 81 words


A DISABLED mother suffered a terrifying attack by a teenage gang after being
tipped out of her wheelchair.

The youths, aged about 15, dragged Jade Haizelden, 23, by her hair into an alley
and repeatedly kicked and jeered at her as she lay helplessly on the ground.

Jade, who has spin a bifida, told the ECHO: "I thought I was going to die. I am
very angry about what they have done to me. I feel sick every time I think about
what happened. "

n Full story Page 5

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                               February 20, 2005

Day I came face to face with the man accused of terror attack that killed my
cousin

BYLINE: JANE SIMPSON

SECTION: HI_04; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 593 words


A SCOTTISH student yesterday described the moment he came face to face with the
terror suspect accused of bankrolling the suicide bomb attack which killed his
cousin.

Speaking exclusively to The Scottish Mail on Sunday, Gideon Black revealed how
he forced himself to stare into the eyes of an alleged henchman of Osama bin
Laden before giving evidence at his trial last week.

The law student, who was by 19-year-old Yoni Jesner's side when he died in the
blast in Tel Aviv, said he felt chilled to see not a flicker of emotion from the
Arab sheik accused of funding the bombing.

Mr Black, 21, had been asked to fly to New York to explain the human cost of
terrorism.

U. S. prosecutors hoped his account of the attack which killed his Scottish
cousin two years ago would personalise their case against Mohammed Ali Hassan
Al-Moayed accused of being a senior paymaster in Al Qaeda's international
network of terrorism activists.

The court in Brooklyn, New York, has already heard claims that Sheik al-Moayed
applauded upon hearing of the bus bombing which killed Mr Jesner and five
others. His reaction was secretly filmed.

Last night Glasgow-born Mr Black, who now lives in London, said: 'I made myself
stare into his eyes but nothing came back. No emotion, no feeling, just nothing.

You can read into that.' Along with fellow suspect, Mohammed Mohsen Yahya Zahya,
the sheik, thought to be a trusted lieutenant of bin Laden, is alleged to have
financed organisations including Al Qaeda and Palestinian terror group Hamas,
which is suspected of masterminding the suicide bus bombing.

Mr Jesner, from Glasgow, was on a gap year to Israel with Mr Black.

He died when a bomber boarded the crowded bus on which the men were travelling
on September 18, 2002. Mr Jesner, who led the Jewish Youth Council in Scotland,
had been due to start his medical studies at King's College, London.

In court, Mr Black, who escaped the explosion with minor cuts, told the jury:
'There was an eerie silence for a few moments and then sirens, screaming,
panic.' Speaking on his return to London, Mr Black said: 'It was a shocking
experience to have to sit in the same courtroom as the man accused of these
terrible crimes.

'My heartbeat speeded up when I first saw him. I did make eye contact when the
trial started at 9am. I made a decision to do so and looked into his face. He
sat motionless.' Charges against al-Moayed say he boasted of meeting bin Laden
several times and personally delivered $18 million (Pounds 9.5 million) to help
his terror wave.

The sheik was arrested in an undercover sting operation in a Frankfurt hotel
room in 2003.

He had met undercover informers posing as militant Muslims and allegedly agreed
a transfer of $2.5 million (Pounds 1.3 million) to Hamas.

However, when Mr Black gave evidence last Monday afternoon he made himself look
away from the sheik. He said: 'He did not deserve any show of grief from me.

'A humane individual would break on hearing what their money pays for, but how
can you get inside the mind of someone so enthusiastic about international
terrorism?' The sheik was said to have celebrated wildly upon hearing of the
fatal bombing, jumping up and down in delight.

Mr Black said: 'When I heard this I was just grateful my upbringing and
education had taught me the value of life.' The first-year student revealed he
had escaped the nightmare of flashbacks to the fateful day itself.

But he said: 'The loss of Yoni is what lingers. Nothing can make that go away.'

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MURDERED: YONI JESNER, LEFT, WAS KILLED IN THE SEPTEMBER 2002 BUS BLAST
SURVIVED BY HIS COUSIN GIDEON BLACK

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          February 23, 2005, Wednesday

BISHOP AND MPS ATTACK TERROR LAWS Richard Shepherd

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 339 words


The Bishop of Worcester and Midland MPs have attacked anti-terror laws giving
the Government the right to place suspects under house arrest without trial.

Charles Clarke, the Home Secretary, faced a barrage of criticism as he unveiled
the proposals.

The new powers could be used against former inmates of Guantanamo Bay suspected
of working with al Qaida or the Taliban, he said.

The proposals have been drawn up after the House of Lords ruled the UK had
breached the European Convention on Human Rights by holding nine suspected
terrorists in Belmarsh Prison, London, without trial.

Instead, the Home Secretary wants the power to place suspects under house arrest
or, in less serious cases, to impose a curfew, ban them from travelling abroad,
or stopthem using telephones and the internet.

The new laws would apply to anybody in the country, while only foreign nationals
were held at Belmarsh.

The Home Secretary would be able to impose the restrictions without needing to
go to court.

Judges would only have the power to review decisions once they had been made.

Mr Clarke said: 'Let no one be in any doubt that there are terrorists here and
abroad who want to attack the UK and its interests.'

Asked if the new measures would apply to British nationals who have been freed
from Guantanamo Bay, Mr Clarke said: 'It could potentially.'

Former International Development Secretary Clare Short (Lab Ladywood) said
politicians should not make the decision'That job has to be given to someone
with the independence, like a judge,' she said.

Tory Richard Shepherd (Aldridge-Brownhills) said: 'No other common-law country
such as the US has found it necessary to take the action that you are taking
today.'

Labour's David Winnick (Walsall North) said he hoped that the judicial aspect
would be looked at again.

In the Lords, the Bishop of Worcester, the Rt Rev Peter Selby, said: 'I remain
puzzled as to why the Government has felt it necessary to go down the road of an
executive decision

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               February 23, 2005

UN: Hopes for Middle East peace rekindled by Israeli, Palestinian Summit,
Under-Secretary-General tells Security Council; At same time, says Kieran
Prendergast, people outraged by terror attack that killed Lebanon's former Prime
Minister

LENGTH: 1435 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-FEBRUARY 23, 2005-UN: Hopes for Middle East peace rekindled by
Israeli, Palestinian Summit, Under-Secretary-General tells Security Council; At
same time, says Kieran Prendergast, people outraged by terror attack that killed
Lebanon's former Prime Minister ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

People across the Middle East had had their hopes rekindled for progress towards
peace between Israel and the Palestinians, while, at the same time, had been
outraged by the cold-blooded terror attack in Lebanon that took the life of
former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri and others, the Security Council was told
this afternoon.

Kieran Prendergast, Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs, in his
monthly briefing on the situation in the region, said the hope flowed from the
summit meeting between President Abbas and Prime Minister Sharon in Sharm
el-Sheikh on 8 February, hosted by Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, in the
presence of Jordan's King Abdullah. At that meeting, President Abbas and Prime
Minister Sharon reaffirmed their commitment to the "Road Map". Signalling their
desire to break away from bloodshed and despair, the two leaders agreed that
"all Palestinians would stop all acts of violence against Israelis everywhere"
and that "Israel would cease all its military activity against all Palestinians
everywhere".

Both parties had since taken actions to keep up the momentum generated by the
summit, he said. The Israeli Government had announced that it would release 900
prisoners and withdraw from five West Bank cities and the surrounding areas. On
21 February, 500 Palestinian prisoners were released, and negotiations to
resolve impediments to the Israeli withdrawal were continuing. He commended
Israel's decision to halt punitive house demolitions. Israel had also reopened
the three crossing points into Gaza -- Erez, Rafah and Karni -- after
temporarily closing them in the wake of Palestinian attacks. Moreover, Israel
announced that it was issuing more work permits, bringing the total number of
workers authorized to enter Israel via Erez to 1,600.

On the Palestinian side, President Abbas had acted courageously to end violence,
he stated. In the past month, the Palestinian Authority had deployed 1,000
security officers along the Gaza Strip's northern border with Israel, and
hundreds more in the central and southern districts of Gaza.

President Abbas had also relieved three top security commanders in Gaza of their
duties following a raid by militants against a Palestinian Authority prison in
Gaza, during which three inmates were killed, and the firing of dozens of mortar
shells against Israeli settlements on 10 February. Fulfilling an important
obligation under the Road Map, Abu Mazen also restructured the security services
into three main branches -- the national forces, the intelligence forces, and
the police -- all of which would report to the Palestinian Prime Minister.

Together, those steps demonstrated President Abbas' determination to prevent
future attacks, he continued. An important result of his efforts came on 12
February, when Hamas and Islamic Jihad agreed to a temporary ceasefire. He
called on those groups to eschew terror and armed confrontation with Israel and
to choose the peaceful, democratic road of negotiations and political activism.
The path taken by President Abbas would not be easy. If he was to prevail
against those who favour violence over peace, he would need strong support from
both Israel and the international community.

In addition to the positive steps taken by each party, he was most encouraged by
the resumption of direct engagement between them. Most significantly, Prime
Minister Sharon had reiterated his readiness to coordinate with the Palestinians
the Disengagement Plan from the Gaza Strip and parts of the northern West Bank,
and the first meetings to that effect had taken place. He commended Prime
Minister Sharon's steady commitment to disengagement in the face of a serious
escalation in threats and protests from his domestic opponents. In an important
decision, on 20 February, the Israeli cabinet approved in principle the
evacuation of settlements under the Plan. The Knesset also demonstrated support
for the Prime Minister by passing, on 16 February, the Compensation and
Evacuation Law, an essential step in carrying out the withdrawal plan.

While there had been many positive developments, he noted, the conflict
continued and brought with it an unacceptable toll of death and suffering. Over
the past month, 54 Palestinians and eight Israelis were killed, and 150
Palestinians and 46 Israelis were injured, among them a 17-year-old Israeli girl
who was critically wounded, and later died, as a result of attacks by
Palestinian militants, and a 10-year-old Palestinian girl killed by Israeli fire
in the yard of an United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees
in the Near East (UNRWA) school.

Despite the vastly improved political climate, most movement restrictions for
Palestinians remained in place, Mr. Prendergast continued, including
checkpoints, curfews and the permit system. "The lack of improvement in the
daily life of ordinary Palestinians poses a serious threat to the viability of a
renewed peace process", he said. Closure continued to impact on humanitarian
operations, as well.

On 20 February, the Israeli cabinet approved the revised route of the barrier in
the West Bank, which, though moved closer to the "Green Line", still
incorporated a large amount of Palestinian land. To the south of Jerusalem, the
new route surrounds four Palestinian villages with some 18,000 residents.
Barrier activity also intensified in the Jerusalem area, where a large number of
confiscation orders have been served to land owners.

He urged the Government of Israel to address its legitimate security needs in
ways that did not increase suffering among Palestinians, pre-judge final status
issues or threaten the longer-term prospects for peace by making the creation of
a viable and contiguous Palestinian State more difficult. He also called on
Israel to abide by its legal obligations, as set forth in the advisory opinion
of the International Court of Justice and General Assembly resolution ES-10/15.

The international community had come together in support of the new momentum, he
said. The Quartet principals would meet on the margins of the London Conference
on 1 March. That Conference would bring together the members of the Quartet, the
Group of Eight (G-8), a range of key donors and the Palestinian Authority. The
Secretary-General would also attend. Prime Minister Qurei would present the
Palestinian Authority's reform agenda and mechanisms would be assessed to help
the Palestinians lay the groundwork for an independent, sovereign, viable,
contiguous and democratic State. The Conference would also offer an opportunity
to provide urgently needed funds for short-term assistance. By the end of
January, the Authority had received only $25 million out of a total of $660
million pledged for the year.

Turning to the "atrocious terrorist attack" that killed former Lebanese Prime
Minister Rafik Hariri and 14 others, he said the Secretary-General had selected
a team, headed by Peter Fitzgerald, a senior law enforcement official of
Ireland, to gather such information as necessary for the Secretary-General to
report to the Council in a timely manner.

On 14 and 17 January, Hezbollah had detonated explosive devices along the "Blue
Line" in Lebanon. In response to the attacks, Israel had carried out air strikes
against Hezbollah targets in southern Lebanon. A total of 30 Israeli
over-flights had been recorded during the past month. He reiterated that those
air violations must cease.

"By their meeting in Sharm el-Sheik and the measures taken subsequently, Prime
Minister Sharon and President Abbas have stirred widespread hope that Israelis
and Palestinians might finally be on the path to peace", he said. They had
effectively restarted the process to implement the provisions of the Road Map.
"We are convinced that 2005 is a year of opportunity. We fervently hope that, as
United States Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice put it, the international
community will help the parties to transform opportunity into achievement", he
said in conclusion.

The meeting began at 3:12 p.m. and adjourned at 3:30 p.m.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          February 24, 2005, Thursday

I'm not being 'arrogant' - I'm being responsible for our safety Tony Blair says
there is no greater civil liberty than to live free from terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Tony Blair

SECTION: Features; Leading Article Pg. 028

LENGTH: 1117 words

I have absolutely no doubt about the main duty of any prime minister: it is to
do everything possible to protect the security of our nation and its citizens.
Following September 11, I had hoped that everyone -- and certainly every
responsible politician -- would understand that this is more important than
ever.

As the attacks in Madrid, in Bali and, of course, on the World Trade Centre have
shown, the nature and scale of the terrorist threat we face today is very
different from that posed in the past. The aim of this new breed of terrorists
is to kill as many people as possible. There is no limit on the levels of murder
and destruction they want to inflict, on the weapons they will use or on their
targets. Their war is not with governments or armed forces, but with our way of
life. This threat, of course, is made all the more difficult to counter because
of the potential use of suicide bombers.

Against this background, our police and security services deserve all our thanks
for their vigilance and effectiveness. The fact that there has not been a major
terrorist attack in this country since 9/11 is not by accident or want of trying
by the fanatics. It is because of the superb work of our security services and
police and, often, the bravery of individual officers.

It was to counter this new threat and to meet the concerns of our security
services that we introduced new anti-terrorism measures in 2001. They allowed
the detention of foreign terror suspects whom we could not deport from Britain.
Despite fears, these powers were only ever used against a small number of people
who all, it is often forgotten, had the right to leave this country whenever
they wanted. The powers were also subject to clear judicial oversight
throughout.

However, the Law Lords, in an eight-one judgment last year, found that they were
both disproportionate and discriminatory. This issue has come up now because of
their ruling. That is why we have to deal with it now. The Law Lords are the
highest court in the land. No government could ignore such a firm ruling. But
nor could we ignore the real and continued threat to our security.

In drafting the Prevention of Terrorism Bill, which puts in place new measures
to counter this threat, we have listened to the Law Lords, but also to our
police and security chiefs. It gives the Home Secretary, acting on their advice,
a broader range of powers to prevent and disrupt potential terrorist activity.
It allows restrictions to be placed on people where we have reasonable suspicion
of their involvement in terrorist activity -- on their movement, on their
communications, on who they meet and where they live. Should our security
services believe in future it is necessary, it could also include a requirement
on individuals to remain in a particular place.

These measures have the support of our police chiefs and our security forces.
Indeed, they were drawn up with their assistance. As the Association of Chief
Police Officers said when the Bill was published: "The police service welcomes,
and strongly supports, the announcement made by the Home Secretary. The
constantly evolving nature of the threat posed to this country by international
terrorism demands that those charged with countering that threat have the tools
they need to do the job...These are extraordinary times, which call for the
introduction of extraordinary measures."

I reject completely the allegation that this is a fundamental attack on
long-standing civil liberties. As the Bill makes clear, no one will be deprived
of their liberty without this being approved within days -- at most seven days
-- by a senior judge in the High Court, following careful consideration of all
of the evidence linking them to terrorist activity. And this initial hearing
will then be followed by a full High Court hearing. Even with less intrusive
control orders, suspects will have full rights of appeal to the High Court.

It was to gain agreement on these measures and to listen to concerns that I met
Michael Howard and Charles Kennedy in Downing Street last week. The Liberal
Democrat leader has a specific concern about whether it should be the Home
Secretary or a senior judge who initiates the control order. I appreciate his
concerns, understand they are genuine and have told Mr Kennedy that we will look
at them further. But this is simply not possible with the Conservatives.

Michael Howard has made clear that, despite the views of our security services
and police chiefs, he rejects the whole idea of control orders and says he
regards them as "fundamentally flawed". He is against them on principle. Instead
he argues that all suspects should be dealt with through the normal criminal
process and the use of intercept evidence.

He must know that all those such as Lord Newton and the Commons home affairs
committee who have reviewed this issue in detail accept that, whatever changes
can be made to the criminal process, there will always remain a group of
suspects, however small, whom it is simply impossible to prosecute because of
the sensitivity of the evidence against them. To the question of what we do to
control the actions of those we cannot prosecute, but who our security services
say are a risk to our country, Mr Howard can give no answer. He must also know
the strong arguments against the use of intercepted material in our courts. He
must do because he heard the same arguments when he was Home Secretary and came
to the same conclusion as this Government has done.

There is little evidence from across the world that intercepted material has
provided decisive evidence in securing convictions in terrorism cases. What it
could do, particularly with our adversarial court system, is to put at risk
highly sensitive surveillance techniques and, potentially, the lives of key
informants and intelligence officers.

It is hard to understand on either of these issues how the extra time for
Commons debate that Mr Howard is demanding will make a difference if the
disagreements between us are really on the points of principle he claims.

These are very difficult issues for any government. We have to balance
protection for the public from terrorism with safeguarding civil liberties. But
there is no greater civil liberty than to live free from terrorist attack. It
would be the gravest dereliction of duty to wait until we suffered a terrorist
outrage here, and only then act. As the Home Secretary said on Tuesday, this
Government is not prepared to take that risk.

I will continue to do what I believe is necessary to protect our national
security. To do so is not being "arrogant", as Mr Howard claims. It is being
responsible.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Fife Free Press

                               February 25, 2005

STUDY RAISES CONCERNS OVER READINESS FOR TERROR ATTACKS

LENGTH: 607 words


A ST ANDREWS professor and his team of leading thinkers on terrorism and
political violence have raised serious questions over the UK's readiness to face
the 'real and serious threat' of a future attack

And the study, led by St Andrews University's Professor Paul Wilkinson, warned
of the need to keep a balance between people's human rights and efforts to
respond to such a threat.

The main aim of the two-year project - funded by the Economic and Social
Research Council - was to examine, especially in the UK context, whether, in the
wake of the September 11, 2001, attacks on New York and Washington DC, responses
were getting the balance right and how that could continue, or be improved, in
the future.

The seven-strong team from the universities of St Andrews and Southampton looked
at how increased security had affected civil liberties and demonstrated how both
society and freedom could be protected in the 21st century.

There was, they found, still a 'major question mark' over whether the country
had adequate resources to deal with an emergency situation, particularly in
major cities other than London. The study also confirmed that the UK is better
prepared for a terrorist attack that other EU member states.

Project director, Professor Paul Wilkinson, is chair of the Centre for the Study
of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews.

The threat of a major chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear terrorist
attack on the UK should not be discounted, the study found, particularly in view
of Al Qaeda's ''known interest'' in acquiring such weaponry.

However, the team also warned against exaggerating the menace - pointing out
that the greatest risk remained conventional explosive attack, using no-warning
simultaneous suicide bombings aimed at causing mass casualties.

And the study warned that while the Al Qaeda network was ''by far the most
dangerous terrorist enemy we face,'' there were continuing threats from the more
'traditional' groups, such as the IRA.

On a positive note, efforts by the security service and police to improve
intelligence on the Al Qaeda network had ''made a significant contribution to
the prevention of an attack on the UK up to now.

But UK armed forces, ''a massive asset'' in many aspects of counter-terrorism,
were severely and worryingly overstretched, Professor Wilkinson's team warned.

The study partly blamed UK foreign policy failures in tackling underlying causes
of conflicts which ''spawned terrorism'' on allowing the agenda to be ''driven
or monopolised by our closest ally.''

The invasion and occupation of Iraq had been the source of deep division within
the western alliance and in British public opinion, and the project team
concluded it had ''very damaging consequences'' for the effort to suppress Al
Qaeda.

They said that it "gave the Al Qaeda network a major propaganda, recruiting and
fundraising boost, and it is still providing a rich target area in the Middle
East for Al Qaeda and its affiliates and, from the terrorists' viewpoint, a
perfect training ground for a new generation of planners and operatives.''

The team found the most serious weaknesses of the UK response to 9/11 were some
''major erosions of civil liberties resulting from measures taken in the name of
national security,'' and the failure to effectively wage the battle of ideas to
defeat the efforts of the Al Qaeda network militants to win more recruits and
supporters both abroad and within the country's own Muslim community.

Seminars on the study's findings were held in Edinburgh and London this week.


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          February 26, 2005, Saturday

RAPE BEAST CAGED;
 FATHER-OF-THREE IN TERROR ATTACK ON GIRL, 14

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON ASSAULT: Gary Stewart was jailed for seven years

SECTION: BC1 Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 312 words


A WEST Bromwich father-ofthree has been jailed for seven years for raping a
14-year-old girl after thinking he had 'got lucky'.

Gary Stewart, 34, was said at Birmingham Crown Court to have ruined the girl's
life after the 'first time, chance meeting' when he picked the youngster up
after she had enjoyed a night out with friends.

Instead of taking her straight to her home in the Langley area, he drove her to
a secluded spot and raped her in his car before calmly dropping her off and
offering to meet her again. The jury returned a unanimous guilty verdict after
Stewart, who has children aged 12, two and 18 months, had denied rape.

Investigating officer Det Con Lee Trinder of Sandwell South CID said today that
Stewart told the court he thought he had got lucky after picking up the girl in
High Street, West Bromwich, in the early hours of July 18 last year.

'Perhaps the girl was maybe a bit too trusting and she certainly should not have
got into a stranger's car like she did.

'However Stewart was 20 years her senior, must have known how young she was, and
he abused a position of trust by forcing himself upon her.

'There was no violence used but obviously the girl was terrified.

'The girl and her family are totally devastated and it is going to take the
family a long time to come to terms with it,' he added.

DC Trinder said that by pleading not guilty Stewart had forced his young victim
to undergo further trauma by having to give video evidence in court.

The girl and a group of friends had been enjoying a night out, finishing up at
The Marksman pub in High Street, Carters Green, West Bromwich.

They were walking towards a taxi rank when Stewart made his move on the girl,
who foolishly accepted his offer of a lift, the detective added. Stewart will be
on the Sex Offenders Register for the rest of his life.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                               February 26, 2005

Gun gang attack terror of boy aged 9

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 134 words


A TERRIFIED nine-year-old Barnsley boy was threatened with a ballbearing gun by
a gang of masked youths.


The youngster was playing out in Elsecar at night when he was confronted by five
teenagers all wearing balaclavas who attacked him and knocked him to the ground
and then demanded he hand over money.


The youngster told police one of the gang, who were around 13 to 16-years-old,
then produced the gun and pointed it into his face before firing it into the
air.


The teenagers then ran off, leaving their petrified victim still on the floor
with a badly bruised cheek. He had not handed over any money.


Today police appealed for information from anyone who may have witnessed the
attack which officers described as "truly frightening" for the nine-year-old.


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               February 26, 2005

Terror attack gunman locked up

LENGTH: 305 words


A MAN who wore women's make-up while threatening two terrified victims with a
gun has been locked up for three years.

Paul Devaney aged 20 sent to a young offenders institution at Bolton Crown Court
for possessing an imitation firearm with intent to cause fear.

Recorder Richard Pratt said that Devaney of Newby Road Breightmet had caused his
victims "sheer terror" after he had confronted them on their doorsteps following
a drink and drugs session. He said: "You confronted two innocent victims in the
security of their own homes.

"One only has to listen to the transcript of the 999 call that the first victim
made to understand the fear that she was in.

"The second victim had a gun pointed directly at him while his wife observed
from an upstairs window with abject terror."

Devaney had been drinking alcohol and smoking cannabis on July 26 2004 when his
friends decided to put the make-up on him as a joke. He went out wearing a red
bandana white baseball cap with BNP written on it with lipstick.

Devaney was a passenger in a BMW car driven around Bolton for two hours during
which several people were threatened.

Devaney knocked on the door of Kathrine Hope's home in Rutherford Drive Over
Hulton.

He pointed the gun at his own head leaving the mother-of-two in fear of her
life.

Mrs Hope was forced to crawl from her kitchen to the stairs thinking that she
was about to come under attack.

Devaney then went to St Helens Road Daubhill where he knocked on the door of
Martin Kilcoyne.

When Mr Kilcoyne opened the door Devaney pointed the gun at him and asked: "Do
you mind if I shoot you?"

The air weapon capable of firing plastic ball-bearings was later found by police
in the BMW vehicle.

Devaney was found guilty by a jury at Bolton Crown Court in January.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           February 28, 2005, Monday

BRITISH FIRM DEVELOPS TERROR ATTACK VACCINE

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 270 words


A BRITISH company has joined forces with US officials to create a vaccine to
combat a bioterrorist attack with botulism.

Botulism is the most deadly naturally occurring substance which, if released as
a powder and inhaled, can kill or paralyse within hours. Now UK company
Cambridge Biostability has been awarded a £1.8m grant by the US National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases to help create a new vaccine
against botulism.

They will work with DynPort Vaccine Company in the US to develop the vaccine
technology that would render the toxin no more harmful than tetanus -
neutralising its danger as a potential weapon.

Lord Sainsbury, the Department of Trade and Industry Science Minister, welcomed
the grant.

"The US biosecurity market is estimated to be over $ 14bn.

"Cambridge Biostability's success demonstrates the leading role that British
bioscience companies are taking in Europe in penetrating this market," he said.

Bruce Roser, chief scientific advisor for Cambridge Biostability, said until now
it had not been possible to produce a single vaccine against botulism which is
caused by seven slightly different bugs.

The new vaccine was created by turning the poison into a toxoid - a weaker
non-toxic version that is still able to trigger an immune response in the body."

Dr Roser also said a vaccine for botulism could be stored safely without
refrigeration.

The new technology is based on the natural phenomenon whereby some plants and
creatures can remain in a desiccated state for hundreds of years by reducing the
water content of their bodily fluids

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               February 28, 2005

Hundreds planning terror attacks in Britain, says Blair

BYLINE: JOE MURPHY

SECTION: C_MERGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 625 words


THE FULL scale of the terrorist threat confronting Britain was laid bare by the
Prime Minister today.

In a chilling warning, he said "several hundred" active terrorists were already
inside Britain and plotting atrocities.

All fell outside the existing power of the police and courts to prosecute them,
he said. "There are several hundred in this country who we believe are engaged
in plotting or trying to commit terrorist acts," he said.

Mr Blair issued an appeal for MPs to back the Government's emergency terror laws
which face a growing rebellion in Parliament. The threat of a backbench revolt
in the Commons tonight grew as former foreign secretary Robin Cook and several
more MPs vowed to join the 32 who voted against the measures last week.

Mr Blair insisted the unique nature of the dangers posed by suicide bombers made
the new laws for detaining suspects without trial necessary.

He said the threat was posed by terrorist supporters and plotters who could not
be convicted without compromising intelligencesources but where the police were
begging for more power than merely keeping them under surveillance.

"What they say is you have got to give us powers in between mere surveillance of
these people - there are several hundred of them in this country who we believe
are engaged in plotting or trying to commit terrorist acts - you have got to
give us power in between just surveying them and being able, being sure enough
of the proof, to prosecute them beyond reasonable doubt," said Mr Blair.

"We genuinely believe that they are necessary in order to protect the country."

The anti-terror powers are being opposed by the Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats, plus a cross-party alliance of peers.

Although Home Secretary Charles Clarke is expected to agree concessions this
week, there was no sign of them being given before tonight's vote. Mr Blair
denied playing politics with the new Prevention of Terrorism Bill. And he
insisted he would not curb traditional freedoms unless it was vital.

"I grew up as a lawyer and someone who heavily engaged in civil liberties. I
introduced the Human Rights Act so of course I care about it."

"But I won't make a concession on the basic principle because that would be to
ignore the advice I'm being given. I do hope people understand that we are only
doing this in the most extreme circumstances but we do need the powers.

There are people out there who are determined to destroy our way of life and
there's no point being naive about it."

The Home Secretary issued a three-page memo today to MPs explaining his Bill in
an attempt to reassure waverers.

It stated that he rather than a judge was "best placed" to decide when it was
necessary to issue an antiterrorist "control order", which could range from
house arrest to electronic tagging.

"The assessment involves inferences and evaluations being made in relation to
matters affecting national security," the memo said.

A senior Labour peer has warned that the entire package faced certain defeat in
the Lords unless judges were given far greater powers to halt the issuing of
such control orders. Lord Haskins, a party donor who was ennobled by Tony Blair,
said it was unacceptable for people's liberty to be taken away without the
courts being involved first.

"Arbitrary detention does not appear to have worked in the past," he said.

"It tends to make martyrs out of villains."

He also warned that after the Iraq weapons dossier, peers were less willing to
trust "dubious" secret intelligence reports.

Former home secretary Kenneth Clarke today branded the proposals contained in
the Bill "the most illiberal measures" he has encountered in 35 years as an MP.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 28, 2005

Muslim group attack on Sarwar over terror laws;
Labour MP 'jeered' at mosque meeting

BYLINE: MICHAEL SETTLE CHIEF UK POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 591 words



HIGHLIGHT: SARWAR: denied being heckled


SCOTTISH Muslim leaders have targeted Mohammad Sarwar, Britain's first Muslim
MP, for his defence of the government's highly controversial plan for
anti-terror control orders.

The Muslim Association of Britain (MAB) and iWitness, a new monthly newspaper
for Scottish Muslims, claimed the Glasgow Govan Labour MP was "heckled and
jeered" at a meeting attended by 200 people.

Osama Saeed, MAB's Scottish spokesman, who said the meeting at the al Furqan
mosque in Glasgow, was hostile to Mr Sarwar because of this issue, warned Labour
was haemorrhaging support among Muslims.

He said they were now more likely to vote SNP in Scotland and Liberal Democrat
in England, both having opposed the war in Iraq and the proposed regime of
control orders.

The newspaper also said Muslim support for Labourwas "collapsing".

Mr Saeed said civil liberties had overtaken the Iraq war and Palestine as the
number-one concern of British Muslims.

"Labour has a real problem on their hands."

On the attitude toward Mr Sarwar at the mosque meeting in Woodlands, he  said:
"It was pretty rough. He started parroting the New Labour line and it didn't go
down well. People started shouting 'liar' and 'it's not true'. At the end, they
were baying for blood almost."

Mr Sarwar denied he was heckled, or that he had a rough ride during his speech.
"There was no heckling or jeering.

Somebody is definitely giving you false information, " he said.

However, Omar Khan, a writer with iWitness, also claimed the MP was jeered.

"There was heckling. Someone shouted 'it's a lie' and others agreed. The
chairman said people should not raise their voices . . . It's all on tape, " he
noted.

Also present was Bashir Maan, a leading member of the Muslim community, who
turned his back on Labour last year after almost 40 years in protest at the
handling of the war in Iraq. He said there was "unease" at the meeting, but
criticism was more of Labour than of Mr Sarwar himself.

Mr Maan, a councillor in Glasgow for 23 years, said: "I will continue to vote
Labour if it is a Muslim candidate who is raising our voice within the party and
I think most other Muslims will do the same."

However, he warned  that without a Muslim standing most will move to SNP or
LibDems.

Many Muslims are concerned about measures in the Prevention of Terrorism Bill,
in particular the ability of the home secretary rather than a judge to order the
house arrest of a terror suspect. Today, the bill continues its passage, with a
growing expectation that Charles Clarke will seek a lastminute compromise to
ensure it becomes law.

The alleged hostility towards Mr Sarwar came just a week after the national
launch in Glasgow of Muslim Friends of Labour, a concerted attempt by the
governing party to regain the Muslim vote at the expected May 5 election.

Mr Sarwar pointed out that the MAB, which organised the mosque meeting, was "not
a fan of the Labour party". He added: "It was an honest and frank discussion. As
a politician, you can't please all the people all of the time. Terrorism is a
threat to this country and any responsible government will take measures to
protect the people of this country."

Mr Khan said Mr Sarwarwas brave to turn up, as most people there were opposed to
the government's anti-terror measures, which the MP supported.

His newspaper claimed Muslim support for Labour was "collapsing" as the
community questioned whether Labour really was "friends of Muslims".

Mr Sarwar, hoping to be reelected in the new Glasgow Central seat, said he was
"encouraged" by the launch of Muslim Friends of Labour.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               February 28, 2005

Terry Waite attacks Blair's proposed anti-terror laws;

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 233 words


FORMER hostage Terry Waite attacked the government's proposed anti-terror laws
yesterday at a church service celebrating the return of Guantanamo detainees.

The one-time Beirut hostage joined actors Corin and Vanessa Redgrave to denounce
the "restriction of liberties" currently being debated in Parliament.

They were speaking at a central London inter-faith service following the release
of four British citizens from the US concentration camp.

"I stand absolutely against terrorism, " said Mr Waite (right), a church envoy
who spent 1,760 days in captivity.

"It is a curse of our age and it is, to my mind, dreadful that those in
positions of authority who would claim to fight terrorism refuse to examine the
roots and to ask the question: 'Why do people behave as they do'?"

He added: "These questions are ignored and the easy answer is, as we shall be
seeing tomorrow in the debate, to restrict liberty and restrict freedom."

Mr Waite was one of more than a dozen speakers at the church of St
Martin-in-theFields on Trafalgar Square.

Mr Redgrave, who organised the event through the Guantanamo Human Rights
Commission, condemned the three-year detention of Britons Feroz Abbasi, Moazzam
Begg, Richard Belmar and Martin Mubanga.

The Bush regime claimed that the men were al Qaida "combatants, " but released
them without even bringing charges last month.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2005

               Copyright 2005 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               February 28, 2005

Protesters attack 'illegal' terror Bill;
 Progressive MPs prepare to resist Clarke

BYLINE: by KARL STEWART

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 394 words


LABOUR MPs and human rights campaigners accused ministers yesterday of breaching
international law over plans to introduce detention without trial.

Home Secretary Charles Clarke will present the government's Prevention of
Terrorism Bill to MPs and peers for its final reading today, following weekend
indications that he may offer to concede decision-making powers over detentions
to a judge.

But Labour MP Jeremy Corbyn (right) insisted that, even with that concession,
the Bill remained "fundamentally misplaced.

"It gives unaccountable power to imprison people, " he stressed, vowing to keep
up the fight to "protect the principle of a proper judicial process for all."

Mr Corbyn added that, while Tory and Lib Dem criticism centred largely on calls
for a judge, rather than the Home Secretary to decide on house arrests of
suspects, he, along with other Labour opponents, would vote against the
legislation "in any event."

Even ardent Blairite backbencher Barbara Follett, whose first husband was killed
while under house arrest in apartheidera South Africa, warned that she was ready
to vote against the Bill, despite having abstained last week.

Ms Follett, a normally loyal government supporter, explained that backing the
Bill would "dishonour everything I have ever stood for, " recalling:

"I got into politics because I believed that what was happening in South Africa
was wrong."

Labour peer and human rights lawyer Baroness Kennedy called for a reaffirmation
of the traditional principle that "people should be detained only pending a
criminal charge.

"If people are suspected of terrorism, they should be investigated thoroughly
and, if there is evidence, they should be put on trial, " she said.

Ms Kennedy noted that, in cases where suspicion remained in the absence of hard
evidence, a more appropriate measure would be for suspects to be "kept under
surveillance" - powers already possessed by the government.

Civil rights watchdog Liberty agreed that simply conceding decision-making
powers to a judge would be no more than a "figleaf of judicial involvement."

Liberty director Shami Chakrabarti said that, "with or without this compromise,
this scheme will violate international human rights standards, " Article 6 of
the European convention on human rights guarantees the right to a fair trial.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2005

               Copyright 2005 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Airline Business

                                 March 1, 2005

An uneasy;
Insurance premiums eased again last year as airline accidents hit a 20-year low,
but the threat of terrorist attacks still looms

BYLINE: Peter Conway

SECTION: Features; Pg.

LENGTH: 2087 words


By peter conway in london

Last year was another exceptionally safe year for commercial airlines, the third
consecutive year where fatal accident numbers fell, and the third year too of
low insurance claims levels. That meant that insurance premiums continued to
fall from their 2001-2 highs, but whether premiums will continue to fall in 2005
is open to question. Even barring a major incident, premiums may be reaching
their cyclical low, and other trends in the insurance market could start pushing
them up again.In 2004, the news was almost universally good, however, with
airline crash fatalities at a 20-year low. According to analysis from sister
magazine Flight International, there were 28 fatal accidents worldwide, of which
only 11 were passenger flights (see graphs over page). None involved mainline
airliners registered in North America, Europe or Australia, maintaining a three
year clean sheet.Insurance claims also remained at a low level, although they
were marginally higher than in 2003. Aviation broker AON calculates a total of
just over $1 billion in claims in 2004 including attritionals (minor bumps and
scrapes), which is more or less in line with the last couple of years. That
follows the nightmare year of 2001 when the 11 September terrorist attacks
adding some $3.5 billion to the underlying industry losses, to push total claims
above $5 billion. The average in claims for the last five years, excluding
terrorism, is $1.3 billion, compared with  $2 billion of annual losses that the
insurance industry uses as an informal benchmark.

All of this was good news for carriers during the key fourth quarter renewals
season, when over half of airlines, accounting for 78% of total annual premiums,
renew -  December alone accounts for 60% of annual premiums. By the end of the
quarter, AON was calculating that rates for hull insurance had fallen by 14%
over the year, and for liability insurance by 15%. That follows a 16% fall for
hull rates in 2003.Nick Brown, chairman of the Technical Committee for the
International Underwriting Association in London, says that hull rates are now
slightly lower than pre-9/11 levels. Liability rates remain slightly higher,
however, after they soared 55% in 2001 and 162% in 2002, according to AON. The
fall in liability rates in 2003 is less easy to calculate due to market changes
that year and the introduction of a $1.25 per passenger surcharge for
liability.Settlements soarThere are also potentially worrying trends in
liability claims. Brown says 2004 saw two relatively small commuter aircraft
crashes, which nevertheless look to be heading for high liability claims. "The
trend in liability settlements is very sharply upwards. We have seen a big
escalation in settlements to passengers," he says. Exacerbating the problem is
the fact that the 1999 Montreal Convention not only removed the limits on
passenger liability that had existed under the old Warsaw Convention (even
though these had already been voluntarily waived in many cases during the
1990s), but allowed for a "fifth jurisdiction" over claims. This means that
relatives of a person who is resident but not a national in a country can pursue
a claim against an airline there for an accident, even if it happened on a route
between two other countries. This gives extra ammunition to plaintiffs trying to
get their cases heard in US courts - traditionally the source of higher
settlements.While there are no immediate sgns that these factors are affecting
liability rates, which fell as fast as hull rates last year, one concern is that
a combination of increased risk and falling rates may start to put off the
financials institutions who provide capital backing for aviation insurance -
what the industry refers to as "capacity". Both Brown and Steven Doyle, director
at AON's aviation and aerospace global practice group, say that capacity is not
in short supply - indeed, Doyle says there will be some new entrants to the
market this year. But both recognise conditions could be approaching for a
traditional upswing in the cycle, where returns to capital providers fall and
capacity drains away from the market. "Capital providers recognise that aviation
has big exposure and they have no appetite to take on this risk for low
premiums," says Brown. "If prices are pushed down too far in the current cycle,
it could be a problem."At the moment, however, underwriters seem to be moving in
the opposite direction, taking on more risk to keep premium levels up. This
explains why despite rates falling by double digits in 2004, premiums - that is
the total amounts actually paid to underwriters - fell by only 7%, to $2.4
billion. That is still higher than the $1.6 billion in premiums in 2000, but the
trend that year was already upwards, says Brown. This partly reflects a rise in
fleet values - AON estamtes a 5% rise in 2004 - but it is also due to
underwriters including more war-risk third-party liability cover in policies.
"Post-9/11 this was capped at $50 million, but more underwriters are now
offering $150 million as a way to offset premium reductions," says
Doyle.War-risk coverThird-party war-risk cover - under clause ACN52E - was the
big topic following the events of 9/11. Before then, it was covered by normal
policies. Afterwards, the $50 million limit was introduced, and carriers looked
for government assistance or to pooled risk schemes to cover the remaining
liability. For a time pooled schemes between carriers such as Equitime in the
USA and Eurotime in Europe looked to be the way forward. ICAO then proposed a
scheme called Globaltime, which was designed to offer a worldwide
solution.However, in December 2002, the US government offered its own carriers
coverage of about $100 million, which still remains in place to this day,
although renewed annually by Congress. That sucked the wind out of Globaltime It
still remains on the table but as yet states representing only 12% of ICAO's
budget have supported it, well short of the 51% needed to put it into
effect.Meanwhile, a specialised commercial market has sprung up to offer excess
war risk cover, with most non-US airlines seeking cover up to $1 billion by this
route. Doyle says this can cost as much as 50% on top of normal premiums, and
Brown puts the total premium figure for the market at $600 million, or around
25% of normal premium levels. Although the increase of war risk limits in normal
policies from $50 million to $150 million suggests that there is an appetite for
returning this business to the normal airline insurance market, Brown defends
the separate war-risk market, saying it offers carriers new benefits. "War risk
in normal policies has always been subject to seven-day cancellation, which was
the problem after 9/11," he says. "But the specialist market has developed
non-cancellable products. This means that airlines can be sure if another 9/11
happens, they will not be left without cover. It is pretty difficult to predict
how things will go, and it is a question of optimising savings while keeping
optimal cover, but my opinion is that most airlines will prefer to keep the
cover separate for that reason."All of this suggests that the war-risk question
can safely be left to the market, but there is another cloud looming on the
horizon. In October 2003 the Joint Technical Clauses Committee of Lloyds and
other London underwriters drafted a new clause - ACN48C - which would exclude
cover for dirty bombs and other biochemical attacks from policies. In a speech
to the OECD in November, Eugene Hoeven, director risk management and insurance
at IATA, described this as "an issue that could potentially ground air
transport".The problem, as with the war risk controversy after 9/11, is that the
Montreal Convention requires carriers to have adequate insurance to cover their
liability to passengers and third parties. Without it, carriers cannot fly. But
losses to third parties from a dirty bomb could be potentially huge, and
underwriters do not feel they should be required to cover them. "The concern is
that if terrorist deployed biochemical or similar weapons at an airport, the
potential exposure could be more than the industry can afford," says Brown.
Underwriters argue instead that such incidents should be classed alongside
uninsurable risks as nuclear attacks, as indeed they already are in property and
maritime insurance.Dirty bomb stand-offHoeven agrees, and says IATA has been
lobbying governments to this effect. But so far he says no state has replied in
the affirmative or come up with a solution to that dilemma. "There is a limit to
what the markets can do," he says. "This is a small and very specialised market
and only has a very limited capacity, and at some point governments are going to
have to come up with extra coverage." He thinks that there is a bit of a
stand-off on the issue. "It is a question of who blinks first. The problem is
that no state is willing to give a guarantee unless an incident occurs, but if
cover is withdrawn, that would create a problem right away."An alternative would
be to introduce an amendment to the Montreal Convention excluding third-party
liability in the event of a dirty bomb. One vehicle for this might be the Rome
Convention of 1952, which covers liability for damage caused on the ground. The
convention was not widely adopted, but there has been new interest in it since
9/11, and an ICAO committee is working on modernising it.The European Commission
is also talking to brokers, though it declines to comment beyond confirming that
discussions are taking place. David Henderson, manager information for the
Association of European Airlines, meanwhile, says it is "a passive party" on the
subject: "We are aware that it is an issue to be resolved, but we are not part
of the solution. We are waiting to be informed what the outcome is."On the
underwriters' side, Brown downplays the problem, saying that while insurers
could withdraw cover, "I don't think we are at that stage". He points out that
it is not in the insurance industry's interests to ground its customers and
predicts that they will not act until a conclusion is found that satisfies all
parties. "There has been a lot of lobbying about this, but I don't see anything
happening in the near future," he says.Back in the main airline insurance
market, the key unspoken question is whether the low rate of claims will
continue. No one wants to be a hostage to fortune by speculating openly, of
course, but some wonder whether safety measures introduced after 9/11, or the
shake-out of airline fleets it caused, with old aircraft being retired, has led
to a paradigm shift in loss levels. AON in one of its reports calculates that
the average age of the commercial airline fleet has fallen from 21 years to 15
years in the last five years, with a rise in the total fleet by 1,600 aircraft
to 18,900 over the same period.Doyle thinks that the investment in technology by
airlines has "obviously made a difference" to incidents and fatalities, and
points out that with sky marshals, passenger screening and cockpit doors,
terrorist incidents are hopefully less likely. But one incident could change
everything, he points out, as indeed another AON report also states: "Although
(lower loss figures) are representative of the introduction of new industry
safety initiatives, they are not a permanent guarantee of future low losses,
with one fatal crash potentially doubling the losses in a year."So while recent
years have helped the insurance industry recover from its 9/11 losses, premiums
are not yet going to become permanently lower as a result of three good years.
Brown says actuaries look at results over a 10-year period, so would be need
more good years before they changed their long-term outlook. Doyle, while
calculating that underwriters are showing a $600 million profit on North
American business over the past five years, points out that it is a very
litigious region and could easily lose that in claims.One trend he does see is
more differentiation in pricing. "Certain underwriters are getting selective on
risk - excluding some classes of operation or certain areas of the world," he
says. "More and more the market is looking at where losses are coming from and
taking a technical, actuarial approach." This, he says, could be good for
airlines. "It should give more consistent pricing for each airline's level of
risk. Like home or car insurance, airlines that have a better safety record will
get credit for that." ?

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


                 Copyright  2005 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 1, 2005

Hundreds plotting UK terror attacks;
Blair issues warning;
Rebels fail to halt bill;
Briton's shoe-bomb plan

BYLINE: DEBORAH SUMMERS UK POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 588 words


SEVERAL hundred people are planning terrorist attacks on the UK, Tony Blair said
yesterday, as a British-born man admitted plotting a suicide attack to blow up a
packed passenger jet with a shoe bomb.

The prime minister spoke out only hours before the government's majority was
slashed to just 14 as a cross-party attempt to ensure judges, rather than the
home secretary, impose control orders on suspected terrorists was narrowly
rejected by the Commons.

Voting was 267 to 253 opposing the move, spearheaded by Labour rebels and
Liberal Democrats with Conservative backing, after a stormy six-hour debate.

The prime minister and Charles Clarke, home secretary, saw the government's
161strong majority crumble in the face of the heavy back-bench revolt over the
new antiterrorism powers, with 60 Labour back benchers supporting the rebel
amendment.

The Prevention of Terrorism Bill was later given a third reading by 272 votes to
219, majority 53. This time there were 30 Labour rebels. It now goes to the
Lords, where without further concessions it faces a severe mauling and even
defeat.

The Labour revolt came despite these fresh concessions by Mr Clarke. Bowing to
pressure from cabinet colleagues as well as MPs, Mr Clarke said judges would be
the first to decide whether "control orders" amounting to house arrest could be
imposed on a suspect, instead of just reviewing them within seven days.

However, he said he would be seeking to grant police "a new and specific power"
to arrest and detain a suspect while the application to the judge was being
decided.

Defending the terror bill, Mr Blair said the security services and police were
adamant they needed increased powers to combat the terrorist threat.

On BBC Radio 4's Woman's Hour, he said: "What they say is you have got to give
us powers in between mere surveillance of these people.

"There are several hundred of them in this country who, we believe, are engaged
in plotting or trying to commit terrorist acts . . . and being able, being sure
enough of the proof, to prosecute them beyond reasonable doubt.

"And these will be restrictions on their liberty that we will use only in the
most limited circumstances. But we genuinely believe that they are necessary in
order to protect the country."

Before the concessions were made, Mr Clarke and the prime minister had insisted
only the home secretary should have the power to execute the most extreme house
arrest control orders, which would involve the government applying for an
exemption, known as a derogation, from the European Convention on Human Rights.

At the Old Bailey, 25-yearold Saajid Badat admitted plotting to blow up a jet
with a shoe bomb, the first successful major prosecution for terrorism in
Britain since the 9/11 attacks.

He had an identical device to the one used by Richard Reid, a fellow Briton,
when he attempted to bring down a flight from Paris to Miami.

Badat had intended to use the bomb to destroy a plane heading from Europe to the
US, but changed his mind and dismantled his device. Police said he had been
prepared to kill hundreds.

Peter Clarke, Metropolitan Police deputy assistant commissioner, said: "Today's
conviction demonstrates the reality of the threat we are facing."

In Washington, a  security official said that Osama bin Laden has asked his
chief al Qaeda ally in Iraq, Abu Musab al Zarqawi, to consider the  territory of
the US as a target for terrorist attacks. Al Zarqawi is the most wanted man in
Iraq, and has claimed responsibility for many atrocities, including beheadings.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 1, 2005, Tuesday

IF THERE WAS A TERRORIST ATTACK ON BRITAIN, WHO WOULD GET THE BLAME?

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1174 words


Who would we turn to for an explanation in the immediate aftermath of a
terrorist attack in Britain? The answer is obvious. First we would demand
answers from the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary. Pretty soon after that
we would get the verdict of the Leader of the Opposition, who would also call
for a detailed ministerial explanation. We would not be seeking urgent answers
from judges or members of the House of Lords.

I therefore have some sympathy with Tony Blair and Charles Clarke as they
blunder around trying to find a legitimate way of preventing terrorists from
wreaking deadly havoc. If there were an attack it is quite possible they would
get the blame.

There is a confused political culture in post-Thatcherite Britain. It is one
that demands elected politicians keep their distance on a range of issues until
something goes wrong. At which point we ask why they did not do more in the
first place. To take another recent example, right- wing newspapers used to
scream for ministers to keep out of the running of the railways and hailed the
privatisation as a great step forward. Yet when there was a serious train
accident in Hatfield, the same newspapers blamed the powerless Government for
the catastrophic state of the railways.

I sense the same dynamic is in place over the threat posed by terrorists. For
now the Law Lords are deified over their robust onslaught against the
Government's apparently reckless authoritarianism. It was their verdict last
December that sweepingly dismissed the Government's original plans for dealing
with supposed terrorists. Very quickly after that judgement, an unholy alliance
formed between newspapers like this one with a long record of defending civil
liberties and others that had shown no interest in such matters but saw the
verdict as a chance to give the Government a kicking.

It was the same alliance that formed over the Hutton inquiry, anti-war
newspapers combined inadvertently with those that hated the Government to
rubbish every dot and comma of the judgment.

Writing legal judgments and cheering them in newspaper editorials is a
relatively straightforward business, the exercise of power without
responsibility. Being a minister responsible for national security is
incomparably more nightmarish. So much so that I suspect if the Conservatives
were in power now they would be inclined to adopt the approach taken by the
Government. I find it hard to imagine Michael Howard as a Prime Minister
informing the security services that his liberal instincts meant that he was
taking an alternative approach to the one they were urgently pressing on him.

On the surface, sympathy with a government, any government, grappling with the
new and unpredictable threat, is wholly unfashionable. There is a huge political
row erupting over the apparently authoritarian instincts of Mr Blair and Mr
Clarke. Yet the noise of the row is deceptive. The main areas of contention have
little to do with the principle that the Government has a duty to do all that is
necessary to protect national security.

In yesterday's Commons debate, the early anger expressed on both sides was
directed at the lack of parliamentary time for scrutiny. MPs had good cause to
be angry. This is a government that gets into a neurotic frenzy over the media,
but is often indifferent to the mood in Parliament. It should have given MPs
more time to debate the proposals.

In terms of the substance of the matter, the divisions are not as intense as
they seem. Until late yesterday afternoon, Mr Clarke had insisted he needed the
power to act first in relation to house arrests partly on the grounds of speed.
But judges can act speedily, at least as speedily as Mr Clarke. When a
politician seeks an urgent injunction against the publication of a newspaper
report, a judge seems capable of ruling within a second or two. Yet over the
even more highly charged issue of house arrests, Mr Blair and Mr Clarke seemed
to be implying that the entire judiciary would be incommunicado when the
politicians required an emergency ruling.

Over this pivotal issue I detect partly a cock-up, some crude electioneering and
parliamentary tactical game-playing. Drafting proposals from the Home Office is
always a draining business, with Downing Street taking a hyperactive interest.
In this particular case the proposals were put together in even more of a rush
than usual. Mr Clarke is an inexperienced Home Secretary. Probably there was not
a great deal of internal discussion about precisely when a judge should give a
ruling. But when this became an issue of contention, the Government decided to
resist change until the last possible moment in the hope that the concession
would be enough to reassure the House of Lords.

I would not be surprised if the Government took a robust, uncompromising stand
for as long as possible for another reason too. In a pre-election period it
wants to be seen as tough on terrorism, the perception mattering as much as the
substance. Mr Blair never proclaims his boldness without checking with the focus
groups first. Polls suggest his approach to terrorism is popular. Mr Blair is
being disingenuous when he insists that the Government is merely responding to
the Law Lords' judgement and that this has nothing to do with the election. He
ignores the fact that its response happens to coincide with the pre-election
campaign.

I do not condone any of this. Mr Blair's approach to policy making is deeply
flawed. He has never been a departmental cabinet minister. He interferes too
much in the policies of some departments (the Home Office and Department of
Education being the main two) while not allowing the full Cabinet to interfere
enough. He pays too much attention to the media and not enough to Parliament.

But none of these concerns amount to a forensic assault on Mr Blair's right to
take unprecedented measures in order to deal with what he regards genuinely as a
threat to national security. There is no evidence to suggest that he is acting
in this way because of some hidden agenda to destroy civil liberties. At every
stage in this process Blair and Clarke are being challenged and held to account.

Last night in the Commons Mr Clarke was hardly able to utter a sentence without
facing further probing questions from MPs, many of them lawyers. This is how it
should be. Mr Clarke must explain in advance of an attack, as he would have to
do so if an attack took place.

For all the pre-election posturing, the focus groups, the excessive worship of
the unreliable security services, I understand why ministers seek sweeping
powers. This is not a left/right issue or even a divide between liberals and
authoritarians, as the Liberal Democrats have demonstrated by being broadly
understanding of the dilemmas the Government faces. If we hold elected
politicians responsible for national security, we cannot get too hysterical when
they seek the powers to carry out those responsibilities.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                 March 1, 2005

UN: Press statement by Security Council President on terrorist attack in Israel

LENGTH: 359 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-MARCH 1, 2005-UN: Press statement by Security Council President on
terrorist attack in Israel ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Following is today's statement to the press by Security Council President Joel
W. Adechi (Benin):

Members of the Security Council condemn in the strongest possible terms Friday's
terrorist attack in Tel Aviv by a suicide bomber, which killed or wounded dozens
of innocent Israelis, and offer its deepest sympathy to the victims, their
families, and the Israeli people.

The Security Council members also condemn such terrorist attacks because they
undermine the hopes and aspirations of the Israeli and Palestinian people as
they seek a just, durable, and peaceful solution.

Members of the Council note that the Palestinian leadership has condemned the
attack as an act of sabotage against peace, and welcome their commitment to
pursue and punish those responsible. Council members urge that the Palestinian
leadership take immediate, credible steps to find those responsible for this
terrorist attack and bring them to justice and encourage further and sustained
action to prevent other acts of terrorism.

Council members call for international support for the Palestinian Authority in
its efforts to continue with the reform and strengthening of its institutions,
including its security apparatus.

Members of the Security Council again underline the understandings of the Sharm
el Sheikh summit and reaffirm its call for the full respect by the parties of
their commitments for a full cessation of violence.

In light of the recent positive steps taken by both sides and on the eve of
important meetings in London, Council members call on all parties to exercise
maximum restraint and to continue on the path of direct dialogue and negotiation
in order to implement the Road Map and to realize the vision of two States
living side by side in peace and security.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            March 2, 2005, Wednesday

BLAIR TERROR ATTACK ROW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 135 words


TONY Blair was caught up in a row with security chiefs yesterday over his claim
that 'several hundred' terrorists were planning attacks in the UK.

Intelligence sources accused the PM of exaggerating the truth and said the true
number was less than 100.

One dismissed Blair's remarks as 'irresponsible and likely to scare people
unnecessarily'.

The number regarded as 'serious or moderate' threats was believed to be just 20
or 30.

Blair issued his warning in a bid to justify the Government's controversial
anti-terror laws.

The Bill scraped through the Commons after a promise that decisions on the
controversial house arrest measure would be made by a judge not a politician.

Downing Street defended Blair's remarks but conceded that he was referring to
'potential' terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            March 2, 2005, Wednesday

BIN LADEN WANTS TOP TERRORIST TO ATTACK US

BYLINE: LIAM CHRISTOPHER DAILY POST CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 320 words


OSAMA BIN LADEN is enlisting his top operative in Iraq, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, to
plan potential attacks on the United States, US intelligence indicates.

Al-Zarqawi has been involved in attacks in the Middle East but has not been
known before to have set his sights on the United States.

The Homeland Security Department issued a classified bulletin to officials over
the weekend about the intelligence, which spokesman Brian Roehrkasse described
as "credible but not specificThe intelligence was obtained over the past several
weeks, officials said.

The United States had no immediate plans to raise its national terror alert
level, Roehrkasse said. However, the intelligence "reiterates the desire by
al-Qaida and its associates to target the homeland," he said.

Bin Laden was in contact with al-Zarqawi within the past two months in an effort
to enlist him in attacks, a US official said. Events in Iraq, officials noted,
have limited al-Zarqawi's ability to undertake attacks elsewhere.

Al-Zarqawi is blamed for scores of attacks in Iraq and pledged allegiance to bin
Laden and the al-Qaida network last year. Yet he has had differences with bin
Laden, and his efforts are considered somewhat distinct from central al-Qaida
operations.

Al-Zarqawi has a $ 25m (£13m) US bounty on his head and is believed to have
orchestrated a wave of car bombings, kidnappings, assassinations and beheadings
across Iraq In October, he made a first-ever pledge of loyalty to bin Laden, by
posting a message on a web site known for carrying militant Islamic content. At
the time, US officials believed al-Zarqawi was hoping to appeal to a larger
audienceIn January, 2004, Kurdish forces in Northern Iraq detained a courier,
Hassan Ghul, who was carrying a letter written by al-Zarqawi to bin Laden. In
it, al-Zarqawi proposed trying to start a civil war between Iraq's Sunni and
Shiite Muslim populations

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Derbyshire Times

                                 March 3, 2005

Terror attack on OAP

LENGTH: 216 words


A RETIRED woman was subjected to a terrifying attack when a masked teenager
forced her to the ground and burgled her home.

Police are appealling for witnesses to the attack which they have described as
'nasty and unprovoked' and have warned locals to watch out for the thug
responsible.

The 69-year-old Westhouses woman was in the rear garden of her home in Tibshelf
Road at around 5.30pm on Monday when she realised a teenage boy was also in the
garden.

The youth was wearing a dark woollen hat and had a scarf wrapped around his
face.

He attacked the woman, pushing her to the ground and entered her house, swiping
a small amount of cash from the kitchen before escaping.

A police spokesman said the woman was badly shaken by her ordeal and was taken
to hospital.

She was not badly hurt but suffered bruising to her face and pain in her back
and arm.

The police spokesman said: "Thankfully this was an isolated incident and we
would ask anyone who saw a youth hanging around to come forward.

"It was a nasty, unprovoked attack. The woman had not made any mistake, like
letting the young man into her home. He forced his way in from the garden.

"We would ask anyone who saw anything unusual to contact us on 0845 1233333 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 500111."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 3, 2005

Kennedy attacked for missing terror vote

LENGTH: 617 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Liberal Democrat leader, Charles Kennedy, was today forced to
admit he missed Monday night's knife-edge Commons vote on the terror bill.


The Liberal Democrat leader, Charles Kennedy, was today forced to admit he
missed Monday night's knife-edge Commons vote on the terror bill.

A largely hostile House of Lords today began debating the controversial
legislation, which provides for the house arrest of terrorist suspects, and the
government could well lose Monday's vote in the upper chamber, where Labour does
not have a majority.

However, the spotlight fell back on to the Lib Dem leader, who conceded that his
"judgment call wasn't the correct one" by missing the vote, which saw 60 Labour
MPs rebel slashing the government's majority to just 14.

Despite spearheading opposition in the Commons to the prevention of terrorism
bill, he acknowledged that if all Lib Dem and Tory MPs had voted at the key
stages on Monday, the government might have been defeated.

Mr Kennedy said that, with the benefit of hindsight, "the judgment call wasn't
the correct one".

During questions to the leader of the Commons this morning, Conservative Julian
Lewis said: "Whatever view you take on that legislation, for the government to
have saved it by 14 votes and 17 Liberal Democrats, including their leader, not
even turning up to vote - one third of their parliamentary strength - is
absolutely disgraceful."

The Tories claimed Mr Kennedy was spotted leaving the Commons in a taxi only
half an hour earlier. Peter Hain pointed out that 24 Tory MPs were also absent.

Today in the House of Lords, the Labour baroness Lady Kennedy QC objected to the
latest concessions from her own government, arguing that allowing judges to
decide which suspects would be subjected to house arrest would "undermine them
[the judiciary] in the public eye".

More than 200 amendments have been tabled and the Lords is expected to continue
debating until 7pm today. The committee stage continues next Monday in the Lords
when key votes are expected.

The bill is intended to enable the authorities to impose curfews, tagging, bans
on telephone and internet use, and in the most serious cases, house arrest, on
terrorist suspects.

Yesterday Tony Blair rejected a surprise offer from the Conservatives which
could have cleared the way for the bill to reach the statute book if the
government accepted that it would expire after eight months.

Today Lady Kennedy said: "The idea of allowing a judge to replace the secretary
of state really has the serious risk of tainting of the judiciary and I strongly
urge that the house does not go down that route.

"The independence of the judiciary is something to be protected and is precious
to us.

"I foresee that with the best will, judges will end up being undermined in the
public's eye, if they end up playing this role which if found unacceptable in a
politician, will also become unacceptable if it is performed also by a judge."

The lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, moved the first government amendment which,
he said, drew a distinction, in relation to making an order, between a
non-derogating order made by the home secretary and a derogating control order
(involving house arrest) made by the court on an application by the home
secretary.

"This first amendment therefore raises four-square the issue of what the role of
the court should be in making of both derogating orders and non-derogating
orders," he said.

Lord Falconer said he would also indicate what the government's other main
amendments were, so that peers could have a clear view about the structure of
the bill.

These amendments included one setting out the circumstances, test and burden of
proof for putting in a non-derogating order.

There would also be a new clause dealing with the power of the court to make
derogating control orders which deprived a suspect of his liberty.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 4, 2005, Friday

TOP COP BACKS MORE CHECKS ON MUSLIMS;
 FANATICS PLANNING TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: NEVILLE DEAN

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 415 words


BRITAIN'S top police officer yesterday backed controversial comments by a UK
government minister over the disproportionate targeting of Muslims under stop
and search powers.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair said Home Office minister Hazel
Blears had been right to say it was 'reality' that Muslims were more likely to
be stopped and searched by police.

The comments, which she made during the Home Affairs Select Committee's inquiry
into the effect anti-terror powers have had on community relations, prompted an
angry backlash from Muslim leaders.

Sir Ian also said he agreed with Prime Minister Tony Blair's assessment that
there were 'hundreds' of people in Britain who were plotting to commit terrorist
acts.

He said there were 'very many' people who had come back from terrorist training
camps in Afghanistan who posed a threat.

Asked if he agreed with Ms Blears' comments, Sir Ian said: 'I do - I think
Hazel's right to say it. I've said something similar in the past.

'The fact is that the terrorism regulations around stop and search do not
require individual suspicion, they are much more akin to searches at an airport.

'People of an Asian appearance, particularly in what we call the Government
security zone, at three o'clock in the morning, driving a van, are going to get
stopped.'

Figures published last week showed blacks and Asians were increasingly likely to
be targeted by police stop and search.

However, Sir Ian said the rise actually equated to around three more people
being stopped in London a day and that this was 'not a huge rise'.

He added: 'While I'm very concerned about the Muslim community's sense of
belonging, we do have to accept, and the events around the Gloucester
shoe-bomber do show us, that there are people in that community who are -
misguidedly and entirely in conflict with the values of Islam - prepared to use
violence against the UK and therefore we have to do something with this.

'There would be a much greater outcry if we did absolutely nothing and part of
London disappeared in smoke.'

At the select committee meeting on Tuesday, Ms Blears told MPs: 'The threat is
most likely to come from those associated with an extreme form of Islam.'

But Massoud Shadjareh, chair of the Islamic Human Rights Commission, said her
comments would be 'music to the ears of racists'.

'These people want to promote the politics of fear based on the demonisation of
the Muslim community

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 4, 2005

MPs' new attack on terror law

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: D; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 109 words


CHARLES CLARKE'S anti-terror laws came under fresh attack from MPs and peers
today.

The Home Secretary has agreed to give judges the power to decide whether a
terrorist suspect should be placed under house arrest.

But, in a hard-hitting report, the all-party Joint Committee on Human Rights
said changes to the Bill being rushed through Parliament could be challenged
under the convention on human rights.

Their conclusions will raise doubts on the Government's ability to push the Bill
through the Lords next week.

Although Tory peers are expected to back the legislation, it is being opposed by
a large number of crossbenchers.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 March 4, 2005

Three questioned over terror attack conspiracy

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor and Rosie Cowan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 395 words


Two men and a woman arrested in Coventry are being questioned about a plot to
carry out a terrorist attack, intelligence sources said last night. The men,
aged 29 and 30, and the woman, 41, were arrested in Coventry on Tuesday after
what is described as a lengthy MI5 operation, sources said.

Police said yesterday that the arrests were part of an investigation into
international terrorism. The arrests are in connection with what anti-terrorist
officials called "past activity" in Britain involving a terrorist plot. The
arrests are linked to a proscribed foreign-based organisation but not al-Qaida,
officials said.

Police sources said the three are being held in connection with an investigation
into logistical support for terrorist acts abroad and though they were allegedly
plotting here, any planned terrorist attack would have taken place abroad.

One official described the arrests as "not insignificant".

Anti-terrorist sources said the Coventry arrests should not to be compared with
the case of Saajid Badat, who this week admitted to plotting to blow up a
passenger plane with an explosive device hidden in his shoe.

The two men and one woman were taken to the high security police station at
Paddington Green, west London. They are being interviewed by Scotland Yard
anti-terrorist branch officers.

It is not yet known whether they are British nationals. The three are believed
to be of Asian origin.

The 30-year-old man was arrested in a street in the Great Heath area of Coventry
by anti-terrorist detectives and armed officers from West Midlands police.

A short time later, the 29-year-old man was held at a business address in the
Holbrooks area of the city, while the woman was held at her home in Great Heath.

All three were arrested under section 41 of the Terrorism Act 2000, Scotland
Yard said. Five premises in Coventry were searched as part of the investigation.
The search at one was continuing, police said.

Officers have until tomorrow before they have to release the three or charge
them or apply for a further extension. Police can question them for a maximum of
14 days.

Earlier yesterday, Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan police commissioner, echoed
controversial comments this week by the prime minister by saying there were
"hundreds" of people in the UK plotting to commit terrorist acts.


LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 4, 2005

Kennedy under attack as terror bill delay sparks anger in Lords

BYLINE: DEBORAH SUMMERS UK POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 246 words


CHARLES Kennedy was criticised in the Commons yesterday, for missing a key vote
on anti-terror legislation, as the controversial measures caused fresh
difficulties for the government in the Lords.

Angry Conservative peers accused the government of behaving in an outrageous
fashion after it emerged that debate on the bitterly contested Prevention of
Terrorism Bill would have to be delayed.

After Lord Grocott, government chief whip, asked the house for a short
adjournment to finalise details of new amendments to the bill, Lord Forsyth,
former Conservative Scottish secretary, said: "I really would like to protest in
the strongest possible terms. I cleared my diary because of the importance of
this  . . .  it really is outrageous when we are faced with the presentation of
legislation on this kind of timetable."

Peers were to start a marathon session on detailed committee stage of the bill,
but it became clear amendments were not ready for debate.

After an adjournment, peers began the committee stage - which continues on
Monday, when key votes are expected.

Mr Kennedy, Liberal Democrat leader, came under fire for failing to take part in
Monday's late-night vote, despite his party spearheading opposition to plans for
house arrest.

Julian Lewis, Tory MP for New Forest East, said: "Whatever view you take on that
legislation, for the government to have saved it by 14 votes and 17 LibDems,
including their leader, not even turning up to vote is absolutely disgraceful."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                 March 4, 2005

UN: Fate of terrorist attack survivors too often neglected, Secretary-General
says in message to book launch meeting

LENGTH: 292 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-MARCH 4, 2005-UN: Fate of terrorist attack survivors too often
neglected, Secretary-General says in message to book launch meeting ©1994-2005
M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Following is the message by Secretary-General Kofi Annan to the meeting to
launch the book "The Trauma of Terrorism", delivered today by Danilo Turk,
Assistant Secretary-General for Political Affairs:

In the vital debate about how best to respond to terrorism and prevent further
attacks, the fate of those who survive terrorist attacks is too often neglected.
Too often, they are either ignored altogether, or paraded as totems or
"martyrs", proving the iniquity of one side in a conflict and (at least by
implication) the virtue of the other.

Yet, these are people with real injuries -- some physical, some mental. They are
entitled to treatment, to compensation, and above all to respect, as individuals
whose rights have been violated, and whose voice should be heard. We at the
United Nations are especially conscious of this, since many of us were injured
or traumatized in the attack on our headquarters in Baghdad the year before
last.

Dr. Yael Danieli is a distinguished clinical psychologist and a long-standing
friend of the United Nations. She has devoted much of her life to dealing with
the trauma inflicted on those who suffer or witness violence in different
contexts. I commend her and her fellow authors for focusing our attention today
on the victims of terrorism, and I wish you a successful meeting.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             March 4, 2005, Friday

LORDS PLAN ATTACK ON LABOUR ANTI-TERROR BILL

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 298 words


The Government last night faced renewed opposition over its anti-terror laws as
the debate moved to the House of Lords. The Conservatives and Liberal Democrats
both plan to push through changes to the Prevention of Terrorism Bill in the
Lords where the Government has no majority.

And there were angry scenes in the chamber after the debate was delayed to
finalise details of new amendments to the Bill.

The Bill is intended to introduce control orders for terrorist suspects enabling
the authorities to impose curfews, tagging, bans on telephone and internet use
as well as house arrest in the most serious cases.

Prime Minister Tony Blair rejected a surprise offer from the Tories which would
have cleared the way for the Bill to reach the statute book if the Government
accepted it would expire in eight months. Mr Blair refused, saying the Bill was
already subject to annual review.

Lib-Dem leader Charles Kennedy yesterday said ministers would have to make
significant further changes if the Bill was to get through the Lords.

He said the Government had not moved far enough over objections to the orders
being issued by the Home Secretary rather than by judges.

'We shall see, under the force of argument from right across the spectrum,
including the cross benchers in the Lords, how much further the Government will
be obliged to move,' he said.

'I think it will have to be on their part very significant indeed if we are not
to end up with a complete and utter maelstrom entirely of their own making by
this time next week.'

Mr Kennedy came under fire after it emerged the Bill could have been defeated in
the Commons on Monday if all Lib-Dem and Tory MPs had voted at key stages.

Astonishingly, the Lib-Dem leader missed the key vote himself.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 5, 2005

TERROR ON DAGNAM PARK DRIVE; ATTACKS, INTIMIDATION, SQUALOR AND CRIMINAL DAMAGE.
. . FAMILIES REVEAL THE FULL HORROR OF WHAT IT'S LIKE LIVING NEXT TO BRITAIN'S
WORST NEIGHBOURS

BYLINE: by David Pilditch and Anna Pukas

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. , 23

LENGTH: 1742 words


THE main celebrations are still on hold, not least because after five long years
the residents of Dagnam Park Drive hardly dare to believe it is true. Nor will
they until the moment that Stacey Weedon and her two teenage daughters have
finally packed up and gone. But the relief among those living around the family
this week branded "Britain's worst neighbours" at the decision to evict them
from their midst cannot be under-estimated.

Today, for the first time, we can reveal the sheer scale of the ordeal suffered
by those who had the misfortune to find themselves living on the same street as
Weedon, 36, her notorious daughters, Charlie, 16, and Billie, 15, and Weedon's
partner, 42-year-old Leslie Giggins - who was considered so aggressive that
police said it would take eight officers to arrest him.

During their five-year reign of terror in the previously quiet and anonymous
terrace in Harold Hill, near Romford, Essex, children have been attacked,
private security firms called in to stay with besieged neighbours overnight,
properties damaged, CCTV installed, while tradesmen refused to visit without
police escorts and takeaway deliveries to the street simply stopped.

Ultimately, the only sanction left was to evict, a decision duly taken by
District Judge Timothy Bowles at Romford County Court on Thursday. It came after
the entire family was placed under anti-social behaviour orders (ASBOs)
stretching up to five years.

What neighbours now want to know, however, is what took the law and the local
authority so long to act.

Barry Kent, the father of one neighbour assaulted by the Weedons, says: "It has
been a nightmare. Both my daughters have been physically attacked by this
family. This has been going on and on and I couldn't see an end to it until the
whole family were kicked out. The police did nothing about it. They've got
anti-social behaviour orders against them but for people like them they are not
worth the paper they are written on.

They just laugh."

BARRY'S daughter Sarah was forced to flee her home after she and her child were
attacked by all three of the Weedon women. And everyone who lives there agrees
that Dagnam Park Drive used to be such a nice street. The houses are solidly
built and set well back from the busy road.

From strictly working-class when it was built in the Fifties and Sixties as
social housing, it became aspirational as tenants turned into homeowners when
the right-to-buy scheme was introduced in the Eighties.

But it is not buildings and well-kept gardens alone that make or break a
community - that takes people. And five years ago the residents were unlucky
enough to get the Weedon family.

To call Stacey Weedon and her daughters uncivilised does not even begin to
describe the extent to which they are removed from any normal rules of social
behaviour. Even unsocialised does not cover it. Rather - and judging from the
condition in which they choose to live - they are virtually feral.

A shed in the back garden and most of the garden itself is crammed with toys,
old fridges and TV sets, discarded bits of furniture, car parts, soiled nappies
and sanitary towels and beer cans.

In parts, the debris sits almost thighdeep. Half of the blue-painted fence
dividing the Weedon property at No. 28 from their neighbours, the Parsons at No.
26, has been torn down, enabling their mess to stray into next door's garden.
One section of the fence looks as if it has been burnt away. The Parsons seem
content to live with the situation.

It will surprise no one to learn that the family lives on benefits. It is
equally unsurprising that Charlie and Billie also became mothers recently.

Stacey Weedon and her girls moved into No. 28 just before Christmas in 1999,
along with Stacey's boyfriend Giggins. He and Stacey eventually had two children
of their own - Leslie junior, now four, and daughter Bobbie, two.

The houses in their stretch of the terrace had been newly refurbished by East
Homes Housing Association.

Before very long the Weedon home had been turned into a slum and their garden
into a virtual garbage dump.

Aside from their living habits, Weedon and Giggins also had a complete disregard
for anyone else who came into their orbit.

PAULINE Meanwell, at No. 30, was friendly to them at first. The disabled
grandmother, 56, who has lived alone since her son was killed in an accident
three years ago, says: "I had always tried to be nice to the people next door. I
used to give them clothing for their babies and money if they asked for it. I
did no end of things for them but they just abuse people's generosity.

They would come round and ask to use the phone but would then shut me out of my
lounge while they talked. Kindness is a weakness to be taken advantage of, as
far as they are concerned." Giggins seemed determined to "run" the street
through harassment and intimidation. One long-time resident says: "He has a
habit of standing in his doorway and threatening passers-by.

Trouble started when empty houses in the area were broken into and set alight.
There were incidents involving fireworks being let off down alleyways and under
man-hole covers.

"Giggins used to have a lot of cars parked outside the house which had no
insurance and to get rid of them they would be set on fire and left to burn.

This is their idea of entertainment. In the summer there would often be shouting
until three or four in the morning.

He just doesn't have any scruples at all." Mrs Meanwell said Giggins lit a fire
in his back garden one day last September and burned rubbish for three days. In
November he became "angry and aggressive" when he discovered she was installing
two CCTV cameras (at a cost of £500) to guard her property.

"While I would be getting into my car or going in and out of the house, he would
be standing on the steps, staring.

We all got too scared of the repercussions to talk to other people in the
street. We would go indoors and it had to be on the phone. They all just took
over - you had no privacy at all.

"I used to order groceries on the internet but as soon as the van arrived they
would all be round. Even the pizza delivery man refused to come any more."

Sarah Kent, who lived two doors away, was driven from her home last August when
Weedon and her daughters attacked her as she clutched her fouryear-old son. They
kicked down the front door and hit the 31-year-old mother-ofthree with various
household objects. On other occasions, her car was vandalised and her door lock
was superglued.

Sarah left her house to move in with her parents. When she returned after a few
weeks to collect her mail she and her father were surrounded by the Weedons, who
pelted them with stones and shouted threats.

The Weedons kept up the assault for 50 minutes until the police arrived. Nor did
the rest of Sarah's family escape the Weedons' wrath.

In November Billie Weedon - who was seven months' pregnant at the time - turned
up at the family's clothing stall in Romford indoor market, attacked Sarah's
mother Eileen and her sister Louise with an umbrella and then overturned the
stall. Sarah now sleeps on a fold-up bed with her youngest child while her older
children, aged eight and 10, share a bedroom with their grandmother.

Landlords East Homes Housing Association finally sought the eviction order
because Weedon owed almost £1,000 in back rent, even after being given a second
chance two years ago to pay off arrears at £2.75 a week. But after a one-hour
hearing held in private this week, District Judge Bowles made it clear that the
family's behaviour was a big factor in his decision to grant a warrant to
repossess the Weedon home. He said there was evidence that some tenants would
stay away from their homes as long as the Weedons were there.

"There is also other evidence of neighbours that their lives have been made a
nightmare by the Weedons, " he added. "It seems to me there is clearly concern
that the lives of other tenants will continue to be blighted if the Weedons, and
in particular Leslie Giggins, remain at the property."

He added that there was also evidence of potential witnesses being intimidated
into not giving evidence.

Giggins' five-year ASBO was imposed on him on February 2 in his absence. At the
hearing, Paul Clarke, the anti-social behaviour officer for East Homes, said: "I
cannot in all conscience send anyone there while Les Giggins is there. The
police said they won't attend with fewer than eight officers because of the
threat Les Giggins poses."

At her own ASBO hearing earlier this week, Weedon claimed Giggins had left her
and moved to Bournemouth. But other residents insist that he was still living in
Dagnam Park Drive. Weedon and the daughters were given three-year ASBOs earlier
this week.

Mrs Meanwell admitted she was "very, very frightened" of giving evidence against
Giggins and the Weedons. She has undergone two serious back operations, needs a
stick to walk with and requires a chair-lift to get upstairs.

"In the end there was no option, " says Mrs Meanwell. "Why should people
intimidate others in the street? I don't like to see people thrown on to the
streets but they had a lovely home which they destroyed. They don't deserve to
live in a place like that."

Sarah Kent added: "They were the ones causing all the problems and yet I was the
one who couldn't live in my home for six months. They were laughing about all
this until now. Nobody should have to put up with that."

The Weedons will probably be allowed as long as three weeks to pack their things
and find somewhere else to live. Because she is being evicted, Stacey Weedon has
lost her right to local authority housing and will have to rent or buy privately
and her family could be split up.

ACOUNCIL source revealed:

"Stacey Weedon will not be housed by any local authority in the country. Her
oldest daughter Charlie is 16 and, with her own baby, is entitled to immediate
accommodation by social services. Billie is 15 and might be taken into care."
Stacey Weedon had accused her neighbours of waging a smear campaign against her.
Yesterday her defiance was undimmed. "I've got another home to go to anyway, "
she claimed as she left court.

Pauline Meanwell, Sarah Kent and all the others whose lives were blighted by
Stacey Weedon and her family can only pray that she goes there as soon as
possible.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 March 5, 2005

Woman relives dog attack terror

BYLINE: David Owen

SECTION: News; Courts; MagistratesCourt; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 460 words


A woman set upon by four Rottweilers has told of her terrifying ordeal in court.
Magistrates in Hinckley heard that Heather Lucas was attacked while taking her
own dog for a walk in Earl Shilton and pinned against a car.

She shouted for help as the four dogs, which were roaming unaccompanied, started
to snap at her pet collie, Buster, and was bitten on the face and hand as she
tried to protect it, the court was told.

In a statement read out to the court, she said: "I was terrified and shouting
'Get them off me, get them off me'. Buster was lying on the ground and I bent
over him on my knees.

"That's when one of the dogs came at me and bit me on my chin. It was definitely
going for me and not Buster." Magistrates hearing the case yesterday ruled that
the dogs should not be put down, but laid down tough rules for their owners,
Mark and Michelle Richardson.

The couple were told to keep the dogs within a security fence inside their home.

They were also ordered to only take the dogs for walks one at a time - and that
when they were out, the animals must be muzzled and kept on a short lead.

Mr and Mrs Richardson both pleaded guilty to four charges of owning a dangerous
dog.

Two criminal charges under the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 were dismissed by
magistrates after no evidence was presented by the Crown Prosecution Service.

The court heard the Rottweilers had escaped from their home, in Equity Road,
after a visitor accidentally left a gate open.

Nigel Chapman, prosecuting, said Mrs Lucas was approached by the Rottweilers
near Windermere Close.

Her ordeal ended when her husband ran to her aid after being alerted and a
motorist pulled up in a car.

Mrs Lucas now has a two-inch scar on her chin and has been left traumatised by
the incident.

In her statement, she said: "The incident has left me feeling very vulnerable.

"I have trouble sleeping as it keeps playing over and over again in my mind. I
feel nervous all the time and am frightened to take my dog out on my own." A
neighbour of the Richardsons, who was interviewed by police, said relatives were
scared of visiting him because of the dogs.

Trevor Cooper, defending, said it was an isolated incident and a security fence
had now been put in at the Richardsons' home.

He said: "The Richardsons admit the dogs weren't under proper control and that
the animals have shown themselves to be dangerous.  What they don't accept is
that their dogs represent a danger to people." Magistrates had powers to destroy
one or all of the animals, issue control orders or apply their own conditions.

Presiding magistrate Marian Cullen told the couple Rottweilers should be kept
within the security fence.

The pair were ordered to pay court costs of £75.


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2005 Leicester Mercury

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 5, 2005, Saturday

Law chief attacks terror Bill

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: Home news; 7

LENGTH: 658 words


The most senior law lord may not even have been consulted on the plans before
their publication. David Charter reports

PLANS for tough new anti-terrorism measures were thrown into fresh turmoil
yesterday when it was disclosed that Britain's most senior law lord has serious
concerns about control orders.

Lord Bingham of Cornhill was not consulted on the plans before they were
published in the Prevention of Terrorism Bill, a former law lord said.

The revelations came as a committee of MPs and peers said that a government
compromise making judges responsible for house arrest control orders still
seemed to breach human rights laws.

Changes by Charles Clarke, the Home Secretary, to limit his power to issue home
detention control orders may not go far enough, the all-party Joint Committee on
Human Rights said. Mr Clarke wants to retain the right of the Home Secretary to
make any kind of control order banning terrorist suspects from using the phone
or internet, or imposing a curfew, without the need for a charge or trial.

Until now judicial opposition has come from former senior judges in the House of
Lords. But Lord Ackner, a former law lord, told The World at One on BBC Radio 4:
"They (judges) will be worried if they are asked merely to rubber stamp what the
executive has decided.

"It sounds so much better to say 'leave it to the judge' but if you leave it to
the judge without his being able to exercise the obligations of due process, you
are not leaving it to the judge at all.

"I have spoken to the senior law lord, Lord Bingham of Cornhill, and he is very
concerned that the function of the judges remain strictly judicial and that
there should be no basis for suggesting that they merely rubber stamp what the
Government puts in front of them...I don't think he was consulted."

Lord Ackner added: "It is quite clear from the way in which the Bill is drafted
that the defendant is not to be told the nature of the case against him, or the
facts that are going to be urged against him, or the basis of the decision."

Lord Ackner spoke out after the report from the joint committee welcomed
"considerable progress towards a greater degree of judicial involvement in the
process of making control orders that deprive (people) of liberty". It was the
committee's second report in a week on the Bill, which is being rushed through
Parliament to meet the release of detainees from Belmarsh prison on March 14.

The committee set out three main reasons why control orders could still breach
the European Convention on Human Rights. First, the committee questioned the
ability of the Home Secretary to request an order without telling the suspect,
particularly as Mr Clarke is bringing in an instant power of arrest while an
order is sought. The members said they could see no reason why the suspect could
not be allowed to be represented at the initial stage because there will be new
powers to detain them while the procedure takes place.

Second, the committee thought that the threshold for a judge to assess the order
was too low; and third, there was criticism of the special closed sessions and
system of special advocates, which would eventually hear the suspects' case.

The committee said: "We...question whether the degree of prior judicial
involvement provided for in the Government's amendments in relation to
derogating (from the Convention on Human Rights) control orders is compatible
with the Convention requirement that deprivations of liberty must be lawful."

A Home Office spokes-woman said: "Since the Joint Committee on Human Rights
published its draft report last week, the Government has amended the Bill to
provide further judicial safeguards. We believe the Bill strikes the right
balance between protecting the security of the nation and observing civil
liberties."

The Bill is now in the House of Lords. It is due to return to the Commons on
Wednesday.


LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 7, 2005, Monday

SHOCK & LAW;
 200 AL QAEDA FANATICS IN BRITAIN WOULD ALL COMMIT TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 521 words


POLICE chiefs and Government ministers are today accused of playing into
terrorists' hands.

Former Cabinet minister Frank Dobson, writing exclusively in the Mirror, says
they have gone too far in urging tough new anti-terror laws.

His comments follow a bloodchilling warning yesterday by former Metropolitan
Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens, who said up to 200 al-Qaeda operatives
were on the streets, ready to strike.

He said fanatics "would all commit devastating terror attacks against us if they
could", adding that only the heroism of security service agents had stopped a
9/11 style attack.

His warning comes as the Government prepares to force through anti-terror laws
allowing politicians to put suspects under house arrest.

But leading Labour rebel Mr Dobson writes: "It does not matter how many
terrorists are threatening us, whether it is one or hundreds.

"I won't accept any law which allows a British citizen to be put under house
arrest on the say so of the Home Secretary or any other politician. Protecting
our age-old liberties must be right.

"To abandon these principles now plays right into the hands of the terrorist
bosses. They will be delighted."

Crispin Black, a former government intelligence analyst, yesterday said Sir
John's figures were "a little over the top" and added: "I've certainly never
heard before the figure of 200 al-Qaeda terrorists bandied about."

Sir John had said: "The main opposition to the bill, it seems to me, is from
people who simply haven't understood the brutal reality of the world we live in
and the true horror of the terrorism we face."

But while insisting in his article for a Sunday newspaper the Government
measures were needed to ensure public safety, Sir John conceded a judge should
be involved in deciding any detentions without trial.

Last night the Government signalled it will offer no more concessions on its
tough new laws.

Health Secretary John Reid said: "We have to protect people. The other parties
have to make their minds up and then explain their position to the people of
this country."

But, for the Tories, Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said the Government had
turned down compromise offers "without clear reason".

And Shadow Health Minister Chris Grayling said Britain must not "throw away the
principles of a democratic society" in fighting terrorists.

The Prevention of Terrorism Bill scraped through the House of Commons by just 14
votes last week. It returns tonight to the House of Lords where it will face
more opposition and then come back to the Commons.

Liberal-Democrat leader Charles Kennedy yesterday pledged "a three-line whip" on
the Bill in both houses following his party's self-confessed "cock up" in
failing to defeat part of the legislation. He was one of 17 of the party's MPs
who missed a Commons vote in which the Government avoided defeat by just 14
votes.

Tony Blair yesterday hinted the laws could be used more widely. Asked if Home
Secretary Charles Clarke might use them against protesters at the Gleneagles G8
summit, he said: "I couldn't rule it out."

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 7, 2005, Monday

SHOCK & LAW;
 200 AL QAEDA FANATICS IN BRITAIN WOULD ALL COMMIT TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 2 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 528 words


POLICE chiefs and Government ministers are today accused of playing into
terrorists' hands.

Former Cabinet minister Frank Dobson, writing exclusively in the Mirror, says
they have gone too far in urging tough new anti-terror laws.

His comments follow a bloodchilling warning yesterday by former Metropolitan
Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens, who said up to 200 al-Qaeda operatives
were on the streets, ready to strike.

He said fanatics "would all commit devastating terror attacks against us if they
could", adding that only the heroism of security service agents had stopped a
9/11 style attack.

His warning comes as the Government prepares to force through anti-terror laws
allowing politicians to put suspects under house arrest.

But leading Labour rebel Mr Dobson writes: "It does not matter how many
terrorists are threatening us, whether it is one or hundreds.

"I won't accept any law which allows a British citizen to be put under house
arrest on the say so of the Home Secretary or any other politician. Protecting
our age-old liberties must be right.

"To abandon these principles now plays right into the hands of the terrorist
bosses. They will be delighted."

Crispin Black, a former government intelligence analyst, yesterday said Sir
John's figures were "a little over the top" and added: "I've certainly never
heard before the figure of 200 al-Qaeda terrorists bandied about."

Sir John had said: "The main opposition to the bill, it seems to me, is from
people who simply haven't understood the brutal reality of the world we live in
and the true horror of the terrorism we face."

But while insisting in his article for a Sunday newspaper the Government
measures were needed to ensure public safety, Sir John conceded a judge should
be involved in deciding any detentions without trial.

Last night the Government signalled it will offer no more concessions on its
tough new laws.

Health Secretary John Reid said: "We have to protect people. The other parties
have to make their minds up and then explain their position to the people of
this country."

But, for the Tories, Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said the Government had
turned down compromise offers "without clear reason".

And Shadow Health Minister Chris Grayling said Britain must not "throw away the
principles of a democratic society" in fighting terrorists.

The Prevention of Terrorism Bill scraped through the House of Commons by just 14
votes last week. It returns tonight to the House of Lords where it will face
more opposition and then come back to the Commons.

Liberal-Democrat leader Charles Kennedy yesterday pledged "a three-line whip" on
the Bill in both houses following his party's self-confessed "cock up" in
failing to defeat part of the legislation. He was one of 17 of the party's MPs
who missed a Commons vote in which the Government avoided defeat by just 14
votes.

Tony Blair yesterday hinted the laws could be used more widely. Asked if they
might come into force against protesters at the G8 summit, he said: "I couldn't
rule it out."

WHY I WON'T ACCEPT NEW TERROR LAW

FRANK DOBSON

SEE PAGE 6

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 7, 2005, Monday

SHOCK & LAW;
 200 AL QAEDA FANATICS IN BRITAIN WOULD ALL COMMIT TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 477 words


POLICE chiefs and Government ministers are today accused of playing into
terrorists' hands.

Ex-Cabinet minister Frank Dobson, writing exclusively in the Mirror, says they
have gone too far in urging tough new anti-terror laws.

His comments follow a bloodchilling warning yesterday from former Metropolitan
Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens, who said up to 200 al-Qaeda operatives
were on the streets, ready to strike.

Sir John said fanatics "would all commit devastating terror attacks if they
could", adding only the heroism of security service agents had stopped a
9/11-style attack.

His warning comes as the Government prepares to force through anti-terror laws
allowing politicians to put suspects under house arrest.

But leading Labour rebel Mr Dobson writes: "It does not matter how many
terrorists are threatening us, whether it is one or hundreds.

"I won't accept any law which allows a British citizen to be put under house
arrest on the say so of the Home Secretary or any politician. Protecting our
age-old liberties must be right.

"To abandon these principles now plays right into the hands of the terrorist
bosses. They will be delighted."

Crispin Black, a former Government intelligence analyst, yesterday said Sir
John's figures were "a little over the top" and added: "I've certainly never
heard before the figure of 200 al-Qaeda terrorists bandied about."

Sir John had said: "The main opposition to the bill, it seems to me, is from
people who simply haven't understood the brutal reality of the world we live
in."

But, while insisting, in a Sunday newspaper article, that the Government
measures were needed to ensure public safety, Sir John conceded a judge should
be involved in deciding any detentions without trial.

Last night, the Government signalled it will offer no more concessions on its
new laws.

Health Secretary John Reid said: "We have to protect people. The other parties
have to make their minds up and then explain their position."

But, for the Tories, Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said the Government had
turned down compromise offers "without clear reason".

The Prevention of Terrorism Bill scraped through the House of Commons by just 14
votes last week.

It returns tonight to the House of Lords where it will face more opposition and
then come back to the Commons.

Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy yesterday pledged "a three-line whip" on the Bill
in both houses following his party's "cock up" in failing to defeat part of the
legislation.

He was one of 17 of the party's MPs who missed the Commons vote in which the
Government won by 14 votes.

Tony Blair yesterday hinted the planned laws could be used more widely. Asked if
Home Secretary Charles Clarke might use them against protesters at the
Gleneagles G8 summit, he said: "I couldn't rule it out."

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 9, 2005

TURMOIL OVER TERROR LAWS Blair retreat... then furious attack on PM in Commons

BYLINE: JOE MURPHY

SECTION: C+_S; Pg. 1; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 867 words


TONY BLAIR scrambled to save his anti-terror Bill from collapse today as he
prepared for a showdown with MPs.

He staged a tactical retreat by offering concessions to rebels while the whips
were putting " bonecrushing pressure" on wavering backbenchers.

Amid the commotion, Tory leader Michael Howard enraged the Prime Minister by
accusing him of wanting his own Bill to fail in a cynical ploy to make the
Tories look soft.

"He wants to pretend that he is the only one who is tough on terrorism," claimed
Mr Howard during a searing clash in the Commons.

With the Government rejecting Conservative proposals to put a time limit on the
emergency powers, including house arrest without trial, Mr Howard astonished MPs
with his allegation.

He said: "I have come to the conclusion that this Prime Minister wants the Bill
to fail.

"Isn't it a dreadful measure from a desperate Prime Minister and should not he
be thoroughly ashamed of himself ?"

Mr Blair was visibly angered at the claim. He said the "shame" belonged to the
Conservatives for opposing the Bill. "We will have this debate here and in the
country," he said.

"We will say where the shame lies. If they want to vote against it, let them. We
will be content to hear the verdict of the country on it."

Their clash at Prime Minister's Questions came as Home Secretary Charles Clarke
announced new concessions.

In his most significant climbdown, the Home Secretary said judges rather than
ministers will normally issue control orders on terrorist suspects.

He also promised to review the emergency powers annually and bring in the check
that they are used only when prosecutions are impossible.

But the minister dug in his heels on two key demands made by peers, rejecting
calls for higher standards of proof before suspects are put under restrictions
without trial, and for a "sunset clause" to make the powers expire after eight
months.

Mr Clarke acted days after insisting there could be no further concessions to
the cross-party MPs, peers and legal experts who oppose the Bill.

He said he moved because the legislation was so " critically important" to
defeating terrorism."

He added: "There has been a very substantial parliamentary expression of views
Mr Clarke warned that suspected terrorists now in Belmarsh jail will walk free
next week with no control over their activities if the new Bill is not passed.

The U-turns followed another night of defeats in the Lords.

In the worst setback, the Tory call for a "sunset clause" was passed by a margin
of almost three to one. The amendment was a blow to Mr Blair, who threw the
proposal back into Mr Howard's face in the Commons a week ago.

Government insiders were banking on getting most of the defeats reversed in the
Commons in the hope that the peers will back down.

said: "Unless significant concessions are made the Bill will be lost." The
stand- of f between the Government and the cross-party opponents looked set to
go right to the wire.

Labour whips believe last week's Commons revolt - which saw Mr Blair's majority
tumble to just 14 in one division - has been put under control by the
concessions. "If the Commons rallies behind the Bill, the Lords will have to
give in," said an insider.

But some peers said the colossal scale of the Government's defeats last night
gave them "moral authority" to defy the elected House. A total of 24 Labour
peers defied the whip - four more than on Monday - including the Prime
Minister's old mentor, former Lord Chancellor Lord Irvine. The defeat was so
overwhelming that the Government would have lost even if not a single Tory had
voted.

Downing Street believe today's concessions will be enough to save the Bill
without surrendering the new powers.

The Prime Minister's spokesman said: "We are going to address the issue of
judicial input in a way which should meet people's concerns."

But Peers and MPs were waiting to see the exact wording of Mr Clarke's
amendments before making up their minds.

THE HORSE-TRADING OVER BILL

What the Lords demanded

. Judges to make decisions on all control orders, not just house arrest.

. Emergency powers to lapse on 30 November, to be replaced by a new Bill after
the election.

. The burden of evidence to be raised from "reasonable suspicion" of terrorism
to "balance of probabilities".

. Director of Public Prosecutions to rule on whether prosecutions could be
mounted.

Mr Clarke's offer

. Judges make decisions except in emergencies when the Home Secretary will
decide to save time.

. Rejection of "sunset clause", replaced by an annual vote of MPs and peers to
renew the powers.

. Change back the evidence standard to mere "reasonable suspicion".

. Police to rule on whether prosecutions could be mounted.

What could happen next

. MPs likely to back compromise on judges taking most decisions.

. Labour MPs under heavy pressure to vote down sunset clause in the hope that
peers will back off.

. Stricter evidence threshold only likely to be agreed if Bill is in severe
danger.

. Involvement of DPP could be reconsidered if Government wants to offer
sweetener.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   AFX - Asia

                      March 10, 2005 Thursday 5:03 AM GMT

Explosion at Australian embassy in Kuala Lumpur, police rule out terror attack

LENGTH: 341 words


KUALA LUMPUR, March 10 (AFP) - An explosion occurred outside the Australian High
Commission in Kuala Lumpur late Wednesday, but police have ruled out the
possibility of a terrorist attack.

Police patrolling the embassy and passers-by heard 'a loud bang and saw a flash
from a vehicle passing in front of the high commission' around 8 pm last night,
a police spokesman told Agence France-Presse on condition of anonymity.

He said the bomb squad, a forensics team and tracker dogs were immediately
deployed to the scene as the road in front of the embassy was cordoned off, but
no injuries or damage to property were reported.

'Police are still investigating the matter,' he added.

It is not immediately known if the explosion was a bomb, but the spokesman said
no trace of any fragments were found.

District police chief Kamal Basha ruled out the incident as an attack on the
high commission because it occurred outside the building.

'The explosion did not affect the building,' he told the official Bernama news
agency, adding that there is no need to be alarmed as police have stepped up
security in the area.

In Canberra, a spokesman for Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said
details of the explosion are sketchy, but he also dismissed it as a terror
threat.

'We are going to seek a briefing from the Malaysian police, but there is no
suggestion of any specific threat to Australian interests,' the spokesman said.

The high commission in Kuala Lumpur is operating as usual, its spokesman here
said, but they remain vigilant.

The high commission was attacked in March last year when a speeding car threw a
small explosive device into its compound, sparking a security scare.

Malaysia has had no major terrorist attacks on its soil, but has detained scores
of alleged Muslim militants accused of membership in regional groups such as the
al-Qaeda-linked Jemaah Islamiyah.

The police has set up a special security squad to protect foreign embassies and
most Western embassies here have already put their own tight security systems in
place.

hh/en/th/ds

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 10, 2005

Judge attacks Clarke's 'absurd' terror policy

BYLINE: CHRIS MILLAR; JOE MURPHY

SECTION: C_MERGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 214 words


A HIGH COURT judge today issued a scathing attack on Home Secretary Charles
Clarke's "absurd" treatment of four men detained under emergency anti-terror
laws.

Mr Justice Ouseley spoke out at an appeal hearing for four Belmarsh detainees
accused of having links with al Qaeda.

The new setback for the Government came as its antiterror Bill hit new trouble
in the Lords.

The Home Office conceded more than a month ago that it was ready to release the
detainees, but rows have continued over strict bail conditions.

The judge said Mr Clarke's strategy was in chaos, adding: "We have the absurd
situation here today where three of the four men have been in detention far
longer than they needed to be while we argue over the precise degree of freedom
they should have."

The Home Office revealed in a fax sent to the court overnight the details of the
bail conditions it is seeking.

They include electronic monitoring, a curfew between the hours of 5pm and 7am
and strictly monitored access to the internet.

Lawyers for the Home Office told the immigration appeal hearing today that they
are in principle in favour of granting all four bail.

The four foreign suspects, are Jordanian Mahmoud Suliman Ahmed Abu Rideh, 33,
and three known only by initials.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 11, 2005

Madrid marks terror attacks

SECTION: A_MERGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 76 words


SPAIN today marks the first anniversary of the Madrid train bombings that killed
191.

Church bells tolled in the city at 7.37am, the time the first of 10 bombs
exploded on four commuter trains. Spain was observing a five-minute silence at
midday.

The blasts came days before an election in which Spain's pro-Iraq-war government
was ousted. A Moroccan terror cell linked to al Qaeda claimed responsibility and
22 people are awaiting trial.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Airline Industry Information

                                 March 14, 2005

Confidential report says US aviation still vulnerable to terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 201 words


AIRLINE INDUSTRY INFORMATION-©1997-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

A confidential US government report has found that the US aviation system
remains vulnerable to attack.

Groups such as al-Qaeda could target non-commercial aircraft and helicopters,
the report found. According to the New York Times, the FBI and Department of
Homeland Security report said that the aviation industry is a tempting target as
the nature of such attacks is so spectacular. While commercial aircraft are
likely to still be targets, there is reportedly intelligence indicating that
al-Qaeda may have considered hijacking chartered aircraft as well as helicopters
and other such general aviation aircraft since the security is less stringent.

The report, which is dated 25 February, also said that the commercial aviation
industry remains vulnerable and that members of al-Qaeda are thought to be
investigating and testing the US security systems to find weaknesses, The
Associated Press reported. Brian Roehrkasse, a Homeland Security spokesman, has
said that the report was distributed to officials in the state, local and
private sector who deal with counter-terrorism matters.

(Comments on this story may be sent to aii.feedback@m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright  2005 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 14, 2005, Monday

TERROR BILL UNDER ATTACK

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 111 words


Lib Dem MPs will vote to repeal the terrorism bill in the next parliament, party
president Simon Hughes said.

He told the party's Welsh Spring conference in Cardiff, the bill - which was
finally passed after a marathon Westminster battle - would never have been
introduced under a Lib Dem administration.

"We will vote for full judicial process."

He said it was not adequate to argue, as Mr Blair had, that the security
services said they needed new powers.

"The worst argument in the world is to say the police and security services need
more powers," he said. "Nobody has ever heard the police and security services
say they want fewer powers

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hertfordshire

                                 March 17, 2005

Residents need to worry about a terrorist attack

SECTION: Letters

LENGTH: 189 words

DATELINE: Hertfordshire; Barnet Times


Since September of last year the Sternberg Centre at 80 East End Road has
installed 10 cctv cameras. We were told by the head of security they were to
deter intruders.

However at the planning sub committee meeting on March 7 the councillors were
told it was also an anti-terrorist measure.

This fact is backed up in the borough's literature supporting the planning
application which cites the Sternberg Centre as having particularly high
security needs'.

I live opposite the Sternberg Centre and now have grave concerns that it may be
a terrorist target the more so because they have submitted plans to build a
synagogue within 80 feet of my home and 40 feet from a primary school.

This is a totally unacceptable proposition at a time when we are told the threat
of terrorist attack is increasing.

Apart from the problems of traffic and parking caused by people attending the
Sternberg Centre it seems we now have to worry about being blown up.

As house insurance does not now cover terrorist attack this is a matter that
other residents should be made aware of.

T. Dennis

East End Road

Finchley

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                 March 18, 2005

Yobs in street attack terror

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 372 words


A MOTORIST was beaten up by a gang of yobs who smashed the windows of his car
with a fire extinguisher in the first of a spate of terrifying unprovoked
attacks in Rotherham.




The first attack took place on the forecourt of the Texaco Mushroom Garage in
Herringthorpe Valley Road when a 30-year-old man was assaulted by a group of
youths after he stopped to buy some cigarettes.


A group of nine male youths and two or three girls mostly wearing hooded tops or
baseball caps were hanging around the garage.


The man was walking back to his car when one of the gang, a 6ft 3ins tall youth
wearing a black top with the hood up, walked over to him and punched him in the
eye in an unprovoked attack.


The victim managed to get back to his car and lock himself in - but the group
attacked the car, smashing all the windows using fire extinguisher buckets from
the forecourt.


He was then punched about the head several times through the smashed vehicle
window before the group fled down Herringthorpe Valley Road.


The victim was taken to hospital by ambulance and received treatment for cuts,
swelling and bruising to his head.


In another incident a 29-year-old man, from Flanderwell, was waiting at a bus
stop in Bawtry Road, Wickersley, when a small red coloured car with three
occupants pulled up beside him.


One passenger got out, became very aggressive towards the man and punched him in
the face before jumping on him, causing him to fall to the ground and cut his
elbow.


The victim only managed to escape by running off through the nearby Tanyard
Shopping Precinct.


His attacker is described as white, aged about 18, 5ft 8ins tall, slim build and
with dark hair.


And in another unprovoked attack at Rotherham Transport Interchange a
17-year-old youth, from Thurcroft, area attacked by two youths and left with
injuries to his nose and eye which needed hospital treatment.


The offenders are described as both Asian, aged 18 to 19, one about 5ft 9ins
tall and medium build, wearing a white coloured 'benny' hat and beige jacket.


The other was about 6ft tall, medium build and wearing light coloured jeans and
a light jacket.


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Travel Weekly

                                 March 18, 2005

Clients show resilience in Madrid sales;
Visitor numbers up despite terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Jo Gardner

SECTION: 6 Col ROP; Pg. 75

LENGTH: 171 words


TOURISTS are still flocking to Madrid despite the train bombings that killed 191
commuters last March.

Some 259,000 UK tourists visited Spain's capital last year, a rise of 2.7% on
the previous year.

Tourism in Madrid overall was up by 12.6% on the previous year, according to
Spain's National Statistics Institute.

Madrid Tourist Board head Antonio Nieto said: "We have managed to limit the
damage. Apart from images in the press, there was lots of coverage showing the
well co-ordinated response in Madrid. There was also a feeling that it could
have happened anywhere."

Madrid's local government tripled its tourism budget following the attacks,
spending £9 million on promotion and targeting the short-break market in
particular.

Tour operator Mundi Color reports Madrid sales up by around 10%. But business
for some tour operators is suffering. Bridge Travel product development manager
cities Ian Lomas said: "We are still reeling with bookings down by 25%. People
are deciding to go to Barcelona or elsewhere in Europe instead."

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright  2005 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Wigan Evening Post

                                 March 18, 2005

Husband in terror attack on his wife

SOURCE: Wigan Evening Post

LENGTH: 362 words


A man who attacked his wife in front of their terrified child has escaped a
prison sentence.


Wigan magistrates were told Anthony Ronald Kerr, 31, threw his wife Sarah to the
ground and put his hand round her throat.


Kerr, of Inverness Close, Aspull, pleaded guilty to assault and was given a
two-year community rehabilitation order by Wigan Magistrates.


Paul Greenwood, prosecuting, told the court how Kerr and his wife had a rocky
relationship throughout the four years they had been together.


On New Year's Day, they had an argument, in which Kerr became abusive, swearing
and shouting in front of their three-year-old daughter.


He then told Mrs Kerr he was seeing someone else, to which she replied "fine"
and told him she would be leaving him that day.


She went to the bedroom to pack, but as she was doing so Kerr grabbed her by the
hair, threw her to the floor and then pinned her there by her neck.


At that point Mrs Kerr became concerned for her own life and her daughter's, but
Kerr then backed off.


As she continued to pack, she was attacked again, being grabbed by the hair and
flung to the floor. Kerr also spat in his wife's face.


When he left the room again, she quickly contacted her mother who called the
police.


Melissa Fagan, prosecuting, said that Kerr had never before physically attacked
his wife and Greater Manchester Police held no domestic violence log on the
couple.


She said Kerr had made up the fact that he was seeing someone else to pass some
of the hurt of the breakdown of their relationship to her.


He had attacked her in the heat of the


moment, but was hopeful of a reconciliation because, he said, Mrs Kerr had
contacted his mother to suggest it.


Miss Fagan said that should Kerr be jailed and lose his job, all that it would
achieve would be punishing his wife and daughter.


But in a dramatic late development, the court clerk produced a letter dated
January 28 in which Mrs Kerr said there was no chance of reconciliation.


Wigan Magistrates also ordered that Kerr attend a domestic violence programme as


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 20, 2005

NEW THREAT TO RED ARROWS; TERROR GROUPS 'PLOTTING AERIAL SUICIDE ATTACK'

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Philip Burden and Camilla Tominey

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 348 words


EXPERTS fear terrorists are plotting a spectacular attack on the RAF's Red
Arrows at an air show attended by thousands of people.

They believe at least one attempt at an aerial suicide mission may already have
been made, using two microlights and a light aircraft.

The RAF is tightening security for the coming air display season - and the Red
Arrows' Hawk jets may in future even be accompanied by an armed Tornado fighter
flying "shotgun" to blast intruders out of the sky.

Fears have arisen after a secret Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) report revealed
14 infringements of "no fly" zones round display sites in the past three years -
five of them suspicious.

The report dismisses nine air space infringements as the result of poor
airmanship by private flyers, but it says the others could have been terrorist
attempts to bring down the nine RAF jets onto air show crowds.

The most alarming incident occurred at the Eastbourne air show in East Sussex
when two microlights flying side by side forced the Arrows to take avoiding
action - only to find themselves suddenly confronted by a light aircraft coming
from another direction on a collision course.

Exhaustive efforts by the CAA and security services have failed to trace any of
the aircraft involved. Three other serious infringements are still being
investigated. Last night a senior RAF source said: "The thought of something
like a microlight blowing itself up close to the Red Arrows is too horrific to
think about."

The airspace exclusion zone will be extended further than ever before, and be in
force for 40 minutes to allow the Red Arrows to give their display inside a
15-minute "window".

The Red Arrows have 72 scheduled flights around Britain between May and
September, including an appearance at the F1 Grand Prix at Silverstone on July
10, when they will also be flying in an air show over Blackpool to mark the 60th
anniversary of VE and VJ Day.

Last July a Sunday Express campaign backed by thousands of readers saved the Red
Arrows after defence cuts threatened their future.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   AFX - Asia

                       March 21, 2005 Monday 6:15 AM GMT

Philippine capital on alert for terrorist attacks during Easter

LENGTH: 121 words


MANILA (AFX) - Some 15,000 policemen will be deployed in malls, churches and
vital installations here to prevent terrorist attacks during the long Easter
holiday, the police said.

The authorities have warned that members of the militant Muslim Abu Sayyaf group
may carry out bomb attacks in Manila and cities on the southern island of
Mindanao after a failed jailbreak last week left 22 members dead.

Jemaah Islamiyah is considered to be the Southeast Asian chapter of Al-Qaeda,
which experts say has been training Abu Sayyaf militants in bomb making.

National police chief Arturo Lomibao appealed for public vigilance and warned
that the militants were 'highly mobile' and could bomb targets in Manila or
Mindanao.

strs/jvg/mtp/jm

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                       March 21, 2005 Monday 5:56 AM GMT

Australian terror suspect planned suicide attack on government buildings

LENGTH: 137 words


SYDNEY (AFX) - Australia's second terrorism trial opened today with a court
hearing that a man planned to carry out a suicide attack on government buildings
to kill either intelligence or foreign affairs officers.

Zeky 'Zak' Mallah, who was born in Australia to Lebanese parents, has pleaded
not guilty to three terrorism-related charges.

He is accused of plotting to carry out a suicide attack on the Sydney offices of
the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade or the Australian Security and
Intelligence Organisation (ASIO), in late 2003.

The New South Wales Supreme Court heard Monday that Mallah decided to act after
the department refused to grant him a passport in 2002.

The jury was told the prosecution had video and a document that would show
Mallah had declared a personal 'jihad' (holy war) on the ASIO.

mfc/ben/dk

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             March 21, 2005, Monday

BOMB TERROR FURY;
 LEADERS CONDEMN 'VILE' ATTACK THAT KILLED BRITON

BYLINE: BY ED JAMES

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 351 words


A SUICIDE car bomb attack in Qatar which left one Briton dead has provoked
international condemnation.

Jonathan Adams was killed by the blast on Saturday in a theatre in the capital
Doha during a performance of Shakespeare's Twelfth Night.

Anti-terror officers from the Metropolitan Police are to fly to Qatar to help
investigate the bomb attack at the Doha Players Theatre.

A Downing Street spokeswoman condemned the attack which left around a dozen
people injured, while French President Jacques Chirac described it as 'vile'.

Eyewitnesses described scenes of chaos and pandemonium following t he blast
which happened at 6.15pm GMT (9.15pm local time) just as the play, with a
mostly-British cast, was ending.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said Mr Adams' family had been contacted but did
not want further details about him released.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: 'We deplore this type of terrorist attack. It
just underlines the threat that we face from international terrorism, which is
why it is vital that we work to undermine these organisations.' Qatari
authorities identified the charred body of a suicide bomber inside a vehicle as
Omar Ahmed Abdullah Ali, an Egyptian who also owned the car used in the bombing.

Twelve others, including six Qataris, a Briton, Eritrean and Somali, were
injured in the blast and later released from hospital.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said the Qatari authorities had asked for help from
British anti-terror officers. British teacher Julie Hirst, who was in the
theatre when the blast hit, described the chaos at the scene.

'I was sitting in the front row when I heard a loud rumbling noise. My first
thought was that the scenery was falling down,' she said 'Then three seconds
later there was a huge explosion - it was pandemonium.'

Ms Hirst, 32, from Huddersfield said many more could have been injured if the
play's start-time had not been brought forward by one hour.

Energy-rich Qatar is a close ally of the US in the Gulf. The country is home to
the US Central Command's forward operations in the Middle East

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        March 21, 2005, Monday Edition 1

No10 deplores terror attack

BYLINE: By David Lucas, The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 336 words


   A suicide car bomb attack in Qatar which left one Briton dead provoked
international condemnation yesterday.

Jonathan Adams was killed by the blast which rocked a theatre in the capital
Doha during a performance of Twelfth Night.

Anti-terror officers from the Metropolitan Police are to fly to Qatar to help
investigate the bomb attack at the Doha Players Theatre.

A Downing Street spokeswoman condemned Saturday night's terrorist attack, which
left around a dozen people injured.

French President Jacques Chirac described the suicide bombing as a "vile
terrorist attack" and sent a team of experts to Doha to help investigate.

Eyewitnesses described scenes of chaos and pandemonium following the blast just
as the play with a mostly-British cast was ending. Qatar-based Al-Jazeera TV
said Egyptian Omar Ahmed Abdullah carried out the suicide car bomb attack.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said extra consular staff were being sent to Qatar
in the wake of the attack.

Mr Adams, originally from Dorset, was an English teacher in his 50s who had
lived in Qatar for two years

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "We deplore this type of terrorist attack. It
just underlines the threat that we face from international terrorism, which is
why it is vital that we work to undermine these organisations."

Qatari authorities identified the charred body of a suicide bomber inside a
vehicle as Omar Ahmed Abdullah Ali, an Egyptian who also owned the car used in
the bombing.

Twelve others, including six Qataris, a Briton, Eritrean and Somali, were
injured in the blast and later released from hospital, Qatari officials said.

Police were yesterday carrying out forensic tests close to the cordoned-off
theatre in Doha's Farek Kelab northern suburb.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said the Qatari authorities had asked for help from
British anti-terror officers.

"We are going at their request to do what they want. The Met's anti-terrorist
branch has got more expertise than anyone else in this area."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                      March 24, 2005 Thursday 12:48 AM GMT

US warns of 'multiple' terror attacks in the Philippines

LENGTH: 212 words


WASHINGTON (AFX) - Al-Qaeda linked groups and the radical arm of the biggest
Muslim rebel organization in the Philippines are planning to stage 'multiple'
attacks through the archipelago, the United States warned.

The warning was issued by the State Department, which advised Americans to
'consider carefully the risks of travel to the Philippines.'

The travel warning said: 'Terrorist groups, including Jemaah Islamiyah and the
Abu Sayyaf Group, and radical elements of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front are
planning multiple attacks throughout the Philippines.'

The Abu Sayyaf is a kidnap-for-ransom gang based in the southern Philippines,
and the Jemaah Islamiyah is the Southeast Asian chapter of the al-Qaeda terror
group headed by Osama bin laden.

The Moro Islamic Liberation Front is the largest Islamic guerrilla force in the
Philippines fighting for a separate state in the country's south.

The Philippine military announced it had foiled a plot by the Abu Sayyaf group
to bomb 'soft targets' in Manila during the Easter break as thousands of
Filipinos returned to their home provinces in the Roman Catholic nation.

More than 10,000 police have been deployed throughout the capital mainly at bus,
sea and air terminals, Manila's police chief Avelino Razon had said.

pp/ch/mas

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 March 24, 2005

MAY 3. . .DATE AL QAIDA MAY ATTACK BRITAIN; ELECTION TERROR ALERT

BYLINE: by MACER HALL, Political Editor

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 238 words


BRITAIN is facing a spectacular terrorist attack by Muslim extremists on May 3,
security chiefs fear.

The date has been pinpointed by MI5 because an outrage on that day would bring
maximum chaos to the general election expected two days later.

It also closely follows Islamic celebrations for the birthday of the prophet
Mohammed.

One security source told the Daily Star: "It will be a miracle if we can get
through the next six weeks without some kind of strike at a British target. And
the week of the vote will be by far the most dangerous time."

Fanatics linked to al-Qaida have previously unleashed bomb attacks just days
before elections in Australia, Afghanistan, Spain and Iraq.

And Osama bin Laden himself intervened in last year's US election with a
chilling taped warning.

Now security forces are gearing up for an unprecedented nationwide alert costing
more than £10 million in the run-up to May 5 - tipped to be polling day.

Spies are monitoring communication networks in the extremist underworld to
detect signs of an increase in "chatter" between terror groups.

Prime targets include the Houses of Parliament and Buckingham Palace.

But with fanatics favouring "soft targets" including railways and nightclubs
since September 11, security chiefs fear anywhere could be targeted.

Another possibility is a strike on a British target in the Middle East, such as
an embassy.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 24, 2005, Thursday

FAMILY'S TERROR OVER GUN ATTACK

BYLINE: GRAHAM BARDGETT

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 165 words


A SHOTGUN attack on a family's house yesterday is being treated as attempted
murder.

A husband, wife and their 17-year-old son were at home at Meadowbrook in
Craigavon, Co Armagh, when they heard a blast coming from the back of the
property shortly before 9pm. The shot damaged the family car.

As the terrified woman ran upstairs to check on her husband and son, a second
shot shattered the bathroom window.

A third shotgun blast then smashed the son's bedroom window.

The police said the family was extremely fortunate to escape uninjured.

Detectives are following a definite line of inquiry, but the attack is not
thought to have been sectarian or paramilitary linked.

A senior police officer said: "One by one the shots were fired at the house
shattering windows. These people were lucky."

Detectives are appealing for anybody who saw a number of men in the Meadowbrook
estate just before 9pm to contact them on 38325144 or call Crimestoppers on 0800
555111.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 March 24, 2005

Car attack gangs in terror raids

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 228 words


VICIOUS gangs using a gun an axe and a knife brought terror to the streets of
Bury in three separate attacks on Monday.

In one incident police are hunting a masked gang who dragged a woman from her
car before trying to steal it in Prestwich.

The 29-year-old was in her Mini Cooper on Butterstile Lane when she was
approached by two men who dragged her out.

The men who were armed with an axe and spanner tried to drive off but stalled
the car. They escaped in a waiting BMW.

In an incident later that evening a 38-year-old man was robbed of his car at
knifepoint in Radcliffe.

He was getting out of his black Honda Civic in North Street at about 9.45pm when
a man armed with a knife threatened him and demanded the keys.

He was about 6ft tall and wore dark clothing.

In a third incident two men threatened a motorist with a gun before stealing
cash and his mobile phone.

The victim got out of his car in South Bank Road Bury and was confronted by the
two robbers.

They demanded his possessions while producing a handgun. The victim who handed
over money and his phone followed the offenders in his vehicle as they escaped
on foot.

Detectives are investigating the robbery that occurred at around 3.10am on
Monday.

Anyone with information should contact police on 0161 856 8093 or Crimestoppers
on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 27, 2005

WINDSOR ON ALERT FOR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: By Andrea Perry and Gordon Thomas

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 411 words


PRINCE Charles's wedding to Camilla has been put on full scale terror alert
after credible intelligence identified it as a prime target.

The red alert will apply to much of Windsor because of concerns that disaffected
Irish Republicans will target the April 8 wedding.

Security services fear that sleeper cells are waiting for the signal to
reactivate and take out a "prestige scalp".

Charles, whose name was at the top of a Real IRA death list found in the
Republic, is seen as a symbolic hit.

As Colonel in Chief of the Parachute Regiment he has never apologised or
condemned the Bloody Sunday killings and, while there is no specific warning,
Scotland Yard have revealed the threat of a Republican bombing campaign to
mainland Britain is "substantial".

In a second alert, MI5 have told the Queen that terrorists could try to poison
guests at the wedding banquet.

Yesterday Charles was at the centre of a security blunder at Balmoral after a
box of bread and buns for his Birkhall House holiday home kitchen was left
unattended in public.

Shocked customers saw the royal tray of food sitting on the ground at Chalmers,
a royal warrant-holding bakery, in Ballater, Aberdeenshire.

An onlooker said: "For two minutes the shop was empty and the buns were lying
unattended. Staff left the box next to a drinks cabinet for everyone to see.

"There was a note on the top of the open box reading, 'HRH Prince Charles via
Birkhall chef '. Anyone could have tampered with the food. It's shocking."

A police source said: "It was a bad mistake". The police are spending £50,000 a
day on security for Charles and Camilla's holiday in Scotland.

A security source said: "Prince Charles is the highest level threat of anyone in
this country apart from Tony Blair. Prince Charles has always been regarded as a
huge risk and, like his great-uncle Lord Mountbatten, who was murdered by the
IRA in 1979, he is seen as a symbolic target."

MI5 has also received "credible information" from an informer that Al Qaeda
sleeper agents in Britain have been briefed to penetrate the "ring of steel"
that will surround the wedding.

The security operation is likely to involve hundreds of police, snipers
positioned on rooftops, undercover officers and bodyguards.

All 60 CCTV cameras in Windsor have been checked. One camera has also been
placed on the chimney of The Guildhall, where the ceremony will be held, to
check on all visitors.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             March 28, 2005, Monday

YOB TERROR ON THE STREETS;
 SERVICES UNDER ATTACK ACROSS MERSEYSIDE

BYLINE: BY JAMES GLOVER & GREG O'KEEFFE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1427 words


During the past few years attacks on those who provide services to the public,
such as firemen, milkmen, bus drivers and taxi drivers have risen alarmingly.
Many have been forced to give up the jobs they love by the minority who use
intimidation and violence. Here the ECHO highlights some of the incidents on the
streets of Merseyside

Firemen who face barrage of bricks

EVERY day they risk their lives to ensure the safety of Merseyside people.

But firefighters responding to 999 calls in some parts of the region face a
growing threat of attack by yobs.

Attacks on crews have become such a problem that the police and fire service
worked together to set up Britain's first dedicated fireworks taskforce to cut
the illegal use and storage of the items.

Last year the team seized 21 tonnes of fireworks at addresses in Merseyside
which had been stored illegally for sale - worth an estimated £250,000.

The taskforce has been so successful, cutting the number of fireworks incidents
in the region by 78% last year, that the team is used to train other
firefighters around the country.

But the success of the unit has not prevented firefighters and their vehicles
coming under attack.

On average, firefighters on Merseyside are attacked around 10 times a month, the
equivalent of an attack every three days.

No firefighters have been seriously hurt recently but they have been hit with
stones, slates and bricks.

Last November the ECHO reported how firefighters were forced to stop work at a
fire on the Beechwood Estate, Birkenhead, after being attacked by gangs of
children who pelted them with bricks and stones.

In the last 12 months the brigade has also had to pay out more than £7,000 to
fund repairs to fire appliances caused by yobs.

Bosses are still trying to build bridges with local youngsters by sending
firefighters in to local schools to speak to classes.

But they are also facing the prospect of CCTV cameras in all of their appliances
to record attacks so yobs can be prosecuted.

Fire Brigade Union secretary Les Skaratts said CCTV cameras have already been
tried out on engines at Derby Lane station, Old Swan.

He said: 'The trial has finished and we are looking at its results.

'Some firefighters has concerns that the CCTV would attract vandalism rather
than detract from the threat.

'If that turns out to be the case, then we'll have to consider whether it's a
good idea but if it did reduce the amount of attacks it's something we take
positively.'

He added that every firefighter on Merseyside is being given training on dealing
with aggressive gangs.

Fire crews are even pulling out of areas without putting out blazes if they feel
threatened and the fire is not life-threatening.

Mike Hagen, Merseyside's deputy chief fire officer, said: 'Thankfully so far the
attacks haven't resulted in any serious injuries but they have the potential to.

'We're very worried about the situation and it will probably get worse before it
gets better.

'We have fireworks being launched at us as well as bricks, bottles and slates.
Noone should have to put up with that

Milkmen beaten on rounds forced to quit their jobs

THIS week milkman Stephen Hidderley will quit the job he loves - forced out
after repeated attacks by yobs.

He will ditch his milk round in Newsham Park after being assaulted by teenage
gangs three times in a month.

The same youths have chased the 29-year-old with garden shears, punched and
kicked him, and hurled a milk bottle in his face.

But Stephen's situation is not unique. Most of the staff at Harrison's Dairies
on Belmont Road can tell of similar attacks.

The ECHO accompanied milkman Alan Thomley, 33, on his daily Anfield round to see
the problem first-hand.

Father-of-one Alan has been a milkman for 19 years and enjoys the job.

Despite this he has also vowed to quit if he is set upon in the early hours of
the morning again.

His day starts at 3am when he leaves his Anfield home to begin his round He
says: 'It's been bad for a while but recently it just seems to be getting worse.
Two weeks ago I was attacked at 3.20am when I was coming out of my house to go
to work.

'I've had bottles thrown at me and had kids try to steal my float.'

Harrison's deliver across the city in places like Anfield, Walton, Tuebrook,
Croxteth and Kensington.

Alan says his route, along Thirlmere Road, Herschell Street, Tenby Street, and
Salisbury Road is plagued by yobs.

When he pulls up outside a block of flats, Alan reaches down and unplugs the
battery of the float.

'Force of habit,' he says. 'If you don't unplug it then it's going to be
stolen.'

Alan's attack on the way to work is still fresh in his mind.

'My ribs still ache from where they booted me while I was lying on the floor.

'It was the second time I've been attacked. If it happens again I'm packing in

Taxis face attack

EVERY day of the week a taxi driver has a window of his cab smashed by thugs in
Kirkby.

It's the fact that proves how parts of Knowsley have become no-go zones for
cabbies.

Billy Ellery, chairman of the Knowsley hackney badge holders association, said:
'It's a situation that just keeps getting worse.

'At the moment trouble is guaranteed on Headbolt Lane in Kirkby.

'But it's not just Kirkby, Western Avenue in Huyton is getting a very bad
reputation amongst cabbies too. 'There are gangs, sometimes up to 40, of kids
who hang around by these streets most nights of the week and lob empty bottles
at cabs and generally give drivers a hard time.

'We've been liaising with the police for some time now and they have stepped u p
patrols in the hot spots, but most of the little swines aren't even scared of
coppers.

'A couple of the lads even got battered by kids. They're not afraid to fight
grown men - that says it all."

Meanwhile, parcel deliverymen have become such popular targets that bosses have
agreed to send them out in pairs so they are less likely to be attacked.

In Southdene, Kirkby, postmen have been issued with mobile phones so they can
quickly call for help.

Mark Walsh, from the Communication Workers Union which represents postmen, said:
'Just last week we had a delivery van stolen in Norris Green and a lad was
jailed for 10 years recently for battering one of our postmen

Arriva's £1m window bill

TRANSPORT bosses on Merseyside today vowed not to lose the battle against
vandals.

Bus operators ruled out axing routes despite vandalism costing them more than
£1m last year.

Bob Hind, Arriva Merseyside managing director, said: 'I can think of areas where
you wonder why we bother. Vandalism costs us quite a lot.

'Last year we spent over £1m replacing windows.

'But it is not fair not to provide that service.'

Transport authority Merseytravel have set up TravelSafe, a computerised incident
reporting system, (IRIS) which receives continuous reports from bus companies
and can identify potential trouble spots.

It enables them to direct resources to the locations where they will be of
greatest benefit.

Nikki Swanson, formerly an intelligence analyst with Merseyside police is now
part of the team and operates IRIS.

Dr Julian Westwood, policy officer for TravelSafe, said: 'IRIS puts us at the
very forefront of tackling public transport crime and disorder.

'It is unique in that it gives us the ability to build a fast and accurate
picture of possible trouble hotspots around the public transport network.

'Daily reports of all incidents from around the region are analysed by Vikki
within minutes of being received and through complex searches she can then map
hotspots.

'We can then use this analysis to work out a problem solving approach and direct
resources to the locations where they will be of greatest benefit.'

Travelsafe brings together more than 15 organisations ranging from Merseytravel,
Merseyside police, British transport police, bus and rail companies through to
local crime and disorder partnerships and the government office for the north
west.

Its chairman Neil Scales, chief executive and director general of Merseytravel,
said: 'Around 170 million bus passenger journeys are made annually on
Merseyside, around 33 million passengers travel on the Merseyrail network and
there are about 750,000 crossings on the Mersey Ferries.

'The goal of Travelsafe is to work as a partnership to create a public transport
system that offers everyone the opportunity to travel safely and without fear

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DAMAGE: Firefighter Barry Kilpatrick examines the damage to a vehicle
caused by a brick at Buckley Hill station; GETTING WORSE: Bill Ellery, chairman
of Knowsley association, fears for his members; Hackney badge holders Picture:
MARTIN BIRCHALL; VANDALISM: Traffic manager Paul Nixon with some of the damage
typical on buses; FED UP: Milkman Alan Thomley tells ECHO journalist Greg
O'Keeffe that he will give up if her is attacked again Picture: TONY KENWRIGHT

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Statesman

                                 March 28, 2005

Inside Islam's "terror schools": Madrasas are Islamic colleges accused by the US
of incubating terrorism and the attacks of 9/11. From Pakistan, William
Dalrymple investigates the threat

BYLINE: William Dalrymple

LENGTH: 4157 words


Halfway along the dangerous road to Kohat - deep in the lawless tribal belt
between Pakistan and Afghanistan, and where Osama Bin Laden is widely believed
to be sheltering - we passed a small whitewashed shrine that had recently been
erected by the side of the road: "That is where the army ambushed and killed two
al-Qaeda men escaping from Afghanistan," said Javed Paracha. "Local people soon
began to see the two martyrs in their dreams. Now we believe that they are
saints. Already many cures and miracles have been reported. If any of our women
want to ask anything special from God, they first come here."

He added: "They say that each shahid martyr emitted a perfume like that of
roses. For many days a beautiful scent was coming from the place of their
martyrdom."

Javed Paracha is a huge, burly tribal leader with a granite outcrop of nose
jutting from a great fan of grey beard. In many ways he is the embodiment of
everything that US policy-makers most fear and dislike about this part of the
Muslim world. For Paracha is a dedicated Islamist, as well as a wily lawyer who
has successfully defended al-Qaeda suspects in the Peshawar High Court. In his
fortress-like stronghouse in Kohat he sheltered wounded Taliban fighters - and
their frost-bitten women and children - fleeing across the mountains from the
American Daisy Cutters at Tora Bora, and he was twice imprisoned by General
Musharraf in the notorious prison at Dera Ismail Khan. There he was kept in
solitary confinement while being questioned - and he alleges tortured - by CIA
interrogators. On his release, he found his prestige among his neighbours had
been immensely enhanced by his ordeal. His proudest boast, however, is building
the two enormous madrasas he founded and financed, the first of which he says
produced many of the younger leaders of the Taliban.

"They are the biggest madrasas in the North-West Frontier," he told me proudly
after stopping to say a prayer at the al-Qaeda shrine. "The books are free. The
food is free. The education is free. We give them free accommodation. In a poor
and backward area like this, our madrasas are the only form of education. The
government system is simply not here. "

Paracha got back in the car - the vehicle sinking to the left as he lowered
himself into the back beside his two armed bodyguards - and added: "There are
200,000 jobless degree holders in this country. Mark my words, a more extreme
form of the Taliban is coming to Pakistan. The conditions are so bad. The people
are so desperate. They are waiting for a solution that will rid them of this
feudal-army elite. The people want radical change. We teach them in the madrasas
that only Islam can provide the justice they seek."

For better or worse, the sort of madrasa-driven change in political attitudes
that Javed Paracha is bringing about in Kohat is being reproduced across
Pakistan. An Interior Ministry report revealed recently that there are now 27
times as many madrasas in the country as there were in 1947: from 245 at the
time of independence the number has shot up to 6,870 in 2001. The religious
tenor of Pakistan has been correspondingly radicalised: the tolerant Sufi-minded
Barelvi form of Islam is now deeply out of fashion, overtaken by the sudden rise
of the more hardline reformist Deobandi, Wahhabi and Salafi strains of the faith
that are increasingly dominant over swaths of the country.

The sharp acceleration in the number of these madrasas first began under General
Zia, and was financed mainly by Saudi donors (though ironically the US also
played a role in this as part of the anti-Soviet Afghan jihad). Since the oil
boom of the early 1970s a policy of exporting not just petroleum, but also
hardline Wahhabism, became a fundamental tenet of Saudi foreign policy, partly a
result of a competition for influence with Shia Iran. Although some of the
madrasas were little more than single rooms attached to village mosques, others
are now very substantial institutions: the Darul Uloom in Baluchistan is now
annually enrolling some 1,500 boarders and a further 1,000 day-boys.

Altogether, there are now an estimated 800,000 to one million students enrolled
in Pakistan's madrasas: an entire, free Islamic education system existing
parallel to the increasingly moribund state sector, in which a mere 1.8 per cent
of Pakistan's GDP is spent on government schools. The statistics are dire: 15
per cent of these schools are without a proper building; 52 per cent without a
boundary wall; 40 per cent without water; 71 per cent without electricity. There
is frequent absenteeism of teachers; indeed, many of these schools exist only on
paper.

This education gap is the most striking way in which Pakistan is lagging behind
India, a country in which 65 per cent of the population is literate, and the
number rises every year. Only this year, the Indian education system received a
substantial boost of state funds in the government Budget; but in Pakistan the
literacy figure is well under half (it is currently 42 per cent), and falling.
The collapse of government schooling has meant that many of the country's
poorest people who want their children's advancement have no option but to place
the children in the madrasa system where they are guaranteed a conservative and
outdated, but nonetheless free education.

Madrasas are now more dominant in Pakistan's educational system than they are
anywhere else; but the general trend is common across the Islamic world. In
Egypt the number of teaching institutes dependent on the Islamic Al-Azhar
University increased from 1,855 in 1986 to 4,314 ten years later. The Saudis
have also stepped up funding in Africa: in Tanzania alone they have been
spending $1m a year building new madrasas. In Mali, madrasas now account for
around a quarter of children in primary schools. Seen in this wider context,
Paracha and his educational endeavours in Kohat raise a number of important
questions: how far are these madrasas the source of the problems that culminated
in the Islamist attacks of 9/11? Are madrasas simply terrorist factories? Should
the west be pressing US client states such as Pakistan and Egypt simply to close
the whole lot down?

In the panic-striken aftermath of the Islamist attacks on America, the answers
to these questions seemed obvious. Donald Rumsfeld, among a number of US
politicians, fingered madrasas as terror-incubators and centres of hatred,
responsible - so he said - for propagating anti-Americanism across the Islamic
world. There were many good reasons for people jumping to this assumption. The
terrifyingly ultra-conservative Taliban regime was unquestionably the product of
Pakistan's madrasas. Much of the Taliban leadership was trained at just one
madrasa: the Haqqaniya at Akora Khattak, between Islamabad and Peshawar. The
director, Sami ul-Haq, still proudly boasts that whenever the Taliban put out a
call for fighters, he would simply close down the madrasa and send his students
off to fight.

But as we now know, in the aftermath of 9/11, a great many of the assumptions
that people made about Islamist terrorism have proved with hindsight to be quite
spectacularly ill-founded, the result of inadequate and partial understanding of
the complexities of the contemporary Islamic world.

There was, first of all, widespread misunderstanding about the nature of
al-Qaeda. Bin Laden's organisation has turned out not to be some structured
multinational organisation; still less was it the state-sponsored puppet - with
Osama moving to the tug of Saddam's Ba'athist string-pulling - that was depicted
by the neo-cons and their media mouthpieces (in this country, Conrad Black's
Daily Telegraph and the equally credulous Murdoch Times) as they attempted to
justify attacking Iraq.

Instead, as Giles Kepel, the leading French authority on Islamists, puts it in
his important study, The War For Muslim Minds: "al-Qaeda was and is less a
military base of operations than a database that connected jihadists around the
world via the internet... this organisation did not consist of buildings and
tanks and borders but of websites, clandestine financial transfers and a
proliferation of activists ranging from Jersey City to the paddies of
Indonesia". This central failure to understand the nature of al-Qaeda was the
reason that the US attempted to counter it with such unsuitable policies: by
targeting nations it considered sponsors of terrorism, so inadvertently turning
itself into al-Qaeda's most effective recruiting agency.

In the same way, it was maintained that al-Qaeda's grievances were unconnected
to America's Middle Eastern policies. This also proved to be quite wrong. From
al-Qaeda's "Declaration of War Against the Americans", issued in 1996, Bin Laden
had announced that his grievance was not cultural or religious, but very
specifically political: he was fighting to oppose US support for the House of
Saud and Israel. As he told the Pakistani journalist Hamid Mir: "America and its
allies are massacring us in Palestine, Chechnya, Kashmir and Iraq. The Muslims
have a right to attack America in reprisal... The targets were icons of
America's military and economic power."

In retrospect, the idea that madrasas are one of the principal engines of this
global Islamic terrorism appears to be another American assumption that begins
to wobble when subjected to serious analysis.

It is certainly true that many madrasas are fundamentalist in their approach to
the scriptures and that many subscribe to the least pluralistic and most
hardline strains of Islamic thought. It is also true that some madrasas can be
directly linked to Islamic radicalism and occasionally to outright civil
violence: just as there are some yeshivas religious schools in settlements on
the West Bank that have a reputation for violence against Palestinians, and
Serbian monasteries that sheltered some of the worst of that country's war
criminals, so it is estimated that as many as 15 per cent of Pakistan's madrasas
preach violent jihad, while a few have even been known to provide covert
military training.

Some have done their best to bring about a Talibanisation of Pakistan: madrasa
graduates in Karachi have been behind acts of violence against the city's Shia
minority, while in 1998, madrasa students in Baluchistan began organising
bonfires of TVs and attacked video shops. In this, however, they have so far had
limited success. Indeed, the bestselling video in Baluchistan last year was a
pirate tape that showed a senior Pakistani MP in flagrante with his girlfriend.
The tape, which had been made by the MP himself, had been stolen by his
political enemies and circulated around the province, with the expectation that
it would destroy his career. However, so impressive was the MP's performance in
the video that he was re-elected with a record majority; I recently met him
looking very pleased with himself in Islamabad, where he says the tape has
transformed his political fortunes.

It is now becoming clear, however, that producing cannon-fodder for the Taliban
and graduating local sectarian thugs is not at all the same as producing the
kind of technically literate al-Qaeda terrorist who carried out the horrifyingly
sophisticated attacks on the USS Cole, the US embassies in East Africa, and the
World Trade Center. A number of recent studies have emphasised that there is an
important and fundamental distinction to be made between most mad- rasa
graduates - who tend to be pious villagers from economically impoverished
backgrounds, possessing very little technical sophistication - and the sort of
middle-class politically literate global salafi jihadis who plan al-Qaeda
operations around the world. Most of these turn out to have secular, scientific
or technical backgrounds and very few actually turn out to be madrasa graduates.

The men who planned and carried out the Islamist attacks on America - all but
four of them were Saudi citizens - have often been depicted in the press as
being "medieval fanatics". In fact, it would be more accurate to describe them
as confused but highly educated middle-class professionals: Mohammed Atta was an
architect and a town-planning expert; Ayman al-Zawahiri, Bin Laden's chief of
staff, was a paediatric surgeon; Ziad Jarrah, one of the founders of the Hamburg
cell, was a dental student who later turned to aircraft engineering; while Omar
Sheikh, the kidnapper of the Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl, had
studied at the LSE and was the product of the same British public school that
produced the film-maker Peter Greenaway.

Such figures represent a clash of civilisations occurring not so much between
civilisations, as the author Samuel Huntingdon would maintain, but rather within
individuals, products of the sort of cultural dislocation and disorientation
that accompanies accelerating economic change and globalisation. As Kepel puts
it, the new breed of global jihadis are not the urban poor of the developing
world, so much as "the privileged children of an unlikely marriage between
Wahhabism and Silicon Valley".

This is also the conclusion drawn by the most sophisticated analysis of global
jihadis to be published in recent years: Marc Sageman's Understanding Terror
Networks. Sageman is a forensic psychiatrist and former CIA man who worked in
Pakistan during the 1980s. In his study, he closely examined the lives of 172
al-Qaeda-linked terrorists, and his conclusions have demolished much of the
conventional wisdom about who joins jihadi groups: two-thirds of his sample were
middle class and university-educated; they are generally technically minded
professionals and several have PhDs. Nor are they young hotheads: their average
age is 26, most of them are married, and many have children. Only two appear to
be obviously psychotic. It seems that Islamic terrorism, like its Christian
predecessor, remains a largely bourgeois endeavour: "These are truly global
citizens," writes Sageman, "familiar with many countries - the west as well as
the Middle East - and able to speak several languages with equal facility...
Even their ideologues are not trained clerics: Sayyid Qutb for example was a
journalist."

It is true that there are exceptions, and the line between these two different
worlds is certainly porous. There are several examples of radical madrasa
graduates who have become involved with al-Qaeda. By and large, however, madrasa
students simply do not have the technical expertise or conceptual imagination
necessary to carry out the sort of attacks we have seen al-Qaeda pull off in the
past few years. Instead, the concerns of most madrasa graduates remain far more
traditional - what the French Islamist expert Olivier Roy calls
"neo-fundamentalism": the correct fulfilment of rituals, how to wash correctly
before prayers, the proper length to grow a beard and how high above the ankles
you should wear your salwar kameez. As the laws of the Taliban regime revealed,
they are obsessed with the public covering of women, which they regard as
essential to a morally ordered society. Their focus, in other words, is not on
opposing non-Muslims or the west - the central concern of the salafi jihadis -
so much as on fostering what they see as proper Islamic behaviour at home and
attempting to return to - as they see it - the pristine purity of the time of
the Prophet.

That there are huge variations in the tone and quality of madrasa education
should not be surprising. Throughout much of Islamic history, madrasas were the
major source of religious and scientific learning, just as the church schools
and the universities were in Europe. The quality and tone of their education is
determined by the nature of their curricula, which have always varied widely.

Between the seventh and 11th centuries, madrasas produced free-thinking
luminaries such as Alberuni, Ibn Sina and al-Khwarizmi. The oldest and greatest
madrasa of them all, Al-Azhar University in Cairo, has good claim to being the
most sophisticated institution of learning in the entire Mediterranean world
during the early Middle Ages. The very idea of a university in the modern sense
- a place of learning where students congregate to study a variety of subjects
under a number of teachers - is generally regarded as an innovation first
developed at Al-Azhar.

When the Mongol invasions destroyed the major institutions of learning in the
central Islamic heartlands, many learned refugees fled to Delhi, turning
northern India for the first time into a major centre of scholarship. By the
time of Akbar, the third Mughal emperor of India, the curriculum in Indian
madrasas blended the learning of the Islamic Middle East with that of the
indigenous teaching of Hindu India, which resulted in the incredibly
broad-minded and pluralistic high civilisation of the Mughal period.

However, following the collapse of Indo-Islamic self-confidence that accompanied
the deposition and exile of the last emperor, Bahadur Shah Zafar, in 1858,
disillusioned scholars founded an influential but depressingly narrow-minded
Wahhabi-like madrasa at Deoband, 100 miles north of the former Mughal capital.
Reacting against what the founders saw as the degenerate ways of the old elite,
which had allowed the British to defeat Muslim power in such a catastrophic
manner, the Deoband madrasa went back to Koranic basics, rigorously stripping
out anything Hindu or European from the curriculum of the college. It was,
unfortunately, these puritanical Deoband-type madrasas that spread throughout
northern India and Pakistan in the course of the 20th century, and which
particularly benefited from the patronage of Zia and his Saudi allies in the
1980s.

It is certainly true that many madrasas in Pakistan have outdated curricula:
some still teach Euclidian geometry and medicine from the Roman physician Galen
of Pergamum. Emphasis is put on the rote learning - rather than critical study -
of the Koran. Jessica Stern of Harvard recently testified before a US Senate
House committee that "in a school that purportedly offered a broad curriculum, a
teacher I questioned could not multiply seven times eight". This is, however, by
no means the case with all madrasas, some of which are surprisingly
sophisticated places.

In Karachi, the largest madrasa is the Darul Uloom. To get there, you pass from
the rich middle-class areas of the city centre, with their low, white bungalows
and sprawling gardens, going through progressively more run-down suburbs until
you find yourself in a depressing industrial wasteland of factories and
warehouses, punctuated by the belching smokestacks of brickworks. Out of this
Pakistani apocalypse rises the almost surreal spectacle of Darul Uloom. Its
green lawns resemble a cross between a five-star hotel and a rather upmarket,
modern university campus.

After what happened to Daniel Pearl, I had been warned about the dangers of
visiting madrasas, and had gone to the elaborate lengths of informing the
British Consulate about my movements; but in reality there was nothing remotely
threatening about Darul Uloom. The students were almost all eager, smart,
friendly and intelligent, if somewhat intense and puritanical. When, on a visit
to the dormitory block, I asked one bearded student what music he listened to on
his shining new ghetto-blaster, he looked at me as if I had just asked him about
his favourite porn video. The machine, he informed me, was only for listening to
tapes of sermons. All music was banned.

Puritanical it may be, but it is clear that the Darul Uloom performs, as do many
Pakistani madrasas, an important service - especially in a country where 58 per
cent of the vast population, and 72 per cent of women, are illiterate and half
the population never see the inside of a school at all. Madrasas may not be
cutting-edge in their educational philosophy, but they do provide the poor with
a way of gaining literacy and a real hope of advancing themselves. In certain
traditional subjects - such as rhetoric, logic, jurisprudence and Arabic grammar
- the teaching can be outstanding. Although they tend to be ultra-conservative,
it has been repeatedly shown that only a small proportion are obviously
militant. To close them down without attempting to build up the state sector
would simply relegate large chunks of the population to illiteracy and
ignorance. It would also be tantamount to instructing Muslims to stop educating
themselves about their religion - hardly the best strategy for winning hearts
and minds.

You don't have to go far from Pakistan to find a madrasa system that has
effectively tackled both the problems of militancy and of educational
backwardness. Although India was originally the home of the Deobandi madrasas,
such colleges in India have no track record of producing violent Islamists, and
are strictly apolitical and quietist. Their degree of success can be measured
from the fact that Jamia Milia University in New Delhi, at least 50 per cent of
whose intake comes from a madrasa background, is generally reckoned to be one of
India's most prestigious and successful centres of higher education.

According to Seema Alavi, one of India's brightest young historians, who now
teaches at Jamia, there is little difference between her students educated at
secular schools and those educated in madrasas - except perhaps that those from
madrasas are better able to memorise coursework, but are less practised at
analysing and processing information: years of rote-learning has both its pros
and its cons. But there is no sense that those students from Indian madrasas are
more politically radical or less able to cope with a modern urban environment
than their contemporaries from secular institutions. Several of India's greatest
scholars - such as the celebrated Mughal historian Muzaffar Alam of Chicago
University - are madrasa graduates.

If this is right, it would seem to confirm what other researchers have observed,
that it is not madrasas per se that are the problem, so much as the militant
atmosphere and indoctrination taking place in a handful of notorious centres of
ultra-radicalism such as Binori Town or Akora Khattak.

The question remains, however, whether General Musharraf's government has the
strength and the willpower to see through the necessary reforms and replicate
the success of madrasas across the border in India. So far, attempts at taming
Pakistan's more militant madrasas have proved half-hearted. There have been some
attempts to curb the attendance of foreign Islamic students at Pakistani
madrasas, and noises were made about standardising the syllabus and encouraging
some modern subjects. Nevertheless, the more extreme have been able to resist
the enforcement of even these mild measures: only 1 per cent of the country's
madrasas complied when asked to register with the government.

In Islamabad, I went to see Pervez Hoodbhoy, an expert on education and the
author of an important study of the madrasas. Hoodbhoy teaches at Quaid-e-Azam
University, the Pakistani Oxbridge, and as we sat in the spacious campus, he
described the depressing changes he had witnessed since joining the staff in the
1970s. Not only had there been a general decline in educational standards, he
said, but beards, burkas and hijabs, unknown in the early 1980s, were now the
norm. He estimated that only one-third of his students now resist showing some
visible sign of their Islamic propriety. "And this," he added, "is by far the
most liberal university in Pakistan.

"There is definitely a change in the temper of this society," he said. "The
students are much less interested in the world and show much less curiosity -
instead we have this mad, unthinking rush towards religiosity, and the steady
erosion of the liberal elite."

I asked Hoodbhoy about his prognosis for the future.

"I am very anxious," he said. "The state educational system has reached the
point of collapse. The only long-term solution has to be improved secular
government schools: at the moment they are so bad that even where they exist, no
one will willingly go to them.

"But the biggest problem we have," he continued, "is the US. Their actions in
Iraq and Afghanistan have hugely strengthened the hands of the extremists and
depleted the strength of those who want to see a modern, non-fundamentalist
future for this country. Before the invasion of Iraq, I called the US ambassador
and warned her: if you attack Saddam, you may gain Iraq, but you'll lose
Pakistan. I hope I was wrong - but I fear that I may yet be proved right."

William Dalrymple's most recent book, White Mughals (Harper Perennial), won the
Wolfson Prize for History. A stage version by Christopher Hampton has just been
commissioned by the National Theatre

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      © Copyright 2005 New Statesman Ltd.

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Essex Chronicle

                                 March 31, 2005

Stables blaze terror attack

BYLINE: Peter Baker

SECTION: News; 999; Fires; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 291 words


Horse owners across mid Essex are being warned to secure stables after a
terrifying arson attack near Chelmsford almost cost the life of a champion Shire
Horse.  Now police are urging horse owners to invest in security measures in
isolated barns or stables following the attack in Roxwell Road last week.

The incident has been condemned by Jill Perry from Essex Horsewatch, the
association founded by the riding community to combat equine crime.

"To start a fire with the horse in the stable must have been terrifying for the
animal. We cannot stress enough the number of measures that must be taken to
keep animals safe and secure." A police spokesman said: "Although this may have
been an isolated incident, owners should do all they can to ensure the security
of property, tools and livestock." The horse's owner, former Essex Heavy Horse
Society chairman Ivor Evans, heard the noise of flames from his home more than a
mile away early Thursday morning but did not realise his stable was ablaze.

Pregnant mare Annie, who has the pedigree name Boyton Gold Bracelet, fears
fireworks and Mr Evans is hoping the terrifying experience will not result in a
stillbirth.

Annie was champion at shows up to 2003 including Tendring and Soham.

Mr Evans said: "I cannot believe anyone would set fire to a stable with an
animal inside.

"We have thefts at least twice every year but this is the worst that has ever
happened. They have stolen wrought iron fence poles.

"This was a devilish act," he added.

Firefighters said it is unclear whether the arsonists freed the horse or the
seven-year-old kicked her way out.

Annie is due to foal in three weeks but Mr Evans is worried she may give birth
early or the foal will be stillborn.


LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2005 Essex Chronicle

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             April 01, 2005, Friday

Fewer Americans killed as terror attacks lessen

BYLINE: By Adrian Blomfield in Baghdad

SECTION: News; International Pg. 014

LENGTH: 178 words

AMERICAN deaths in Iraq this month dropped to the lowest in a year while
insurgent attacks have fallen dramatically since the Jan 30 elections, say
researchers.

Forty-one American military personnel died in March, including three announced
yesterday, the lowest monthly toll in over a year and an indicator, say American
diplomats, that the insurgency may be easing.

Michael O'Hanlon, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington,
said attacks against American forces had dropped by at least 25 per cent since
autumn, when a major offensive was launched against the stronghold of Fallujah.

Attacks then ranged from 80 to 90 a day, he said.  Pentagon officials said they
were down to 40 to 45 a day in recent weeks, lower than the pre-election average
of 50 to 60 a day. The fall in deaths is attributed to improved security around
military bases. Now militants are focusing their attacks on Iraqi government and
security officials.

But Republicans in Washington are encouraged by intelligence reports saying the
resistance may have peaked.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                 April 1, 2005

CRIME: Family's terror after 'sick' attack on pet

LENGTH: 396 words


A FAMILY is planning to move home to try and escape the memory of burglars
breaking into their home and torturing their pet.

Sidney, a pet cockatiel belonging to Emma Woodbridge (28), of Pendleton,
Ravensthorpe, Peterborough, had to be put down because its eyes and beak had
been glued shut, and feathers had been pulled off its body.

Friends of the family, who were looking in on their house while they were on
holiday in Cambridge, said the house was burgled three times on Tuesday.

Miss Woodbridge said she is now too afraid to go back and live there with her
five children and partner Craig Grant (21).

She said: "We are not prepared to stay in the house. My children have been
really upset losing their things, and we are now looking for somewhere else to
live.

"It is disgusting to think they came into our house, and then tortured the bird.
We have just packed as much stuff as we can and got out."

The family also lost thousands of pounds worth of electrical equipment,
including a DVD player, a television and a vacuum cleaner.

Miss Woodbridge said that other items, such as an iron and a Sony Playstation
had been taken.

Expensive BMX bikes belonging to the children have also been stolen.

The oldest child, Sasha Newton (10), said: "I'm sad, annoyed and angry that
these people came into the house and have been in our bedrooms. I hate what they
did to Sidney."

Miss Woodbridge has not been able to bring herself to tell the youngest
children, Georgia Newton (6), Aysha Grant (2) and Jasmin Grant (3 months).

Their older siblings, Callum Newton (9) and Sasha have been told.

She said: "We are very upset about losing Sidney.

"We were just about to go down the pet shop and get him a friend to keep him
company. He will be missed."

An RSPCA spokeswoman for the eastern region said: "Any acts of animal cruelty
are distressing.

"Anyone who has been affected by cruelty, such as this, should give us a call."

Iain Allan, of Peterborough police, said: "The premises were broken into by two
youths, who were seen leaving with a microwave and a vacuum cleaner.

"The first offender is between 16 and 20, and of slim build. The second one is
between 11 and 15, and also of slim build."

> Anyone with any information, should call police on 0845 456 4564, or
Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.


LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             April 4, 2005, Monday

ELECTION IDEAL FOR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: BY SCOTT ROBSON

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 458 words


There is a real risk that al Qaida-linked terrorists could try to launch an
attack in Britain in the run-up to the General Election, a leading terrorism
expert warned today.

With the Prime Minister expected to announce the date of the poll early this
week, Professor Paul Wilkinson said extremists could try to target the campaign
as a way of showing they were "still in business".

He called on the Government to put more resources into emergency planning to
cope with the aftermath of any potential outrage and to ensure all major cities,
not just London, were prepared.

Britain's most senior police officer, Metropolitan Commissioner Sir Ian Blair,
has already warned of the threat of a terrorist attack in the run-up to polling
day.

Prof Wilkinson, who works at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political
Violence at St Andrew's University, said the possibility had to be taken
seriously.

Asked if there was a real risk of a terrorist attack ahead of the election, he
said: "I think so and Sir Ian Blair has already made that claim and he would not
have made it if he had not thought about it very carefully.

"The publicity that can be gained for a terrorist group in that sort of period
is something they hanker after.

"They might do it to show they can attack a western country in its own
homelandand in some way hope they will influence foreign policy and force the
Government into concessions."

Prof Wilkinson highlighted the example of last year's terrorist bombings in
Madrid, when voters were so angered by the ruling Conservative party's response
to the attack that they elected the Socialist opposition, which had pledged to
pull Spanish troops out of Iraq.

"We all know in Spain, they attempted to influence Spain's foreign policy with
an attack which was designed to wrongfoot the Government and put psychological
pressure on them," he said.

"They might think they can intervene in the British election process, but it is
not clear how that would benefit them because both main parties are committed to
maintaining a continuous presence (in Iraq) until the situation has stabilised.
On the other hand, they might want to show they are capable of an attack during
that period and send a message they are still very much in business.

"Rather like the Americans during their presidential election, we need to make
sure that our security is at a very good level and all those concerned with
counter-terrorism are working together and sharing intelligence - that is
crucial."

He added: "We need to do more in terms of putting resources into emergency
planning to make sure that the expertise for this kind of emergency is available
not just in London, but also in other major cities

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             April 4, 2005, Monday

ALERT ON ELECTION TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 235 words


THERE is a real risk that publicity-seeking al-Qaida linked terrorists could try
to launch an attack in Britain in the run-up to the General Election, a leading
terrorism expert warned yesterday.

With the Prime Minister expected to announce the date of the poll early this
week, Professor Paul Wilkinson said extremists could try to target the campaign
as a way of showing they were 'still in business'.

He called on the government to put more resources into emergency planning to
cope with the aftermath of any potential outrage and to ensure all the UK's
major cities, not just London, were prepared.

Britain's most senior police officer, Metropolitan Commissioner Sir Ian Blair,
has already warned of the threat of a terrorist attack in the run-up to polling
day.

Prof Wilkinson, who works at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political
Violence at St Andrew's University, said the possibility had to be taken
seriously.

Asked if there was a real risk of a terrorist attack ahead of the election, he
said: 'I think so and Sir Ian Blair has already made that claim and he would not
have made it if he had not thought about it very carefully.

'We are still seen by the al-Qaida network as a major ally of the US. We know
they have threatened the UK time and again.'

Prof Wilkinson added that the threat from dissident Irish Republican groups
could not be discounted.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 4, 2005, Monday Edition 1

Expert in warning over terror attack

BYLINE: By Neville Dean, The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 368 words


   There is a real risk that publicity-seeking al Qaida-linked terrorists could
try to launch an attack in Britain in the run-up to the General Election, a
leading terrorism expert warned yesterday.

With the Prime Minister expected to announce the date of the poll early this
week, Prof Paul Wilkinson said extremists could try to target the campaign as a
way of showing they were "still in business".

He called on the Government to put more resources into emergency planning to
cope with the aftermath of any potential outrage and to ensure all the UK's
major cities, not just London, were prepared.

Britain's most senior police officer, Metropolitan Commissioner Sir Ian Blair,
has already warned of the threat of a terrorist attack in the run-up to polling
day.

Prof Wilkinson, who works at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political
Violence at St Andrew's University, said the possibility had to be taken
seriously. Asked if there was a real risk of a terrorist attack ahead of the
election, he said: "I think so and Sir Ian Blair has already made that claim and
he would not have made it if he had not thought about it carefully.

"The publicity that can be gained for a terrorist group in that sort of period
is something they hanker after.

"They might do it to show they can attack a western country in its own homeland
and in some way hope they will influence foreign policy and force the Government
into concessions.

"They are unrealistic if they think they can, but they think in ways which are
the result of a strange mind set and fanatical beliefs.

"Therefore arguments about whether they would gain anything may not apply.

"This means we have to be particularly good at counter-terrorism intelligence
and be prepared to to pre-empt an attack from that quarter."

Prof Wilkinson highlighted the example of last year's terrorist bombings in
Madrid, when voters were so angered by the ruling Conservative party's response
that they elected the Socialist opposition, which had pledged to pull troops out
of Iraq.

"Rather like the Americans during their presidential election, we need to make
sure that our security is at a very good level," said Prof Wilkinson.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                 April 6, 2005

Terror of attack girl

BYLINE: N. EIL PRESTON

SECTION: News; 999; Autocrime; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 371 words


A Terrified Grimsby schoolgirl revealed today how a man forced a sock into her
mouth and tried to kidnap her.  Michaela Horridge (11) was walking home after a
sleepover when she was attacked by the man.

He tried to muffle her screams with the sock in what police are treating as an
attempted abduction.

They have produced an e-fit of the attacker.

Michaela, from Pembroke Avenue, on the Yarborough estate, was walking down
Newsham Drive when the incident happened at 12.45pm on Monday.

Her mum, Melanie (35), said: "She was coming home from a sleepover at a friend's
house. I tried ringing her on her mobile and when I got hold of her she said she
would be a couple of minutes.

"Five minutes later she burst through the front door and ran straight up stairs
crying and screaming.

"I ran after her to see what had happened and my legs just went to jelly. She
told me that a man had bumped into her as she was walking home.

"Michaela told him not to do that because she would tell her mum and dad. The
man then became abusive and physically violent.

"He then tried to stuff a sock in her mouth. Luckily a woman came out of one of
the hostels on Newsham Drive and the man ran away." Michaela suffered grazes, a
scratched eye, a swollen lip and bruises to her throat in the attack.

She is too distressed to talk about the ordeal, and has since lost her appetite.

Mrs Horridge said: "You hear about this kind of thing in the news but you never
think it will happen to your child, especially in daylight.

"She was only just around the corner from home and it doesn't bear thinking
about what could have happened.

"It could have been so much worse. I just hope we catch this man." Det Insp
Charles Hume said: "This is a particularly nasty incident involving a very young
girl.

"Specially trained officers have spoken to her and we now have a fuller account
of what happened.

"We understand there might have been a blonde female in the area who may have
seen the incident and we would urge her to contact us at the earliest
opportunity." The suspect, aged between 18 and 20, was white with short dark
hair and wearing a hooded jumper and white trainers.

Information to Grimsby Police on 0845 606022.


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2005 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 April 7, 2005

Memorial to UK victims of terror attack set in stone

SECTION: News; People; Others; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 332 words


Scotland has contributed to a memorial for UK victims of the terrorist attacks
on the US.  Tourism Minister Patricia Ferguson yesterday presented gifts of
Morayshire limestone and Caithness stone which will form part of the British
Memorial Gardens, in the New York borough of Manhattan.

Sixty-seven British people were among more than 3,000 people who died on
September 11, 2001, when terrorists crashed hijacked planes at the World Trade
Centre in New York, the Pentagon in Washington and in Pennsylvania.

The garden is being built at Hanover Square, near the site of the World Trade
Centre. Ms Ferguson made the presentation to Bernadette Castro, Commissioner for
the New York State Parks Department.

Ms Ferguson is in America for Tartan Week, the annual celebration of the links
between Scotland and the US.

She said: "The British Memorial Gardens will be a fitting tribute to the memory
of those British citizens who lost their lives in the September 11 attacks and
its location here in Manhattan is a testament to the strength of the ties which
bind our two countries together.

"The design of the garden will include limestone from Morayshire and Caithness
stone throughout, a symbol of the part Scottish-American communities have played
in influencing and shaping New York, and the genuine warmth of feeling that we
Scots share with America." Meanwhile, Finance Minister Tom McCabe attended
meetings in Washington with congressmen and with representatives of the National
Conference of State Legislatures.

Mr McCabe said: "Building on our work with the US at a national level, it is
crucial we ensure politicians and officials at state level understand what
modern Scotland has to offer." He added: "I believe this is our most ambitious
Tartan Week programme to date. It offers the perfect opportunity to promote
Scotland, build on the links which already exist and seek out new opportunities
to tell the US that we are the best small country in the world."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2005 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hertfordshire

                                 April 7, 2005

'I thought there had been a terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Louisa Barnett

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 334 words

DATELINE: Hertfordshire; Borehamwood Times


A commuter from Borehamwood was among the passengers trapped underground on a
pitch-black Jubilee Line Tube train for an hour-and-a-half before being rescued
last week.

Niamh O'Grady 25 a PR account executive was one of the 800 commuters plunged
into darkness at 8.30am last Friday when their southbound train came to a halt
between Finchley Road and Swiss Cottage stations.

As the train stopped the emergency lights failed to come on forcing passengers
to use the lights on their mobile phones as torches to see anything at all.

No announcement or warning was heard over the Tannoy which led people to fear
the worst. Scenes of pandemonium ensued as people cried and fainted in the
darkness.

Miss O'Grady said: "My initial reaction was that this was a terrorist attack. I
think living and working in London you're much more aware of this type of thing.

"When the train stopped quite suddenly the lights went out and there was a
really eerie silence for a little while. It was terrifying."

Miss O'Grady said that while she thinks London Underground is generally a good
service they handled the situation badly.

"No-one knew what was going on as the Tannoy could not be used and no-one even
asked us how we were when we came out " she said.

London Underground engineers struggled to get the train moving and Tube bosses
eventually evacuated passengers by sending an empty train into the tunnel to
allow commuters to escape.

Ambulances arrived and treated nine people at the scene - one of whom was taken
to hospital suffering from chest pains.

Tube Lines the private consortium responsible for maintenance on the Jubilee
Line has launched a full investigation into the incident.

A spokesman for Tube Lines said: "We apologise to passengers for the delay and
disruption caused to their journeys. Any passenger seeking more information or a
refund should contact our Customer Service Centre."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 9, 2005

£1.2M OPERATION TO FOIL TERROR ATTACK ON QUEEN CAMILLA

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead and John Twomey

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 777 words


SECURITY at Windsor Castle was raised to its highest-ever level last night as
police launched a £1.25million operation to guard "Queen Camilla."

Up to 1,000 officers were drafted into the ancient town to throw a ring of steel
around Prince Charles, his bride, Camilla Parker Bowles, and their famous guests
at the wedding of the year.

The huge police presence was kept in the background as far as possible in an
operation to prevent the wedding from becoming a target for terrorists,
publicity-seekers and obsessed stalkers.

Steel barriers were put up around the roads leading up to the castle.

Frogmen searched at least 50 drains.

Every manhole was checked and fitted with special rubber seals. All will be
checked again hours before the ceremony.

Police manned every street corner, and no person or vehicle entered the historic
castle without strict checks.

Even the Philharmonia Orchestra did not escape: officers examined the lorry
carrying their instruments.

Each one of the estimated 1,000 officers on duty has studied a file of up to 20
stalkers who are obsessed with the Royal Family.

Many of them are still angry with Charles over the death of Diana, Princess of
Wales, with her friend Dodi Fayed in the Paris car crash in August, 1997.

They include a deranged man who is convinced he is Prince William's real father
and others who believe they have had affairs with leading female royals.

There are fears that some of the stalkers may try to get at members of the Royal
Family - particularly Charles and Camilla - to "avenge" Diana's death.

Apart from the twin threats of terrorism and stalkers, the joint operation
Scotland Yard and Thames Valley Police is also aimed at preventing the
"embarrassment factor" at the wedding.

Publicity-seeking groups such as Fathers4Justice and anti-monarchy anarchists
were investigated by police in case they were planning any stunts.

After Wednesday's security fiasco, in which two journalists drove a white van -
containing a package marked Bomb - through the "ring of steel", police are
determined that no intruder will get into the castle.

Two of the officers involved on Wednesday are believed to have been moved as a
result. Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair has also ordered an
internal inquiry.

Windsor Castle has often been breached - the most notably in 2003, when
self-styled "comedy terrorist" Aaron Barschak gatecrashed Prince William's 21st
birthday party dressed as Osama bin Laden.

As preparations for the wedding stepped up a gear yesterday, Buckingham Palace
denied reports that the castle's catering staff were on the verge of mutiny over
constantly changing plans.

Sources in the castle's administration staff said workers were close to walking
out because of "utter confusion" caused by the late re-scheduling of the wedding
to accommodate the Pope's funeral.

But a spokeswoman for the Palace said there had been no reports of unrest among
staff. The arrangements for food and guests had been made well in advance and
were not affected by the 24-hour delay. In Windsor town, royalists braved late
winter snow to secure a spot among the thousands expected to turn out for the
wedding.

Temperatures were hitting freezing overnight and cold winds were expected today,
according to the Met Office.

Phil Ward, 44, the tramp Princess Diana saved from a lake more than a decade
ago, was moved on yesterday from his patch outside the Guildhall, where the
couple will marry.

But he settled on another doorstep and planned to stay the night.

He said: "I'd been told I could stay outside the Guildhall, but they kicked me
out this morning.

"But I'm not moving now. I am determined to see this wedding."

Mr Ward was rescued by Diana in 1994 when she saw him struggling in a lake after
she had been jogging in London's Regent's Park and she later visited him in
hospital.

Windsor resident Peter Hooper, 54, was ensconced outside the castle with a large
wooden sheep - "Mr Ram" - on his shoulder.

He said it was to represent the Pope's flock, to mark yesterday's funeral, but
he planned to be out again today, with "Mr Ram", to cheer on the newly-weds.

Across the town, souvenirs were still being snapped up. But many headed for the
cheekier t-shirts at Urban Blue, just a few yards from the Guildhall, which poke
fun at the royal couple.

Shop owner Sarah Glenister said trade had been "manic" and she had been selling
more than 200 a day.

At Diana's former London home, Kensington Palace, members of the Diana Circle
will lay flowers today in a protest against Prince Charles's second marriage.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                                 April 9, 2005

Businesses - be ready for terror attack

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 430 words


Police are warning Cheltenham shops and businesses to be aware of the terrorist
threat during the General Election campaign.  Cheltenham Chamber of Commerce has
sent out 200 letters from Gloucestershire Police warning that dissident Irish
Republican terrorists are planning bombings.

It says the likelihood of an international terrorist attack is well documented
and employers should review their security.

Police have highlighted campaigns in Northern Ireland, where incendiary and
small explosive devices have been used.

Hoax calls have also been made to distract police during such attacks.

Chamber of Commerce secretary Jacky Fletcher said: "People need to be aware
there's a threat and take precautions.

"You can't be complacent, and shops and businesses should be on a general alert
- not just from the IRA but all terrorist threats.

"We're not expecting an attack but we're telling people to be extra cautious.

"If we didn't hand out these letters, we would be failing our members by not
informing them of the risks." Police are advising businesses to review CCTV and
building entry points.

People should also be vigilant over hand-delivered post.

Accountant Brian Gibb is not worried about the letter. Brian, who works for WG
Chartered Accountants in Fairview Road, said: "I'm not taking much notice of it.
We have GCHQ in this town, but if an attack happened what am I going to do about
it?  "I don't see any immediate danger to myself, but I'm an optimist. We have
sorted office procedures and we're always aware of dangers." The move comes
after Foreign Secretary Jack Straw confirmed security measures had been put in
place to prevent an attack on GCHQ.

Security chiefs have planned for a September 11-style attack from aircraft
operating from Gloucestershire Airport.

Cheltenham General and Gloucestershire Royal hospitals are managing blood stocks
so there is not a shortage in the wake of a terrorist assault.

A police spokesperson said: "We have a duty to keep local businesses informed of
any criminal activity which may affect them.

"This letter is nothing more than a routine response to national issues.  It's
important to remember there is no specific threat to Cheltenham or the rest of
the county from terrorists groups.

"We're working locally, as expected, to raise awareness with businesses,
offering crime prevention advice about a number of issues. This is just one of
them." Further advice can be viewed online at www.mi5.gov.uk" target="new"
class="lblue">www.mi5.gov.uk or from Gloucestershire police on 0845 090 1234.


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2005 Gloucestershire Echo

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 April 11, 2005

Couple may have to relive terror of holiday machete attack

BYLINE: Andrew Kellock

SECTION: News; People; Others; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 18 words


A North-east couple may have to relive the terrifying night their dream holiday
turned into a nightmare.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2005 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 April 13, 2005

Three Britons face US charges of plotting terror attacks

BYLINE: By Rupert Cornwell in Washington

LENGTH: 480 words


The US government has indicted three British men allegedly linked to al-Qa'ida
for what officials here say was a serious and well-advanced plot to attack
financial institutions in New York, New Jersey and Washington DC.

In a four-count indictment made public yesterday, Dhiran Barot, Nadeem
Tarmohammed and Qaisar Shaffi are accused of scouting the New York Stock
Exchange and Citicorp Building in New York, the Prudential Building in Newark,
New Jersey, and the International Monetary Fund and World Bank in Washington to
draw up plans to stage attacks.

The three, all from Willesden in north west London, were arrested in Britain in
August 2004 on similar charges and may face extradition to the US.

"These men were conducting sophisticated surveillance with very great patience.
This conspiracy was alive and kicking until late 2004," said James Comey, the
deputy attorney general, unveiling the indictments here.

The US authorities plan to seek extradition once the British prosecutions are
complete, a Justice Department spokeswoman said yesterday.

In London, the Crown Prosecution Service said trials were to begin next January,
and these, as well as any sentences that might follow, must be completed before
any extradition or interrogation by American agents.

In the US they face maximum sentences of life imprisonment, but it could be
years - if ever - before they are physically transferred here.

US officials say that Mr Barot, 32, is a senior al-Qa'ida operative who used
several aliases, and formerly reported to Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, one of the
organisers of the 2001 terror attacks, who was arrested in Pakistan in 2003.

Prosecutors say the men conducted surveillance on the buildings between August
2000 and April 2001, including video surveillance in Manhattan in April 2001.

Last August, the US government raised the colour-coded threat level of a
terrorist attack to orange, or "high", for those specific financial
institutions, while in the rest of the country the risk remained at the lower
level of yellow.

Federal authorities, who acknowledged that the decision was based mainly on
years-old intelligence, said they raised the threat level out of caution, given
the proven record of al-Qa'ida in laying plans for its attacks far in advance.

The three men face related charges in the UK. Mr Barot is accused of possessing
reconnaissance plans for the US institutions, and having notebooks with
information on explosives, poisons, chemicals and related items "likely to be
useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism".

Mr Tarmohammed, 26, faces British charges of having plans of the Prudential
building, along with Mr Barot. Mr Shaffi, 25, is said to have carried with him
an extract from a terrorist handbook, detailing the preparation of chemicals,
explosives, and other information.


LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2005 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           April 13, 2005, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACK VICTIM TO SPEAK

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 176 words


INSPIRATIONAL true stories about violence and forgiveness will be heard at a
conference at Coventry University next Wednesday.

The Community of the Cross of Nails, which is based at Cathedral Cathedral, will
welcome delegates from around the world to a two-day event of workshops and
lectures.

One of the speakers is South African Father Michael Lapsley, who lost both
hands, an eye and his hearing when a letter-bomb exploded in his face in 1990.

He had been exiled by the South African government in 1976 and realised he was
on its hit list after moving to Zimbabwe and becoming a chaplain with the
African National Congress.

Since the explosion he has dedicated himself to reconciliation and founded the
Institute for Healing of Memories in Cape Town in 1998.

He will be joined by Father Dirk Magerman, who works with evicted white farmers,
HIV and Aids sufferers in South Africa, and the Rev David Armstrong, who
promotes links between Christians in Northern Ireland.

For tickets, call Margaret Middleton on 024 7652 1214.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 April 13, 2005

Terror attack is simulated

SECTION: News; People; Events; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 61 words


Emergency services will be testing their readiness for dealing with a major
terrorist attack on Sunday. The day-long exercise will be based on a "dirty
bomb" attack.

Teams will rehearse procedures for chemical, biological and radiological
incidents.

The exercise, organised by Northamptonshire County Council, is being held at
Northampton Saints' rugby ground.


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2005 Leicester Mercury

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 April 14, 2005

AL-QAIDA COP KILLER CAGED FOR 17 YEARS; MANIAC TERRORIST PLANNED POISON ATTACKS
ACROSS UK

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 457 words


AN AL-QAIDA terrorist who killed a policeman while on the run was yesterday
jailed for masterminding a poison attack on Britain.

Algerian illegal immigrant Kamel Bourgass, 31, had already been sentenced to
life for stabbing to death Special Branch detective Stephen Oake.

He was given a 17-year jail sentence yesterday for plotting to unleash deadly
ricin poison across the UK which could have killed thousands.

The warped Islamic killer - a trusted henchman of Osama bin Laden - planned to
smear the lethal toxin on cars and buildings, and even inside toothbrush
packets.

His evil plot was foiled when Dc Oake and a group of other officers raided his
Manchester bedsit.

But as they tried to arrest him, Bourgass went berserk. He stabbed Dc Oake eight
times with a kitchen knife and slashed three other officers.

He was given a life sentence for the January 2003 murder at a trial in June last
year - which can only now be reported after a second trial over the chemical
plot ended yesterday.

Bourgass had turned a flat in Wood Green, north London, into a poisons factory,
where recipes and ingredients to manufacture ricin were found. It is one of the
most deadly substances known to man.

Police also seized cyanide poison, bomb-making kits, explosives and wiring plans
for detonators.

Eight other Algerian and Libyan suspects, including Mouloud Sihali, 29, David
Aissa Khalef, 33, Sidali Feddag, 20, and Mustapha Taleb, 35 were cleared of
taking part in the planned attacks.

A tenth man, Mohamed Meguerba, is awaiting trial in Algeria after he jumped
bail, fled and turned supergrass, providing police with crucial information
which led them to the London flat.

Bourgass, who was trained by bin Laden in Afghanistan, went on the run after
anti-terror police raided the flat in January 2003.

He was cornered in Manchester nine days later - where he stabbed to death Dc
Oake. The fatherof-three, 40, was not wearing body armour. He and wife Lesley,
now 42, had been married 20 years.

In a series of astonishing blunders, police failed to handcuff Bourgass to avoid
breaching his human rights, fearing they would be sued for "assaulting" him.

Greater Manchester's Assistant Chief Constable David Whatton yesterday justified
his force's action.

He said: "Every time you put someone in handcuffs, you have to be able to
justify it. Bourgass also did not appear as if he would turn to violence."

At the Old Bailey yesterday, Bourgass was described as the "main producer of
poisons in the UK", who used the north London's notorious Finsbury Park mosque
as one of his nerve centres.

Detectives believed his team was also plotting to launch a cyanide gas attack on
the London Underground.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            April 14, 2005, Thursday

AL-QAEDA MURDERER WAS PLANNING POISON TERROR ATTACK IN UK

BYLINE: BY NICK ALLEN AND SHENAI RAIF

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1020 words


A suspected Al-Qaeda terrorist who was plotting to use the deadly poison ricin
has been jailed for life for the murder of a Special Branch detective, it can
now be revealed. Kamel Bourgass, a 31-year-old failed Algerian asylum seeker,
turned a Manchester flat into a bloodbath as he was cornered by police. He
grabbed a kitchen knife and killed Detective Constable Stephen Oake, stabbing
him eight times. He also knifed three other policemen during his bloody escape
bid.

At the time Bourgass, who was also known as Nadir Habra, was on the run after
his attempts to make ricin and other poisons were discovered at a flat in Wood
Green, north London, in a raid by anti-terrorist police nine days earlier.

Detectives believe he had been trained in terror camps in Afghanistan run by
Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden and was specially selected for instruction in
making poisons and explosives.

According to an alleged co-conspirator, who co-operated with authorities when he
was arrested in Algeria, Bourgass was planning to smear poison on the door
handles of cars and buildings in the Holloway area of north London.

Detectives believe he might also have had plans to use it in spray form or to
contaminate consumer products.

In the London raid, police found accurate recipes and ingredients for poisons
including ricin, cyanide and botulinum - one of the most toxic substances known
to man - and the blueprint for a bomb.

A pestle and mortar hidden under a chest of drawers contained a substance which
initially tested positive as ricin - although later tests were negative.

There had also been an attempt to make poison using nicotine extracted from
cigarettes.

Scientists at the Porton Down chemical warfare laboratories in Wiltshire later
followed the instructions in the recipes. Their experiments produced enough
ricin and cyanide to kill hundreds of people.

Prosecutor Nigel Sweeney QC told the Old Bailey, 'These were no playtime
recipes. These are recipes that experts give credence to and experiments show
work. They are scientifically viable and potentially deadly.'

After Bourgass's arrest in Manchester, blanket reporting restrictions were
placed on court proceedings. The restrictions were lifted at the Old Bailey
yesterday by Mr Justice Penry-Davey after Bourgass had faced two trials, both
held amid high security.

In his first trial, which lasted three months and ended in June last year,
Bourgass was found guilty of murdering Mr Oake, attempting to murder two Special
Branch officers who for security reasons can only be identified as 'Steve' and
'John', and wounding another officer, Sergeant Anthony Grindrod, with intent.

After that trial, Mr Justice Penry-Davey sentenced him to life and ruled that he
had to serve a minimum of 22 years.

The offence was committed before new legislation would have made 30 years the
minimum for killing a policeman.

He also sentenced Bourgass to 15 years on each attempted murder charge and eight
years for the wounding. All the sentences will run concurrently.

A second trial, which began in September last year, ended this week.

The jury found Bourgass guilty of conspiracy to commit a public nuisance by
using poisons and explosives but failed, after four weeks of deliberations, to
reach a verdict on a charge of conspiracy to murder. The jurors were discharged
and excused from jury service for life.

They had not been told that Bourgass, who went underground after his asylum
application was rejected, had already been convicted of the murder of Mr Oake.

Four other Algerians - Mouloud Sihali, 29, David Aissa Khalef, 33, Sidali
Feddag, 20, and Mustapha Taleb, 35 - were also in the dock in Bourgass's second
trial facing the same two charges.

They were alleged to have played support roles in the plot - the evidence
against them consisted mainly of fingerprints linking them to items found at
Wood Green.

All four men were cleared by the jury on both counts.

Following the not guilty verdicts, prosecutors dropped plans for a third trial
involving four other alleged conspirators - three Algerians and a Libyan.

Bourgass's plot was uncovered after a tenth alleged co-conspirator, an Algerian
called Mohamed Meguerba, revealed details when he was arrested in Algeria in
December 2002.

He said he had known Bourgass in London.

Meguerba confessed to being a veteran of terrorist training camps in Afghanistan
and to having had numerous personal meetings with Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin
Laden. He claimed that Bourgass had also been in a mujahideen training camp in
Afghanistan and was then selected for training in the making of poisons at an
Al-Qaeda camp.

Meguerba is still to be tried in Algeria for alleged terrorist offences.: Was
secrecy surrounding trials justified?:The Old Bailey trials involving Kamel
Bourgass would have been among the most high profile of recent years but blanket
reporting restrictions prevented the media from publishing anything about them
until yesterday.

The anti-terrorist raid on Bourgass's poison factory in north London, and the
subsequent murder of Special Branch detective Stephen Oake were both front page
news at the time. But it is not until now, more than two years later, that the
real story behind both can be revealed, raising questions over why and whether
such stringent reporting restrictions were justified.

Soon after the start of legal proceedings against Bourgass and the other
defendants, an order was made under the Contempt of Court Act to protect the
trials from any potentially prejudicial reporting which could put the case at
risk.

Because Bourgass was tried first for the murder of Stephen Oake, it was felt
that reporting of that case would prejudice a further trial over the alleged
ricin plot.

Many legal experts argue that the public's right to know always comes second to
the fair administration of justice. But media lawyer Mark Stephens, of Finers,
Stephens, Innocent, suggested the contempt order on the Bourgass trials - one of
the most wide-ranging of recent times - had been 'over broad'.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Life

                                 April 17, 2005

Pastor Jack in firing line;
 Christian taxi firm forced to close after terror attack

BYLINE: Exclusive by Stephen Breen

LENGTH: 363 words


A TOP UVF commander was last night being blamed for a petrol bomb attack on the
home of a Shankill clergyman and forcing a Christian taxi firm to close.

Senior security sources told Sunday Life that last Thursday's attack on Pastor
Jack McKee's home was sanctioned by a leading UVF man, without the support of
the terror group's leadership.

The vicious attack has led to Pastor McKee's Liberty taxi firm closing down, in
fear of further attacks.

It is understood the petrol bombs were hurled at the pastor's home and car by
members of the Ballysillan UVF, on the orders of the UVF's so-called 'Military
Commander'.

The attack has angered other rank-and-file members of the organisation, who now
want the man behind it to be stood down.

One UVF 'commander' told Sunday Life: "This man has gone too far. This sickening
attack just goes to show how far he will go to make money, and the rank-and-file
have had enough.

"We have gone to the leadership about this man, but are met with a wall of
silence.

"Those who carried this out don't want anyone else running taxis in the
Shankill, and it just goes to show that even church people are not immune from
attacks."

It is also believed the attack took place in spite of Mr McKee recently
receiving assurances from paramilitaries, that it was safe for the New Life
Fellowship to open Liberty Taxis, in the Shankill. The non-profit firm was
opened after Call-A-Cab - owned by senior loyalist Jackie Mahood - was forced to
close following a series of attacks by the UVF.

Sources also claimed the attack on Mr McKee's home has led to tension between
the UVF and UDA, in the north of the city.

Speaking to us last night, Pastor McKee refused to comment on who was behind the
attack on his family.

But, Mr McKee did say: "We did have assurances before this attack, and we can
only take these at face value. Due to further concerns expressed by the police,
and for the sake of our drivers and their families, we took the decision to
close Liberty Taxis."

We attempted to contact PUP Assemblyman, Billy Hutchinson, whose party is linked
to the UVF, but he was not available for comment.


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2005 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             April 17, 2005, Sunday

FIREMEN PREPARE FOR TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 74 words


IRELAND'S firemen are preparing for a 'strike' by terrorists.

A programme drawn up by the Chief Fire Officers' Association says this year's
annual two-day summit will include an address by Mr Colin Lammey, Chief Fire
Officer for Northern Ireland, on the need to react swiftly to new threats from
terrorism.

This year's conference will be held in Cavan on May 4 and 5 and will also be
addressed by Environment Minister Dick Roche TD.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Evening Gazette

                             April 18, 2005, Monday

TERROR ATTACK FEARS GROW

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 193 words


Britain remains at the greatest ever risk of terrorist attack amid concerns that
Islamic militants will attempt to target the General Election, an annual risk
assessment claimed today.

The study, which said the country has an "elevated" chance of a strike, ranked
London at "high" risk - alongside international troublespots Baghdad, Kabul and
Jerusalem, said researchers for leading insurance broker Aon.

Three other UK cities are also deemed likely terrorist targets - Birmingham,
Manchester and Belfast.

"Fears that Islamic extremists might stage attacks to try to influence the UK
General Election on May 5 also reinforce the UK's risk rating, which remains
unchanged from last year," said a spokesman for the firm.

Researchers said the threat of incidents has increased in 31 countries - almost
half of which are in Western Europe - and claimed six nations considered safe
last year are also now in danger.

Justin Priestley, director of Aon's crisis management division, said: "Although
companies do need to be aware of the global picture, the 2005 map highlights the
need for vigilance in so called 'safer' European countries."

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Gazette Media Company Ltd

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             April 18, 2005, Monday

HIGHER RISK OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 57 words


BRITAIN faces an 'elevated' risk of terrorist attacks.

London ranks alongside Baghdad, Kabul and Jerusalem as a 'high risk' city,
according to new research released this week.

Insurance broker Aon's analysis of terrorist activity around the world states
that 31 countries are more vulnerable to terrorism than they were last year

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 19, 2005

Threat of terror attack on London rises, say insurers

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 274 words


The likelihood of a terrorist attack on London has increased because of the
impending election and Britain's support of the war on Iraq, according to a
private risk assessment published today.

The assessment - by Aon, a risk insurance broker - raises the threat level for
London from "guarded" to "elevated", higher than other western capitals. Iraq is
assessed as "severe".

MI5 assesses the threat from al-Qaida-linked groups as "severe - general". It
was raised to this level, MI5's second highest, at the end of 2003. Senior
anti-terrorist officials say there is nothing to suggest that it should be
raised further, despite the general election campaign.

Aon, which concentrates on corporate clients, indicated yesterday that it
adopted different criteria to MI5. "It is a subjective opinion based on open
sources and experience," Rob Preston, Aon's terrorism risk consultant, said.

The company dismissed media suggestions that it claimed the risk of a terrorist
attack on London was the same as that for Baghdad. "While we are certainly not
suggesting businesses in London are exposed to the same risks as in Kabul or
Baghdad, the threat has increased as a result of two factors," Mr Preston said.

"The terrorism threat in western Europe had increased this year. In particular,
the last 12 to 24 months has seen those sympathetic to Islamic militancy return
to Europe from places like Iraq."

He added: "Secondly, there may be threats to the general election. As we saw in
Madrid last year, it is a contemporary tactic and one which terrorists may well
claim to have used successfully to influence the result."


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            April 19, 2005, Tuesday

FAMILY ARSON TERROR;
 SIX FLEE BLAZE ATTACK

BYLINE: BY PETRA MANN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 348 words


A LIVERPOOL family told of their horror today after arsonists set fire to their
home while four children were asleep upstairs.

Trainee nursery nurse Marie Harper rushed upstairs to save her children after
paraffin was sprayed over their front door and ignited, Her husband Robert
tackled the blaze downstairs with son Michael, 17.

A neighbour took the children in while Mrs Harper dashed back into the house in
Solomon Street, Kensington, to help her husband and eldest son who had called
the emergency services.

Mr Harper, 33, and Michael were taken to hospital One suffering from smoke
inhalation after trying to tackle the blaze.

They threw pans of cold water at the fire until two fire engines arrived, at
around 10.30pm on Friday.

Paramedics took Mr Harper, a cinema sales assistant, and Michael to the Royal
Liverpool hospital where they were treated for smoke inhalation, and detained
overnight.

Mrs Harper, 38, said: 'We could all have been killed, burnt to death in our own
home.

'The children were screaming and crying as I brought them downthe stairs. They
were terrified. 'I have no idea who would want to kill us.'

She went on: 'Michael suffers with asthma. While he was in the back of the
ambulance he suffered a panic attack. It could have killed him.' Stephen, 10,
Richard, nine, Jenna, six, and Oliver, four, stayed with their grandmother for
the weekend.

'My children are terrified to be in their own home,' Mrs Harper said.

'I can't understand why this has happened to us.'

The fire destroyed the front porch; the hallway and the rest ofthe house was
badly smoke damaged.

A Merseyside police spokesman said: 'We are treating this attack as arson. We
would urge anyone who knows anything about it to come forward immediately.' Phil
Garrigan, arson reduction manager with Merseyside fire service, said: 'The
family were lucky to get out alive.

'Had they all gone to bed early we could have been dealing with seven deaths.'
Anyone with information is asked to call CID on 0151-777 4066 or Crimestoppers
on 0800 555 111

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR: The Harper family who survived an arson attack at home; LUCKY
TO BE ALIVE: Marie and Robert Harper outside their house in Solomon Street,
Kensington, with children Oliver, Jenna, Stephen and Richard Picture: EDDIE
BARFORD

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 April 19, 2005

Britain at risk of terror attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 225 words


Britain remains at the greatest ever risk of terrorist attack amid concerns that
Islamic militants will attempt to target the General Election, an annual risk
assessment claimed yesterday. The study, which said the country has an
"elevated" chance of a strike, ranked London at "high" risk - alongside
international troublespots Baghdad, Kabul and Jerusalem. Three other UK cities
are also deemed likely terrorist targets - Birmingham, Manchester and Belfast.
Islanders victory MEMBERS of families forced by the British to leave their
Indian Ocean "paradise" in the Chagos Islands yesterday won permission to bring
a High Court challenge for the right to housing and social benefits, including
jobseeker's allowance, in the UK. They were moved in 1971 so that Diego Garcia,
one of the islands in the Chagos archipelago, could be handed over to the US for
a strategic airbase. Since then the British action has been widely condemned by
lawyers, journalists and politicians as "underhand" and one of the most shameful
episodes in the country's recent history.

'Let's be 'aving you' DELIA Smith's half-time rallying cry of "let's be 'aving
you" at a Norwich City match could be turned into a song by rock band Doves. The
Manchester-based band has put in a request to sample Delia's words with the aim
of putting it on a new track.


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2005 Western Morning News

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 19, 2005

Terror attack risk remains

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 120 words


Britain remains more at risk than ever of a terrorist attack, an annual risk
assessment reported yesterday. The study for insurance broker Aon put Britain at
"elevated" risk of attack, partly because of the imminent General Election.
London's ranking of "high" risk - the same as Baghdad, Kabul and Jerusalem -
remained the same as last year.

Birmingham, Manchester and Belfast were also deemed likely terrorist targets.

Aon's annual map ranks the threat to nations from terrorism as low, guarded,
elevated, high or severe.

Britain is deemed at risk from Islamic extremists, nationalist and separatist
groups, organised crime and single-issue groups, such as those opposed to animal
testing.


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005 1904WESTDP203terro

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            April 21, 2005, Thursday

TERRORIST COULD HAVE NUCLEAR ATTACK PLAN;
 SECRET REPORTS WARN OF AL-QAIDA 'DIRTY BOMB

BYLINE: BY VICTORIA WARD

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 263 words


AL Qaida terror chief Abu Musab alZarqawi has obtained a nuclear weapon or dirty
bomb and is preparing for attack, according to intelligence reports.

The threat has allegedly been included in several classified reports since
December but is still being treated with caution by experts.

Analysts are questioning the reliability of the data because they cannot believe
al Qaida would not use a nuclear device immediately if it had one.

Intelligence suggests the weapon is being stored in Afghanistan, where Zarqawi
runs a terrorist camp.

US intelligence agencies were criticised last month for failing to fully
understand the capabilities of al Qaida's weapons programmes and for making
serious errors in analysing the information it did gather A presidential
commission said US intelligence was 'dead wrong' in almost every one of its
pre-war assessments of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction.

In February, CIA chief Porter Goss warned that it was 'only a matter of time'
before groups attempted a biological, chemical or nuclear attack Zarqawi, a
Jordanian militant who led attacks against forces in Iraq, was linked by former
US Secretary of State Colin Powell to the ricin plot in London.

On the eve of the US and British invasion of Iraq, Mr Powell told the United
Nations that Zarqawi and his network had plotted attacks in Europe.

He said that, according to a detainee called Abuwatia who graduated from
Zarqawi's Afghan terrorist camp, Zarqawi had sent at least nine North African
extremists to Europe to conduct poison and explosive attacks

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 April 21, 2005

What if terrorists attack?

BYLINE: Jo Bowring

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 454 words


How would the most vulnerable people in the community cope if a terrorist attack
was launched on Merton?

This was the burning question at a special seminar held on Wednesday to
demonstrate how the fire brigade would spring into action.

Community leaders were briefed on how different authorities would work together
to minimise casualties and

distress.

And a decontamination unit was set up in the Merton Civic Centre car park so
people could see first hand how firefighters would combat chemical or biological
attacks or dirty or nuclear bombs.

The decontamination unit consists of two outer corridors with showers and a
central corridor with special hoses for firefighters wearing gas tight suits to
wash.

Bernie Higgins Merton's fire brigade borough commander said: "People have often
seen police and fire services around the borough but when you are involved in
something as terrifying as a terrorist incident it is quite a different thing.

"We may run into community issues we are asking people to come through the
decontamination unit without their clothes on.

"It is also difficult for people with disabilities to come through this. We will
continue to reform the process but at this particular time it is down to the
ingenuity of the people who respond first.

"We must do our best to address cultural and faith issues. It will only take one
or two people to cause problems in the shower area and the whole thing comes to
a stop."

Superintendent Pete Dobson of Merton police said: "Most people's response is
that they want to leave the vicinity and go home and wash and shower later.

"But whereas somebody who has got a weak contaminant on them is okay in the open
air once they get onto a bus or train or house it could be fatal for them or
other people in the room."

Sarah Chittock Merton Council's emergency planning officer explained how the
borough picks up the pieces after major incidents such as the May Court fire in
September last year.

Ms Chittock said: "Following the declaration of an emergency the local authority
will send out a liaison officer. We follow at a safe distance.

"In the most part our involvement in decontamination happens once it has taken
place.

"When people come out of that decontamination unit they are going to be
disorientated upset and distressed and we have to find somewhere to take them.

"We may not be at the sharp end but we hang around for a very long time
afterwards."

Once an incident has been dealt with by the emergency services the borough's
responsibilities could include re-housing providing technical advice giving
information marking anniversaries creating memorials and appeals and fund
management.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 April 22, 2005

Talk of terrorist attack feeds our fears

SECTION: Letters

LENGTH: 260 words


The rumblings have continued at Westminster surrounding the decision to send
British troops to fight in Iraq and the Prime Minister's credibility remains
suspect.

I wonder whether like me your readers have noticed the recent spate of
advertisements designed to feed our fear of terrorist attacks.

The full-page advertisement on page 17 (March 31) is a case in point: a rucksack
leaning against a pillar captioned "Two ways to find out if it's suspicious:
call 999 the other does not bear thinking about".

Given the negative publicity surrounding Britain's role in the Iraq war is it
any wonder that the Labour administration seeks to frighten us the electorate by
threatening terrorist attacks in London?

Sadly the Madrid bombings showed that ID cards do not prevent terrorist attacks.
Spending the money on improving the police and their information networks would
be far more valuable.

If the Metropolitan Police feels that such reminders are necessary they can be
designed without the need of fear tactics.

The letter sent to the Prime Minister Charles Kennedy and Michael Howard by the
Reverend Doctor Rowan Williams Archbishop of Canterbury is utterly justified
when advertisements of this type are published on the eve of a General Election.
Dr Williams asks the three parties to campaign positively and not resort to the
politics of fear.

We must all study the three parties' manifestos carefully and cast our votes on
the basis of policy not hype and spin.

Mary-Jane Jeanes

Secretary

Merton Liberal Democrats

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            April 26, 2005, Tuesday

SPANIARD DENIES TERRORIST LINKS WITH SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS BAN YOUNG GUNS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 377 words


The lone native-born Spaniard among 24 men accused of belonging to an al Qaeda
cell that allegedly helped plot the September 11 attacks, depicted himself
yesterday as a peace-loving Muslim who rejected terrorism and once took part in
a rally denouncing the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

Luis Jose Galan, a Madrid native who converted to Islam more than a decade ago,
denied prosecutors' allegations he received terrorism training at a camp in
Indonesia after a recruiting visit to that country in 2001 by the suspected
leader of the Spanish al Qaeda cell, Imad Yarkas.

Galan said he never saw or heard about such a camp when he visited the
Indonesian city of Poso, would have been too old for military training anyway
and rejected terrorism outright.

'It is not my way of approaching life. I have other values,' Galan, 39, said on
the second day of the trial of the 24 defendants.

Galan is accused of illegal weapons possession and belonging to al Qaeda, but
not involvement in September 11 planning.

The lead defendant is Syrian- born Yarkas, a 42-year-old father of six who
allegedly directed a terrorist cell that provided logistical cover for September
11 plotters, including Mohamed Atta, who is believed to have piloted one of the
two planes that destroyed the towers in New York.

Yarkas is expected to testify this week. Two alleged accomplices face identical
charges and prosecutors are seeking life jail terms for each of them.

Galan said neither Yarkas nor any other of the defendants had ever approached
him about engaging in radical Islamic activities.

'If they had, I would have gone away. I have another mind-set,' he said.

Defence lawyer Nieves Fernandez cited a photo that was part of the trial's
100,000 pages of police documents.

It shows Galan appearing at a Madrid rally in the autumn of 2001, protesting
against the September 11 suicide airliner attacks, before his arrest in November
of that year as part of raids ordered by Judge Baltasar Garzon.

'I remember because I was there and read a statement,' Galan testified.

'I condemn not just the death of 3,000 people, but the death of a single
person,' he said, in reference to the death toll in the September 11 attacks.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           April 27, 2005, Wednesday

ABIGAIL'S ORDEAL: TERROR AT THE GATE;
 ATTACKER SPOTTED ABIGAIL .. CHASED HER .. CORNERED HER IN A LANE..

BYLINE: BY ALEXANDRA WILLIAMS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 800 words

HIGHLIGHT: SO BRAVE: Abigail gazes lovingly at husband Benoit from her hospital
bed. Son Joseph gently touches her face; SYMPATHY: Flowers at scene of horror;
1; Abigail and Joseph, 21 months, leave the mum and toddler group in church hall
at 3.30pm; 2; At around 3.45pm Abi first sees her attacker driving slowly
towards her along Water Lane; 3; The blue estate passes her. Their eyes meet and
worried Abi puts Joseph in buggy and walks off briskly; 4; She is now
three-quarters of the way along the track when the same car pulls up behind her
and the man approaches; 5; Abi runs along lane but can't open deer gate on to
Burnhams Road.; She hears man say "You've dropped your purse." Turns to see he
has knife at Joseph's throat. He grabs her hair and stabs her in neck. Time off
attack: 4pm


STABBED mum Abigail Witchalls has told detectives of the terrifying moment a
maniac held a knife to her 21-month-old son's throat as she struggled in vain to
open a broken gate.

She described how the man then grabbed her, forced her to the ground and stabbed
her in the neck. He dumped son Joseph's buggy, with him in it, on top of her and
fled, leaving her for dead.

People living nearby heard her screams and found her lying in a pool of blood.

Abigail, 26, who was partly paralysed in the attack, has given police a detailed
account of her horrific ordeal from her hospital bed.

During six hours with detectives, she blinked, mouthed answers and used facial
expressions to communicate. Bravely, she insisted they return yesterday to
continue the questioning.

Abigail's terrifying account of her ordeal was revealed on the day heart-rending
pictures were released of her with Joseph and husband Benoit, 26, at her
hospital bedside.

Abigail told police she left a mother and toddler group in the church hall in
Little Bookham, near Leatherhead, Surrey, at 3.30pm last Wednesday. She walked
along a road and then turned on to a path, which meets Water Lane. It leads to a
dirt track into the woods.

It was here that she first saw a pale-faced man with bags under his eyes. He was
driving a blue estate car slowly towards her.

It was 3.45pm. The car passed. Her eyes met those of the driver and and she felt
uneasy.

She put Joseph into his buggy and walked briskly along the track.

She reached a wide, muddy path in a wooded area. Several minutes later she
turned and, to her horror, saw the man again.

He had got out of the car and was walking towards her. When Abigail realised she
was being followed she started running, frantically pushing Joseph's buggy
through the mud. By this stage the path had narrowed to just three feet wide.

She knew the path and knew that after 400 metres it came to an end and there was
a cluster of houses.

There was a gate at the end to keep out deer but the latch on her side was
broken.

She could see houses and the road through the gate. She tried the metal handle,
rattling the gate desperately.

The path was like a dark tunnel, surrounded by deer-proof fencing and
eight-foot-high hedges. There was no way out.

Det Supt Adrian Harper said: "Abigail could not open the gate.

"She heard the man say 'You have dropped your purse.' She turned around and saw
that the man had grabbed hold of Joseph and was holding a knife to his throat.

"The man gestured to Abigail to come towards him and she did so. He then grabbed
her hair, pulled her down towards the ground and as he did so, stabbed her once
in the back of the neck with the knife.

"He then pushed the buggy, with Joseph still in it, on top of her and ran off."

Abigail said she did not know the man, who she said appeared to be under the
influence of drink or drugs.

She said he had a pale, thin face, with bags under his eyes and short dark
scruffy wavy hair. He was aged between 20 and 35, 5ft 10in to 6ft 4in tall, and
was wearing looped silver earrings. He had prominent cheekbones, a cockney or
southern accent and a deep voice.

Det Supt Harper praised Abigail's courage. He said: "She is an incredibly brave
and determined young woman.

"The amount of information that she has given us is extraordinary. She has been
through an even more harrowing experience than we imagined but she is determined
to help catch this man as soon as possible.

"As for Joseph, he has started to act out some of what has happened to him. He
will need our support."

Abigail has also sent a message to the public thanking them for their support.
She said: "I am improving and everybody's prayers are enormously helpful." Then
she selflessly asked people not to send flowers to her but to make donations
World Poverty Day.

Police have now ruled out a 28-year-old man with a blue Peugeot who was arrested
and bailed last weekend.

Mr Harper said the attacker "may well be a local person. These lanes are remote
locations - it isn't an area you will have come to by chance." He said the
motive for the attack was a mystery. Neither Abigail's purse nor her mobile
phone was taken.

She was 10 weeks pregnant when she was stabbed but detectives have not revealed
whether she had since lost the baby.

Surrey Assistant Chief Constable Mark Rowley said Abigail had regained some
feeling in parts of her body and was no longer in a critical condition at St
George's Hospital in Tooting, South London.

He added: "This is a crime so horrific that I would hope that, for anyone
watching this appeal, helping us identify the offender would come before any
loyalty to family, friends or even criminal associates.

"This man must be caught."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 27, 2005

Terror as man attacked me

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 382 words


The terrifying moment when young mum Abigail Witchalls came face-to-face with
the knifeman who left her for dead was yesterday revealed for the first time.
From her hospital bed, the 26-year-old told detectives that her attacker grabbed
her toddler son and held a blade to his throat as they tried to flee the scene.

The man then pushed her to the ground and stabbed her in the neck before shoving
21month-old Joseph's buggy on top of her and escaping.

Mrs Witchalls was paralysed by the attack in Little Bookham, Surrey, but has
been able to communicate with police by blinking and mouthing words. Her
detailed account came as a photo of the former teacher with her husband, Benoit,
and son at her bedside was released.

Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper paid tribute to the 'very intelligent and
strong young woman' who demanded that police return to hospital yesterday to
continue six hours of questioning from the previous day.

Surrounded by dozens of cards from wellwishers, Mrs Witchalls also sent a
message to the public thanking them for their support.

She said: "I am improving and everybody's prayers are enormously helpful. Thank
you for all the flowers, which are beautiful." She revealed that minutes before
the attack she had tried to run away after she saw the man eyeing her from a
blue four-door estate car in the quiet Surrey lane.

Mrs Witchalls first saw her attacker at about 3.45pm last Wednesday afternoon.

He drove past her as she walked along a lane.

She said their eyes met and she felt uneasy.

She put Joseph back in his buggy and started to walk away only to realise that
the car had pulled up behind her and the man was coming towards her.

She started to panic and ran along the lane but could not open the gate at the
end.

Mr Harper said: "Abigail reached the gate that leads on to the lane off Burnhams
Road but could not open it. She heard the man say, 'You have dropped your
purse.' She turned around and saw the man had grabbed Joseph and was holding a
knife to his throat." The man then gestured to Abigail to come towards him and
she did so.

Mr Harper continued: "He then grabbed her hair, pulled her down towards the
ground and as he did so, stabbed her once in the back of the neck with the
knife."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2005 2704WESTDP214terro

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Essex Chronicle

                                 April 28, 2005

Mum's terror after dog attack

BYLINE: Chris Runeckles

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 329 words


A mother who was attacked by a dog while out walking in Galleywood says she is
now too scared to take her young children along the same route.  Sophie Mussell,
26, is refusing to take her two daughters along the bridal path where she was
bitten by an alsatian until the animal and its owner are found.

The dog was with a man and on a retractable lead when it ran towards Sophie and
bit through her corduroy jacket and into her left arm, leaving her with an
injured arm which required a week off work.

Police have been unable to trace the man because he gave a false name and
address.

The attack happened on Sunday April 10 at about 10.30am on a path between
Galleywood and Great Baddow. Sophie, of Queensland Crescent, Melbourne,
regularly takes the route with her mum Jean, Poppy, two, and Jasmine, six.

The path is close to Jean's house in Brook Lane, Galleywood, and the only reason
the children were not there was that their father Kevin called earlier to take
them swimming.

Sophie and Jean were half way down the path when they saw a man standing up a
bank looking through binoculars with a black and tan alsatian.

Said Sophie: "At first I thought the dog was coming over to say hello but as it
got within three feet of me I realised it wasn't slowing down." When the man
realised what was happening he pulled the dog off but then started walking away.
Jean challenged the man and he shouted back a name and address before leaving.

The wound opened up to the width of a 50 pence piece and after being treated at
Broomfield Hospital Sophie was off work for a week.

She said: "If the children had been with me it could have been Poppy or
Jasmine's face. I'm not going to take the children up that bridal path until I
know that dog is not a danger any more." She described the man as 45-55, wearing
a green jacket, with binoculars around his neck, and salt and pepper hair.

Anyone with information should contact Chelmsford police on 01245 491212.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2005 Essex Chronicle

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 28, 2005, Thursday

Global terrorist attacks triple

BYLINE: Elaine Monaghan in Washington

SECTION: Overseas news; 45

LENGTH: 154 words


The number of terrorist attacks around the world more than tripled last year to
about 650, according to US government data.

A Democrat Congressman made the figures public after a briefing by Karen
Aguilar, a senior counter-terrorism official, and Russ Travers, the deputy head
of a new agency that collects the data. They said that the number of attacks in
Iraq rose to 198 in 2004 from 22 the previous year, though they emphasised that
this was partly because the fledgeling National Counter-terrorism Centre
conducted a more thorough count.

About half the attacks were linked to a surge in violence over Kashmir, but even
excluding those the number doubled from 2003, when it was at a 20-year high.

The State Department erroneously reported last year that the number of attacks
had fallen, evidence that it was winning the War on Terror. It subsequently
corrected the statistics to show an increase.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             April 29, 2005, Friday

YANKS SHOT MY SON DURING AMBUSH;
 BLOODBATH AFTER INNOCENT IRAQIS ARE TARGETED SCOTS MUM TELLS OF CAR ATTACK
TERROR IN BAGHDAD EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: By Annie Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 359 words


A SCOTS mum who emigrated to Iraq yesterday told of her teenage son's incredible
escape from a bullet-riddled car after US troops opened fire on himHusayn
Khairulla, 19, was wounded when soldiers shot at the family's car in Baghdad.

It was sitting behind a vehicle from which two terrorists had launched a
rocket-propelled grenade at an army patrol.

Husayn's mum Mariam said: 'The terrorists sped off but the Americans fired at
the car my son was in.

'They blasted the car with bullets for about two minutes. They didn't care where
the attack on them had actually come from.'

On the other side of the road, a pregnant woman in a car with her husband and
three kids was killed by the soldiers' bullets.

Mariam, 50, originally from Hamilton, Lanarkshire, moved with Husayn and two of
her other children from Leeds to Baghdad last September to be reunited with her
Iraqi husband of 26 years, Luay.

Hydraulics engineer Luay had lived in the UK for 30 years but returned to Iraq
after the fall of Saddam to help rebuild his country.

On April 2, Husayn was in the front passenger seat of the car next to his uncle
Mohammed Ali, with three of his cousins in the back.

They had pulled up at a cousin's house they were renovating when the firefight
began.

The boys crouched down to dodge the bullets but school teacher Mohammed was too
tall and slid out of the car.

Husayn was shot in the foot but when the shooting subsided he managed to hobble
in to his cousin's house.

The movement sparked another round of gunfire, during which a large chunk was
blown out of Mohammed's foot. It later became infected and had to be amputated.

The family said soldiers refused to let Mohammed's son out of the car to help
his dad. A US medic treated the injured men but Husayn was so badly hurt he
still can't walk.

Mariam said: 'The boys said the soldiers were laughing and joking and swearing.
They didn't seem to care.

'Now I'm really angry, especially for the Iraqi people. No one seems to take any
notice of them when things like this happen.'

Mariam complained to the British consul who have contacted the Americans

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RIDDLED: The; car blasted by the US soldiers; ANGRY: Mariam; AGONY:;
Husayn recovers in hospital

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 April 30, 2005

Five evacuated in arsonists' terror attacks

BYLINE: By Sarah Brettsbrett@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 228 words


TWO separate arson attacks saw five people, including children, evacuated from
their Londonderry homes overnight.

Shortly after midnight firefighters helped a man from his flat at Glen Court
after a rag soaked in home heating oil was set alight and shoved through his
letter box.

The man had rung the emergency services on his mobile phone. He was suffering
the effects of smoke inhalation but did not go to hospital.

In the Waterside four hours later, five fire engines went to flats on Spencer
Road where people were believed to be trapped by a blazing front door.

A passer-by raised the alarm and when fire crews arrived the occupants had been
alerted by their smoke alarms.

Firefighters extinguished the fire and searched the flats.

A 52-year-old was led to safety from his flat on the first floor while a man and
two children fled via a fire escape from the second floor.

The four did not need hospital treatment.

Crescent Link Station Officer Jonathan Dunn said the arsonists had no regard for
the welfare of the families inside.

"The man and the children particularly were shocked by their ordeal," he said.
"To set fire to a private access, therefore barring the way out of a block of
flats, doesn't show much care for these people's safety."

Police ask anyone who can help to ring them on 028 7136 7337.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2005 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 New Scientist

                                 April 30, 2005

Terror attack hit male birth rate

BYLINE: Staff

SECTION: NEWS; In Brief; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 216  words


NOT all the victims of 9/11 died in the towers or the crashed planes. A higher
than average number of male fetuses died in the US in the following months, a
study of birth rates suggests.

At times of great stress, such as the social and economic turmoil that followed
the reunification of Germany in 1990, sex ratios become slightly skewed towards
females (New Scientist , 30 August 2003, p 20). But until now it has not been
clear whether this is because fewer males are conceived, or whether fewer males
already in the womb survive.

Ralph Catalano's team at the University of California at Berkeley examined
records of birth and miscarriages in the state, where all fetal deaths after the
20th week of pregnancy must be recorded. The researchers found that about 2 per
cent fewer healthy males and 29 per cent fewer low-birthweight males were born
in December 2001 than expected. Figures for October and November showed that a
quarter more male fetuses died than would normally be expected (Human
Reproduction , vol 20, p 1221).

Catalano thinks high levels of stress hormones in pregnant women could be to
blame. The phenomenon might be an evolutionary mechanism designed to cull the
weakest males when times are hard. "It's not in the interest of the herd to have
small, weak males around," he says.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


 Copyright 2005 Reed Business Information, UK, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  May 1, 2005

Veiled women in Cairo attacks: Terrorists target foreigners with guns and bombs
in Egyptian capital

BYLINE: by Peter Beaumont, Foreign Affairs Editor

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 575 words


TWO VEILED women opened fire on a bus carrying foreign tourists and the fiance
of one of the woman blew himself up when he leaped off a bridge during a police
chase in the Egyptian capital, Cairo, yesterday.

Seven people were hurt by the explosion, three Egyptians, an Israeli couple, a
Swedish man and an Italian woman. The blast, a nail bomb, went off in a crowded
square between an exclusive hotel on the banks of the Nile and the Egyptian
museum.

Two Egyptians were hurt in the shooting when the woman targeted a tour bus
headed towards one of Cairo's most prominent his toric Islamic sites. The two
woman followed the bus by car and fired through the back window. They then shot
themselves, although witnesses said police had opened fire. One died at once,
the other in hospital.

An Interior Ministry statement identified the man killed in the explosion as
Ehab Yousri Yassin, and said that he jumped from a bridge during a pursuit,
setting off the explosives he was carrying. Earlier two other men had been
captured. They were being hunted as a suspect in the bombing of foreigners near
a tourist bazaar on 7 April.

The ministry said the two woman were Yassin's sister and fiancee. Late yesterday
pools of blood lay on the street in the Sayeda Aisha area of medieval Islamic
Cairo, where the shooting took place, a witness said. At least one pistol lay on
the street and what appeared to be women's black gloves lay in the road.

Two militant groups posted web statements claim ing responsibility for the twin
attacks - the Mujahedeen of Egypt and the Abdullah Azzam Brigades. Neither
claim's authenticity could be verified.

The Abdullah Azzam Brigades said yesterday's violence was in revenge for the
arrests of thousands of people in Sinai after bombings last October in Taba and
another Sinai resort, in which 34 people were killed - and which it also claimed
to have carried out. Egyptian authorities have said that attack was connected to
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, not domestic violence. They have insisted the
attack on 7 April at Khan el-Khalili was carried out by a limited cell and does
not represent a revival of major militant groups.

At the scene of the explosions the remains of a body, covered with newspapers,
were seen beneath a bridge close to the scene a few minutes after the 3.15pm
explosion was heard through downtown Cairo.

The injured Swede - sitting upright in a stretcher with his bloody hands held to
his face - was lifted by paramedics into an ambulance. Sitting upright, he held
his hands to his face as paramedics loaded the stretcher into an ambulance.

On a nearby pavement, two Westerners checked their wounds; the young woman's
left arm was covered in blood and the man sitting next to her appeared to have
sustained leg injuries.

'I heard a very loud explosion after what looked like a man throwing a bomb down
from the bridge,' said Mohammed Hasan Mohammed, 45.

The blast was the second bomb attack in the vicinity of major Cairo tourist
attractions in less than a month. The 7 April attack by a suicide bomber killed
two French citizens, an American and himself.

The explosion yesterday was caused by a very primitive bomb full of nails, the
health minister Mohammed Awad Tag Eddin said.

During the Nineties, Islamic insurgents mounted several attacks on tourists in a
bid to cripple the country's tourism industry and bring down the government.


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                              May 1, 2005, Sunday

TOURIST AMBUSH;
 TWO DIE AS WOMEN TERRORISTS ATTACK BUS

BYLINE: By Himaya Quasem

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 404 words


TWO veiled female terrorists opened fire on a tourist coach injuring three
people in the Egyptian capital of Cairo yesterday.

One of the attackers was shot dead after a gun battle with security guards.

Hours earlier, another terrorist died when his nail bomb went off as he leaped
from a bridge in the heart of Cairo's tourist zone.

Four locals and four foreign tourists were injured in the blast, at a bus
station near one of the city's leading hotels and the famous Egyptian Museum.

The victims were believed to include an Israeli couple, both 55, a Swedish man
of 28 and a 26year-old Italian woman.

The Foreign Office confirmed last night that no British tourists had been hurt
in the blast.

Yesterday's terror attacks began in mid- afternoon when the Arab bomber, later
named as Ehab Yousri Yassin, was spotted and chased through the streets.

He ran to the bus station, then climbed on the bridge, throwing his bomb as he
leaped.

Eyewitness Mohammed Hasan Mohammed, 45, said: 'I heard a very loud explosion
after what looked like a man throwing a bomb down from the bridge.'

An Egyptian government spokesman said: 'The explosion was caused by a very
primitive bomb full of nails. Most of the injuries were superficial.

'The Swedish man was in the worst condition, with injuries to his face.'

Yassin was suspected of involvement in an explosion in a city bazaar on April 7
which again targeted tourists.

Two French citizens and an American died in that attack.

Just hours after the bridge blast, the second terror attack began. The two
female terrorists opened fire on a packed tour bus. Security officers quickly
returned fire and shot both women, killing one of them.

The tour bus shooting was in old Cairo, an area rich with historic mosques and
cemeteries.

At the site, a pistol and a black glove of the type worn by veiled women lay on
the ground, amid blood and shattered glass.

Security officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said police suspect that
the two women involved in the shooting were relatives of Yassin or another
suspect in the April 7 attack plot - Ashraf Saeed - believed to have died in
police custody a few days ago.

The attacks are thought to be the work of Islamic militants, who wanted to cause
maximum carnage to the city's tourist trade.

Egypt is under emergency rule, with some 16,000 suspected militants in prison

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bomb horror: Tourists and locals gather in confusion as emergency teams
race to the scene of bridge blast; Grisly task: Forensic experts examine body

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                              May 1, 2005, Sunday

TOURIST AMBUSH;
 THREE DIE IN TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: By Himaya Quasem

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 339 words


TOURISTS were left injured and terrified after two separate suicide attacks
shocked the Egyptian capital Cairo yesterday.

A family of terrorists - including two veiled gun-wielding women - were
responsible for the atrocities which left at least nine people injured.

The day of terror began when police arrested two suspects over a bombing at a
city bazaar on April 7.

They were chasing a third man, Ehab Yousri Yassin, when he jumped off a bridge,
detonating a nail-filled explosive at a bus station near the Egyptian Museum.

The blast killed him and injured seven people, including four touristsDazed The
remains of his body were covered with a blanket as police and ambulances rushed
to help dazed tourists and locals.

Eyewitness Mohammed Hasan Mohammed, 45, said: 'I heard a very loud explosion
after seeing what looked like a man throwing a bomb down from the bridge.'

The second attack came two hours later when Yassin's sister and fiancee attacked
a packed tour bus. The veiled attackers were in a car when they fired at the
back windows of the bus in a historic part of Cairo called Citadel which is
packed with mosques and museums.

No tourists were hurt but two Egyptians were injured before the women - Negat
Yusri Yassin and Iman Ibrahim Khamis, both in their 20s - shot themselves.

Last night, British Foreign Office officials said no British tourists were
believed to have been hurt in either attack.

A spokeswoman said: 'We have no reports that British people were injured but
obviously we will monitor the situation.'

The four foreigners injured in the bomb attack were an Israeli couple, both 55,
a Swedish man of 28 and a 26-year-old Italian woman.

An Egyptian government spokesman said: 'The explosion was caused by a very
primitive bomb full of nails.

'Most injuries were superficial. The Swedish man was in the worst condition,
with injuries to his face.'

Egyptian Health Minister Mohammed Awad Tag Eddin said three Egyptians had been
wounded, including one woman

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Horror: An injured tourist is led away from the scene of the attack;
Covered: Yassin's body at bus station

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                              May 1, 2005, Sunday

SCHOOLGIRLS' THEME PARK SEX TERROR;
 TEENS ATTACKED ON CLASS TRIP

BYLINE: By Billy Paterson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 458 words


FOUR Scots teenagers have been sexually assaulted during a school trip to theme
park Alton Towers.

The girls - aged between 13 and 15 - were on a day-long visit to the popular
fairground when the sickening attacks took place on Friday afternoon.

Three men, aged between 18 and 20, were arrested after being caught harassing
the girls on the theme park's CCTV.

The teenagers, from Ayrshire, were part of a group of first, second and third
-year pupils visiting the English attraction.

They left their homes at 4am on Friday to travel to the Staffordshire theme
park, Britain's biggest.

The schoolgirls were standing in a queue for Alton Towers' latest thrill ride -
Rita Queen of Speed - with four pals when they were approached by the men around
4.30pm.

The shaken teenagers said the thugs stank of drink.

One 14-year-old schoolgirl who was on the trip said: 'Suddenly, these three
drunks, who were much older than the girls, came up to them and started trying
to chat them up.

'The girls just tried to ignore them but then these men got really nasty and
attacked three or four of them, touching them.

'The girls were screaming and were all in tears.'

The three attackers fled the scene and tried to escape from the park on a bus.

But they had been caught on CCTV and Alton Towers staff scanning the monitors in
the park's control centre spotted the suspects lurking at the bus park. A police
officer on patrol nearby called for assistance and the three were arrested and
taken to Longton Police Office in Stoke-on-Trent.

The girls were questioned by Staffordshire Police and did not get back home to
their anxious parents until 4am yesterday.

Last night, a spokesman for Staffordshire Police said: 'Three males aged 18, 19
and 20 were arrested at around 5pm in relation to indecent assault involving
girls at Alton Towers.

'They were released on bail pending further inquiries.'

One officer who attended the scene added: 'This is a dreadful thing to have
happened.

'Youngsters should be able to come down here from Scotland to enjoy a day out at
Alton Towers without any fear of this kind of thing happening.

'It must have been a very upsetting journey home for the girls. 'The security
staff took the girls into their office and looked after them and tried to
comfort them until we arrived.

'Unfortunately, because of the number of youngsters involved, the questioning
took a bit of time.'

One parent said: 'We were frantic with worry when we heard what had happened to
our daughter.

'You feel so helpless when you are so far away and cannot comfort your wee girl.

'The men who carried out these attacks are despicable. They put us through the
longest night of our lives

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sick assault: Four Scots schoolgirls aged just 13 to 15 were attacked
by three drunks at Alton Towers, Staffordshire, above

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 1, 2005

TERROR ATTACK WARNING FOR SUNSHINE TOURISTS; AL QAEDA BELIEVED TO BE PLANNING
BLITZ ON TUNISIA HOLIDAYMAKERS

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman Defence Editor

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 453 words


AL QAEDA terrorists are planning to target tourists heading to Tunisia this
summer, according to warnings from the Foreign Office and the US government.

Intelligence chiefs are convinced that Islamic fanatics are plotting a major
attack in the North African country which is popular with western tourists for
its sun-kissed beaches.

The US State Department has warned A merican travellers they could be targeted
"imminently".

But last night Foreign Secretary Jack Straw was branded "deeply irresponsible"
for failing to do more to keep the British public informed of the threat.

More than 300,000 Britons head to Tunisia's Mediterranean beaches every y ear.
Yet although the US warning is now on the Foreign Office travel advice website,
senior officials have refused to raise the terror alert status for Tunisia, and
it is still not listed as a place tourists should not visit.

Shadow Homeland Security Minister Patrick Mercer told the Sunday Express:
"People must be made aware of this threat. Many are going away for holidays over
the May period. This is deeply irresponsible of Jack Straw."

The terror warning comes as security chiefs fear Al Qaeda may attempt to disrupt
the general election this week. UK troops and aid workers in Iraq have been told
there is a heightened risk of kidnapping following claims that terror chief Abu
Musab al Zarqawi is planning a bloodbath in British-controlled Basra.

Intelligence chiefs are also predicting a taped communication from Bin Laden
direct to British voters.

In Tunisia, tensions have risen following a crackdown on Islamic insurgents.

America has offered $ 5million rewards for the capture of two Tunisians linked
to Al Qaeda, Abderraouf Jdey and Abdelaziz Boussora, both naturalised Canadians.

The US warning on April 20 concluded: "The United States government has strong
indications that individuals may be planning imminent terrorist actions in
Tunisia." Spokesman Adam Ereli said: "We received information regarding the
possible planning of terrorist activity in Tunisia and on the basis of that
information we needed to take certain security precautions."

However, the Foreign Office website merely states: "There is a continuing threat
from terrorism in Tunisia. There was a serious attack on a synagogue in Djerba
in 2002 for which Al Qaeda claimed responsibility.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "We only advise against all travel in
situations of extreme and imminent danger.

We always tell people to check travel advice right up till the time they
travel."

A spokeswoman for the Association of British Travel Agents said: "Tour operators
have pinned up information about the travel advice in hotels."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Wireless News

                                  May 3, 2005

Teachers, Parents in Biloxi Learn How to Respond to Terrorist Attacks

LENGTH: 245 words


WIRELESS NEWS-3 May 2005-Teachers, Parents in Biloxi Learn How to Respond to
Terrorist Attacks ©2005 10Meters - http://www.10meters.com

The National Institute for Homeland Security and Anti-Terrorism Preparedness
(NIHAP) this week sponsored a conference for educators, first responders and
community leaders on how to respond to terrorist attacks at schools.

The three-day meeting was held at the Beau Rivage Resort & Casino in Biloxi,
Miss.

Designed to teach principals, teachers and parents what to do if their schools
are targeted by terrorist organizations, the conference also covered bullying
and school violence.

NIHAP is an independent organization based at Nova Southeastern University's
Fischler School of Education and Human Services, in partnership with Educational
Impact and Signature Science, LLC.

Speakers at NIHAP-sponsored conferences include former U.S. Secret Service and
FBI agents, experts in non-violent conflict resolution, and experts in crisis
management. Sessions and keynotes focus on emerging trends in school violence
prevention and school preparedness and planning in the era of terrorist threats.

Other topics include the anatomy of terrorism; crisis management; biological,
chemical, radiological, and nuclear threats; the impact of terrorism; and
strategies for prevention. For additional information, visit www.nihap.org.

(Comments on this story may be sent to newsdesk@10meters.com)

(Distributed via M2 Communications Ltd - http://www.m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright  2005 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 5, 2005

BRITAIN UNDER POLLDAY TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: HUGH DOUGHERTY

SECTION: LSE_04; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 156 words


TWO bombs exploded outside the British consulate in New York today in a dramatic
election day attack.

The explosions went off in the early hours of the morning outside the building
in the heart of Manhattan.

No injuries were reported, but police immediately sealed off a massive area
around the building. The explosions came after a warning from security services
that Al Qaeda would attempt to disrupt today's general election.

The front of the multi-storey office building was damaged in the blast.

A New York police spokesman said: "There was an explosion in front of the
location at 3.35am (8.35am GMT). It was detonated in one of the cement flower
boxes used as a barrier outside the building. There was some damage to the front
window but there are no reports of any injuries at this stage."

The building, which has hundreds of staff, many of them British citizens, was
largely unoccupied at the time.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                        May 6, 2005 Friday 11:10 AM GMT

Australia warns of imminent terrorist attack in the Philippines

LENGTH: 286 words


MANILA (AFX) - Australia has warned of the risk of an imminent terrorist attack
in the Philippines and urged its citizens to avoid tourist areas.

'We continue to receive reports that terrorists in the region are planning
attacks,' said an Australian foreign ministry statement posted on the Australian
embassy's website.

'Recent reports suggest that terrorists may be in the final stages of planning
an attack. Attacks could occur at any time, anywhere in the Philippines,' the
travel advisory said.

There was no immediate official reaction from the Philippine government.

The warning, posted on the ministry's website, urged Australians in the
Philippines to 'exercise extreme caution.'

'Possible terrorist targets include areas known to be frequented by foreigners,
including coastal resorts,' it said.

It also warned vigilance at 'commercial and public areas known to be frequented
by foreigners such as, but not limited to, embassies, expatriate housing
complexes, shopping malls, clubs, hotels, restaurants, bars, schools, places of
worship, outdoor recreation events and tourist areas.'

The advisory also listed infrastructure associated with the government, such as
'public transport, airports, sea ports and public buildings.'

The Philippines has witnessed many bombings in recent years linked to Islamic
militants from the Abu Sayyaf and Jemaah Islamiyah militant groups, both of
which are accused of links to the Al-Qaeda network.

Bombs in Manila and the southern Philippines on Feb 14 claimed several lives and
a ferry bombing in Manila Bay led to the deaths of more than 100 people last
year.

'Australians should avoid travel on ferries unless no other means of travel is
available,' said the advisory.

cgm-str/pch/swp

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                  May 10, 2005

Vehicles promised to combat terror attack

SECTION: News; People; Others; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 442 words


Two ambulances in Lincolnshire are to become terror attack clean-up vehicles as
part of a £1.1 million upgrade plan.  This is part of our ongoing preparations
for either a large-scale incident locally or to support colleagues regionally.

The cash will also pay for electrically- operated garage doors at every
ambulance station, and expansion work at the county's ambulance control room.

The Lincolnshire Ambulance Trust wants to spend £900,000 on the second stage of
developing the control room, which is at its headquarters in Brace- bridge
Heath, near Lincoln.

Installing the doors is an effort to improve response times and is expected to
cost £62,000.

Converting the two ambulances into decontamination vehicles, which would be used
in the event of a chemical attack in the county, will cost a further £20,000.

A spokesperson for the trust said it currently had two dedicated decontamination
vehicles, but that these would be replaced by the ambulances.

He said: "The ambulances will carry protective equipment for staff and
decontamination equipment for patients.

"For example, there will be a shower you can put people through to get chemicals
off them.

"We should have completed the specification for this conversion by the end of
the month and it will then go to an approved contractor to do the work.

"This is part of our ongoing preparations for either a large-scale incident
locally or to support colleagues regionally." The trust has said it expects work
on all three projects to be completed within a year.

A report by the trust's deputy director of finance Colin Hills said that its
basic allocation for buying new assets for the next year would be £997,000.

But it may also be able to find more cash to spend on projects through
investment from other NHS trusts in the county, or by selling off some of its
existing assets in Spilsby, Stamford, Grantham and Lincoln.

The document states that there may be as much as £1,167,000 available.

Finance director David Atkinson said the trust's directors had got together to
come up with suggestions for schemes to enhance the way it delivers its services
this year.

Work has already begun on installing a new system in the control room.

The second stage will be to set up more services, including mental health crisis
teams.

Steve West, the trust's director of operations, added: "There will be a team of
nurses on hand to take calls.

"They can give health advice over the phone in cases where there is not a need
to send an ambulance out.

"The upgrade will also provide the space to help us deliver out of hours call
centre services from the control room."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2005 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                                  May 11, 2005

Terror of mum in scythe attack case

BYLINE: Nigel Freedman (nigel.freedman@theargus.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 460 words


A mother was left almost naked in the street after her nightdress was ripped off
by a neighbour a court heard.

Alison Turner told a jury that Kenneth Whitear tore her nightie to shreds as she
went to help her husband Clayton Turner.

Moments earlier Whitear of Amundsen Road Horsham had allegedly attacked Mr
Turner with a garden scythe leaving his eyebrow hanging off by a thread of skin.

Mrs Turner said: "I could see where the blood was coming from and all I could
think about was that half of my husband's face was hanging off.

Mr Whitear jumped up and hit me twice in the face with his clenchedfist.

He was holding onto me while he was hitting me. He completely ripped my nightie
to shreds.

It was hanging down by my knees but I did not realise until I gotback into the
house that I had nothing else on.

The incident happened in January after Mr Turner complained to Whitear that his
television and radio were turned up too loud at 7.30am.

Mrs Turner told Hove Crown Court that Whitear had threatened her three children
and the family's pets.

She claimed he had said he would kill them after a football was kicked over the
fence into his garden.

Mrs Turner said: "We have made numerous complaints to the police about him.

He threatened to kill the children six times over two years.

We also complained to the housing association and they built us a fence so that
we could get to our car in peace without being shouted and sworn at by him."

Mr Turner a train driving instructor for Southern had earlier told the court he
had approached the Benefits Agency about Whitear who uses a walking stick.

He said: "I sought their advice after friends told us he was boasting about
getting disability benefits.

My wife's father had a stroke and is disabled so we know how adisabled person
behaves.

We were saying that Mr Whitear was not a person who is disabled and he was
putting on an act.

The benefits fraud office told us to video him to get proof.

The court heard that Mr Turner has permanent scars over his eyebrow on his hand
and on his leg which were allegedly caused by the scythe.

He also has two scars on his arm where he was allegedly bitten by Whitear who is
also said to have bitten Mr Turner's 12-year-old daughter when she tried to
intervene.

The couple's daughter Shan told the court she also had a scar on her hand where
she was bitten by Whitear. "He bit me when I tried to get dad's arm out of his
mouth.

I was punching him and slapping him on the side of his face, tryingto get him
off my dad.

Whitear denies causing grievous bodily harm with intent to Mr Turner on January
15.

He also denies assaulting Mrs Turner and the couple's daughter.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 14, 2005

Husband jailed for wife terror attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 126 words


A Somerset man who subjected his pregnant wife to a humiliating assault where he
stripped her naked and left her crying in the kitchen was jailed for three
months.  South Somerset Magistrates heard on Thursday that Reginald Keith North,
57, had grabbed his wife, forced her to the floor and sat astride her, slapping
her on the face. The victim said she feared she might be killed or raped.

The offence took place just one week after the victim had agreed for her husband
to move back into the family home in Bower Hinton after he had been bailed by
police for a previous allegation of assault.

The court also heard that his wife had subsequently lost her baby after the
assault although it could not be proved as a contributory factor.


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2005 1405WESTDP2D4husba

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 15, 2005, Sunday

DEATH TOLL NINE IN TERROR BASE ATTACK

BYLINE: BY RUPERT HAMER DEFENCE CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 128 words

HIGHLIGHT: A suicide bomb left devastation at a Baghdad police station yesterday


NINE US soldiers have now died in a major offensive against an al-Qaeda-linked
stronghold in Iraq.

Four died yesterday as US aircraft, tanks and marines continued to pound
insurgent positions in Obeidi, close to the Syrian border.

It is a base for terrorists led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, who executed Brit Ken
Bigley.

In Baghdad, a suicide car bomber blew himself up next to an Iraqi police patrol,
killing at least four people and leaving a trail of wreckage. In Mosul, US
military police launched an inquiry after five Iraqi civilians were shot by US
troops. In British-controlled Basra, the HQ of the 1st Coldstream Guards
battlegroup came under mortar attack. No one was hurt.

SADDAM Hussein is to write his memoirs as he awaits trial in jail.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                  May 19, 2005

Jailed moslems fear terror-attack reprisals

BYLINE: Scott Macnab

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 295 words


Moslems jailed in Scotland fear repercussions if terrorists attack the country,
according to a north-east academic.  Gabriele Marranci spent seven months
visiting Scotland's main prisons to study how they practise their religion and
its influence on their identity.

The lecturer from Aberdeen University's School of Divinity and Religious Studies
is to expand his work to cover Moslem prisoners south of the border.

About 42,000 Moslems live in Scotland and 100 are in prison.

Mr Marranci is concerned that no contingency measures exist to protect them in
the event of a terror attack in the UK by Islamic extremists.

He said: "They feel very vulnerable if something was to happen. They're mixing
with other prisoners every day and would be living continually with considerable
stress.

"This could be a really big issue. We know what happened in US prisons after the
September 11 attacks. I think it's a worry that is not being taken into
consideration here." Mr Marranci said that has led to heightened vigilance among
Moslem prisoners in the UK.

"They want to know what's happening on the outside because of the fear they
could be victims," he said.

Mr Marranci's research in Scottish jails also showed that the way they Moslems
were able to access their faith varied dramatically in every prison.

"Access to any kind of religion and religious services is organised through the
Church of Scotland, which often makes life more difficult for Islamic convicts,"
he explained.

"However, I found that in many prisons Moslem prisoners were provided with a
prayer mat and the Koran." Mr Marranci has now been given £7,190 from the
British Academy and £3,000 from Aberdeen University to extend his research
across the rest of Britain.


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2005 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  May 19, 2005

Mullin attacks US 'excess' on terror

BYLINE: Tania Branigan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 381 words


Chris Mullin, a Foreign Office minister until two weeks ago, yesterday accused
the government of turning a blind eye to the "excesses" of the war on terror,
claiming the UK's security services could be partly responsible for the
detention of British residents at Guantanamo Bay.

The MP for Sunderland South, sacked in the post-election reshuffle, is the most
senior former minister to question Britain's relationship with the US since
Clare Short and Robin Cook resigned over the Iraq war.

"We are all against terrorism but we are not obliged to close our eyes to the
excesses of our allies. If it becomes necessary for us to sup with a slightly
longer spoon with the US, then so be it," he told the Commons.

Mr Mullin, a former Tribune editor, said of the Britons held without charge or
trial by the US: "We have no legal responsibility to retrieve them but I do
think we have a moral obligation to do that, not least because our security
services may have had something to do with them getting into Guantanamo Bay in
the first place."

That appeared to be a reference to Bisher al-Rawi, a London businessman held by
CIA agents, then transferred to the detention camp in Cuba. He fled Saddam
Hussein's regime but kept Iraqi nationality. He claimed that CIA agents told
him: "Why do you keep asking for the high commissioner? The British asked us to
arrest you."

The Foreign Office has den ied the claim. A spokesman said: "Baroness Symons
(then a Foreign Office minister) was given exceptional permission by the foreign
secretary to meet the families of the British residents in Guantanamo Bay. We
cannot offer them diplomatic or consular protection because they are not British
nationals."

Mr Mullin raised the issues of sending of detainees to other countries, and the
"ghost detainees", those who had disappeared since being picked up by security
services in countries allied to the US. He spoke of "reports of a secret gulag
into which terrorist suspects are disappearing".

His speech came as the foreign secretary, Jack Straw, told a Washington audience
that "the alliance between Europe and America has done more than any other in
human history to promote the values of freedom, justice and fairness".

guardian.co.uk/politics/ foreignaffairs


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                  May 19, 2005

Police chief's warning over gang terror attacks

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 260 words


A SENIOR Greater Manchester police officer investigating an attack on a
father-of-four by a teenage gang has warned of the threat from feral youths
rampaging in cities around the country

Chief Superintendent David Baines told BBC Manchester
(http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/manchester/4554611.stm) the gangs "don't
give a damn about the police or the criminal justice system".

His comments follow an attack on Phillip Carroll 48 who suffered serious head
injuries after challenging the gang who had thrown a stone at his car outside
his Salford home.

Mr Carroll is critically ill in hospital following the attack near his house in
Grecian Street North Lower Broughton. His brother John said the area had been
"terrorised" by youths.

Chief Supt Baines said abusive and alcohol-fuelled gangs of young people all
over the country are hanging around on street corners intimidating people and
causing trouble.

"They then go on to damage property or as we have seen with Mr Carroll to commit
a very vicious and unprovoked assault.

"They are feral have no parental control or respect for anybody and are often
fuelled by alcohol."

He said the force was targeting the 10 worst families in the area but added: "It
is not just individuals it is the whole family. They all lead a life of crime
and are a corrosive influence on the area.

"I have spoken to parents who are unconcerned that their 14-year-old child has
been arrested for a serious assault or robbery. But they are concerned that they
might lose their house."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                  May 20, 2005

Gang attack on fire crew;
KNIFE TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 42 words


FIREFIGHTERS today told how they were confronted by a knife gang as they
responded to a 999 call.

Teenage thugs wearing ski-masks tried to steal the crew's fire engine last night
as the firefighters tackled a blaze in a skip on the south side of Glasgow.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                  May 20, 2005

Thugs try to steal fire engine during attack;
Crew tells of terror after being confronted by masked gang

BYLINE: By DEBORAH ANDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 540 words


TEENAGE thugs wearing ski-masks and brandishing knives and weapons terrorised a
fire crew as they responded to an emergency call.

Firefighters today spoke of their fears after being confronted by the masked
gang of three in Glasgow's south side, who attempted to drive off in the fire
engine.

Members of the Green Watch crew, from Pollok fire station, were today still
badly shaken following the late-night attack.

The crew was trying to extinguish a skip fire in Muirshiel Crescent, Priesthill,
shortly before 11.30pm.

As the driver and leading firefighter were manning the pump to supply water,
they were threatened by youths, who appeared from nowhere.

The gang tried to enter the cab of the fire engine and the horrified
firefighters feared they were trying to steal the vehicle.

Leading firefigher Paul Baker said: "The gang appeared from behind some bushes
and were wearing ski masks and scarves. All you could see was their eyes and it
was quite intimidating.

"They were all brandishing what looked like makeshift weapons, including a
hockey stick, bolt cutters and a wooden pole.

"As they tried to enter the cab, my colleague called to them to try and reason
with them."

However, words did not work with them and it was then one of them pulled out
what appeared to be a knife.

Mr Baker added: '"It seemed they were trying to steal the fire engine, but we
called for assistance.

"They eventually cleared off, but as we were leaving one of them tried to run in
front of the fire engine and looked like he was going to take his hockey stick
to the windscreen.

"The whole thing might only have lasted minutes, but it seemed like a lifetime."

Strathclyde Police said inquiries into the incident were continuing.

Last night's incident happened just yards from where three members of the one
family were killed when fire tore through their Glasgow home.

Brian, 21, Natalie, 16, and nine-year-old Declan Moran, died when flames ripped
through their Priesthill home last April.

Station officer Ian Malcolmson, of Pollok fire station, said: "It is becoming
increasingly frustrating for crews to have to deal with this."

Attacks on fire crews are becoming more prevalent. Just two weeks ago
stone-throwing thugs shattered the windscreen of a fire engine answering an
emergency call.

The Greenock-based crew was forced off the road, but no-one was hurt.

The attack came on the same day as new legislation designed to protect emergency
service workers came into force.

The Emergency Workers (Scotland) Act 2005 makes it a criminal offence to
obstruct an emergency worker who responding to a 999 alert.

deborah. anderson@ eveningtimes. co. uk TIMESFILE There are 3166 operational
firefighters in Strathclyde. They provide round-the-clock crews for a total of
236 emergency vehicles based at 113 strategically sited fire stations.

Last year firefighters responded to 62,024 incidents - an average of more than
169 every day.

Firefighters in Scotland suffered 388 attacks last year, including scaffolding
poles thrown through windscreens, according to the latest research.

Earlier this year a teenage thug was jailed for four years after leading a riot
squad that attacked a fire crew with bricks and bottles as they tried to battle
a school blaze in Coatbridge, Lanarkshire.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 20, 2005, Friday

GUN ATTACK FAMILY TERROR

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 114 words


A FAMILY who survived a gun atttack yesterday are in fear for their lives, a
priest revealed.

Four shots were fired through an upstairs bedroom window of the house at Melmore
Gardens in Derry's Creggan estate in the early hours.

A seven-year-old girl in the bedroom escaped injury as did her mother and
grandparents who were also in the house.

Fr Sean McKenna said the family was "at a loss" as to why their home had been
attacked.

He added: "They just don't know. I spent some time with them after this shooting
and I would say they are now fearing for their lives."

Local Sinn Fein councillor Kevin Campbell described the shooting incident as
"reckless".

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                              May 23, 2005, Monday

MUSLIMS 'VICTIMISED' AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY JONATHAN WALKER POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 273 words


British Muslims have experienced racist attacks, religious bigotry and questions
about their loyalty since the September 11 attacks, according to a new book
edited by a Birmingham lecturer.

The War on Terror has had a devastating impact on Muslims, according to Muslim
Britain, which is published today.

It is edited by Dr Tahir Abbas, a sociology senior lecturer from the Centre for
the Study of Ethnicity and Culture at Birmingham University.

A series of essays examines how the terrorist attacks in America and their
aftermath have affected British Muslims of south Asian origin.

It explores the issues of religious and ethnic identities, citizenship,
Islamophobia, and how Muslims are portrayed in the media.

Dr Abbas said: 'The 11 September 2001 attacks on the World Trade Centre and the
Pentagon were an abhorrent act of extreme actual and symbolic violence.

'The 1.6 million Muslims who live in Britain, around one million of whom are
from South Asia - Bangladeshi, Indian and Pakistani - were just as surprised and
shocked as the majority.

'Since then, however, British Muslims have experienced a range of unenthusiastic
responses, from increasing racist attacks and Islamophobic hostility to direct
and indirect questions being raised about 'loyalty' to the state and British
Muslim 'citizenship'.'

The contributors are specialists in the fields of sociology, social geography,
anthropology, theology and law.

Each chapter explores the positions of South Asian Muslims from different
perspectives.

n The book is published by Zed Books. Further details are available at
http://zedbooks.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 23, 2005

'I thought hunt raid on Commons was terror attack'

BYLINE: PAUL CHESTON

SECTION: D_MERGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 559 words


ANTI-HUNT ban protesters stormed the House of Commons chamber like "some sort of
terror attack" a court heard this afternoon.

Commons doorkeeper Daniel Scanlon said they created "chaos and panic" as "a
fight erupted - it was bedlam really".

Mr Scanlon said he was kicked by one of the protesters even though they were
claiming to be carrying out a peaceful demonstration.

He said the first he knew of the protest was when he heard, "A scream, a cry for
help from inside the chamber."

He added: "At first I thought it was some sort of terror attack."

It was only later when he helped to remove the five protesters who made it to
the floor of the House of Commons that he realised it had been a peaceful
political protest.

Mr Scanlon was giving evidence at Bow St Magistrates Court where Otis Ferry, the
son of pop star Bryan Ferry and seven other pro-Hunting campaigners are standing
trial.

Earlier the court heard that Ferry, 22, was the " principal organiser of the
protesters".

He led seven other demonstrators, dressed as construction workers and bearing a
Commons pass and a letter from MPs, undetected through the corridors of the
Palace of Westminster.

Five of them "stormed" the chamber in front of astonished MPs, causing the
debate on the foxhunting Bill to be suspended.

The court heard Ferry had bought the disguises, drawn a map of the corridors,
met an MP's assistant and carried out a dry run before the demo.

He also tipped off a BBC reporter, telling her to bring her cameras on the
morning of the protest.

Ferry is one of eight protesters who have pleaded not guilty to "disorderly
behaviour" causing harassment, alarm and distress.

The court heard that fellow protester Robert Thame, 35, a polo player, had
followed Ferry at "full-on charge" into the chamber.

He said he had seen a man "wearing a judge's black cape", aged about 60 who was
trying to stop him. "I just ran around him," he said.

Thame said he sat next to Rural Affairs Minister Alun Michael and told him:
"Right ho, let's have a debate now, let's ask some questions and get some home
truths."

A "gentle old boy" then tried to grab him and he let him "slowly drag me out".

Doorkeeper Vaughan Williams said he tried to stop four or five people rushing
into the chamber.

"They were approaching Alun Michael on the front bench in a threatening manner."

He said he had been concerned for the MPs' safety.

Demonstrators outside Bow Street magistrates court today could be heard through
the open windows.

The accused, known as the "Westminster Eight", sat in two rows in well-cut suits
and immaculately knotted ties. Prosecutor Simon Clements said they arrived at
the St Stephen's entrance of the Commons on the day of the mass protest in
Parliament Square last September.

"They were wearing suits under their fluorescent jackets and under that T-shirts
with slogans against the foxhunting Bill."

Palace of Westminster doorkeepers had prevented three of the men from entering
the chamber but "the other five barged past and entered the main chamber".

The other defendants are Luke Tomlinson, 27, who has permission to miss court on
Wednesday to play polo for England, David Redvers, 34, Richard Wakeham, 36,
Nicholas Wood, 41, John Holliday, 37 and Andrew Elliott, 42.

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: "DRIVING FORCE": OTIS FERRY ARRIVES AT BOW STREET MAGISTRATES' COURT
TODAY PROTEST: FIVE OF THE HUNT DEMONSTRATORS INSIDE THE COMMONS CHAMBER, WHERE
THEY CAUSED "BEDLAM"

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             May 24, 2005, Tuesday

INQUEST ON SAUDI TERROR ATTACK ENGINEER

BYLINE: MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: BC1 Edition; NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 212 words


AN inquest will resume today on a British-based engineer who died in a
ter-rorist attack in Saudi Arabia.

Todd Bair, a 37-year-old American who lived in Droitwich, Worcestershire, died
on May 12, 2003 in an attack on a residential compound in Riyadh. It is
understood that the father of-two had been working as a logistical officer for
an American corporation in Riyadh since August of the previous year. The
hearing, being held at Worcestershire Coroner's Court in Stourport-on-Severn,
was scheduled to begin this afternoon.

l Meanwhile the father of a Solihull Red Cap who was killed in Iraq today made a
desperate plea for a full inquest into his son's death. Lance Corporal Tom Keys,
aged 20, was one of six military policemen slaughtered by a mob in June 2003,
but nearly two later there has been no formal inquest.

His father Reg Keys, who stood against Tony Blair in Sedgefield during the
general election, said: 'It's a chapter we have to close and the waiting makes
it very hard.'

The delay is due to the sheer volume of cases Oxfordshire coroner Nicholas
Gardiner has to cope with.

Mr Gardiner's office is responsible for all the dead soldiers that land at RAF
Brize Norton and the office claims it is under-funded for the extra work

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             May 24, 2005, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACK INQUEST

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 87 words


AN inquest will resume today on a British-based engineer who died in a terrorist
attack in Saudi Arabia.

Todd Bair, a 37-year-old American who lived in Droitwich, Worcestershire, died
on May 12, 2003 in an attack on a residential compound in Riyadh. It is
understood that the father-of-two had been working as a logistical officer for
an American corporation in Riyadh since August of the previous year.

The hearing, being held at Worcestershire Coroner's Court in
Stourport-on-Severn, will begin this afternoon

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 24, 2005, Tuesday

MPS THOUGHT HUNT INVASION WAS TERROR ATTACK, COURT IS TOLD

BYLINE: BY JONATHAN BROWN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 583 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Otis Ferry, son of the rock star Bryan Ferry, leaves Bow Street court after
yesterday's hearing TOBY MADDEN


Security staff feared MPs were under terrorist attack when pro-hunt
demonstrators led by the son of the rock star Bryan Ferry stormed the House of
Commons, a court heard.

There were scenes of 'utter confusion, chaos and panic' when eight men,
following a plan masterminded by Otis Ferry, disrupted the second reading of the
Fox Hunting Bill in September last year, it was claimed.

Sylvia Heal, the deputy Speaker, suspended the sitting as doorkeepers grappled
with the intruders, five of whom made it into the chamber. In evidence at Bow
Street magistrates' court, Mrs Heal said she feared the men were armed and was
concerned for the safety of Alun Michael and Elliot Morley, the two ministers
taking part in the debate. 'Although I could see that the young men who entered
the chamber had nothing in their hands, I could not be sure they did not have
something in their pockets or around their body. Nor could I be sure that this
particular incident was not perhaps a distraction for something else that might
follow,' she said.

Daniel Scanlon, a doorkeeper, said he grabbed Robert Thame, a professional polo
player, who was sitting in the Prime Minister's seat. 'He just would not let go.
I managed to get one arm free and pull him and we got into a fight. I was trying
to restrain him and he was kicking out quite violently,' Mr Scanlon said.

The court heard evidence from a police interview in which Mr Thame described the
rush into the chamber as a 'full-on charge'. Another of the accused, John
Holliday, 42, a huntsman, said: 'I was facing the Labour benches and I told them
they were a disgrace to democracy.'

Simon Clements, for the prosecution, said Mr Ferry, 22, was the 'prime
organiser' of the protest which had benefited from his 'substantial planning',
even tipping off a BBC journalist.

He said the men had acted in a disorderly manner by barging past the
doorkeepers. 'If they had stopped at that point, they would have succeeded in
making their protest and not committing a criminal offence,' said Mr Clements.

On the day of the protest - which coincided with a 15,000-strong demonstration
in Parliament Square - the men, disguised as builders, made their way past
security at the main St Stephen's entrance. Once inside they discarded their
builders' outfits to reveal suits. They made their way to the Ladies Stairwell
past an 'out of action' security door where they shed their jackets to reveal
T-shirts bearing the slogan 'fcuk the Bill'. They were only challenged as they
jogged along a corridor leading directly to the Commons chamber.

Three of the defendants, David Redvers, 34, a horse breeder from Hartpury,
Gloucestershire, Andrew Elliott, 43, an auctioneer from Ledbury, Herefordshire,
and Richard Wakeham, 36, a surveyor from York, were stopped.

The remaining five, Mr Ferry, from Eaton Mascot, Shrewsbury, Nicholas Wood, 41,
a chef from Lacock, Wiltshire, Mr Holliday, from Ledbury, Herefordshire, and Mr
Thame, from Maidenhead, Berkshire, stepped into the chamber from behind the
Speaker's chair. The final defendant, Luke Tomlinson, 28, a close friend of
Prince William and Prince Harry who was excused attending court tomorrow to
allow him to represent England at polo, made his way in through a separate
entrance. They are all charged with an offence under the Public Order Act, which
alleges that their behaviour was 'disorderly' and caused 'harassment, alarm and
distress'. They deny the charges.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             May 24, 2005, Tuesday

LOVER JAILED FOR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: BY JACKIE BOW SOUTH WALES ECHO

SECTION: News Extra Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 230 words


A woman dished out a beating to her lover before cooking them both a meal.Karyn
Morgan was stabbed with a bread knife in the drug and drink-fuelled attack by
her partner Katie Chapman. Her hair was hacked off, her wrist was broken and a
tendon damaged, and she suffered multiple cuts and bruising to her head, body
and limbs.

Merthyr Tydfil Crown Court heard Chapman, 23, wearing stilettos, stamped on, and
kicked her arm.

John Ryan, prosecuting, said: 'Chapman grabbed her around the throat with her
left hand, while holding a knife in the other.'

She was described as behaving 'like a raving banshee, a lunatic'.

Mr Ryan said: 'Chapman then began hacking at Miss Morgan's hair with the knife.'

When the attack stopped Chapman ordered her out to buy cigarettes.

'Back there, bizarrely, Chapman cooked a meal for the pair of them - she cooked
chips,' said Mr Ryan.

The court heard Chapman had taken heroin before leaving the couple's Rhondda
flat to borrow money for cigarettes but ended up drinking.

She returned, accusing Miss Morgan of taking one of her heroin-filled syringes.

The police were called in when Miss Morgan went to hospital the following day.

Jailing Chapman, of Llewellyn Court, Pentre, for 30 months for wounding with
intent which she admitted, Judge John Curran said it was a 'terrifying, horrific
and sustained attack'.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 28, 2005

SCOT'S SHARK ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 114 words


A SCOTTISH marine expert has survived an attack by a six-foot long shark.

John Mace was in Barbados to oversee the development of a new public aquarium
and catch specimens to go on display.

The 26-year-old was making sure the nurse shark was acclimatised to its new tank
when it sank its razor sharp teeth into his right knee in what is being
described as the first ever shark attack on Barbados.

Eventually it let go leaving John, from St Andrews, Fife, with his flesh peeled
back to the bone.

Doctors in Christ Church, Barbados, had to put 20 stitches into the wound. He
said: "Its teeth are so sharp that I didn't feel the pain until I got to the
hospital."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            June 1, 2005, Wednesday

DAD HEARS ATTACK TERROR;
 HE LISTENS ON PHONE AS DAUGHTER MUGGED

BYLINE: BY NEIL ELKES

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 431 words

HIGHLIGHT: ORDEAL: Jon Stevens with daughter Anna, who still bears the scars of
the attack on the back of her hand. Picture: Alan Williams


A BIRMINGHAM dad listened in horror on a mobile phone as his daughter was
attacked by muggers using CS gas.

Jon Stevens was rushing to pick up

24-year-old Anna after she was abandoned in a dark inner city street by a
private hire car driver.

As he drove Mr Stevens kept her on the line so he would know she was safe.

But he was unable to do anything as he heard her let out a terrified scream.

Mr Stevens, a 58-year-old housing association director from Selly Park, said:
'She told me about two men coming towards her and then I heard her scream.

'All sorts of things were going through my mind and I thought the worst. I
stopped the car and rang 999.'

A devastated Mr Stevens had to listen as the two men pounced on Anna and sprayed
tear gas in her eyes before snatching her bag and pulling her to the ground.

Fine arts graduate Anna had found herself on Icknield Port Road after a private
hire cab forced her from the car when she realised cash had been stolen from her
handbag and she did not have enough money for the trip to her city centre
apartment.

She had been to a party near Edgbaston Reservoir.

Anna, who was very distressed by the attack, said:'It seems unreal. I've been in
shock. What happened is only just beginning to come back to me.

'I didn't know where I was when it happened and they just sprayed this stuff at
me, I thought it was acid.'

The robbers ran off leaving her blinded and bewildered in the middle of the
road.

She was rescued by a firefighters from Ladywood Station who heard her scream.

Mr Stevens said: 'Luckily within moments of my call the police rang back to say
she had been found and was at the fire station.'

Although temporarily blinded Anna suffered no lasting physical injuries.

Mr Stevens said: 'I am angry that a private hire driver can just leave her like
that, he could have taken her back to the party it was only a couple of minutes
away. There should be a code of conduct against it.'

Anna does not know the firm involved as someone from the party called the car,
but detectives are confident they can trace the driver.

A police spokesman said that it is unusual for CS Gas to be used in street
robberies and called for any witnesses to come forward and help catch the
attackers, who struck in the early hours of Sunday morning.

The first offender is white, aged 20-25, about 5ft 9ins to 6ft, stocky and wore
dark clothing.

His accomplice was also white, aged 20-25, about 5ft 9ins, slim, with dark
clothing and carried a white carrier bag or jumper.

MAIL COMMENT

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                  June 3, 2005

Thugs' terror attack on pregnant woman

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 675 words


A Terrified pregnant woman was surrounded by drunken screaming youths and
subjected to a barrage of abuse before being punched in the stomach. Sevim
Sangwell pleaded with the four teenagers not to harm her unborn baby, but she
was spat at and assaulted during the attack in broad daylight on Brassmill Lane,
Bath.

The gang of youths, who had been drinking all day, stopped her and demanded she
paid a 'toll' to cycle past them, a judge at Bristol Crown Court heard
yesterday.

She told them she had no money and that she was pregnant, but they started
hurling abuse before assaulting her.

The attack only stopped when other cyclists came along the path and the police
were called.

In court, James Thomas, 18, of St Michaels Road, Whiteway, and Jason Webb, 19,
of Haycombe Drive, along with two others who cannot be identified for legal
reasons, admitted carrying out the affray.

Thomas was ordered to serve a 200-hour community punishment order, pay £750
compensation and £213 prosecution costs, while Webb will serve a 200-hour
community punishment order and a two-year rehabilitation order.

A third defendant was also ordered to serve a 200-hour community punishment
order and the fourth defendant was ordered to serve a two-year supervision
order.

Michael Cullum, prosecuting, said that four-month pregnant Ms Sangwell, whose
pregnancy was not affected, had been cycling along the path at 5.40pm when the
fracas erupted.

"They said she had to pay them a toll. She said 'I haven't got any money. I'm
pregnant, just let me go'," said Mr Cullum.

He said that more than one person had sworn at the "terrified" French national
and told her she was an immigrant and should not be allowed in the country.

When she then tried to pedal off, her bike collided with one of the teenagers'
cycles and she was accused of pushing and further abuse was yelled.

"She was punched in the stomach. That caused her a lot of pain and she staggered
backwards. She said, 'if something happens to my baby you will be responsible'.

"All four shouted 'you French bitch, go back to your country', but by this time
other cyclists had attended and the police were called," said Mr Cullum.

He said drunken Webb and Thomas, who had spent the day drinking cider, had been
arrested on their BMX bikes about half an hour later.

Another defendant walked into the police station and the fourth was arrested at
his home two days later.

Simon Burns, defending Webb, who has two previous convictions for affray, said
the teenager admitted it was his idea to ask for a toll and that he had stopped
Ms Sangwell.

"They had spent the day jumping off a bridge and swimming, and Webb had drunk
two litres of cider," he said.

"What started off as a drunken prank to ask for a toll turned into something
nasty. Sadly, drink got the better of him.

""He was the one who really put his hands on the table in respect of knowing she
was pregnant and calling her an immigrant. It wasn't racially motivated at the
outset." He told how Webb, who suffers from attention deficit disorder, has
since became a dad, got a job and turned over a new leaf.

Ramin Pakrooh, defending Thomas, said his client had taken part in the affray
but had only sworn at the victim.

"This is not the way Mr Thomas usually behaves. Alcohol was playing a
significant part in disinhibiting these people so that when they acted together
they made an error of judgment.

"He was 17 at the time and alcohol was a new thing in his life. These
proceedings have served to mature him." Sentencing the four, Recorder Mr Neil
Ford said: "I have tried each of you on the basis that you were not responsible
for that punch which is the single most serious aspect of this case.

"Ms Sangwell received a slap, she was spat at, she was verbally abused.
Reference was made to the fact she was French and an immigrant. The nastiness is
quite clear.

"She was concerned for her welfare and that of her unborn child.

"Fortunately her pregnancy was not affected."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              June 3, 2005, Friday

FIREWORK ATTACK TERROR;
 KIDS DIVE FOR COVER AS YOUTHS TARGET CENTRE

BYLINE: BY LISA MCCARTHY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 74 words

HIGHLIGHT: SHOCK: Centre manager Jenny Robertson with the firework


CHILDREN dived for cover and a youth worker was injured as a 25-strong gang
brought terror to a Birmingham community centre.

But staff at the Trinity Christian Centre in Bournville today claimed calls to
police were ignored and that it took officers until the following day to look
into the matter.

One young thug is captured on CCTV aiming a massive firework directly at the
centre before setting it off

FULL STORY: PAGE TWO

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              June 3, 2005, Friday

MAIL COMMENT: FIREWORK ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 148 words


ARE the youths who attacked a Birmingham community centre with high-powered
fireworks idiots or evil?

Scores of children, some as young as six, were put at grave risk when the
barrage began.

Fireworks also rained down on older kids playing rugby nearby. The mentality of
those who gained pleasure from such behaviour is hard to fathom. No-one needs a
PhD in chemistry to know that fireworks are dangerous. No-one needs a degree in
morality to know that innocent children are to be cherished not attacked.

Let us not even bother trying to get to grips with what motivated the
knuckle-dragging neanderthals who brought terror to the Bournville.

What matters is that they are taken to court and hit with the sort of punishment
that will not only stop them re-offending, but will also cause those of similar
disposition to think twice before striking.

Hit them hard

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Kenilworth Weekly News

                                  June 3, 2005

Night of terror attack for caretaker

LENGTH: 415 words


A diabetic caretaker has revealed his horror at getting locked inside a
storeroom by a gang of thieves for four hours.

The 66-year-old man was attacked while working at Stoneleigh Golf Club, in
Coventry Road, on Monday.

The four men wore ski masks and cycle helmets and used jemmies to force their
way into the club at about 11.15pm.

The caretaker, who asked not to be named, said: "I was just shocked and could
not believe it was happening. It was like watching it on Crimewatch but it was
happening to me.

"I didn't know what was going to happen - they did threaten me. They said they
would make sure I couldn't tell anybody and I was expecting to be knocked about.
They helped themselves to some drinks and I told them not to - I thought they
were going to tip it on me."

The caretaker was pushed inside the 3ft wide storeroom but one of the thieves
took pity and handed him a sandwich before locking the door. He also drank small
bottles of wine from the cupboard to help control his diabetes.

"If I had not, I might have passed out, I had not had anything to eat since that
morning. I was getting woozy when the police let me out. That's what makes me
think it was someone who knows me and knows what my condition is."

He was attacked while making a sandwich in the kitchen and did not have time to
call the police or press the panic button.

The thieves demanded to be shown to the safe which they removed and took away on
a trolley. The caretaker was manhandled but not injured.

The men searched through the caretaker's bag and also attacked the coffee and
cigarette machine to steal cash.

The caretaker was discovered by police at 3.15am after security officers
discovered the break-in and heard the man shouting from inside.

He is now eager to return to the club to make sure he can cope being back on the
premises.

"I don't know if it's because I am older. If I was young I might have been more
worried and retaliated. I think they just took me by surprise - you don't have
time to think."

Ds Andy Smith from Warwick CID is investigating the incident. He said: "We
believe offenders were inside the building for around half an hour and then left
in a vehicle. I would like to speak to anyone who may have seen a vehicle with
four people in the area late on Monday evening or who may have seen one leaving
the area at around midnight."

Anyone with information is asked to call Ds Smith on 415000 or Crimestoppers on
0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                  June 4, 2005

Pair tell of dog attack terror

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 595 words


Court hears of desperate battle to save pet

Mark Branagan

A woman suffered a fractured spine when a Sunday morning stroll to the beach
with her partner and their dog turned into a bloody battle with two rottweilers,
magistrates heard .

Lynn Hartley was sent sprawling in Whitby Ravine as she tried desperately to
defend her pet Amy against the attackers which had come bounding up a slipway
from the beach below.

Her partner Anthony Copplestone suffered a bloodied hand as he tried desperately
to fend off the dogs with a beach umbrella, which broke across the back of one
of them.

As one dog, Sophie, sank its jaws into Amy, he had to prise the bigger dog's
teeth apart and hold its head back to stop it striking again, Whitby magistrates
heard.

Miss Hartley, of White Point Avenue, Whitby, said the incident happened in July
last year only 15 minutes before the beach became packed with holidaymakers.

But as they made their way down around 11.30am there were only two men on the
beach with three rottweilers off the leash.

As soon as the larger dogs spotted Amy, they began bounding towards the couple.
She said: "Tony said to pick Amy up because it was obvious they were not just
coming to say hello.

"Tony tried to fend the dogs off with a golfing umbrella which broke as the dogs
tried to get around it. One of the men called out 'Sophie' to one of the dogs.

"I looked at the dog and it was obvious it was going to pounce. I made the
mistake of turning my back because I did not want it to jump in my face. It took
my legs from under me and I slammed down on my back and lower part of my spine.
I quickly rolled onto her left side to try and protect Amy".


Then she felt the dog's jaws on her shoulder and its teeth and claws going
through her jacket, causing severe bruising to her arm. "I screamed for Tony and
said the dog had got Amy," she added.

"I did not realise my own injury. I was lying face down over Amy trying to keep
my weight off her. Tony battled with the dog and got it clear from Amy. I very
slowly stood up".


She said that the two men on the beach got a leash on the dog but did not offer
any apologies or inquire about her injuries.

Mr Copplestone said he told them: "I came close to stabbing the dog with the end
of the umbrella".

 He added: "They replied: 'If you had, we would have f***ing stabbed you with
it.'"

The two men left the beach refusing to say who they were. Mr Copplestone
clambered back up the cliff road to call an ambulance for his partner.

Miss Hartley was taken to Whitby Hospital where it was found she had fractured
the sitting bone at the base of her spine. Someone had taken note of the
registration number of the men's Ford Transit van.

It was subsequently traced to Rolf Poelstra, 33, now of Mather Street,
Failsworth, Manchester. He yesterday denied being the owner of a dangerous dog.

While he owned a rottweiler called Sophie, he claimed it was locked up in a
friend's flat in Scarborough on the day of the attack, when he was at his
mother's home in West Barnby, north of Sandsend.

But Whitby magistrates found the complaint against him proved. Sophie was made
the subject of a dangerous dog order, requiring her to be muzzled and never to
be let off the leash while in a public place. Poelstra claimed he had given
Sophie away but was unable to provide any proof.

Yesterday's hearing was a civil case brought by Scarborough Council. Poelstra,
who was ordered to pay £160 costs, will face criminal charges if he fails to
observe the terms of the order

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2005

                       Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 7, 2005, Tuesday

STABBING MAN TELLS OF TERROR;
 WIFE FACES ATTACK CHARGE

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL POSNER

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 323 words


A YOUNG wife stabbed her husband in the throat with an eight-inch blade kitchen
knife, severing his vocal chords, a court heard.

Norman Lapsley, 55, told a jury he was in his conservatory chatting to his
daughter from a previous marriage on the phone when his wife struck.

She screamed 'I am going to finish you off' before disappearing into the kitchen
and returning with the biggest blade from a set of knives, the court was told.

The terrified victim told Stafford Crown Court: 'I picked up an ornamental
elephant to keep her away from me.

'I saw the knife coming towards me. It cut my arm as I protected myself then I
felt it go into my throat.

'She did not say anything. I took off my T-shirt and rolled it up and pressed it
to my throat.'

Susan Lapley, 27, of Princess Road in Balsall Heath, and formerly of Matlock
Drive, Chadsmoor, Cannock, pleaded not guilty to wounding with intent to cause
grievous bodily harm.

Mr Lapley said he met his wife in 1996 in Kenya where he lived and worked. They
married in 2002 and had two daughters now aged eight and nearly two. He said
they had 'bad times and good when we lived in Kenya but things changed when we
came to England and the marriage started to break down.

She started to drink excessively and was reluctant to mix with people, he said.

He said on the day he was stabbed in August last year they were in a 'good mood
and there was no reason for the day to end like it did'. He said he was talking
to a 31-year-old daughter who lived nearby and asked if his ex-wife wanted a
car.

'It was then that Susan came in and said she was going to finish me off,' he
said.

Nick Tatlow, prosecuting, said that Mrs Lapsley stabbed her husband in the neck
and was not acting in self defence when he was attacked.

But Mrs Lapsley told the police: 'He's been beating me for years.

'I was only defending me and my baby.'

The trial continues

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                                  June 7, 2005

Double knife attack terror

SECTION: News; 999; Murders/violentcrime; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 216 words


Police are hunting a man after a teenager was stabbed in a Devon town last
night. The 19-year-old and a 51-year-old woman were attacked in Fore Street,
Chudleigh, just after midnight. Both received serious injuries and were this
morning being treated at Torbay Hospital.

Police say the youngster had suffered stab wounds.

They were called to the Mei Wah Chinese restaurant by ambulance crews at
12.20am. Around 24 officers attended the scene and the road was closed off.

Forensic experts and police dogs are still searching the area this morning and
the take-away is sealed off and an officer is standing guard.

A police spokesman said a blue Lexus Sports car was seen leaving the area after
the incident. It was stopped by officers and one man was arrested.

A second ran from the vehicle towards Ide and he is still being hunted by
police.

He is described as being of oriental appearance and anyone in who has seen this
man, or whoknows anything about the attack is asked to contact police.

The area around the restaurant will remain closed this morning while officers
continue their search for clues.

The man arrested by police is being interviewed at Heavitree Road police station
this morning. Officers are also at Torbay Hospital waiting to talk to the two
injured people.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    © Copyright 2005 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                                  June 7, 2005

Family's terror in arson attack

BYLINE: Helen Cook (feedback@nne.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 243 words

DATELINE: The North East


A FAMILY tortured by thugs feared for their lives when their caravan was set
alight.

Community worker Paul Tuffs and his family woke early yesterday to find their
back garden alight.

Mr Tuffs' daughter Amy 19 heard a loud bang outside after returning from a night
out on Sunday. At about 12.30am she looked outside her bedroom window and was
faced with roaring flames. She screamed and alerted the rest of the house and
ran from the property.

Firefighters arrived within minutes and told them: "A few minutes longer and you
could have been dead."

Damage to the caravan and two parked cars as well as cracked windows and door
frames of the house is estimated at more than £20 000.

The long-running persecution of Mr Tuffs began more than five years ago when he
joined forces with local authorities to rejuvenate the rundown Grangetown estate
near Middlesbrough.

Since then the family of five have had a crossbow fired through a bedroom window
numerous cars damaged with baseball bats and bricks thrown through windows.

Mr Tuffs whose eldest daughter Vicky 23 was left in intensive care after a
teenager attacked her with an iron bar last September said: "Someone will die
next if nothing is done."

However a Cleveland Police spokesman said: "There is nothing at this stage to
link this with earlier incidents."

Anyone with information is asked to contact Detective Constable Ian Cox of South
Bank CID on (01642) 302626.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 8, 2005

Report to attack Labour anti-terror laws

BYLINE: Audrey Gillan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 621 words


The government's rhetoric and action on human rights and its approach to the
"war on terror" will come under severe criticism today with the publication of a
long-awaited report by the European body responsible for human rights.

The investigation of the state of Britain's home affairs by the Council of
Europe's human rights commissioner, Alvaro Gil-Robles, is due to be published
today.

The Guardian understands that the report will castigate the newly introduced
control orders under which terror suspects are tagged and held under house
arrest from 7pm to 7am.

It is believed that Mr Gil-Robles will say that the orders are in breach of
article six of the European convention on human rights, which guarantees the
right to a fair trial, including the right of defendants to know the nature of
the charges against them.

The report is also likely to be highly critical of Britain's anti- terror
legislation, which allowed the detention of foreign nationals without charge or
trial in the wake of the September 11 attacks on the US. That was superseded by
the control orders, which the government managed to scrape through parliament in
the face of huge opposition.

One other highly sensitive area is the use of evidence which may have been
obtained under conditions of torture but is allowed in the British courtroom. An
appeal court ruling last year said the 2001 Anti- Terrorism, Crime and Security
Act allowed the admission of "evidence" obtained by torture provided it was not
committed or connived at by British officials. The ruling, which outraged human
rights campaigners, is to be challenged by an appeal to the law lords.

Other areas likely to be condemned include the Labour government's record on
asylum and immigration as well as its increasing use of antisocial behaviour
orders. It is expected that Mr Gil-Robles will express his concern over the
government's acceptance of diplomatic assurances that a person will not be
tortured should he be returned to his country of origin.

The impact of the anti-terrorism legislation on the country's race relations is
also believed to have caused concern, as have elements of the juvenile justice
system.

Publication of the report was delayed by a pending ruling by the law lords, who
last December delivered a judgment against the indefinite detention without
trial of foreign terrorist suspects. A further hurdle was placed on its release,
apparently by mutual consent, by the general election - a move which reflected
the government's sensitivity to criticism of its human rights record.

Last night Shami Chakrabarti, director of Liberty, said: "Britain should be
setting a human rights example in the world and not receiving stringent
criticism from an international human rights commissioner. The Council of
Europe's commissioner is a very weighty figure and when he criticised Russia's
human rights record, President Putin saw him personally and promised to
implement his recommendations. The British prime minister must at the very least
do (that)."

In April, Mr Gil-Robles said of Russia: "It is important to say that in Russia,
as in all of Europe, the fight against terrorism cannot serve as a pretext to do
whatever one wants."

Vladimir Putin said in response: "We'll pay careful attention to the conclusions
laid down in the report and will work strenuously during the next two years not
merely to react, but to change the situation in some areas."

The expected severity of the criticism will make it difficult for the government
simply to brush it aside.

The Strasbourg-based Council of Europe is custodian of the European court of
human rights, and is not part of the EU.

guardian.co.uk/humanrights


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 9, 2005, Thursday

TOWPATH ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 47 words


A TERRIFIED teenager struggled with an attacker who tried to drag her into
bushes on a canal towpath.

Police were today hunting a man in his50s who grabbed the 14-year-old as she
walked alone on the Coventry and Fazeley Canal towpath in Tamworth at around
7.30pm on Monday

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Derbyshire Times

                                  June 9, 2005

Terror attack as woman walks home

LENGTH: 282 words


A terrified woman fought off a suspected sex beast who pounched on her while she
was walking home after a night out.

The woman, aged in her mid 20s, was walking along Park Road at Shirebrook, at
about 10.45pm on Sunday, when the man grabbed her round the chest and as she
turned he punched her and tried to drag her into a village hall car park.

But the mother-of-two, from Shirebrook, kicked the man in the upper leg and
groin and managed to escape.

Pc Greg Ward said: "The offender came out of a dark entrance to the village hall
and attacked and punched his victim in the face and left her very distressed and
injured.

"We cannot rule out the possibility the attacker had a sexual motive so we're
advising women to take precautions by going out and returning home in groups or
booking taxis or arranging transport because this man could strike again."

The offender fled across park land towards Garden Avenue and Ewe Tree Drive and
his victim, who later needed treatment at Chesterfield Royal Hospital for
serious bruising to her face, escaped home and alerted a neighbour who contacted
police.

Officers searched the area and carried out house-to house inquiries and are
urging anyone with information about the man to contact them.

The offender was described as white, of muscular build, wearing dark clothing
and a blue or black jumper.

Pc Ward added: "Anyone who may have seen this man acting suspiciously before the
attack or afterwards is urged to call police."

Witnesses or those with information can call Pc Gregg and Chesterfield police on
(0845) 123 3333 or Crimestoppers in confidence on 0800 555 111.

jon.cooper@derbyshiretimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Worcestershire

                                  June 9, 2005

Terror of dog attackgirl 2

BYLINE: OLIVER EVANS (oe@nqmids.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: Worcestershire; Kidderminster


Owner just hopped on bus and left after toddler is bitten in face

A DOG bit a two-year-old girl's face in Bewdley town centre - then its owner got
on a bus and left the scene.

Distraught mum Tiffany Cooper thought her daughter Ellie had lost an eye in the
attack at the bus stop at the bottom of Load Street.

As she frantically raced into a nearby chip shop however the dog's owner boarded
a bus without leaving her details.

Now the 23-year-old has urged the female owner to have the dog destroyed or at
least muzzled to prevent a similar attack.

The Kidderminster resident said: "She didn't know if my daughter had lost her
eye or not. The blood that was there I thought she had lost her eye. If the dog
has bitten my daughter you don't know if it is going to bite somebody else's
child."

The drama unfolded at the bus stop by the Angel pub at about 6pm last Thursday.

The toddler was in a pushchair beside the black and white collie dog which was
on a lead and its owner.

Miss Cooper said: "I was on the phone and the next thing I know the dog has
bitten Ellie. I saw a lot of blood and I just couldn't think of anything else
than to run somewhere and get her cleaned up.

"I thought her eye had gone. I thought it was her eyeball. There was blood all
over the place."

She took Ellie into the rear entrance of the Merchant's Fish Bar by the bus
stop. The child was taken to the Minor Injuries Unit at Kidderminster Hospital
for treatment. She suffered teeth marks to her left cheek and grazing to her
head.

The woman with the dog was aged 50 to 60 and had grey hair in a short bob style
Miss Cooper said.

She appeared to be in shock and left after assuring Miss Cooper the dog had been
given injections to prevent disease.

Miss Cooper said: "I think she had a responsibility to stay she didn't have to
get on the bus. If it was my dog I would have stayed around and given my details
and said the dog would be put down."

A spokeswoman for Kidderminster police said the incident had been reported. She
said: "The child's mother has indicated that she doesn't want the owner
prosecuted but we would like to speak to this woman."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: two-year-old Ellie after treatment to her face.;

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 10, 2005, Friday

EUROPE IN FRESH ATTACK ON BRITAIN'S TERROR LAWS

BYLINE: BY ROBERT VERKAIK LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 168 words


For the second time in as many days Britain stands accused of flouting
international human rights law over its treatment of foreign terror suspects
rounded up after the 11 September attacks in America.

A report by Europe's prevention of torture committee said the conditions of the
imprisonment of 14 men held without trial for three years was inhuman and
degrading.

The finding comes a day after the Government's human rights record was condemned
in a report by another committee of the Council of Europe which criticised the
use of control orders against terror suspects.

In the latest report, first handed to ministers in July last year, grave
concerns are raised about the conditions of the detention of suspects under the
Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001. The men were detained at Belmarsh
prison in south-east London and Woodhill jail in Buckinghamshire, before being
released in March this year under strict control orders personally authorised by
the Home Secretary.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Stamford Mercury

                                 June 10, 2005

Man in terror sex attack sent to jail

LENGTH: 396 words


Six years for intruder who assaulted girl, 16,

in her own bedroom

AN intruder armed with a knife who sexually assaulted a teenage girl in her own
bedroom has been jailed for six years.

At the culmination of Bourne's biggest manhunt, Simon Benton's luck finally ran
out when police matched his palm-print to one left on a door handle at the home
of the 16-year-old girl.

Eighteen months after the March, 2003, incident, Benton was arrested for robbery
in Spalding, and his prints taken and matched to the scene of the Bourne crime.

By that time the case had been featured on BBC's Crimewatch with Nick Ross and
Fiona Bruce as officers appealed for help to catch the attacker.

Benton, 33, who had more than 100 previous convictions, confronted the terrified
teenager in her bed after breaking into her parents' house.

At first she thought her father had wondered into her darkened room, but then
realised she was face-to-face with a stranger.

Lincoln Crown Court was told she bravely fought off her attacker, cutting her
hand in the process, after telling herself: "I can take this guy on".

Moments later the burglar also tussled with the girl's father, who was also
injured, before escaping into the night and throwing the knife, stolen from the
family's kitchen, into a stream.

Benton denied two charges of aggravated burglary with intent to cause grievous
bodily harm, one of indecent assault and one of aggravated burglary.

Det Sgt Stuart Gibbon, of Bourne police, said: "When we compared Benton to the
E-fit image which we had released after the incident, the likeness was
remarkable."

When questioned in court, Benton insisted he was innocent and claimed an E-fit
police drew up of the alleged attacker looked 'more like David Beckham'.

It took the jury just two hours of deliberations to convict Benton, who lived in
Bourne at the time, of all charges.

Judge John Machin ordered Benton to serve his six-year sentence after he has
completed a five-year term he is already serving for his part in the Spalding
street robbery.

He will also have to register as a sex offender for life.

Det Sgt Gibbon said: "In the five years I have worked for Lincoln-shire Police,
this is the most serious case I have been involved in.

"But, having been involved since day one, it is satisfying that it has come to a
conclusion."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 June 10, 2005

Search for missing 300 after terror attack

SECTION: Bygone

LENGTH: 491 words


10 YEARS AGO From the Evening News April 20 1995: RESCUE workers were today
frantically combing through the wreckage of the bombed Oklahoma office block in
a desperate search for up to 300 missing people.

The outrage is the biggest act of terror in US history overtaking the 1993
explosion at the World Trade Centre in New York City which killed six people and
injured 1 000 others.

GAMBLERS Anonymous today called for health warnings to be printed on National
Lottery scratch cards in an effort to prevent players becoming addicts.

The call for action comes after a reformed Bolton gambler revealed he had fallen
back into his old ways and was spending a staggering £120 a week on the National
Lottery.

25 YEARS AGO

From the Evening News

April 19 1980

TWO Bolton lads one a past and one a present student at Bolton Technical College
scooped top awards presented by the North West region of the National Federation
of Building Trades Employers.

Jeffrey Briely aged 21 of Hastings Road Chorley New Road Bolton won a total of
£65 and two certificates after being chosen as the North-west's top apprentice
and top bricklayer. Sharing the accolades was 19-year-old Christopher Clarke of
Larch Road Leigh - the region's best young plasterer.

A GANG of youths left a trail of destruction behind them last night as they
vandalised Westleigh Park Leigh.

Seats were thrown around children's swings tied together the pavilion broken
into and a large hole dug in the middle of the bowling green.

50 YEARS AGO

From the Evening News

April 20 1955

THERE will be no production by Bolton Air Theatre during Bolton holiday week.

Bolton Entertainments Committee has been told that none of the plays in the
programme for the current season is suitable for open-air presentation.

IN the hope that Boltonians and Ukrainians now living in Bolton will get to know
and like each other an Anglo-Ukrainian Social Organisation was formed a few
months ago.

The 500 or so Ukrainians in the town welcomed the Association but so far the
response from Boltonians has not been encouraging.

100 YEARS AGO

From the Evening News

April 20 1905

THE newly-constructed tramway route from Tyldesley to Boothstown was opened to
the public this morning and a ten minutes service of cars from Atherton to the
last-named township will be maintained during the day.

The new tramway is an extension of the South Lancashire Company's branch from
Atherton to Tyldesley and runs to the boundary of Worsley and within a mile of
St Mark's Church.

With the exception of a break of about two miles between Boothstown and Winton
there is now a through tramway system from Manchester to Liverpool.

THE new Turton Conservative Club is now in full use though the furnishing of the
interior etc is not yet completed.

A caretaker is in residence and there are now nearly one hundred members.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 11, 2005, Saturday

POWER CUT WAS NOT TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 59 words


MOSCOW Russia's security agency said there was no sign of a terrorist attack at
the electricity substation blamed for last month's Moscow-area power cut. The
Federal Security Service (FSB) said it found no indication the Chagino
substation had been sabotaged. The Chechen warlord Shamil Basayev claimed
responsibility for the power cut on 25 May.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 13, 2005, Monday

MEAT CLEAVER PUB TERROR;
 MAN ARRESTED AFTER HORROR ATTACK INJURES THREE

BYLINE: BY STEVE JOHNSON

SECTION: BC1 Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 332 words

HIGHLIGHT: TERROR: The Marksman in Carters Green


A MAN armed with a meat cleaver was overpowered after bringing terror to a busy
town centre pub.

Three men were taken to hospital by ambulance with lacerations to the body after
violence erupted at The Marksman, in High Street, Carters Green, West Bromwich.
Police said two men got into a fight in the pub late on Friday night.

One of the men then left but later returned with what was believed to be a
butcher's knife.

But he was overpowered by customers and security staff as police raced to the
scene.

West Midlands Ambulance Service spokesman Trevor Ford said that three men had
been taken by ambulance to Sandwell General Hospital.

'It seems that someone stormed into the pub armed with an axe and attacked a
customer inside.

'Thankfully it appears no-one was badly injured, but all three were treated for
lacerations to the body.'

Insp John Smith, of West Bromwich police, said that a man had gone into the
Marksman armed with a butcher's knife, or meat cleaver.

'It appears there was an attack on another man inthe pub and the man armed with
the weapon was eventually disarmed by other customers.'

Insp Smith said that staff at the pub could not be blamed for the incident.
'Obviously the pub was immediately closed after the incident, which happened
late on Friday and into the early hours of Saturday.

'The pub was fully co-operative about the situation and we did allow the pub to
reopen on Saturday lunchtime.

'We will not tolerate this sort of incident in pubs and clubs in West Bromwich
and shall continue to use the full force of the law to combat cases of
disorder,' he added.

A shopkeeper in Carters Green said that there was 'blood all over the place'
after the incident and the pub cleaner had had to mop up before The Marksman
reopened. The manageress at The Marksman today declined to comment on the drama.

l A 37-year-old man from West Bromwich was due before the town's magistrates
today charged in connection with the

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             June 13, 2005, Monday

LAST FUNERAL FOR VICTIM OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 174 words


One of the last funerals for a firefighter killed in the September 11, 2001
attacks was held this weekend for a Montserrat native who had followed his
father into the fire department.

Keithroy Maynard, one of the 343 firefighters killed at the World Trade Centre
site, was remembered at a church service in Manhattan.

Hundreds of firefighters stood in full dress uniform as a fire truck carrying
Maynard's remains paraded to the Church of the Master, with a pipe and drum
corps playing Amazing Grace.

Mayor Michael Bloomberg was among the mourners who honoured Maynard, aged 30, as
a hero whose final gift to the city has not faded with time.

'If there is any comfort to be taken,' Bloomberg said to Maynard's mother,
'perhaps it is that your son died doing what he loved.'

Maynard was among seven members of Engine Co 33 to die in the towers' collapse.

Maynard, a naturalised US citizen, will be buried in Monserrat. The ceremony was
the first funeral since 2003 for a firefighter killed at the World Trade Centre

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             June 14, 2005, Tuesday

EMERGENCY DRIVER'S TERROR IN MOTORWAY ROCK ATTACK

BYLINE: BY SAM LISTER

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 556 words


A BLOOD service worker yesterday told how he thought he was going to die when a
rock was hurled through his windscreen as he returned from a hospital mercy
dash.

Billy Atkinson, 38, was on his way back from Wales after delivering an emergency
supply of blood when a 12lb rock was launched at his van.

The father-of-four was travelling along the M53 at Junction 3 near Birkenhead
when the missile was thrown from a bridge, hitting him in the left shoulder.

He said: 'I am very lucky. A few inches further and it could have been my head
or chest. Either way it could have killed me.'

Last night a road safety expert condemned the attack and raised fears it could
be part of a craze sweeping across in Merseyside.

Mr Atkinson, from Croxteth Park, told how he spotted two people on the bridge
immediately before the boulder was thrown.

It plunged 30 feet and landed on his National Blood Service van showering him
with broken glass.

He was taken to nearby Arrowe Park Hospital and later allowed home after
treatment but has to go back to find out if his shoulder is broken.

Mr Atkinson, who has been a driver with the blood service for 10 years, was on
his way back from Glan Clwyd Hospital near St Asaph when the attack happened.

He added: 'I heard a loud bang and the windscreen just shattered all over me. I
did an emergency stop. If there had been anything behind it would have gone
straight into me.

'I was shaking like a leaf. I am still in shock.

'I cannot believe this had happened. Whoever did this can not have a conscience.
The van is clearly an emergency service vehicle with a blue light on top.'

The incident is the latest in a spate of similar attacks across Merseyside.

On May 31 last year 33-year-old Christopher Mc Caffrey was killedwhen a teenager
threw a car battery from a footbridge in Wirral.

The paintsprayer was in the process of moving house and was driving the Mercedes
van he had borrowed from a friend along the New Ferry bypass when the missile
hit the windscreen.

A 16-year-old boy was locked up for four years for his death.

Campaigners called for bridges to be caged at the time and for CCTV cameras to
be installed, but so far none have.

Last month a businessman narrowly escaped death when teenagers threw a brick at
his windscreen from a motorway bridge on the M62. Robert Ewan, 32, suffered
lacerations to his face after the missile smashed through the glass.

And a week later a driver was forced to swerve off the road when a chair was
thrown at her car from a bridge in Sutton Way, Ellesmere Port. The woman was not
injured but was extremely shaken by the attack.

Last night Tony Vickers from the Association of British Drivers warned action
must be taken to stop the deadly craze.

He said: 'Children are like sheep, they see something and think its good
entertainment so do it again.

'

It's like playing chicken or burning out cars, it becomes a local craze.

'It has to be eradicated rapidly. Putting cages round bridges and CCTV is one
way, preventative measures are obviously the best way.

'But there should also be stiffer penalties in court. They should be up on an
attempted murder charged or attempted manslaughter at the very least.'

Police are appealing for information on Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Billy Atkinson nurses his damaged shoulder after his frightening
experience while driving on the M53 Picture: ANDREW TEEBAY

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2005, Tuesday

Soldier foils terrorist attack

SECTION: Home news; 25

LENGTH: 121 words


Private Adam Mills, 19, of the Staffordshire Regiment, saved British and Iraqi
troops from a huge roadside bomb buried near al-Amarah, where two British
soldiers were killed by bombs last month. He spotted the antenna of the primed
bomb sticking up only yards from where his Warrior armoured vehicle halted and
raised the alarm.

Private Mills, from Wednesbury, West Midlands, was only four days into his first
tour of duty. He said: "I dismounted with one of the other soldiers and we began
checking around each side of the vehicle. I saw a mound of earth that looked
suspicious and went to look closer.

"I'm very pleased I was able to use my training to potentially save the lives of
fellow soldiers."


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 June 15, 2005

Terror attack at family home

BYLINE: Tom Pegden

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 468 words


A family was forced to flee their home after suspected animal rights extremists
planted a device under their car. Andrew and Carmel Johnson were left terrified
when someone planted what looked like a petrol bomb at their thatched home in
Newtown Linford.

They spent the night at relatives with their two young children while police and
bomb disposal experts dealt with what they described as a "crude incendiary
device".

Today, the family told the Leicester Mercury that the terrorists - who have
struck before at the property - had targeted the wrong people.

It is believed they planned to attack a former resident who worked for a company
which extremists believe carried out experiments on animals.

Mrs Johnson, 37, was asleep at their Main Street home with children Jake, three,
and Callum, one, when the bomb was planted.

She said: "We are being victimised. It's very frightening. We've got absolutely
nothing to do with animal testing." Forensics teams spent yesterday searching
the property and dusting for fingerprints.

Lorry driver Mr Johnson, 37, spotted the bomb when he drove his Audi into their
car bay at 11.30pm on Monday.

He said: "I parked and saw something against the wheel of our second car.

"When I got out I could see two bottles filled with liquid, strapped together.
They had padding on the side, and a wick.

"Whether the people who did it had been disturbed, I don't know, but I could see
the top of the wick had been lit at some point.

"It might have been just a threat, but there were also rags packed underneath
the tyre. It looked like they wanted the whole car to go up. I rang 999, then
ran upstairs to make sure everyone was OK." The earlier attack happened on March
6, when the Johnsons' Audi and BMW cars were sprayed with paint and the tyres
slashed. The letters ALF - for Animal Liberation Front - were daubed on the
wall.

Mr Johnson said: "I would not have bought the house if we had known about this.
We're going to stay here, though. I'm not going to let them force me out. The
only thing we can do is to try to make sure they know they have got the wrong
house." Leicestershire police said the device was now being examined by
specialists. Officers have conducted house-to-house inquiries and the tactical
support group carried out a search of the surrounding area yesterday.

Detective Chief Inspector Chris Redfern, from the force's specialist
investigation department, said: "We are treating the incidents extremely
seriously.

The family are extremely upset that they are being targeted in this way and fear
that they or their children may be harmed. The most likely reason is that it is
a case of mistaken identity." Anyone with any information should contact
Leicestershire police on 0116 222 2222 or call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                       © Copyright 2005 Leicester Mercury

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 16, 2005

MEN LINKED TO TERROR ATTACKS ARE ARRESTED

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 64 words


MADRID: Armed police arrested 16 terror suspects yesterday, including 11 said to
belong to a group recruiting suicide bombers to attack US forces in Iraq.

More than 500 heavily armed officers staged pre-dawn raids in half a dozen
Spanish cities.

The 11 men are alleged to be part of a Syrianbased network which is said to be
linked to terrorist Abu-Musab alZarqawi in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             June 19, 2005, Sunday

MI5 'will move to secret HQ in the event of terrorist attack'

BYLINE: BY SEAN RAYMENT Defence Correspondent

SECTION: News; Pg. 014

LENGTH: 362 words

MI5 IS preparing an alternative headquarters outside London, to be used in the
event of a terrorist attack on the capital.

According to a secret document leaked to The Sunday Telegraph, the arrangements
must be ready by 2008. The paper, Security Service Plan 2005-2008, contains a
pledge by MI5 chiefs to "ensure the service has robust arrangements to enable it
to continue to function in the event of damage to Thames House [its
headquarters] or a major catastrophe in central London".

Officials are believed to have identified buildings in London and other cities
where the service's 2,000 staff could be deployed in the event of an attack.
Unlike Thames House, whose address near Parliament is known, they will be a
secret.

Eliza Manningham-Buller, the director-general of MI5, has said that the only
question is when - not whether - terrorists will launch a "catastrophic" attack
in central London. The organisation's headquarters is thought to be a prime
target.

The document, effectively MI5's "mission statement", also reveals that its
chiefs plan to spend hundreds of millions of pounds on covert
intelligence-gathering equipment, to put it on equal terms with the CIA.

The plan is revealed in a booklet, issued to all Security Service members in
March this year. It states that MI5 will "expand to over 3,000 appropriate
trained staff with particular focus on leadership, professionalism, foreign
language, analytical and operational skills". A Whitehall official said that it
was aimed at MI5's own staff. "The Security Service prides itself on its
internal communications system," he said.

Officials said that the Security Service would press ahead with the plan
although officers within the Joint Terrorist Analysis Centre - located within
MI5 headquarters - advised ministers two weeks ago that the threat to Britain
from international terrorism was at its lowest since September 11, 2001.

One official said the threat facing Britain remained "serious and real".

He added: "This threat assessment means that three weeks ago there was an
extremely high risk of terrorists attacking the UK, now there is high risk . . .
the threat has not gone."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             June 19, 2005, Sunday

MARIA'S STALKER TERROR;
 -CRAZED BRIT WANTED TO ATTACK HER -SECURITY ALERT AT WIMBLEDON

BYLINE: BY ANDY GARDNER IN LOS ANGELES

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 517 words

HIGHLIGHT: Obsessed Page; Wimbledon bosses fear for Sharapova's safety


WIMBLEDON champion Maria Sharapova is being stalked by a disturbed British fan
who has threatened her.

Stalker Matthew Anthony Page has been banned from this year's tournament after
threatening Sharapova in America. He lunged at the 18-year-old champion during a
tournament in Los Angeles in November last year and told security guards he
wanted to "punch or kick her in the head".

Now his picture has been circulated to staff and police by Wimbledon bosses -
with strict orders he not be allowed in. Page, who lives with his mother in
Hove, East Sussex, paid $ 100 for a ticket to see Sharapova beat Serena Williams
in the final of the WTA tour tournament at the Staples Center in Los Angeles. As
the winner's cheque for $ 1million was handed to her he vaulted over the barrier
and tried to reach the Russian beauty. But he was held by two security guards
who bundled him away from the shocked teenager.

When security chiefs interviewed him Page made a series of chilling threats. He
said he was testing himself and added: "I needed to know that I was capable of
doing it."

Page also said he intended asking Sharapova to marry him. He warned: "Sharapova
and I have a lot of issues that we need to work out."

And asked if he knew the teenager he said: "No, but she needs to start noticing
me."

The guard then asked Page if he intended to hurt the Wimbledon winner. He
responded: "Actually, I was hoping to walk up and punch or kick her in the head
until it came off."

But after taking medical advise, security guards decided not to press charges.
Page has a history of mental instability.

Now senior All England Club executives fear he will try to reach the World No 1
as she defends her title. They have assigned four protection experts to work
alongside her existing squad of minders to give her round-the-clock security.
They are taking the threat extremely seriously in face of other female tennis
stars who have suffered at the hands of stalkers. Former world number one Monica
Seles was stabbed in the back by a crazed man while she played in Hamburg in
1993. And seven-times Wimbledon champion Steffi Graf was plagued by Kay-Kurt zum
Felde who taunted her while she played on Wimbledon's Centre Court

Sharapova, who plays her first match on Tuesday, told the Sunday Mirror: "I'm
not entirely comfortable being surrounded by security people. But I have to
accept it comes with the territory."

A security source in Los Angeles said: "We were so concerned by the specific
nature of the threats that we alerted the player's agents and the tennis
authorities. He is obviously obsessed with her and under the impression that
they have some sort of relationship. He will stop at nothing."

Last night Page admitted that he had run on to court in Los Angeles and
confirmed he had received a letter from solicitors representing the All England
Tennis Club banning him from this year's Wimbledon.

But he told the Sunday Mirror: "I am not obsessed with Maria Sharapova and I am
not stalking her."

agardner@mirror.co.uk

Additional reporting: GRANT HODGSON

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 June 20, 2005

Family's night of terror after arson attack

BYLINE: Debora McAleese

LENGTH: 348 words


A family of seven who narrowly escaped a suspected arson attack at their north
Belfast home today spoke of their night of terror.

And the attack, which damaged three homes, has led to increased fears of further
fires in the area.

Mandy and Peter McCall, their four children and a grandchild have been left
homeless after a major fire broke out at their Old Throne Park house at around
1.30am this morning.

The family were sleeping in bed when the fire broke out and were only alerted by
neighbours shouting outside the house telling them to get out.

Their home, two cars and garage were completely gutted in the attack. Two other
properties were also badly damaged in the fire which is believed to have been
started after an oil tank was set alight behind the house on the mainly
nationalist development at Whitewell Road.

Mr McCall, a self-employed electrician has also found himself out of work for
the foreseeable future because all his trade tools were also destroyed in the
blaze.

His wife Mandy said the family is completely devastated and she has no idea
where they are going to go.

The family was left rummaging through the debris to try and recover anything
that was not destroyed.

Mandy said: "We are so lucky to be alive it was terrifying. The blaze was so
big, flames and smoke were everywhere. We were all in bed and I could hear
people calling my name.

"I woke up and looked out, flames were jumping over the top of the house.
Luckily we all managed to get out, it was terrible.

"Our pet rabbit has also been killed. We had just renovated parts of the house
and Peter had put decking down. It is all ruined."

The family has lived in the area for seven years and although they had a bit of
trouble a few years ago it had since quietened down and they were happy to stay
there but Mandy said:

"We will never move back in we have lost so much. At least we are alive but if
we stay around how do we know it won't happen again".

Police remained at the scene this morning and two of the three damaged houses
remained cordoned off.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Newspaper

               © Copyright 2005 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             June 20, 2005, Monday

G8 LEAK ATTACKED BY TERROR EXPERT

BYLINE: BY ANDREW BLACK

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 490 words


Leaked information revealing security arrangements at the G8 summit next month
have been condemned by police and an international terrorism expert.

The details, which included assessments of the chances of a chemical or
biological attack during the event, were handed to the Independent on Sunday by
an intelligence source who claimed Ministers had become complacent.

But independent expert Mike Yardley said release of the information was a
criminal act and could potentially be used by protesters and terrorists to cause
chaos at the event, being held at the Gleneagles Hotel from July 6-8, in
Perthshire, Scotland.

His comments were echoed by Tayside Police, the force responsible for security
at the event, which questioned how security concerns could be resolved by
releasing the information.

The newspaper stated that the plans included a list of vulnerable areas of the
summit venue, showed reinforced fencing to keep out potential protesters and
suicide bombers and aerial photographs of the venue marking likely terrorist
targets.

But Yardley said the release of such 'specific' information was not in the
public interest.

'The leaking of this document is quite simply nothing less than a criminal act
which would result in prosecution,' he said.

'By all means, generate debate about the question of security and how it affects
the event, but information like this should never make it into the public domain
Tayside Police Assistant Chief Constable Willie Bald said any suggestion that
preparations for the event had been thrown into disarray following the leak was
'nonsense'.

'We can see no reason why someone genuinely concerned about security plans for
the summit would see any benefit in speaking to the press,' he said.

'No such concerns have been raised with Tayside Police and to say Ministers, or
indeed anyone involved in the preparations for the summit, are approaching the
event with complacency could not be further from the truth.'

Mr Bald said he was confident of the 'comprehensive security operation' which
had been put in place to protect the world leaders.

The whistleblower, described as a member of the intelligence community, said he
leaked the plans to shock Ministers who had taken security arrangements at the
summit for granted.

'I have been increasingly appalled by the air of complacency surrounding this
event, particularly as displayed by Ministers,' the source said.

'The release of a portion of non-operational material is intended as a wake-up
call before that complacency becomes truly dangerous.'

The leaked plans also reportedly contained the location of a special forces
base, the placing of troops and a wrangle between the US and the UK over the
deployment of surface-to-air missiles.

The Independent on Sunday did not print the operational details of the leak and
stated that all the security material handed to it had now been destroyed

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 21, 2005, Tuesday

MAN HELD OVER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 59 words


A MAN was arrested this morning under the Terrorism Act in connection with
suicide bomb attacks on coalition forces in Iraq, police said.

Around 30 officers raided a house on Great Southern Street in Moss Side,
Manchester, at 5am today and arrested a man. Greater Manchester Police said the
arrest was not in relation to any threat in the UK

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             June 21, 2005, Tuesday

GIRL, 13, IN SEX ATTACK ORDEAL;
 TEENAGER'S TERROR AFTER BEING DRAGGED FROM HER BIKE

BYLINE: BY SAMANTHA NANDA SAMANTHA.NANDA@MRN.CO.UK

SECTION: Nuneaton Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 217 words

HIGHLIGHT: SCENE OF THE ATTACK: Police are appealing for witnesses to the
assault near the entrance to Griff School in Coventry Road


A 13-YEAR-OLD girl was dragged from her bike and subjected to a terrifying sex
attack in the grounds of a Nuneaton school.

The teenager was cycling home from a friend's house along Coventry Road, in
Nuneaton, when she was approached by a man who pounced on her.

He forced the girl from her bike and dragged her along the road into the
entrance of the Griff School, in Coventry Road.

A police spokeswoman said she was then dragged along the driveway before being
forced to the ground and sexually assaulted.

She said: "We are appealing for any witnesses to this serious sexual assault to
come forward."

It isn't known from which direction the man approached the girl or left the
scene.

Police have only just released details of the attack which took place at just
after 10pm on Monday, May 30, or Tuesday, May 31.

The attacker is described as white with pale skin, bald, clean-shaven, aged
between 30 and 40, and of medium build. He may have a cleft lip which joins up
to his nose which is described as being bent.

Police are appealing for any witnesses to the attack or anyone who recognises
the man's description to come forward. Anyone with information is urged to
contact Nuneaton CID on 024 7664 1111, or call the anonymous Crimestoppers
number on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             June 21, 2005, Tuesday

TERROR OF CHURCH ATTACK PENSIONER;
 NOW 79-YEAR-OLD IS TOO SCARED EVER TO GO BACK

BYLINE: BY DEAN VALLER DEAN.VALLER@MRN.CO.UK

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS

LENGTH: 408 words

HIGHLIGHT: SCENE OF THE ATTACK: The Our Lady of the Assumption Church in Tile
Hill Lane


A COVENTRY pensioner who was the victim of a frenzied attack in her local church
is too afraid ever to return.

The frail 79-year-old was battered to the ground by a mentally ill man and
suffered such horrific injuries that 10 months later she is still undergoing
surgery.

Today the victim is too afraid to go near her local church. Instead friends
accompany her to another church in the city.

Her terrifying ordeal, in August last year, was described to Coventry Crown
Court yesterday.

The devout Roman Catholic had attended morning mass every day at Our Lady of the
Assumption Church in Tile Hill Lane.

On August 10 she arrived at just before 9am, unaware that a man was stalking the
building. As she walked towards the font the assailant crept up behind her. He
let out a vicious scream and them launched the horrific attack.

Yesterday her attacker, 38-year-old Timothy Bailey, was sectioned under the
Mental Health Act. He admitted inflicting grievous bodily harm and a judge said
he must be detained to "protect the public from serious harm".

In court Ian Ball, prosecuting, described what happened when the pensioner went
to the church. He said a 17-year-old altar boy heard shouting and saw Bailey
kicking the woman "a number of times" while she was on the floor.

Mr Ball added: "The pensioner was screaming and pleading for him to leave her
alone."

Bailey ran from the church but was caught by police and claimed he remembered
nothing of the incident.

The court heard that Bailey, of Charter Road, Canley, had been been repeatedly
admitted for mental health treatment.

He was also ordered to attend psychiatric treatment after being sentenced in
March 1998 for assault occasioning actual bodily harm.

Michael Jones, in mitigation, said Bailey's family had been very concerned about
his mental condition for a significant time.

Mr Jones said that, when interviewed by police, Bailey had been keen to stress
how concerned he had been for the victim.

Judge Stephen Oliver-Jones QC said: "It is perfectly clear to me that at the
time of the incident you were not well and have not been well for a number of
years."

He said he was detaining Bailey in order to "protect the public from serious
harm".

DC Rob Farr, at Little Park Street CID, said the pensioner had suffered panic
attacks since the ordeal.

He said: "We are pleased to get him off the streets and receiving treatment."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                       June 23, 2005 Thursday 4:04 AM GMT

Australian police raid terror suspects planning attack - reports

LENGTH: 101 words


SYDNEY (AFX) - Australian counter-terrorism officers questioned six people in
Sydney and Melbourne after an investigation revealed that Islamic extremists
were planning attacks in the two cities, news reports said.

The famed Sydney Opera House and Harbour Bridge and train stations in Melbourne,
where at least four houses were raided by police yesterday, are believed to have
been among the targets, newspapers said, quoting unidentified sources.

Police believe several of the men had undergone paramilitary training in
Afghanistan, said the reports in the Australian and Daily Telegraph newspapers.

lb/ns/br/dk

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   AFX - Asia

                       June 23, 2005 Thursday 3:15 AM GMT

Australia warns of 'credible' reports of terror attacks in Malaysia

LENGTH: 93 words


SYDNEY (AFX) - Australians have been warned by their government to avoid
travelling to the east coast of the Malaysian state of Sabah after 'credible'
reports that terrorists are planning to kidnap foreigners.

'Australians are advised to avoid all travel to coastal resorts, islands and
dive sites off the east coast of Sabah,' on Borneo island, the foreign affairs
department said in a travel advisory issued late yesterday.

'We have received credible reports that terrorists are planning kidnapping
attacks targeting resorts frequented by foreigners.'

lb/br/dk

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            June 23, 2005, Thursday

LIKELY TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 68 words


IT is up to 70% likely that somewhere in the world will be attacked with a
weapon of mass destruction in the next 10 years, experts have predicted.

The highest risk is from a so-called 'dirty bomb' packed with radioactive
material, according to 85 arms and national security experts surveyed in the US.

The report was commissioned by US Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman
Richard Lugar

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 24, 2005, Friday

Drugs firm broker quits after firebomb attack Animal rights terror group explode
car in garage as family sleeps

BYLINE: By Rosie Murray-West City Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 034

LENGTH: 546 words

RICHARD Dixey, the chief executive of Phytopharm, said yesterday that he was
"frankly despairing", after the pharmaceutical company's broker resigned
following a firebomb attack by animal rights activists.

"It is totally disgusting and completely wrong," he said, referring to an attack
last month on Canaccord director Michael Kendall. Mr Kendall, who has two young
children, was asleep when his car exploded in the garage attached to his house.
He was able to extinguish the fire after hearing the car alarm.

Phytopharm shares tumbled 16 to a year low of 96=p after Canaccord resigned
yesterday, a fall that Mr Dixey said was "overdone" and "disappointing". "I've
been in this game a long time and this is a down day for me," he said. "This is
far more terrorism than we have seen before and it is very worrying. They are
attacking lots of people, I know it."

He said he respected Canaccord's decision but said that it was important for
him, and other pharmaceutical companies, to speak out about the terrorism, even
though there was a risk to personal safety. "It is a worry," he conceded. "But I
am going to do my very best to make a point about this."

The Animal Liberation Front (ALF) has claimed responsibility for the attack on
an animal rights website, and a Canaccord spokesman said it was this that had
prompted the broker's resignation. The website, which hosts a magazine called
Bite Back, included an anonymous report suggesting Canaccord was Phytopharm's
biggest shareholder "and have raised pounds 10m for them". "Bad mistake", the
report continued. "If you support or raise funds for any company associated with
HLS (Huntingdon Life Sciences), we will track you down, come for you and destroy
your property by fire. You know the score. A new era has dawned for those who
fund the abusers and raise funds for them to murder animals with. You, too, are
on the hitlist."

Peter Brown, chairman and chief executive of Canaccord, issued the following
statement: "Canaccord's priority at this stage is to protect our personnel
following an attack on one of our senior members of our staff. Although we
believe that Phytopharm is a high quality company and an innocent victim in this
issue, Canaccord regrets having to resign its position as the company's joint
broker."

Mr Dixey said that the activists had been very quiet for several months, but he
feared this was the beginning of an escalation. Aisling Burnand, head of the
BioIndustry Association (BIA), said it was difficult to tell whether the
terrorism was being stepped up. The BIA lobbies government on behalf of
biotechnology companies that test their products on animals.

Ms Burnand is in America for a conference but she said she had been working on
the Canaccord issue since 6am and had been in touch with senior civil servants.

"It is rather regrettable," she said. "I'm very concerned about what's happened
and have been talking to the Government about what assistance we can provide."

Mr Dixey, whose company is attempting to find a cure for Alzheimer's Disease
using extracts from plants, is a Buddhist. Yesterday, he said he had "spoken to
lots of wise people" about the concept of testing drugs on animals. "I believe
it is ethically sound to do limited animal testing," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 June 27, 2005

Mum's arson attack terror in the night

BYLINE: Amy Wilson

SECTION: News; Consumer; Crazes; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 188 words


A Mother of two was woken in the early hours of the morning to find her garden
on fire. Charlotte Reynolds, 30, of Foxhill, says she was terrified when she was
woken by the sound of the fire outside her house.

She believes arsonists set light to a rolled-up carpet which was leaning against
her garden fence and the flames quickly spread to the fence and trees in the
garden.

The flames were put out by firefighters already in the area to deal with fires
which had been set in the bin rooms of nearby blocks of flats in Meare Road in
the early hours of last Sunday morning.

Now Ms Reynolds, who has sons aged 18 months and two-and-a-half years, says
something needs to be done to stop the arsonists.

"I didn't expect to wake up and see that," she said. "It was quite frightening.

"The garden is in a real mess and it smelled for a few days afterwards. The
fence is falling down now and the plants I'd bought are ruined.

"I'm really cross that somebody did it.

"It's obvious there are children living here. It's disgusting that people would
think of doing it." Police are investigating the fire.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 June 28, 2005

Terror attack on shop staff

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 72 words


A Pistol-toting robber in a horrifying Freddy Krueger mask terrorised four women
before escaping with £100, it emerged yesterday. The man burst into a
newsagent's in Wootton Bassett, Wiltshire, brandishing a pistol so one of the
staff hit a panic button to alert police.

Police scrambled a helicopter and searched for the red estate getaway car.
Krueger's face was made famous in the film, A Nightmare On Elm Street.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                  July 4, 2005

Fire hydrant man in double attack terror;
Gangs of youths target water worker called out over vandalism

BYLINE: By ALEX ROBERTSON Crime Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 319 words


AN EMERGENCY worker was attacked twice in one night as children across Glasgow
set off fire hydrants during a heatwave.

Scottish Water employee Gavin McBride, 29, was assaulted by teenage gangs as he
tried to turn off two hydrants.

He was kicked in the back by a gang of teenagers in the first assault and then
hit over the head with a pole in the second incident.

The first attack took place when he was called out to Christian Street in
Pollokshaws and found children as young as three playing in the jets of water as
their parents looked on. As he tried to turn off the hydrant, he was targeted by
local youths and kicked.

He said: "It was becoming really dangerous for the kids as they were running
across the road from the playpark.

"Cars couldn't see them because of the water and we thought someone was going to
get hit."

On the same evening Mr McBride was hit over the head with a plastic pole as he
worked on a vandalised hydrant in Ruchazie.

Although he escaped without serious injury, he said the call-outs could be
frightening.

He added: "We often get general abuse.

"Sometimes there are big gangs of older teenagers and that can be intimidating.
We sometimes have to wait for the police to attend before we can get the
hydrants off."

The incident happened during a spate of vandalism, with dozens of hydrants being
set off in Pollokshaws, Castlemilk, Ruchazie, Govan and parts of the east end.
Scottish Water's call centre took hundreds of calls.

Today a Scottish Water spokesman said: "It's disgraceful we cannot do our jobs
without fear of assaults like this.

"Communities need to take responsibility for what is happening on their
doorstep.

"Hydrant vandalism is a crime and can have serious consequences."

Earlier this month, the Evening Times revealed vandals who put lives at risk by
setting off hydrants face being served with anti-social behaviour orders.
Parents and their kids can be fined up to pounds-500.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              July 4, 2005, Monday

'TERROR' OF RAT ATTACK

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 61 words

HIGHLIGHT: FEAR: Rodent


A TOWN council is on the look-out for a Pied Piper because it has been invaded
by giant RATS.

Residents in Castleblaney, Co Monaghan, are "terrified" by the rodents.

The rats are believed to be nesting in a row of derelict houses.

Councillor Joe Brennan called for the buildings to be demolished.

He said: "It can't be tolerated any longer."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            July 6, 2005, Wednesday

CHILD'S ALSATIAN ATTACK TERROR;
 BOY NEEDS 65 STITCHES AFTER PLAYTIME SAVAGING NEAR FAMILY HOME

BYLINE: BY ALAN HARRIS ALAN.HARRIS@MRN.CO.UK

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 313 words

HIGHLIGHT: MAULED: Scott Payne, with mum Vicki, shows the scars on his cheek
from the attack and (left) the injuries to his ear. Pictures: MICHELLE SPERRY
D27003_11


A BOY needed 65 stitches after being savaged by an Alsatian dog in a terrifying
attack.

Scott Payne, aged seven, suffered bite injuries to his face and ears after being
mauled during a nightmare ordeal in Coventry.

The youngster needed a three-hour operation and does not yet know if he will be
permanently scarred.

Police are investigating the attack which happened in Guild Road, Foleshill, at
about 6pm on Sunday.

Mum Vicki Payne, aged 28, said Scott was playing with a football in a communal
yard behind their home when the ball landed in a back garden.

Mother-of-three Miss Payne was in her mother's house, which also backs on to the
yard, when the attack happened.

She said: "I heard a dog barking which sounded worrying and I thought it had got
a cat."

When she ran out she realised Scott had been attacked. "There was blood
everywhere and what looked like chunks coming out of his face and a big hole in
the back of his ear. He was saying 'I'm going to die.' It was horrible."

Scott said: "The dog jumped up and grabbed me by the cheek and bit my cheek. It
bit me on the ear and ripped my ear-ring out. I hate these scars. It was sports
day today and I couldn't go. "

Miss Payne pulled Scott to safety and in the process her other son, Mikey, aged
nine, fell over and broke his wrist.

Scott was taken by ambulance to Walsgrave Hospital where he underwent the
operation.

Scott, who goes to Joseph Cash Primary School, was discharged on Monday and was
today due to see a specialist at Coventry and Warwickshire Hospital.

A spokesman for West Midlands Police said: "We were called by the ambulance
service at 6.09pm on July 3 to a report that a seven-year-old boy had been
attacked by a dog.

"He was treated at hospital and had at least 60 stitches.

"No-one has been arrested and police investigations are continuing."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  July 6, 2005

Why bird flu is now seen as great a threat as terror attack

SECTION: News; Health; Others; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 623 words


The killer bird flu raging across Asia is one of the biggest threats the West
Country faces, experts warned yesterday. Emergency planners in the region have
placed the disease alongside terrorism on a scale of potential dangers.

Tomor ow, key figures in the West will meet to discuss how to deal with such a
crisis.

Peter Whitbread, of the Government News Network South West, said: "Bird flu is
one of the key threats, along with terrorism and chemical, biological,
radiological and nuclear attacks - and we need to be prepared." In the past two
years, bird flu has killed 39 people in Vietnam, 12 in Thailand and four in
Cambodia.

This week, the United Nations warned it could take up to a decade to rid Asia of
the virus.

Bird flu, or avian flu, was thought to only infect birds until the first case
was detected in a human in Hong Kong in 1997.

So far, humans who have caught it have had close contact with infected birds.

But Dr Shigeru Omi, of the World Health Organisation, has warned the disease is
"at a tipping point".

"The virus remains as unstable, unpredictable and versatile as ever," Dr Omi
told a medical conference in Kuala Lumpur. "We need to be on constant alert." He
added that if the virus did spread worldwide, experts predict anything between
two million and 50million deaths, including more than 50,000 fatalities in the
UK.

Earlier this year, the Department of Health published a 137-page guide to
dealing with a flu pandemic.

Antiviral drugs are already being stockpiled and an emergency exercise has been
carried out using a football and rugby stadium as a simulated immunisation ward.

Emergency teams in the West are braced for action, including the police, fire,
ambulance, local authorities, MoD and media.

These groups comprise the Regional Resilience Forum which would oversee the
opGGlobal health alert eration in the event of a major emergency.

Laurence Knight, a spokesman for the Health Protection Agency South West, said
that one case of avian flu in this region would not necessarily mean a pandemic.

"In the case of a single suspected case of avian flu, the person would be
treated in isolation and tests would be turned around as quickly as possible to
determine if it's the same flu affecting Asia," he said.

"If there was an outbreak, we would be looking to distribute anti-viral drugs to
the high priority groups.

"It would not necessarily be the very young or old, it could be people in their
20s and 30s as in the case of the Spanish flu of 1918-19." It would take a
couple of months to produce a vaccine for the flu sweeping Asia but antiviral
drugs could limit the symptoms and curb the spread of disease.

Mr Knight added: "It's unlikely a vaccine would be available at first, so we
would issue advice about basic hygiene and urge people to avoid crowds." The
virus has swept through poultry in east and south-east Asia and tens of millions
of chickens have died or been slaughtered.

Health experts are desperate to prevent the virus from mutating into one that
can spread from person to person and the UN has urged the international
community to raise £58million.

Tomorrow's meeting is a six-monthly update of contingency plans.

Daily Press fact file Birds excrete the bird flu virus in their faeces, which
dries and becomes pulverised, and this can be inhaled by people with close
contact to poultry.

There are 15 different strains of the virus and the current one in Asia is H5N1.

Symptoms are similar to other types of flu, such as sore throats, fever, coughs
and fatigue.

It was thought bird flu only affected the lungs, but research by Oxford
University has found it can attack all parts of the body.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                       July 7, 2005 Thursday 4:49 PM GMT

European govt bonds, gilts sharply higher on London terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 459 words


LONDON (AFX) - European government bonds were sharply higher, with gilts
outperforming on the back of this morning's terrorist attacks on the London
transport network.

Several explosions were reported on London tubes and buses this morning in what
appears to have been a coordinated attack to coincide with the G8 meeting which
is taking place in Gleneagles, Scotland this week.

'The market is highly centred on the geopolitical situation at the moment and we
have seen a safe haven trading mentality all day today,' said CIBC analyst
Audrey Childe-Freeman.

Bonds were also helped by hefty falls on UK equity markets, although they came
off highs seen earlier this morning in the immediate wake of the attacks, which
saw gilts and the key German bund future rise by over 1.0 point.

The other main news today came from monetary policy decisions from the European
Central Bank and the Bank of England, which both left interest rates on hold at
2.00 pct and 4.75 pct respectively.

With the market so focused on this morning's terrorist attacks, however, bond
markets paid very little attention to the decisions.

Both decisions were expected by the markets, although there was some perceived
risk that the BoE could implement an early rate cut today in the wake of a spate
of very weak UK data recently, particularly following today's events.

However, a rate cut in August is now fully expected, so today's decision does
not change the fundamental outlook for interest rates, Childe-Freeman said.

Bonds are likely to remain supported in the coming days, both by geopolitical
factors and by the subdued economic situation, with lower interest rates on the
horizon, she said.

At Yield Change on

1527 GMT pct previous close

    Sept euribor future (Liffe)         97.925               up  0.025


GERMANY

Sept bund future (Eurex) 123.15 up 0.49

3.25 pct July 2015 govt bond 100.62 3.17 up 0.44

FRANCE

3.50 pct April 2015 govt bond 102.66 3.17 up 0.40

    UK
    Sept gilt future                    113.99               up   0.76
    5.00 pct Sept 2014 govt bond        106.12      4.19     up   0.66
    Sept sterling future                 95.63               up   0.15


ITALY

4.25 pct Feb 2015 govt bond 107.67 3.33 up 0.37

    SPAIN
    4.40 pct Jan 2015 govt bond         110.02      3.16     up   0.38

    NETHERLANDS
    3.75 pct July 2014 govt bond        104.94      3.11     up   0.37


BELGIUM

3.75 pct Sept 2015 govt bond 104.38 3.24 up 0.40

    jkm/lam


COPYRIGHT


Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.

The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.


AFX News and the AFX Financial News logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Bucks Winslow Advertiser

                                  July 7, 2005

TERROR ATTACK SHOCKWAVE

LENGTH: 126 words


NORTH Bucks residents, like the rest of the UK, were left reeling by the
horrific terror attacks in London on Thursday, July 7.

City workers travelling by train from Milton Keynes found their journeys cut
short at Watford after explosions on the underground network. At the time of
going to press it was not known whether any local people had been caught up in
the tragedy.

Police officers were on duty at Bucks train stations and emergency services
offered their support to London authorities battling to help victims and restore
order to the city.

A series of bombs killed several people and injured hundreds using public
transport in London, and saw the city transport system grind to a halt.

SEE THE ADVERTISER FOR A FULL REPORT

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Bucks Herald

                                  July 7, 2005

TERRORIST ATTACK ON LONDON (LATEST NEWS 2PM)

LENGTH: 861 words


(THURSDAY, JULY 7). HUNDREDS of commuters were left stranded at Aylesbury train
station after the terrorist attack on London yesterday.

Chiltern Railways, the rail network providing services from Aylesbury to London
Marylebone, was forced to suspend all trains to the capital at around 10am.

One train, which had already departed Aylesbury was terminated at Amersham as
news of the terrorist strike filtered through. Members of station staff were
given orders to warn confused commuters not to travel into London unless of an
emergency.

Reports at about 11.30am yesterday suggested there had been a blast at
Marylebone station but a spokeswoman for Chiltern Railways said the reports were
false. A spokesman for Stoke Mandeville Hospital confirmed they were not on
official alert but were preparing to take casualties if asked.

Many commuters from Aylesbury, who had already reached London by the time of the
first registered incident on London Underground at 8.49am, found themselves
trapped as emergency services advised them to stay in their offices. Alessandra
Iodice, a travel sales co-ordinator from Cotswold Green, Elmhurst, works in
London's Edgeware Road, just 100m away from one of the blast zones, Edgeware
Underground Station.

Ms Iodice, 25, told The bucks Herald of her shock and panic when she realised
what was happening. Speaking from her office, Ms Iodice, said: "I just want to
get out of London and come home. My initial concern was for friends that also
work in and around London but the mobile phone network is down. There is a
constant flow of police, ambulance and fire sirens and it is just sheer panic."

Bucks County Council acting chief executive officer, Sue Imbriano, said Thames
Valley Police were monitoring developments and admitted school transport could
be affected. "These are horrific incidents and our thoughts are with everyone
involved. "Your role at present is limited to communicating with staff who may
be concerned about colleagues, family and friends, and with schools where it is
possible, although not confirmed, that trips may have been delayed, with a
possible knock-on effect to normal school transport.

"We would urge anyone concerned not to ring the council but the casualty line
which the police are expected to announce at noon today," she said.

Michelle Worvell, 30, of Bedgrove, a magazine editor in Shaftesbury Avenue said
she had also been told to stay in her office by police but that the situation
was made worse by conflicting reports on the television and radio news. "There
is obviously a great deal of concern, the situation is escalating and getting
worse.

"I don't know how I am going to get home at the moment and whether or not
getting home is going to be safe," she said.

Commercial manager for Chiltern Railways, Neil Micklethwaite, said taxi drivers
based outside Aylesbury station were also being told not to take desperate
commuters into gridlocked London. Tanveer Razaq, 26, a driver for Five Two's
Taxis, said four or five cars had already left for London by that point.

"There has been no refusal to take anybody and if someone asked me I would take
them. Life is a risk so why not take it," he said.

Prime Minister Tony Blair addressed the nation from Gleneagles, Scotland, where
he had been chairing the G8 summit. Mr Blair said he believed the attacks were
designed to coincide with the opening of G8. "It is reasonably clear there has
been a series of terrorist attacks in London. It is the will of the leaders of
the G8 that the meeting should continue in my absence. We will show our complete
resolution to defeat this terrorism.

"Those engaged in terrorism must realise our determination to defend our values
and way of life is greater than their determination to cause death and
destruction to innocent people," he said.

Aylesbury MP David Lidington, who was accompanying a Longwick constituent to an
RAF veterans lunch in St James Park, echoed the words of Mr Blair and described
the attacks as 'savage and despicable'.

"Our reaction must be to remain calm and go about our normal business. The most
important thing is not to allow it to deflect us because that is what the
terrorists want.

"No doubt there are lessons to be drawn on security measures but it is too early
to be rushing judgements on that," he said.

Former mayor, Raj Khan, speaking on behalf of the muslim community, said the
British people must come together to show their resilience. "I am horrified by
what I have seen today.

"It is barbaric and inhumane and there is no defence for killing innocent
people. There are no definitions when it comes to terrorists, no matter what
religion, Christian or Muslim. Terrorists are terrorists and giving them the
title of Muslim is not something we approve of" he said.

A spokesman for Chiltern Railways said plans were in place to bring people back
to Aylesbury tonight. Trains are in operation between Marylebone and Denham
where a non-stop bus service is being provided to take people to High Wycombe
and then Great Missenden. There are then trains running every 30mins between
Missenden and Aylesbury.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                    Citywire

                       July 7, 2005 Thursday 12:54 PM GMT

Thursday Lunchtime Market: City reels at London terror attacks

LENGTH: 398 words


(Update) Suspected Al Qaeda terrorist attacks in London - resulting in several
casualties and many injured and described by prime minister Tony Blair as
'barbaric' and timed to clash with the G8 summit meeting - have devastated share
prices. Before midday the FTSE 100 index had plunged 160 points to 5,068, but by
12.30pm had rallied to 5,111, a net fall of 118 points. The mid 250 index had
plummeted 243 points at one stage before recovering to 7,294, down 203 points.
But price movements were largely technical as many dealers had been evacuated
from their offices prompting the Stock Exchange to declare a 'fast market' just
before lunchtime. Prime minister Blair is leaving the G8 summit at Gleneagles
this afternoon to attend to the situation in London, but refuses to suspend the
meeting and plans to return there later this evening. Almost unnoticed in the
chaotic conditions, the Bank of England left interest rates unchanged at 4.75%,
causing little surprise, although analysts were forecasting a possible reduction
next month. Diageo remained the session's weakest stock at 790p, down 49p, after
releasing disappointing figures. Hotel and leisure shares were predictably hit
by the blasts in London. Hilton Group fell 16p to 283p, Intercontinental Hotels
27p to 695p, BAA 24p to 595p, British Airways 6p to 285p, Enterprise Inns 30p to
826p and Whitbread 37p to 942p. Property shares, buoyant yesterday on London's
Olympic win, fell back sharply under the lead of British Land at 849p and Land
Securities £13.75, down 44p and 51p.

Elsewhere in a sea of red on the trading screens Alliance & Leicester at 865p,
Amvescap 595p, BOC Group £10.11, HSBC 887p, GlaxoSmithKline £13.43, Rio Tinto
£17.52 and United Utilities 645p declined between 18p and 44p. Even oils joined
in the slide with BP off 23p at 607p and Shell 17p easier at 552p as the crude
price dropped below $60 a barrel. Among a handful of positive situations
Aberdeen Asset Management rose 11.5p to 134.5p following the £260 million
acquisition of some of Deutsche Bank's fund management operations, partly
financed by a £215 million rights issue. PHS Group jumped 8.5p to 114p in the
wake of the £600 million offer from private equity group Charterhouse Capital.
Directors' share-buying lifted Waterman Group 4p to 103p and CSS Stellar
improved as it Icon Display provides the backdrop for the London 2012
celebrations.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2005 Citywire Financial Publishers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Construction News

                             July 7, 2005 Thursday

Many feared dead after London terror attacks

BYLINE: CN SOPHIE

SECTION: ARTICLE; News

LENGTH: 211  words



HIGHLIGHT: A series of terrorist blasts ripped through central London today
leaving scores of casualties.


Eye-witnesses reported seeing bodies piled in the wreckage of damaged Tube
trains.    A double decker bus packed with people forced off the underground
when the network was shut down was ripped apart by a massive blast.
Eyewitnesses said there were many fatalities.    The onslaught came as world
leaders including Tony Blair and US President Bush were meeting in Scotland for
the G8 summit.    As the scale of the attack became clear ministers attending
the regular Thursday cabinet meeting convened an emergency Cobra committee to
deal with the crisis.    The terror attacks began with a series of co-ordinated
blasts on the Tube network.    Emergency services rushed to rescue trapped
passengers.     At Liverpool Street Station in the City, the wounded were
treated     by medics as they lay on the concourse.    The Hilton Metropole on
the Edgware Road was used as a makeshift treatment centre.    There were
unconfirmed reports that several people had died on the bus in the Russell
Square area.    There were reports that more than one bus had blown up, but
Scotland Yard said it was only dealing with one bus explosion.    Mainline
stations were closed and Tube and bus services were cancelled across the city.
Latest News indexContact the newsdesk

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Construction News


                            Copyright 2005 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             July 7, 2005, Thursday

BOMB BLASTS ROCK LONDON;
 MANY FEARED DEAD IN BUS EXPLOSIONS TUBE TARGETED IN TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS

LENGTH: 325 words

HIGHLIGHT: HORROR: A TV picture of a bus destroyed in a blast in central London
this morning


A HUGE terrorist attack was launched on London today.

Packed tube trains were targeted and at least three buses blown up in the centre
of the city.

More than 20 people were feared dead and many more injured. There were at least
90 casualties in the Aldgate area.

The co-ordinated terror attack, which began in the morning rush hour, was
immediately linked to the G8 summit being hosted by Britain.

Home Secretary Charles Clarke held an emergency meeting of the cabinet and
announced afterwards that he had had reports of deaths and "terrible injuries".

David Carlton, an expert on terrorism from the University of Warwick, told the
Evening Telegraph he believed the attacks were linked to the G8 summit.

And there were fears that there could be more explosions throughout the day.

Rail services from Coventry to London Euston were cancelled as the whole country
was put on alert.

Police forces across the country, including the West Midlands, were put on high
alert with fears of attacks elsewhere.

In London troops were patrolling the streets.

Thousands of people were trying to make their way out of the centre of the city
on foot because they were too afraid to catch buses.

One eyewitness in the Russell Square area, near Euston station, where one of the
buses was blown up, said: "There was a whole crowd of people around the bus.

"The next thing I knew I was on the floor. There were shedloads of glass raining
down.

"Someone fell on me and someone fell on him. For a moment I thought I was going
to be trampled. I picked myself up and everyone was running. There was glass
everywhere."

Police closed down all public transport in London and hundreds of people were
said to be unable to use their mobile phones to call loved ones because of fears
that the phones could trigger more blasts.

Many buses were packed with commuters forced off the tube when the network was
closed by the blasts.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                  July 7, 2005

BOMB CARNAGE PARALYSES LONDON;
BLASTS HORROR Blair condemns terror attacks as he leaves G8 summit to take
charge of emergency committee in capital;
Hundreds injured and many dead as four explosions hit Tube trains and bus

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 824 words



HIGHLIGHT: The remains of the blasted double-decker on Tavistock Square

A double decker London bus lies torn apart by the blast in Tavistock Square
after what appeared to be co-ordinated attacks to mark the start of the G8
summit

An injured woman is led away from Edgware Road Tube

Shocked and bleeding, the walking wounded are led away from Edgware Road tube
station


FOUR explosions ripped through central London today in a terrorist attack that
left 40 people feared dead, and plunged the city into chaos.

The first blast was reported at 8.49 this morning between Liverpool Street and
Aldgate East stations.

Another three explosions followed, with one near Tavistock Square blowing a
double-decker bus apart.

Eye-witnesses reported seeing bodies piled in the wreckage of damaged trains.

Hospitals all across the capital were put on alert to deal with casualties.

The Royal London alone received almost 100 wounded this morning. As the toll of
injured rose to more than 300 during the day, there was still no official death
toll.

The only confirmed fatalities were two deaths at Aldgate East, but unconfirmed
reports said that 40 people had been killed in all.

The explosions sent the capital into chaos. First reports said there had been at
least six blasts, but the number was later cut to four.

The attack shut down Tube and bus services in the centre of London and seriously
disrupted mainline services.

People were advised not to travel to the area unless their journey was
absolutely vital.

Financial markets were sent into freefall with share prices and the value of the
pound plunging.

The onslaught came as world leaders including Tony Blair and US President Bush
were in Scotland for the G8 summit.

Al Qaida terrorists claimed responsibility, saying that Britain was "burning
with fear".

As the scale of the attack became clear senior ministers convened an emergency
Cobra committee to deal with the crisis. Mr Blair made a televised statement
before leaving the summit to return to Downing Street for the day.

He said: "It is clear that there has been a series of terrorist attacks in
London.

There are obviously casualties, both people who have died and seriously injured.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with them and their families. It is particularly
barbaric that this has happened on a day when people are meeting to try to help
the problems of poverty in Africa and climate change."

The Queen and the Pope also sent messages to families of the victims. In an open
message, the Queen said:

"The dreadful events have deeply shocked us all.

"I know I speak for the whole nation in expressing my sympathy to all those
affected and the relatives of the killed and injured."

And Pope Benedict XVI deplored the "terrorist attacks".

In a telegram sent to Cardinal Cormac Murphy O'Connor, Archbishop of
Westminster, he called them "barbaric acts against humanity, " and said he was
praying for the families of the victims.

Home Secretary Charles Clarke issued a statement to MPs saying terrorists had
launched a series of "criminal and appalling" attacks.

Mr Clarke said the Metropolitan Police were in operational command and were
using "well established and tested procedures."

The health services were providing "first class care and support", he added.

The terror attacks began with a series of co-ordinated blasts on the Tube
network.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair confirmed there had been
explosions and told people to stay where they were.

He vowed "order will return to London".

At the scene of the first explosion the wounded were treated by medics as they
lay on the concourse. The other Tube explosions were reported between Russell
Square and King's Cross, and at Edgware Road.

They were initially blamed on a power surge but it soon became clear that it was
a terrorist attack on the capital.

In Tavistock Square, commuters saw a packed double decker ripped to shreds.

One eyewitness described seeing dead bodies lying in the street.

Security guard Ayobami Bello, 46, was only 30 metres from the bus.

He said: "It was terrible.

The bus went to pieces. There were so many bodies on the floor.

"The back of the bus was completely gone. A dead body was hanging out and there
were dead bodies on the road. It was a horrible thing."

He said other bodies sat slumped in their bus seats, some with arms and legs
missing.

He added: "I can't believe it. I can't even believe that I survived it.

"There was panic and everyone was running for their lives."

Survivors of the Tube blasts also told of horrific scenes.

Train passenger Simon Corvett from Oxford told of hearing a "massive bang" at
Edgware Road Station.

He added: "There were just loads of people screaming and the carriages filled
with smoke."

And student Sarah Reid, 23, told how she was led out down the track near
Liverpool Street station.

She saw a carriage ripped apart with the roof blown off.

"I think some people may have died, " she said.

"The blast had pulled some people's clothes off."

Away from the capital, mobile phone networks were jammed as anxious callers
tried to contact loved ones.

Teams of Metropolitan Police officers were ordered to leave the G8 protests at
Stirling and return south.

And in Scotland, security was tightened across the public transport network,
with passengers urged to be vigilant - although there was no specific threat of
attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                  July 7, 2005

Terror expert: attack timing significant

LENGTH: 490 words



HIGHLIGHT: An emergency planning expert today said the timing of this morning's
terrorist blasts is significant because the capital's anti-terrorist "A team" is
at the G8 summit in Gleneagles.


An emergency planning expert today said the timing of this morning's terrorist
blasts is significant because the capital's anti-terrorist "A team" is at the G8
summit in Gleneagles.

Tom Pine, a lecturer in emergency planning at the University of Hertfordshire in
Hatfield, said: "All the territorial support groups would also be up in
Scotland, making London very vulnerable.

"Also if you wanted to attack 'UK plc' then the timing of the attack to coincide
with the G8 summit and coming the day after the Olympic decision is spot on," he
said.

Mr Pine, a former policeman and who is also an emergency care consultant, said
the breakdown of the mobile phone network following the terror attacks may have
been deliberate.

He said: "The bombs in Madrid were detonated by mobile phones. The first thing I
would do if I was in an emergency situation would be to shut down the cell
system so that mobile phones could not be used to detonate any devices as they
were in Madrid.

"The dilemma then of course is not just that members of the public cannot
communicate with each other, but also it causes problems for the emergency
services which increasingly rely on cell technology for communications."

Staff at Camden council in London have today been evacuated from the town hall
as a precaution after the explosions this morning.

The town hall is located in Judd Street near King's Cross, which is at the
centre of today's incidents.

Local authorities in central London will be activating emergency planning
procedures in response to the bomb attacks in the capital.

Major exercises are carried out regularly involving all the emergency services
in preparation for any terrorist attacks. They are made as realistic as possible
with staff told to take the exercises seriously at all times.

Each council has either a designated emergency planning officer or a small
dedicated emergency planning unit who will now be busy coordinating efforts to
support the emergency services.

The council staff will work closely with the Metropolitan police, which is
coordinating the response to the attacks in London.

The Cabinet Office set up the civil contingency secretariat five years ago to
review emergency planing across government departments.

A nationwide register of the worst disasters that could happen was being
prepared by the government - the national risk assessment framework - but
obviously that will come too late to help with the current situation.

Many of the capital's local authority leaders are in Harrogate for the Local
Government Association annual conference, so that may have hampered their
ability to coordinate the response efforts.

Brent council is advising staff and residents to follow police advice to stay
put and not to make unnecessary journeys. Schools in the borough are being
advised to remain open and not to send pupils home. And police have asked people
to avoid calling the emergency services unless they are facing a real emergency.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                  July 7, 2005

Major terrorist attacks since 9/11

LENGTH: 335 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sean Clarke details the most serious terror attacks around the world
since September 11 2001.


March 2002, Israel

Three bombs, independently planned but all timed to coincide with the Passover
festival. One hits a Passover dinner at a hotel in Netanya, killing 20 people.
Another in Tel Aviv kills 29 and a suicide bomber attacks an Arab-owned
restaurant in Haifa and kills 14.

October 12 2002, Bali, Indonesia

Car bombs outside nightclubs popular with foreign tourists kill 202 people, 91
of them Australians. An Indonesian Islamist group with Al-Qaida links is blamed.

October 23 2002, Moscow

Chechen gunmen and women take over a theatre and hold everyone inside hostage.
They later shoot dead several of the hostages. Russian troops use gas to subdue
the hostage takers, and kill 50 of them. However, the gas also kills 179 of the
hostages.

May 16 2003, Casablanca, Morocco

Five bombs targeted at Jewish and western people in the city kill 41, mostly
Moroccans. Six Europeans also die.

May 12 2003, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

Suicide bomber attacks on residential compounds inhabited by westerners kills 34
people. Al-Qaida blamed.

November 20 2003, Istanbul, Turkey

Truck bomb attacks on the British Consulate and the HSBC bank kill over 60
people, including the British consul general in the city.

March 11 2004, Madrid

Explosions aboard four commuter trains arriving at Atocha station during the
morning rush hour. Bombs were in backpacks, and detonated using a mobile phone,
killing191 people and injuring 1,800. Spanish government of Jose Maria Aznar at
first suggests the Basque separatist group Eta is to blame, but later concedes
the attacks were the work of Islamists. Popular anger at being "misled" leads to
victory of the opposition at a general election a few days later.

September 1 - 3 2004, Beslan, Russia

Islamist gunmen take over 1,000 hostages, mostly children, at a school in North
Ossetia. After a three-day siege many of the hostages are killed in an explosion
in the school gym, after which Russian troops storm the building. The final
death toll is over 330, many of them children. 800 more are injured.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                  July 7, 2005

London: past terror attacks

LENGTH: 613 words



HIGHLIGHT: Donald MacLeod looks at how London has coped with past terrorist
attacks


London has been the target of coordinated terrorist bombings for more than two
decades.

As Irish republicans fighting the British army in the 1970s were quick to
realise - one bomb in London was worth far more in terms of its impact and
publicity than a dozen in Northern Ireland.

On mainland Britain, interest in events in Belfast and Londonderry quickly
faded, but the Provisional IRA took their fight to the UK capital in an effort
to shake the resolve of the public and put pressure on the government.

London was not only a potent symbol with the national media, on hand to record
any devastation, but it housed a large Irish community in which IRA active
service units were able to move easily.

The public outrage caused by bombing atrocities contributed to grave
miscarriages of justice - the Birmingham six and the Guildford four - which were
in a sense another IRA "success" in humiliating the British state.

The parallels with groups like al-Qaida, which can move within London's large
Muslim communities, are obvious, and figures like London mayor Ken Livingstone
today tried to stress the need for Londoners to stand together rather than turn
on innocent Muslims.

Almost equally disturbing for a short time were the two nail bombs targeted at
the black and Asian communities of Brixton and Brick Lane in April 1999,
followed by an attack on a gay pub, the Admiral Duncan, in Soho. These were
revealed to be the work of a lone hate-filled individual, David Copeland.

The IRA bomb campaign, which hit London from 1973 onwards, sought to create a
climate of fear over a long period, but it soon tried to explode two or more
devices at a time to maximise the havoc. There were 36 bombs in London in 1973.

Over 20 years, the IRA strategy shifted away from causing as many casualties as
possible to trying to cause economic damage to London's financial centre.

The major incidents were:

1973, March 8: two IRA car bombs in London explode outside the Old Bailey and
government's agriculture department headquarters, killing one person and
wounding more than 150

1974, October 5: two IRA bombs explode in pubs in the London suburb of
Guildford; five dead, more than 50 injured

November 21: two IRA bombs in Birmingham kill 19 and wound more than 180

1982, July 20: two IRA bombs in Hyde Park and Regent's Park in London kill 11
British soldiers and wound more than 40, mostly civilian onlookers

1983, December 17: IRA car bomb explodes outside Harrods department store,
killing six people and wounding about 100

1984 October 12: IRA targets conference of ruling Conservative party, killing
five and wounding 24, but narrowly missing the prime minister, Margaret Thatcher

1989, September 22: the IRA bombs the Royal Marines School of Music in Deal,
killing 10 soldiers and wounding more than 30

1991, February 7: IRA fires three homemade mortar shells at No 10 Downing
Street, the British prime minister's official residence in London. No injuries

1992, April 10: a massive IRA truck bomb in London's financial district kills
three and causes hundreds of millions of pounds worth in damage

April 24: an IRA truck bomb in London's financial district, killing one and
causing heavy damage

1996, February 9: IRA ends a 17-month ceasefire with a third massive truck bomb
in London's financial district, killing two

February 18: an IRA bomber accidentally kills himself aboard a London
double-decker bus, five injured

June 15: for the first time, the IRA targets a different English city -
Manchester - with a massive truck bomb, wrecking the central shopping area and
wounding about 200

2000, September 20: IRA dissidents fire rocket-propelled grenades at
headquarters of MI6 security agency. No injuries.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             July 7, 2005, Thursday

CARNAGE IN MAJOR TERROR ATTACK HORROR IN CAPITAL;
 DOZENS FEARED DEAD IN SERIES OF TERROR BOMBINGS LONDON TRAVEL LINKS

BYLINE: BY CATHERINE JONES

SECTION: Main Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 837 words


DOZENS of commuters were feared dead in a series of rushhour terror bomb attacks
in London today.

Explosions rocked London's Tube and bus network today leaving commuters dead and
injured and the capital in chaos.

The entire underground system was halted and streets and stations cordoned off
in what emergency services described as a major incident.

The air was filled with the sound of sirens as people, many covered in blood and
soot, poured from the underground system.

A City of London Police spokesman said there were 'a large number of casualties'
after an explosion between Aldgate and Liverpool Street Station on the
Hammersmith and City line.

A second explosion was reported at Edgware Road on the same line.

A double decker bus was blown in half close to Russell Square and there were
reports of a second bus being blown up. Scotland Yard said there were reports of
explosions in Edgware Road, King's Cross, Liverpool Street, Russell Square,
Aldgate East and Moorgate.

A spokeswoman said: 'It's too early to say what has caused these explosions.
There have been reports of numerous casualties.'

The explosions come less than 24 hours after London won the bid to host the 2012
Olympics, and as world leaders meet at the G8 summit in Scotland.

Emergency services were called to Liverpool Street Station shortly before 9am
after reports of an explosion.

One witness described seeing a carriage ripped apart with the roof blown off.

Student Sarah Reid, 23, said: 'A carriage was split in two, all jagged, and
without a roof, just open.

'I saw bodies, I think.'

Minutes later there was a second incident, this time at Edgware Road.

Passengers there spoke of hearing a 'huge thud' and some attempted to smash the
windows of their Tube carriages with umbrellas in an attempt to escape.

Simon Corvett, 26, was on the eastbound train leaving Edgware Road.

He said: 'There were just loads of people screaming and the carriages filled
with smoke.

'You couldn't really breathe and you couldn't see what was happening. The driver
came on the Tannoy and said ' We've got a problem, don't panic'.'

Mr Corvett, whose face was covered in soot, joined other passengers to force
open the train doors with a fire extinguisher.

He said the carriage on the other track was destroyed: 'You could see the
carriage opposite was completely gutted.

'There were some people in real trouble.'

Tube infrastructure company Metronet, which is responsible for maintaining the
Metropolitan line, initially described the Aldgate incident as being caused 'by
some kind of power surge'.

But the National Grid denied this.

Eyewitnesses described how they saw a London bus ripped apart by an explosion in
Tavistock Place, near Russell Square.

Belinda Seabrook said: 'I was on the bus in front and heard an incredible bang.
I turned round and half the double decker bus was in the air.'

Mrs Seabrook said the bus was travelling from Euston to Russell Square and had
been 'packed' with people turned away from Tube stops.

'There must be a lot of people dead as all the buses were packed, they had been
turning people away from the tube stops.'

Former Calday Grange Grammar head boy James Taylor was working in an office in
the centre of Lodon when the bus exploded.

Mr Taylor, 27, said: 'We heard a blast some time after 9am. No-one seems to be
really panicking at the moment because no-one knows what is going on.

'Our office is about 500 yards away from where the bomb exploded on the bus.
Since then ambulances have been pouring past our windows all morning.'

All London hospitals were put on major incident alert.

People were being advised not to travel to London and trains heading for London
were being terminated at stations outside the capital.

Rail union the RMT's headquarters is in Euston Liverpool regional officer Andy
Boyack said: 'We have been getting garbled reports from our people down there.

'The office is close to Euston and Kings Cross. Anyone who has friends or
colleagues travelling in London today will be worried about their safety.

'It could be a lot more horrific as it unfolds.'

RMT press officer Brian Denny was in the underground system when it ground to a
halt early this morning.

He said: 'The whole thing is a nightmare, everything has come to a standstill.'

Riverside MP Louise Ellman was at the House of Commons awaiting the arrival of
the Syrian Ambassador when the explosions happened.

She said: 'I was waiting for a meeting to start about South Asia and the Middle
East. We were due to discuss Lebanon.

'The Syrian Ambassador has still not arrived and we are also awaiting the
arrival of representatives from the Croatian, Swedish and US embassies.'

Meanwhile, West Derby MP Bob Wareing was in his city centre flat at the time of
the explosions.

He said 'I am still trying to find out exactly what has happened but it does
sound absolutely terrible. I am following it closely on TV

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UTTER CHAOS: Commuters are caught up in a web of fear as a series of
blasts rocks London; Pictures: SKY NEWS

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               PR Newswire Europe

                             July 7, 2005 Thursday

Message from Her Excellency the Right Honourable Adrienne Clarkson Governor
General of Canada on today's terrorist attacks in London

LENGTH: 56 words


OTTAWA, July 7 /PRNewswire/ -- "The world has once again witnessed the horrors
of terrorism and we have all been shaken by these shocking and terrifying
events. All Canadians are saddened to see this tragedy unfold and we give the
people of Britain our heartfelt sympathy."

Website: http://www.gg.caGovernor General of Canada

CONTACT:

Lucie Brosseau, Rideau Hall Press Office, +1-613-998-0287, ww.gg.ca

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 PR Newswire Europe Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved.

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                                  July 7, 2005

PM condemns 'barbaric' terrorist attacks

SECTION: News; 999; Disasters; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 413 words


Prime Minister Tony Blair today condemned the 'barbaric' series of terrorist
attacks which brought death and destruction to London. In a statement at the G8
summit at Gleneagles, Mr Blair said it was 'reasonably clear' the string of
explosions in the capital was the work of terrorists.

He said it was also clear there were a number of casualties and fatalities.

Mr Blair said he would leave the summit within the next couple of hours to
return to London to be briefed on events.

He said: "It is particularly barbaric this has happened on a day when people are
meeting to try to help the problems of poverty in Africa, the long-term problems
of climate change and the environment." He said the attacks were 'designed and
aimed to coincide with the opening of the G8'.

Mr Blair told reporters: "It is reasonably clear there have been a series of
terrorist attacks in London.

"There are obviously casualties, both people that have died and people seriously
injured. And our thoughts and prayers of course are with the victims and their
families.

"It is my intention to leave the G8 within the next couple of hours and go down
to London and get a report face-to-face with the police and the emergency
services and the ministers who have been dealing with this and then to return
later this evening.

"It is the will of all the leaders of the G8 however that the meeting should
continue in my absence, that we should continue to discuss the issues we were
going to discuss and reach the conclusions we were going to reach." Mr Blair
continued: "Each of the countries around that table has some experience of the
effects of terrorism, and all the leaders, as they will indicate a little bit
later, share our complete resolution to defeat this terrorism." The Prime
Minister added: "Just as it is reasonably clear this is a terrorist attack or a
series of terrorist attacks it is also reasonably clear it is designed and aimed
to coincide with the opening of the G8.

"There will be time to talk later about this. It is important however those
engaged in terrorism realise our determination to defend our values and our way
of life is greater than their determination to cause death and destruction to
innocent people in a desire to impose extremism on the world." Mr Blair
concluded: "Whatever they do it is our determination they will never succeed in
destroying what we hold dear in this country and in other civilised nations
throughout the world."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sunderland Echo

                                  July 7, 2005

Blair condemns terror attacks

LENGTH: 250 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair today condemned the "barbaric" series of terrorist
attacks which brought death and destruction to London.

In a statement at the G8 summit at Gleneagles, Mr Blair said it was "reasonably
clear" that the string of explosions in the capital was the work of terrorists.

He said it was also clear that there were a number of casualties and fatalities.

Mr Blair said he would leave the summit within the next couple of hours to
return to London to be briefed on events.

He said: "It is particularly barbaric that this has happened on a day when
people are meeting to try to help the problems of poverty in Africa, the
long-term problems of climate change and the environment."

He said the attacks were "designed and aimed to coincide with the opening of the
G8".

Mr Blair told reporters: "There are obviously casualties, both people that have
died and people seriously injured. And our thoughts and prayers of course are
with the victims and their families.

"It is my intention to leave the G8 within the next couple of hours and go down
to London and get a report face-to-face with the police and the emergency
services and the ministers who have been dealing with this and then to return
later this evening."

"It is the will of all the leaders of the G8 however that the meeting should
continue in my absence, that we should continue to discuss the issues that we
were going to discuss and reach the conclusions that we were going to reach."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                  July 7, 2005

Buses and tubes halted after terror attacks

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 202 words


LATEST information confirms that there were four incidents on London's transport
network this morning three on London Underground and one on

London Buses.

At 9.46am the London Underground was suspended and all stations commenced

evacuation following incidents at: Aldgate station heading towards Liverpool
Street station on the Hammersmith & City line; Russell Square station heading
towards Kings Cross station on the Piccadilly line; and Edgware Road station
heading towards Paddington station on the Hammersmith & City line.

Zone One bus services were temporarily suspended this morning following an
incident on a Route 30 bus at Woburn Place and extra security checks were
undertaken on buses remaining in operation and at all garages.

Emergency services responded immediately to all incidents and were dealing with
a number of casualties who were taken to hospitals across London.

No confirmed fatalities figures are currently available.

Additional temporary service suspensions and public information

The Docklands Light Railway has been suspended as a precaution. There have been
no incidents on the DLR network.

Drivers were advised not to come into central London.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                  July 7, 2005

Terror attacks rock London

BYLINE: Johnathan Schroder

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 81 words


The entire London transport network was brought to a halt today after a series
of terrorist attacks on Tube trains and a bus.

There are at least 33 people dead with up to a thousand people thought to be
injured.

Many Enfield commuters are likely to have been caught up in the day's events.

If you would like to share your personal experiences or have any pictures you
would like to submit call the Independent on 020 8362 1432 or e-mail
jschroder@london.newsquest.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                  July 7, 2005

Terror attacks: police response

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 347 words


THERE are four confirmed sites where police are dealing with this morning's
explosions.

1) Russell Square and King's Cross underground.

2) Moorgate Aldgate and Liverpool Street underground.

3) Edgware Road underground.

4) Tavistock Square where there has been a confirmed explosion on a bus.

The emergency services are working together in a co-ordinated response and
liaising with hospitals to rescue those injured.

The London Underground system has been suspended however the Network Rail system
is still in operation. We would urge anyone who doesn't need to come into London
today not to do so. If you are already in London wherever possible please limit
travelling around the capital.

The Met continues to respond to 999 emergency calls but non-emergency calls will
have a seriously delayed response.

We cannot at this stage confirm the number of those injured though casualties
are multiple. There are believed fatalities but again numbers are not confirmed.
We are also asking members of the public not to contact police at this stage

unless it is a genuine emergency.

There is likely to be some disruption to children's journeys home from schools.
Schools will be liaising with local education authorities to ensure that
children are kept safe until arrangements can be made with their parents to
collect them.

We will be issuing a telephone number shortly for Casualty Bureau.

The Commissioner Sir Ian Blair said: "There have been at least six explosions in
London this morning.

"We are advising members of the public not to travel into London.

"Public transport in London will be affected in the next few days.

"We are also asking members of the public not to contact police at this stage
unless it is a genuine emergency.

"We are co-ordinating the other emergency services in responding to this major
incident.

"We will be issuing a telephone number shortly for worried relatives.

"It is too early to confirm the numbers of casualties at this stage.

"We hope to have the situation under control very soon.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                       July 7, 2005 Thursday 9:07 PM GMT

'DEVASTATED' QUEEN CANCEL GIGS AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: MUSIC

LENGTH: 113 words


QUEEN rockers have postponed their London concerts on Friday (08JUL05) after
expressing their devastation at seeing the terrorist attacks in the British
capital.

London was in chaos this morning (07JUL05) after four bombs exploded on the
city's underground railway and a bus within an hour in central London, leading
to over 1,000 injuries and 37 deaths.

Newly-reformed Queen, with new frontman PAUL RODGERS, were set to play Hyde Park
on Friday, but have cancelled the gig out of respect for the city's inhabitants.

Queen guitarist BRIAN MAY says, "We're all devastated to wake up and see the
appalling bombing in London. Our hearts go out to all those innocents so cruelly
attacked."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2005 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                       July 7, 2005 Thursday 5:09 PM GMT

LONDON SHOWS SHELVED IN AFTERMATH OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: MUSIC

LENGTH: 225 words


Stars including EWAN McGREGOR, VAL KILMER, DAVID SCHWIMMER, QUEENS OF THE STONE
AGE, THE PRODIGY and SUM 41 have all called off performances in London tonight
(07JUL05), following a series of terrorist attacks in the British capital this
morning.

Three bombs on London underground trains and a blast aboard a bus are confirmed
to have so far claimed at least 33 lives and injured over 350 others.

As a result, almost all of London's stage plays have been shelved, including the
McGregor-starring GUYS AND DOLLS at the Piccadilly Theatre; Schwimmer's SOME
GIRL(S) at the Gielgud Theatre; and Kilmer's THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE at
the Playhouse Theatre.

Sum 41 have cancelled a performance at the Astoria and NATE JAMES has shelved a
gig at the Shepherd's Bush Empire. The Prodigy's concert at Brixton Academy has
also been called off.

Rockers Queens Of The Stone Age were scheduled to play two gigs in the capital
tonight - one at Somerset House and one at Koko. Both have been postponed and an
announcement about rescheduling the Somerset House gig is due to be made next
week (begs11JUL05).

It is currently unconfirmed whether QUEEN and REM will play huge open air
concerts in Hyde Park tomorrow (08JUL05) and Saturday (09JUL05) respectively.

A statement on Queen's website reads: "At present, the Queen camp are being
advised as to what they should do."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2005 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            West Sussex County Times

                                  July 7, 2005

MPs condemns London terrorist attack

LENGTH: 259 words


HORSHAM's MP Francis Maude and Nick Herbert, MP for South Downs today (Thursday)
made it clear that terrorism would never win as he condemned the attacks on
London.

Mr Maude told horshamtoday: "At this time our thoughts and prayers are with the
injured, bereaved and their families.

"The simultaneous attacks in London bear all the hallmarks of a terrorist
incident. These are attacks against our values and way of life and will never
succeed."

Emergency services from Sussex were among those drafted in to support their
colleagues in London following the series of explosions in the capital yesterday
morning.

Mr Herbert said he knew that many of his constituents commuted to London and
said this was a frightening day.

"I think I share people's shock at these appalling events," he said. "It's now
been confirmed there's been loss of life and considerable injuries and I share
the views of Shadow Home Secretary David Davis who said today that we cannot be
cowed by these events and allow the terrorists to win.

Sussex Ambulance Service said it had been asked to support London wherever
possible and had a number of vehicles and staff in support in different areas.

Police in the Horsham area confirmed they had undertaken a series of high
visibility patrols of railway stations within the Horsham district.

If any readers from the Horsham district were caught up in the incidents, please
contact the County Times on 01403 751221 or e-mail
annette.johnson@sussexnewspapers.co.uk

Full story in the County Times.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                        July 8, 2005 Friday 5:01 PM GMT

London shares close higher as market returns to normal after terror attacks

LENGTH: 200 words


LONDON (AFX) - Leading shares ended the session higher as investors returned to
'business as usual' after the terrorist attacks on London yesterday, dealers
said.

By the close, the FTSE 100 was 73.9 points higher at 5232.2, with the broader
market also buoyant.

Volume though was low with 2.2 bln shares changing hands in 224,514 deals.

London's resolve to bounce back after heavy falls yesterday was bolstered by a
positive session in New York.

Wall Street gained ground courtesy of strong results from Alcoa, while a fall in
the June jobless rate to a four-year low of 5 pct took some of the sting out of
news that the economy added far fewer jobs than expected for the month.

By London's close, the DJIA was 94 points higher at 10395.

Back in London, lingering M&A hopes provided a boost to shares in Cable &
Wireless and Exel, up 4 at 146-1/2, and 26-1/2 at 865 respectively.

rn/lam

COPYRIGHT

Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.


The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.

AFX News and the AFX Financial News logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                        July 8, 2005 Friday 7:01 AM GMT

STOCKWATCH Insurers in focus as Merrill analyses implications of terror attacks

LENGTH: 451 words


LONDON (AFX) - UK and European insurance stocks will be in focus this morning as
Merrill Lynch analysed the possible implications for the sector in the wake of
the terrorist attacks in London yesterday, said dealers.

In its report Merrill highlighted that insured losses could arise from property
damage to London Underground, other property damage including adjacent
buildings, business interruption and personal injuries and fatalities, which
could be covered under employers liability.

Merrill explained that if the UK Home Office declares this a terrorism event --
as appears is likely to be the case -- most property damage, including that to
London Underground, would end up in Pool Re. Pool Re was established by the UK
government and insurance industry in 1993 and insurers cede terrorism exposure
on commercial property into this mutual insurer, explained the US broker.

Merrill said there is an industry deductible which it believes is set at 75 mln
stg per event for 2005, and the individual deductible for insurers would be
their market share times 75 mln stg. For example, Merrill understands Royal &
Sun Alliance Insurance Group PLCs exposure in this situation to be 10-15 mln
stg.

If the terrorist event is large enough to exhaust Pool Res resources -- which
Merrill believes is currently amounts to something more than 1 bln stg -- then
the UK government steps in as the insurer of the last resort.

At this stage, Merrill would expect insured losses arising from yesterday's
events and falling outside Pool Re to be small in an industry context.

More broadly, Merrill stressed any increased prospect of terrorism can also
damage the outlook for the (re)insurance sector. However, the broker pointed out
it remains the case that the bulk of the worlds terrorism exposure still lies
with government-sponsored pools such as Pool Re.

While knock-on effects, such as a sell-off of equity markets, can also damage
the sector Merrill highlighted that equity exposures are now much more limited
and bond exposures are of a fairly short duration and with limited credit risk.

Merrill concluded therefore that it appears the European insurance sector, and
particularly the reinsurers, have sold off disproportionately yesterday.

Amongst the reinsurers, Merrill has maintained a 'buy' rating on Hannover Re AG,
with a 38 eur target. Munich Re AG and Swiss Re are both rated 'neutral'.

sm/jfr

COPYRIGHT


Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.

The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.


AFX News and the AFX Financial News logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   AFX - Asia

                        July 8, 2005 Friday 2:33 AM GMT

STOCK ALERT - Malaysia's Transmile lower on fears of further terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 56 words


KUALA LUMPUR (AFX) - Air cargo operator Transmile Group Bhd was lower in thin
trade on fears that its operations may be disrupted by the possibility of more
terrorist attacks after the deadly bombings in London yesterday, dealers said.

Transmile was down 0.20 rgt at 10.60 on volume of 6,000 shares.

(1 usd = 3.8 rgt)

leefun.chew@xfn.com

clf/net

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                  July 8, 2005

Terror expert claims attack was inevitable

BYLINE: Matthew Pardo

SECTION: News; 999; Disasters; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 711 words


An Academic from Bath has said the attacks on London were "inevitable". But
Stefan Wolff, professor of political science in the Department of European
Studies at the University of Bath, said Britain was now better prepared than
ever for such horrors.

There has been no official confirmation of who was responsible for the attacks,
but a claim was made on the Al-Qal'ah - Fortress - internet site, by a group
calling themselves the Secret Organisation Group of al Qaida of Jihad
Organisation in Europe.

Prof Wolff said: "I think what these attacks have tragically shown is that al
Qaida, or one of its affiliates or allies, has created a presence in the UK.

"It has created resources and networks able to carry out a string of
co-ordinated attacks in London which has traditionally proved itself relatively
resilient in preventing such strikes.

"But I think this attack was inevitable to some extent.

"That doesn't mean it isn't shocking when it happens.

"London was quite well prepared - that was evident from the speedy response of
the emergency services.

"What is important is not to overestimate the capacity of the terrorists to
mount many more attacks of this kind.

"The security services have proved they have an amazing capacity to learn from
incidents such as this and become much more effective.

"But I think that in the past several years al Qaida could have embedded itself
in the UK and other European countries.

"Most of the 9/11 terrorists were from Germany which indicates the organisation
had been successful in recruiting people in Europe." Prof Wolff added that so
far the most devastating attacks around the world - in New York, Bali and Madrid
- had involved detailed and long-term planning, and suggested follow-up strikes
were unlikely.

He said the UK's experience of coping with the threat of IRA strikes through the
1970s, '80s and '90s meant the country, and security services, were
well-prepared to handle the terror threat.

But he said dealing with terrorists prepared to die for a cause was more
difficult than dealing with those linked to organisations, such as the IRA.

"We should not underestimate the security threat this has generated," he said.

"It is important that people should start to rely on their common sense for what
to do in the event of an attack.

"People in London seemed to react quite sensibly and we didn't see a massive
stampede of victims from the explosion on the trains.

"So I think there is a high level of preparedness in the UK. What most people
should now do is re-read the leaflet the Government posted through every door
last year.

"It is that kind of common sense combined with not overreacting and suspecting
anyone who isn't white, middle class and church-going of being a terrorist, that
will allow normal life to continue in its normal way.

"And that will defeat one of the key aims of the terrorists." Muslim leaders
were due to hold talks at a national level with police today amid fears of
reprisals against their community in the wake of the terrorist attacks.

The Muslim Council of Britain said it "utterly condemned" the perpetrators of
the co-ordinated attacks.

A spokesman said: "These evil deeds make victims of us all.

"All of us must unite in helping the police to capture these murderers." The
Bath branch of the Stop The War Coalition said the Prime Minister's foreign
policy in Iraq was to blame for yesterday's atrocities.

Group spokeswoman Diana Francis said: "Members believe that wars constitute
systematic and devastating violence against other human beings.

"Wars are, ironically, justified in the name of security but violence begets
violence, making terrorist attacks more, not less likely.

"Our members are as devastated as everyone else by the terrible events in
London, which we recognise for what they are: large-scale crimes against
ordinary people.

"Now we beg the Prime Minister to recognise that the only way we can address the
real needs of people everywhere - for food, water, education, security from
attack, and a planet that provides a safe home for us all - is to recognise our
interdependence and to work together for the common good."
m.pardo@bathchron.co.uk PICTURE: Richard Lee

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

LONDON TERROR ATTACKS WIPE £17BN OFF MARKET

BYLINE: BY JOHN CRANAGE BUSINESS STAFF

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 609 words


The London stock market rallied last night after about £17 billion was wiped off
company values in the wake of terrorist bomb attacks that killed 33 people in
the capital.

At its worst, the FTSE 100 plummeted more than 200 points, wiping out seven
successive days of gains that had taken the bellwether index to 5229.6 - its
highest since May 2002.

As one financial wire service reported, 'investors were spooked' by the
explosions.

At one point, the blue-chip index stood 207.5 points lower but later recovered
some the lost ground to limit losses to 71.3 at 5158.3.

Terrorist atrocities notwithstanding, the London market was certain to take a
cold bath yesterday.

Traders arrived at their desk to be faced with a fresh confidence sapping surge
in oil prices and an overnight 119.12 point drop in the Hang Seng index in Hong
Kong.

The London Stock Exchange remained open during the turmoil but took action -
such as asking traders to switch off certain electronic trading systems - to
prevent a more volatile response.

At the same time, investment banks evacuated buildings near to areas where the
bombs went off.

The Bank of England continued its monthly rate-setting meeting in the heart of
an almost deserted Square Mile as planned when it kept the cost of borrowing at
4.75 per cent.

Investment bank UBS evacuated its office near Liverpool Street but continued
trading from its other four sites in the capital, while staff at Dresdner
Kleinwort Wasserstein and Goldman Sachs were advised to stay inside until
further notice.

The London Clearing House, which matches trades, shut down and switched
operations to a fallback location.

Transport and leisure stocks were among those worst hit in the morning sell off
and currency traders reacted by forcing sterling down to its lowest rate against
the dollar for nearly two years.

In contrast, the twin safe havens of gold and the Swiss franc gained as capital
took fright.

But as the scale of the attacks became known and the Metropolitan Police and
other London authorities got a grip on the situation confidence began to return.

Reassurance also came from New York where the Dow Jones Industrial Average took
the London events in its stride and opened only marginally lower.

Viewing the situation from Birmingham, Stephen Jones of stockbroker Brewin
Dolphin, thought the sell-off would be short lived.

'This is a terrible human loss and suffering but I think the market will take it
in its stride, after all London has lived with the threat of terrorism for a
long time,' Mr Jones said.

'Some sectors such as travel, leisure and the big company properties with
exposure to London will be worst hit.'

Insurers are less likely to suffer because the Government-backed insurance pool,
Pool Re, will pick up most of the financial cost of the attacks, analysts said.

The volatile situation was calmed further as Bank of England governor Mervyn
King and Alan Greenspan, chairman of the US Federal Reserve took stock and
declared that markets were working and that no emergency injections of liquidity
were needed.

European Central Bank president Jean-Claude Trichet said he expected there to be
no major impact on the eurozone and UK economies.

Some analysts last night said the bombings are likely to lead to the long
awaited cut in base rate next month as the Bank of England moves to restore
consumer confidence.

London is expected to take the brunt of the economic impact with tourists set to
give the city a wide berth for some time.

Crude oil ended the day at $ 60.25 a barrel after retreating from a new high of
$ 62.10

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                  July 8, 2005

As the death toll rose to 37 in London's terrorist attacks, Bristolians returned
to their loved ones

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words


Bristol people arriving home from London have spoken of the chaos in the capital
following the terrorist attacks which killed at least 37 people and injured more
than 700. Emotional reunions took place at Temple Meads and Parkway station
forecourts last night as people who had waited all day without news of their
loved ones finally saw them again.

David Thomas, aged 27, from Winscombe, was first told of the tragic events by a
friend and said he had spent the day trying desperately to get hold of his
girlfriend Laura Bridges.

He said: "Somebody phoned and asked if I had heard about what had happened and I
hadn't.

"I tried to phone my girlfriend Laura who was in London but I couldn't get
through.

"It was all pretty traumatic because we just didn't know what was happening."
Miss Bridges, 29, said: "I had travelled into Victoria Station and everything
seemed fine.

"When I heard later what had happened I got a call from a friend and I was able
to let my mum know I was OK. But I think people could not believe what had
happened." Debbie Pajak, from Yatton, said she had a lucky escape after she
chose not to take her normal tube-ride to work.

She said: "The whole of Euston Square was completely blocked off. I normally
take the tube to King's Cross, which was hit, but today I just decided to take a
cab instead.

"The streets were completely emptied of traffic. People had just taken to the
streets and were walking, there was no other way to do it.

"You just had to get on with it and a lot of people stayed in their offices."
Shortly after news of the explosions broke, the phone network became jammed as
people tried to call friends and family to check if they were safe.

For those who could not get through, the wait for news was agony.

Emily Bowker, 22, had only moved to London from Bristol at the weekend and was
back in the city last night.

Her boyfriend, Stuart McLoughlin, 24, said: "It was very worrying not knowing
what was happening." At Parkway station Sandra Lamb, 25, who lives in central
Bristol, told of a lucky escape.

Ms Lamb, who had been in London with friends to see Guys and Dolls in the West
End the night before, arrived at King's Cross tube station just minutes after a
bomb had exploded there.

Ms Lamb said: "Our Megabus coach was going from Victoria at 4pm and we were
making our way across London.

"Our coach was cancelled anyway in the end, but when we arrived at King's Cross
to catch the tube to Victoria we were told a bomb had just gone off.

"We had to walk right around the centre of London, down all the back streets and
it took us around four hours carrying all our luggage.

"The atmosphere was really bizarre. People were stood around not really knowing
what was going on and by the time me and my friends had walked to Covent Garden
people didn't even know what was happening. They were saying things like
'another security scare' and we were explaining that it was a little more
serious than that." Damian Webber, 33, from Redland, who was due to work in
London yesterday, said: "I got to Paddington at about 9am but stopped for
breakfast. When I came out all the tubes had been closed.

"People were handing out bus timetables, but when I went to get a bus they said
there were no buses either.

"I went to get a taxi but the queue was almost twice the length of Paddington,
so I began to walk for an hour-and-a-half to work, before hearing what had
happened and having to walk all the way back to Paddington.

"I had left my mobile phone at home as well so I was worried about my wife
thinking I had got caught up in it.

"It was absolute chaos." Tony Lake, 66, a health and safety adviser from
Bristol, praised the emergency services and staff at Paddington Station who
dealt with the unfolding situation there.

He said: "I was on a bus when we heard there was a derailment at King's Cross.

"When I got to the office the news said there was a power surge and that a bus
had exploded.

"I knew that couldn't be right. And then we heard about Edgware Road and I
decided to go back to Bristol.

"When I got to Paddington I was about to take the first train out and we were
told we could not get on it.

"While we were standing waiting around on the concourse somebody suddenly
shouted 'run run run', so there was a mass of people all trying to get out of
the place.

"I served in Northern Ireland with the RAF for two years and you recognise the
situation when a bomb goes off. I just felt that terrorism had been transported
to the middle of London.

"But people didn't panic. Everybody in a uniform for First Great Western did a
fantastic job of getting everybody out.

"Eventually there was a train going to Bristol and everybody got on it and again
the staff were brilliant, bringing people free food and drink and really looking
after us.

"Once we were on the train there was a real sense of relief that we were out of
London.

"At the same time there was a typically British sense of anger that anybody
should dare to do this.

"I had been in London the night before and everybody had been celebrating
because of the Olympic bid.

"Then 12 hours later there were terrorists trying to destroy the city." Lucien
Croft, aged 44 from Clifton, said he was fortunate that his train from Bristol
to London Paddington arrived late.

Mr Croft said: "I left Bristol just after 7am and my train was supposed to
arrive at 8.45am but it was delayed by 20 minutes.

"If the train had been on time there's a good chance that I would have gone
straight down on to the tube and been right there when the bombs went off.

"When I got to the station it was already a no-go area - at first people thought
it was an electrical fault, then someone said there was a fire and finally it
filtered through that there had been an explosion.

"There were ambulances everywhere coming out and police and fire services going
in - everyone was trying to work out what the hell was going on.Coming out of
London police walking up and down trains."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                  July 8, 2005

As the death toll rises to more than 50 in London's terrorist attacks,
bristolians return to their loved ones

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1014 words


Bristol people arriving home from London have spoken of the chaos in the capital
following the terrorist attacks which killed at least 50 people and injured more
than 700. Emotional reunions took place at Temple Meads and Parkway station
forecourts last night as people who had waited all day without news of their
loved ones finally saw them again.

David Thomas, aged 27, from Winscombe, was first told of the tragic events by a
friend and said he had spent the day trying desperately to get hold of his
girlfriend Laura Bridges.

He said: "Somebody phoned and asked if I had heard about what had happened and I
hadn't.

"I tried to phone my girlfriend Laura who was in London but I couldn't get
through.

"It was all pretty traumatic because we just didn't know what was happening."
Miss Bridges, 29, said: "I had travelled into Victoria Station and everything
seemed fine.

"When I heard later what had happened I got a call from a friend and I was able
to let my mum know I was OK. But I think people could not believe what had
happened." Debbie Pajak, from Yatton, said she had a lucky escape after she
chose not to take her normal tube-ride to work.

She said: "The whole of Euston Square was completely blocked off. I normally
take the tube to King's Cross, which was hit, but today I just decided to take a
cab instead.

"The streets were completely emptied of traffic. People had just taken to the
streets and were walking, there was no other way to do it. You just had to get
on with it and a lot of people stayed in their offices." Shortly after news of
the explosions broke, the phone network became jammed as people tried to call
friends and family to check if they were safe.

For those who could not get through, the wait for news was agony.

Emily Bowker, 22, had only moved to London from Bristol at the weekend and was
back in the city last night.

Her boyfriend, Stuart McLoughlin, 24, said: "It was very worrying not knowing
what was happening." At Parkway station Sandra Lamb, 25, who lives in central
Bristol, told of a lucky escape.

Ms Lamb, who had been in London with friends to see Guys and Dolls in the West
End the night before, arrived at King's Cross tube station just minutes after a
bomb had exploded there.

Ms Lamb said: "Our Megabus coach was going from Victoria at 4pm and we were
making our way across London.

"Our coach was cancelled anyway in the end, but when we arrived at King's Cross
to catch the tube to Victoria we were told a bomb had just gone off.

"We had to walk right around the centre of London, down all the back streets and
it took us around four hours carrying all our luggage.

"The atmosphere was really bizarre. People were stood around not really knowing
what was going on and by the time me and my friends had walked to Covent Garden
people didn't even know what was happening. They were saying things like
'another security scare' and we were explaining that it was a little more
serious than that." Damian Webber, 33, from Redland, who was due to work in
London yesterday, said: "I got to Paddington at about 9am but stopped for
breakfast. When I came out all the tubes had been closed.

"People were handing out bus timetables, but when I went to get a bus they said
there were no buses either.

"I went to get a taxi but the queue was almost twice the length of Paddington,
so I began to walk for an hour-and-a-half to work, before hearing what had
happened and having to walk all the way back to Paddington.

"I had left my mobile phone at home as well so I was worried about my wife
thinking I had got caught up in it.

"It was absolute chaos." Tony Lake, 66, a health and safety adviser from
Bristol, praised the emergency services and staff at Paddington Station who
dealt with the unfolding situation there.

He said: "I was on a bus when we heard there was a derailment at King's Cross.

"When I got to the office the news said there was a power surge and that a bus
had exploded.

"I knew that couldn't be right. And then we heard about Edgware Road and I
decided to go back to Bristol.

"When I got to Paddington I was about to take the first train out and we were
told we could not get on it.

"While we were standing waiting around on the concourse somebody suddenly
shouted 'run run run', so there was a mass of people all trying to get out of
the place.

"I served in Northern Ireland with the RAF for two years and you recognise the
situation when a bomb goes off. I just felt that terrorism had been transported
to the middle of London.

"But people didn't panic. Everybody in a uniform for First Great Western did a
fantastic job of getting everybody out.

"Eventually there was a train going to Bristol and everybody got on it and again
the staff were brilliant, bringing people free food and drink and really looking
after us.

"Once we were on the train there was a real sense of relief that we were out of
London.

"At the same time there was a typically British sense of anger that anybody
should dare to do this.

"I had been in London the night before and everybody had been celebrating
because of the Olympic bid. Then 12 hours later there were terrorists trying to
destroy the city." Lucien Croft, aged 44 from Clifton, said he was fortunate
that his train from Bristol to London Paddington arrived late.

Mr Croft said: "I left Bristol just after 7am and my train was supposed to
arrive at 8.45am but it was delayed by 20 minutes.

"If the train had been on time there's a good chance that I would have gone
straight down on to the tube and been right there when the bombs went off.

"When I got to the station it was already a no-go area - at first people thought
it was an electrical fault, then someone said there was a fire and finally it
filtered through that there had been an explosion.

"There were ambulances everywhere coming out and police and fire services going
in - everyone was trying to work out what the hell was going on.

"Coming out of London, police were walking up and down every train."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Bucks Winslow Advertiser

                                  July 8, 2005

TERROR ATTACK SHOCK

LENGTH: 99 words


NORTH Oxon residents, like the rest of the UK, were left reeling by the horrific
terror attacks in London on Thursday.

Trains from Bicester to central London were halted after a series of terrorist
bomb blasts in the capital during the morning rush hour. It was not known at the
time of going to press whether anyone from the region was caught up in the
tragedy.

A series of bombs killed at least 33 people and injured hundreds using public
transport in London, and saw the transport system in and out of the city grind
to a halt.

SEE THE BICESTER REVIEW FOR A FULL REPORT

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Bucks Winslow Advertiser

                                  July 8, 2005

TERROR ATTACK SHOCKWAVE

LENGTH: 126 words


NORTH Bucks residents, like the rest of the UK, were left reeling by the
horrific terror attacks in London on Thursday, July 7.

City workers travelling by train from Milton Keynes found their journeys cut
short at Watford after explosions on the underground network. At the time of
going to press it was not known whether any local people had been caught up in
the tragedy.

Police officers were on duty at Bucks train stations and emergency services
offered their support to London authorities battling to help victims and restore
order to the city.

A series of bombs killed several people and injured hundreds using public
transport in London, and saw the city transport system grind to a halt.

SEE THE ADVERTISER FOR A FULL REPORT

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Bury Free Press

                                  July 8, 2005

Terror attacks: Region on alert

LENGTH: 660 words


West Suffolk went on terror alert yesterday as London was rocked by a new
bombing campaign.

Commuters were hit, a school trip was cut short while other pupils were left
stranded in a London hotel and West Suffolk Hospital went on major incident
standby.

Prime Minister Tony Blair condemned the 'barbaric attacks' and pledged to defeat
the terrorists.

A Risby man gave an eye-witness account as the terror unfolded in the capital.

Greg Shanahan, 27, who commutes to London every day, said the wail of sirens
could be heard outside his building - between St Paul's Cathedral and
Blackfriars.

"People are very scared, nervous and anxious," said Mr Shanahan.

"We've been told that we are not allowed to leave the building unless under
exceptional circumstances. It's a very tense atmosphere. We don't know how we
are going to get home."

Commuter Tina Stiff, from Bury St Edmunds, catches a train in to London and
works at the Barbican, near Liverpool Street. "It is a nightmare," she said. "I
feel very shook up and we don't really know what's happening."

Another commuter, Peter Rutt, from Elmswell, works in Canary Wharf and said they
had been told to stay away from windows.

"There is a great deal of concern, people are making calls to their families and
we are waiting to see how on earth we are going to get home," he said.

Paul Rynsard, who lives in Bury and works for London-based architects Feilden &
Mawson, was stranded in a government building.

Mr Rynsard, who was advised to stay in his office, had been told that
'everything was uncertain' and that other hits were expected.

A group of Year 9 students from King Edward VI School, in Bury, found themselves
stranded in a hotel in London as they waited to see a theatre production in the
West End.

A spokeswoman for the school said: "We are taking the advice of the tour company
that organised the visit. Staying in the hotel seems the safest thing to do."

Meanwhile, a group of Year 12 pupils were forced to cut short their trip to the
capital on hearing the news and their coach was diverted to Cambridge instead.

A spokesman for Suffolk Police said: "A number of specialist officers have been
sent to London and we will continue to offer any further assistance we can. We
have received around half-a-dozen calls from concerned relatives. Our advice to
people is to monitor the television and radio, where it is anticipated a
telephone number will be given."

West Suffolk MP Richard Spring, who was at his office in the Houses of
Parliament, said: "I can hear a lot of ambulances taking people to St Thomas'
Hospital, which is almost opposite Parliament.

"Everything has ground to a halt. There is no transport, the London Underground
has shut down and a lot of people are injured."

Speaking from Norton, Bury and Stowmarket MP David Ruffley said if he had left
London 20 minutes later he would have been caught up in the chaos at Aldgate.

"It's horrific and it's at times like this that we count our blessings that we
are safe in Suffolk and not the targets of these barbaric fanatics."

West Suffolk Hospital, in Bury, went on to major incident standby, ready to take
casualties if necessary.

A statement added: "Day-to-day services will continue to operate as normal
unless we are notified that the alert status has changed and ambulances are
needed elsewhere."

A spokesman for rail network One said: "We have closed our services to Liverpool
Street and Stratford and are advising people not to travel to London unless
their journey is necessary."

Robert Mead, from Wattisham Airfield, said: "We have increased vigilance but
there has been no instruction from the MoD to change the security alert status
at this stage."

US airman at RAF Mildenhall were said to be maintaining robust security at the
base.

Special prayers were said last night in St Edmundsbury Cathedral, Bury, for the
victims of the bombings.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                    Citywire

                        July 8, 2005 Friday 6:31 PM GMT

Europe shrugs off London terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 319 words


European shares recouped much of the losses suffered after yesterday's terrorist
attacks in London on Friday, spurred on by strong overnight performances from US
and Asian stockmarkets.

The FTSE Eurofirst 300 was up 1.1% at 1.148.7 points at Friday lunchtime,
regaining most of yesterdays 1.8% loss, as European investors accepted that the
attacks were unlikely to have much impact on economic and profit growth.

Leisure, insurance, airlines and travel stocks, which were hit hardest by news
that Londons transport system had been subjected to a set of coordinated bomb
attacks, clawed back losses steadily.

British Airways, Europes third largest airline carrier, rose 2.3% to 266.75p,
rebounding from a drop of 4.2% on Thursday.

Meanwhile, the oil price reached record highs in the aftermath of the attacks,
fuelling fears that the global economic growth will be subdued as companies
struggle to shoulder the burden of increased energy costs.

Shell rose 1.1% to 563.25%, Total, Europes fifth largest oil company, jumped
2.7% to a record 204.9 euros a share, while Statoil, Norways biggest oil stock,
climbed 3.9% to 146 Norwegian kroner.

ECB president Jean-Claude Trichet highlighted the threat of the continued high
oil price on the European economy in a speech on Thursday, adding that euroland
remained subdued despite the increased risk of inflation in recent months. His
comments indicated that a rise in European interest rates was unlikely in the
immediate future.

However, industrial production in Germany declined less than anticipated in May,
indicating that Europes largest economy may finally be moving out of a sustained
period of growth slowdown. Production at factories, utilities, construction
sites and mines slipped 0.2% from April when it rose 1.3%. Economists had
expected industrial output to fall by 0.4%.

Gaz de France, the countrys largest natural gas distributor, rose 19% on its
first day of trading.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2005 Citywire Financial Publishers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Construction News

                              July 8, 2005 Friday

More than 50 dead in London terror attack

BYLINE: cn lisa

SECTION: ARTICLE; News

LENGTH: 345  words



HIGHLIGHT: More than 50 people were killed in yesterday's terror attacks in
London, Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair confirmed today.


Sir Ian said there was 'great difficulty in determining how many fatalities'
because of the damage at scenes of the bombs blasts during rush hour on the tube
and a bus.    He revealed that there were 700 casualties, 350 people were taken
to hospital, 22 were still in a critical condition and one person died in
hospital.    The commissioner said that the casualty bureau had already received
104,000 calls.

He said there was 'absolutely nothing to suggest that this was a suicide bombing
attack although nothing at this stage can be ruled out.'    He agreed that the
attack 'bore all the hallmarks' of an al Qaida operation.    Anti-terrorist
branch head Andy Hayman said each of the bombs contained less than 10lbs of high
explosives and they were probably placed on the floor of the three Tube trains
or, in the case of the bus, on the floor or a seat.    Sir Ian said it was open
to question whether the terror cell responsible for the attack was still in the
UK. But he added: 'We must remain vigilant.'    Home Secretary Charles Clarke
said all efforts were being concentrated on catching the bombers to stop them
striking again.    He said: 'The number one purpose today is to identify the
perpetrators and arrest them because there is obviously a danger if there is a
group that has committed these attacks not brought to justice and therefore able
to continue thinking about carrying out further attacks.'    He agreed that the
authorities had 'absolutely no idea' yesterday's attacks were being planned.
But he denied claims that London's security had been compromised because of
Metropolitan Police officers being deployed to the G8 summit in Scotland.    The
National Co-ordination Centre confirmed that the bodies of all of the dead are
to be moved to London mortuaries by noon.    Scotland Yard said there would be
an increased visible police presence across the capital today. Extra patrols
will include officers from the Met, City of London Police and British Transport
Police.    Scotland Yard has issued a casualty hotline number on 0870 1566 344.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Construction News


                            Copyright 2005 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

THE DAY WE KNEW WOULD COME: BARBARIC;
 TERROR ATTACKS ON LONDON 40 DEAD AND 700 INJURED BUS AND TUBE STATIONS HIT

BYLINE: By Keith Mcleod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3, 4, 5

LENGTH: 2149 words


MORE than 40 commuters were butchered in the heart of London yesterday when the
al-Qaeda atrocity Britain had been dreading finally came Three packed
Underground trains and a double-decker bus were devastated by morning rush -hour
bomb blasts.

Witnesses claimed the bus was blown up by a suicide bomber.

Prime Minister Tony Blair condemned the co-ordinated attacks as 'barbaric'.

At least 700 people were wounded and the capital was reduced to chaos. It was
London's worst day of violence since World War II.

The first train bomb exploded at 8.51am in a tunnel between Liverpool Street and
Aldgate tube stations. At least seven people died.

Five minutes later, the second blast ripped open a crowded carriage on a train
travelling from King's Cross to Russell Square. This time, at least 21 people
were killed.

At least five more Underground passengers were murdered at 9.17am when a train
was blown up at Edgware Road station.

Two other trains were caught in the blast. Officials quickly shut down the tube
network, forcing commuters on to buses.

And at 9.47am, a double-decker No30 bus had its roof ripped off by a bomb blast
in Tavistock Square, near King's Cross.

Police said at least two people were killed in the bus blast, but doctors at the
scene put the toll nearer 10. Severed limbs and chunks of flesh were strewn
across the road.

The official death toll stood at 37 last night, but police warned it was likely
to rise The bombers struck without warning, less than 24 hours after London won
the right to host the 2012 Olympics.

David Jones, who witnessed the bus blast, said: 'My first thought was, 'Somebody
does not want London to celebrate.' Survivors of the tube attacks told of
deafening blasts, followed by pitch darkness, choking smoke and screams of
terror.

All the trains were crammed with passengers, many of them standing.

Victims were left covered in blood and soot. Many had their clothes ripped to
shreds by the force of the blast Ann Castro,a passenger on the ALDGATE train,
said: 'People were screaming and shouting and saying things like, 'I'm dying,
I'm dying, please help me.' 'I saw people standing in their underwear as if
their clothes had been ripped off.

'I think I saw somebody who was dead. It was just indescribable.'

Broker Michael Henning, 39, added: 'I saw silver travelling through the air -
that was the glass - anda yellow flash.

'It was very dark, people were panicking and screaming.'

Arash Kazerouni, 22, said through tears: 'There were a lot of people on the
track.One man was severely burned all over. All he was wearing was his boxer
shorts.

'Paramedics were trying to help him. It was horrendous.'

Rudolph Giuliani, New York's mayor at the time of the September 11 attacks, was
close to Liverpool Street when the first bomb exploded. He was unhurt. Barrister
Angelo Power, 43, escaped the blast on the KING'S CROSS train. He said: 'We were
all trapped like sardines waiting to die. I honestly thought I was going to die,
as did everyone else.'

He added: 'Smoke immediately filled the carriage and people started screaming.

'There was panicking throughout the carriage. People were desperately trying to
break open the windows to get oxygen.

'We were stuck there for 20 to 30minutes without any sign of help. The smoke and
screaming intensified.'

Fiona Trueman, 26, added: 'There was smoke and glass everywhere. I was standing
near a window and I've still got glass in my hair.

'We sort of cushioned each other during the impact because the compartment was
so full. The lights went out, and with the smoke, we couldn't breathe.

'It felt like a dream. It was surreal. The screaming from the front carriage was
terrible.

'You can't imagine being somewhere like that, you just want to get out. I kept
closing my eyes and thinking of outside.

'Some people were very calm and were telling everybody not to panic, and after a
few minutes we started to get messages that we would be unloaded from the back
of the train and walked to safety.

'It took about 15 minutes to walk along the track to King's Cross.'

Simon Corvett, 26, of Oxford, told howa 'massive, deafening bang' rocked the
EDGWARE ROAD train. Impaled He said: 'The train came to a grinding halt and
everyone fell off their seats. There were loads of people screaming, you
couldn't really breathe and you couldn't see what was happening.

'The driver came on the tannoy and said, 'We have got a problem, don't panic.'

Simon, his face covered in soot, helped other passengers force open the train
doors with a fire extinguisher.

He said the carriage of a train that had been passing on the other track was
destroyed. 'It was completely gutted,' he added. 'There were some people in real
trouble.'

Another passenger, Ben McCarthy, said: 'The train was probably only about
200metres out of Edgware Road when there was this loud explosion.

'Somebody,a man I think,was blown out of the door of the train. He was under the
carriages. His screams made the whole incident so much worse.

'People were incredibly calm but very, very shocked.

'Everything was black and filled with smoke for a while. We were on the train
for 20 minutes to half an hour before people came and took us back to Edgware
Road.'

Carol Miller, 35, was on the train on the other line. She said: 'There were two
tubes crossing in different directions. As the other train got to our carriage
it exploded.

'It was a massive explosion and everything filled up with smoke.

'People were screaming, as you'd expect. 'I saw one lady who was ripped to
pieces, lying between the two trains. People were trying to help her.' A third
train was damaged in the blast.

Most of the tube passengers were rescued relatively quickly, with London
Transport staff walking them back along the line to the nearest stations.

But some of the victims of the King's Cross blast were trapped for hours because
the sector of the track where the bomb went off was difficult to reach.

Steve Nichols, the chaplain of the London Underground, comforted rescue workers
who dealt with the carnage in the tunnels.

He said: 'There was one poor lady who had been impaled by one of the poles in
the train and she was still alive.

'The people have been picking up various body parts. It is obviously very grim
and there aren't really words to describe it.'

Bystanders who saw the bus blast also witnessed horrendous carnage.

The vehicle blew up outside the headquarters of doctors' body the British
Medical Association. Blood was spattered on the walls of the office block to a
height of 15feet.

Doctors rushed from the BMA building to treat survivors.

One of them, Laurence Buckman, said two people died in the building's courtyard
as medics tried to save them.

He added: 'The most extreme thing I first noticed was that there was someone in
bits in the road.

'I was amazed by the amount of blood everywhere, plastered over the front of the
BMA.Then I looked on the ground and you could see where it was coming from.'

Raj Mattoo, 35, was standing nearby when the bus blew up. He said: 'The roof
flew off and went up about10metres. It then floated back down.

'I spoke to a parking attendant, and he thought a piece of human flesh had
landed on his arm.'

The mutilated bodies of some of the victims were left slumped in their seats
Jarvis Medhurst,who works at a nearby hotel, said: 'There were bodies
everywhere. Heads and bits of bodies,heads and arms and legs all ripped away.'

Passenger Richard Jones, 61, originally from Ardrossan, Ayrshire, said he was
convinced a suicide bomb destroyed the bus.

He said the attacker had 'olive skin' and wore 'foreign clothes'.

Richard, 61, said: 'He stood right in front of me with the bag at his feet. He
was a bit agitated, and kept dipping down and doing something with the bag.

'If it was him, he was either trying to stop the bomb or trying to detonate it.'

Richard left the bus before the blast because it was stuck in traffic.

Two other passengers claimed to have seen a man 'explode' after getting on the
bus. Police said it was too early to say whether it had been a suicide attack.

At least 100 ambulances and 250 paramedics rushed to the blast sites, along with
200 fire-fighters in 40 fire engines.

Medics treated the wounded on the concourses of King's Cross and Liverpool
Street.

London buses were used as makeshift ambulances, a casualty station was set up at
a hotel near Edgware Road station, and ordinary people streamed into the streets
to help the mercy workers.

The London Ambulance Service said they dealt with 45 patients with serious or
critical injuries, including burns, amputations and fractured limbs.

Hospitals called in off-duty staff and halted non-urgent surgery to free up
operating theatres.

Professor Jim Ryan, a senior accident and emergency consultant at University
College Hospital, said: 'People are coming in with characteristic blast injuries
- multiple injuries to the body.'

He said he had heard French, Italian and Spanish being spoken by some
casualties.

Professor Ryan added: 'One of the things that has characterised this episode is
the number of senior staff on site within moments. It has been wonderful to see.

'The builders working nearby have been offering to give blood.'

A spokesman for the Royal Free Hospital in north London said it received 57
casualties.

He added: 'We are seeing fractures, smoke inhalation, open wounds and burns.'

London was paralysed by the blasts. Police cordoned off large areas of the city
centre and all train, tube and bus services were suspended for several hours.

Tens of thousands of passengers had to be evacuated from the tube network.

Thousands of commuters stranded in the streets tried to phone their loved ones.

Some of those lucky enough to get through handed their phones around so
strangers could try to make calls.

Most mobile phone services were jammed by the sheer volume of calls. A
spokeswoman for Vodafone said the emergency services were being given priority.

Some people tried to make their way to work or home on foot. Others gathered in
small groups around corner shops, watching TVs in sombre silence.

Hundreds of workers who couldn't get home booked into hotels for the night.

London cabbie Steve Green said: 'People are getting on with it. It's marvellous
that they're showing their backbone.

'The thing is, with us Londoners, we're used to the IRA.We don't know anything
else. You don't like it, but you learn to deal with it.'

Tony Blair returned to London from the G8 summit at Gleneagles. He looked shaken
as he said: 'We condemn utterly these barbaric attacks.

'Those responsible have no respect for human life. We are united in our resolve
to confront and defeat this terrorism.

'Whatever they do, they will never succeed in destroying what we hold dear.'

The Queen said: 'The dreadful events in London this morning have deeply shocked
us all. I knowI speak for the whole nation in expressing my sympathy to all
those affected.'

The Union flag on the roof of Buckingham Palace was lowered to half mast.
Similar tributes will be paid today at all Government buildings.

A group calling themselves the Secret Organisation of al-Qaeda in Europe claimed
responsibility for the bombings in a message on a militant website.

The fanatics said: 'It is time to take revenge from the British Zionist Crusader
Government in retaliation for the massacres Britain is committing in Iraq and
Afghanistan.'

Terrorism expert Shane Brighton said: 'The attacks would very certainly fit the
classic al-Qaeda methodology - multiple hits on transport and infrastructure
targets.'

The militants' message claimed the bombings had left Britain 'burning with fear,
terror, and panic'.

But London Mayor Ken Livingstone spat angry defiance at the terrorists.

As he prepared to rush home from the International Olympic Committee meeting in
Singapore, he told them: 'I wish to speak to you directly - to those who came to
London today to take lives.

'I know you fear you may fail in your long-term objective - to destroy our free
society.

'I will show you why you will fail. In the days that follow, look at our
airports, look at our seaports and look at our railways.

'Nothing you do, however many of us you kill, will stop that life, where freedom
is strong and people can live in harmony.

'Whatever you do, however many you kill, you will fail.'

The Muslim Council of Britain also condemned the bombings. They said: 'These
evil deeds make victims of us all.

'The evil people who planned and carried this out want to demoralise us as a
nation and divide us as a people.

'All of us must unite in helping the police to capture these murderers

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORRIFIC: The bus is left in pieces after the blast in Tavistock;
Square and Prime Minister Tony Blair addresses the nation from Gleneagles,
right; EDGWARE ROAD; LIVERPOOL STREET; KING'S CROSS; TAVISTOCK SQUARE; One of
the badly burned victims from the tube blast at Edgware Road is ushered to
safety by a young man, left, while twisted wreckage lies on the track at;
Liverpool Street Station, top. Medics carry another injured person from the
scene at King's Cross, middle, and a bleeding man is one of the walking wounded,
above; BATTLE FOR LIFE: A doctor helps a young survivor of the bus blast near
the headquarters of the British Medical Association as a woman lies gravely
injured nearby

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

THE DAY WE KNEW WOULD COME: TERRIBLE TOLL OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 296 words


OSAMA Bin Laden formed al-Qaeda with other Arab fighters in 1988. They have left
a trail of victims around the world since

MARCH 2004: Ten bombs

explode on four packed commuter trains in Madrid, killing 191 people and leaving
at least 1800 injured

DECEMBER 2003: Attacks

on the British Consulate and the HSBC bank offices in Istanbul leave 27 people
dead and more than 450 wounded

MAY 2003: Suicide bombers

shoot their way into expats' housing compounds in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, killing
34, including eight Americans

OCTOBER 2002: 202people - many of them foreign tourists - die in a nightclub
bombing in Kuta, Bali

SEPTEMBER 11 2001: Two

jets fly into the World Trade Centre, a third hits the Pentagon and a fourth is
downed by passengers as 2976 people from around the globe die in America

AUGUST 2000: More than

220 people die when lorries loaded with bombs are driven into the US embassies
in Kenya and Tanzania

EXTREMISTS have bombed UK targets many times in the past

AUGUST 1998: The Real

IRA kill 29 people with a car bomb in Omagh, County Tyrone.

MARCH 1993: Two boys are killed by an IRA bomb in Warrington, Cheshire

DECEMBER 1988: A bomb

detonates aboard PanAm Flight 103 to New York above Lockerbie, killing all 259
on board and 11 on the ground

NOVEMBER 1987: Eleven

die and 63 are injured in an IRA bomb blast at a Poppy Day church service in
Enniskillen, County Fermanagh

OCTOBER 1984: The Tory

Cabinet are almost wiped out when the IRA target their hotel during their
conference in Brighton. Five die and 32 are injured

DECEMBER 1983: Six die

and 90 are injured by Republican bombers at Harrods in London.

NOVEMBER 1974: IRA

bombs in two Birmingham pubs kill 21 and injure 162

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

THE DAY WE KNEW WOULD COME: BEAST WHO KILLED KEN BIGLEY THE NO1 SUSPECT;
  TERROR CELL CLAIMS RESPONSIBILITY FOR ATTACKS

BYLINE: By Michael Christie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12, 13

LENGTH: 486 words


ONE of the world's most wanted men yesterday claimed responsibility for the
London bombs.

Iraq terror mastermind Abu Musab al-Zarqawi - who beheaded British hostage Ken
Bigley - gloated over the devastation on the internet.

A message on a site called Al-Qal'ah - which means the fortress - said: 'Britain
is burning with fear, terror and panic.

'We have repeatedly warned the British Government and people. We have fulfilled
our promise and carried out our blessed military raid in Britain.'

The group who posted the claim call themselves The Secret Organisation of al
-Qaeda in Europe are linked to Jama'at al-Tawhid wal Jihad, led by al-Zarqawi.

The Jordanian has a pounds 14million bounty on his head.

He is believed to have helped set up and organise the group, which comes under
the umbrella of Osama Bin Laden's al-Qaeda Zarqawi, 38, is the head of an
extreme Sunni Islamist guerrilla network. In 2003, he began to assemble a terror
organisation in Iraq following the invasion and started kidnapping and beheading
foreign workers The gruesome films of their killings - including that of Brit
Ken Bigley last October - were posted on the internet.

However, police and intelligence agencies are also examining whether the London
bombers were from the British Muslim community.

Anti-terror cops have made a series of arrests of British-born Pakistanis or
Kashmiris in recent months.

And security agencies have recently investigated a North African 'sleeping'
terror cell based in the Midlands.

Two illegal immigrants living in Leicester, Baghdad Meziane, 36, and Brahmi
Bemerzouga, 30, have been remanded in custody charged with membership of al
-Qaeda and financing terrorism.

They are believed to have links to shoe bomber Richard Reid, Zacharias
Moussaoui, the alleged 20th hijacker in the September 11 attacks, and Nzar
Trabelsi, the Tunisian born footballer thought to have been preparing a suicide
mission in Paris.

Also, the Madrid train bomb mastermind Mustafa Setmarian Nasar is still at large
- and was widely believed to have been planning an attack on Britain.

Nasar teaches recruits how to fake documents.

Two of his key players, both North African, had UK passports Nasar, with a pale
complexion, and green eyes, often uses fake British ID and was in contact with
two suspects in Belmarsh prison.

He also had close links to al-Zarqawi's terror network.

What concerned British security agencies was that Nasar lived in London in the
mid 1990s and has a track record of leaving 'sleeper' cells.

Police are also investigating whether yesterday's bombs were detonated by mobile
phones acting as a trigger to the explosives.

It is expected that every mobile call made yesterday morning in the capital will
now be scrutinised.

# Al-Qaeda yesterday claimed it had killed Egypt's ambassador in Iraq. Ihab al
-Sherif was seized on Saturday

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WANTED: al-Zarqawi, left, butchered British hostage Ken Bigley;;
SWAMPED: Commuters surge towards Liverpool Street Station after it was reopened
yesterday afternoon

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

TERROR IN LONDON: AN ATTACK ON US ALL;
 POLICE PUT ON HIGH ALERT IN NORTH WALES THESE PICTURES REVEAL NORTH

BYLINE: BY ROLAND HUGHES, TOM BODDEN, ERYL CRUMP AND HYWEL TREWYN

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 849 words


SECURITY was stepped up in North Wales last night in the wake of the terror
attacks on London.

Police were immediately put on high alert throughout the region after the four
bombs went off during the rush-hour in London.

Armed officers took to Holyhead port and patrols were increased at railway and
bus stations in North Wales.

First minister Rhodri Morgan condemned the terrorist attacks as 'acts of
unspeakable barbarity' aimed at 'the ultimate soft target'.

Stena Line yesterday urged passengers to get to Holyhead Port early due to
heightened security following the bomb blasts.

A company spokeswoman said: 'Due to the tragic events in London, a heightened
security alert is now in operation at all ports around the UK.

'As a result, Stena Line is advising all its customers to allow additional time
for check-in procedures and would ask all passengers to be as patient and as
cooperative as possible.'

North Wales Police quickly put emergency measures in place after the morning
attacks.

More officers were put on the streets and in railway and bus stations throughout
the area. Police bosses were last night tracing all their staff based in London.

Leaders of North Wales' ethnic communities were also contacted by police
throughout yesterday.

A force spokeswoman said: '

They have been reassured of a continuing commitment to sensitive policing in
view of the current situation.'

Signs along the A55 warned motorists not to travel to London. Holyhead to London
trains stopped outside the city at Watford Junction.

Security was also stepped up in Cardiff, with extra police patrols and a review
of transport networks throughout South Wales in the wake of the London blasts.

South Wales Police put major incident contingency plans into practise placing
all police officers, the British Transport Police and Cardiff International
Airport on alert.

South Wales Police assistant chief constable Stephen Cahill said: ' There has
been no threat to South Wales and there is no intelligence to suggest that Wales
is likely to be targeted in any way.

'However, we recognise that such incidents cause genuine concern and we will
have extra police patrols out throughout the Force area to help reassure the
public and ease any fears they may have.

'We are also, as a precautionary measure, putting our contingency plans in
place, including a review of transport networks throughout the area.'

The officer added later: 'Additional armed police checks have been put on the M4
motorway to reassure motorists, while officers have been stationed at main bus
depots at Cardiff and Swansea.

'The Safety Camera Partnership is also working closely with us, utilising the
safety cameras to monitor traffic on key roads.

' There is no cause for alarm, and we want people to continue about their daily
business,' he said.

'But we want to make it clear that South Wales will not be a soft target and all
our resources remain focused on keeping South Wales safe.'

First minister Rhodri Morgan said: 'The whole of Wales will feel nothing but
revulsion at these savage acts of terrorism targeted at commuters during
London's busy rush hour.

'On behalf of the people of Wales, I would like to express my deepest sympathies
to the relatives of those killed and injured in this morning's attacks.

'Our thoughts are with them and we offer them our unequivocal support and
solidarity at this time.'

He said that there would be 'no bowing to terrorism', adding: 'If disrupting the
G8 summit was in the minds of the perpetrators of this outrage, then the
terrorists have failed.'

Mr Morgan was being updated every half-hour on the attacks by an Assembly
emergency planning official in Westminster for an anti-terror meeting chaired by
the prime minister.

He said security had been 'stepped up' but would give no further details.

Politicians in Wales expressed sympathy for the victims, their families and
friends and paid tribute to the work of the emergency services.

Plaid Cymru president Dafydd Iwan said: 'The countries of the world must unite
against international terrorism, and unite in the work of making injustice and
poverty - wherever they exist - history.' Leader of the Conservatives in the
Welsh Assembly Nick Bourne said: '

This was a series of deplorable, cowardly attacks on our capital city and on our
way of life.'

Lib Dem Assembly leader Mike German said in Llangollen yesterday: '

This week we have seen the joy of international co-operation with different
cultures coming together and sharing their traditions.

'The moral contrast between those who seek to disrupt and destroy and those who
are working together to share understanding and build a brighter future could
not be more stark Clwyd West Tory MP David Jones said: '

This was an attack not just upon London, but on every part of the United
Kingdom.

' Wales is united with every other part of our country in defiance of those who
have carried out this cowardly assault upon our democratic institutions."

Opinion - Page 14

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Armed police at the ferry terminal in Holyhead last night Picture:
ROBERT PARRY JONES; The sign of the A55 near Bangor dramatically shows the
devastation in London is not as far as we think

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

STOCKS IN LUXURY GOODS HIT BY TERROR;
 ' MARKET TAKES ATTACK IN ITS STRIDE

BYLINE: BY SOPHIE FREEMAN

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 433 words


THE bomb blasts in the capital rocked specific sectors of the stock market
yesterday, with shares in luxury goods, insurers, travel and transport firms
bearing the brunt.

Shares in British brand Burberry tumbled 10.5% after the explosions. Other
luxury stocks, sensitive to the impact of terror attacks on tourism and
associated luxury spending, followed suit.

The FTSE-100 slid by 207 points in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist
attacks before recovering 136 points to close at 5158.3, which is 71.3 down on
the day.

Tim Woodhead, investment director at Liverpool fund management group Rathbone,
said he was surprised by how the market had taken the attacks relatively in its
stride.

He said: '

With the market the day before reporting its highest point for three years, and
seeing the events of today, I thought that might be a sufficient catalyst for
people to take the money off the table.

'But it looks like people have been very robust. If you look at other recent
terrorist incidents like the Madrid bombings, there's been a knee-jerk reaction
and they've recovered fairly quickly afterwards.

'The market has stabilised as the day has progressed and I think that's helped
by the fact that the US markets didn't crumble on opening.'

He added that shares in London-based property companies such as Land Securities,
which operates Clayton Square and St John's shopping centres in Liverpool city
centre, also felt the impact.

But Mr Woodhead said: 'So long as the fundamental equity back-drop is reasonably
sound, then the markets will put this into some longer-term context.'

The gold bullion, oil and currency markets also proved robust, showing only
slight movements during the day.

By midday yesterday, European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet had
spoken to both Bank of England governor Mervyn King and to Federal Reserve Board
chairman Alan Greenspan following the attacks.

Central banks stepped in and provided liquidity to the financial system after
the September 11 attacks on the US, but no such action was needed now, Mr
Trichet said.

He added: 'At this stage, we have no particular information that would be
calling for action. If it were the case, you can be sure that we would do that
in real time.'

He added that the banks were in permanent contact. 'We are alert, we are
vigilant.

'We monitor all developments. We keep in touch The New York Stock Exchange saw
shares in security-related companies, such as bomb detection equipment maker
Isonics and security systems-maker Digital Recorders rise sharply

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Burberry, as worn by Davina McCall

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 08, 2005, Friday

Olympic team 'devastated' by terror attack

BYLINE: By Mihir Bose in Singapore

SECTION: Sport Pg. 001

LENGTH: 741 words

THE London 2012 team and the entire International Olympic Committee reacted to
the terrorist attacks on London with horror and bewilderment.

Keith Mills, chief executive of the London bid, trying to take in the grim news,
said: "We are devastated, completely and utterly devastated. It's our town, our
city. We're praying for the people who have been affected.

"It just shows that no city is safe at the moment. It's a terrible tragedy. It
underlines that no city in the world, even London, which has probably the most
sophisticated security system in the world, is safe from terrorists."

Mills confirmed that a farewell ceremony at the airport for his delegation had
been cancelled.

The first reports that something dreadful had happened reached here in late
afternoon. At that stage members of the team, or at least those who had got over
their hangovers from the celebrations of the night before, were doing the sort
of things most of us do before leaving foreign parts.

The Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, was out doing some last-minute shopping,
while many were still pinching themselves, unable to believe that London had won
the right to host the 2012 Olympics. Others were planning to bid a boisterous
farewell to Singapore before catching the midnight flight to London and then a
joyous victory tour on arrival in the capital this morning.

Livingstone was in a taxi returning from his shopping trip when he heard the
news. Once back at his hotel he rushed past reporters and went up to his room to
try to find out what exactly was happening. He emerged to say: "London has been
the target of a cowardly terrorist attack. Londoners have responded calmly and
courageously. I commend the professionalism, courage of the Metropolitan Police,
Transport for London staff, the ambulance, fire and other emergency services."

Before the awful news, the IOC members - who had voted by the narrow margin of
four votes to give the Games to London - were trying to work out just how the
city had carved out the victory. There was much discussion on how the French,
angry and bewildered by their defeat, might react and what revenge they might
take on the IOC, who for the third time have denied Paris the Games.

Paris's mood had been summed up by the mayor, Bertrand Delanoe, when he said:
"When you race in athletics or in swimming the most important thing is to
achieve the best possible performance, without kicking your rival.

"I am not sure that the reasons for London's victory are fully relevant to
sport. There was a marketing effect. Either we are engaged in a sporting
competition or a commercial competition."

The IOC had moved on to other business, debating whether to expel the Bulgarian
member, Ivan Slavkov, for corruption following an investigation by BBC's
Panorama last year. IOC members watched the programme yesterday afternoon and
were beginning to debate Slavkov's fate when the news began to emerge from
London.

Initially, it was felt to be more a reflection of the state of transport in the
capital as the first reports spoke of the entire London Underground having been
shut down.

But as reporters abandoned their vigil outside the closed doors of the IOC
session and gathered round the television sets of the convention centre, where
the session was being held, it became clear this was a much more serious issue
which put into the shade anything that had happened or might happen in
Singapore.

By this time, though the IOC had voted for the expulsion of Slavkov by the
necessary two- thirds majority, it was far less important than the events in
London. The IOC president, Jacques Rogge, spoke to the session about his sadness
at hearing the news.

He also sent messages of condolence to the Prime Minister, Tony Blair, and
Livingstone and said: "I'm a very sad person. It's a tragedy. I'm deeply
saddened that this should happen at the heart of an Olympic city.

"Unfortunately there is no safe haven. No one can say their city is safe. Others
already have experience of this, like New York and Madrid." Both cities had also
bid to stage the 2012 Games.

IOC members will decide whether they should keep all the existing 28 sports that
make up the Olympic programme or replace any of them with new ones like rugby
sevens. This could affect the sports programme for London 2012 and a campaigner
for rugby sevens was distributing little rugby balls and badges saying "Rugby
Sevens 2012".

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Eastern Daily Press

                                  July 8, 2005

Many businesses in Norfolk were caught up in yesterday's terror attack, but the
bulldog spirit was evident today as the FTSE 100 Index resumed its upward path.

BYLINE: PREKOPP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 412 words


Many businesses in Norfolk were caught up in yesterday's terror attack, but the
bulldog spirit was evident today as the FTSE 100 Index resumed its upward path.

A spokesman for Norwich Union said some staff had been trying to get to meetings
in the capital yesterday morning by train, but were late enough to miss the
explosions and came straight back.

James Hanmer, investment surveyor for Bidwells, property consultants, said many
of their London staff had already left for a client day in Newmarket when the
chaos ensued.

"Thankfully, no one was coming in to London at that time. We all got into the
London office at about 8am, so we were all in before it happened."

Today, the Footsie opened nearly 50 points higher and held on to most of those
gains during the first hour of trading to stand 42.1 points ahead at 5200.4.

Many of the stocks that took a hammering at the hands of nervous investors
yesterday were able to recoup much of their losses, led by insurer Prudential
which rose 2 per cent or 10.5p to 512.5p.

Sentiment was also supported by the Dow Jones Industrial Average overcoming a
shaky start to close in positive territory last night.

In London, airport operator BAA improved 11p to 610p as investors took a less
pessimistic view of the impact of the terror attacks on the travel industry.
This was also reflected in shares of British Airways, which rose 3.25p to 264p.

Only four stocks were in negative territory, including banking giant HBOS - off
a penny at 870p - and leisure giant Whitbread, down 3p at 961.5p.

Corporate news was thin on the ground in the top flight, but discount clothing
retailer Peacock was in focus in the lower tiers.

Peacock lifted 3 per cent or 7p to 265p after it told investors that its new
financial year had begun solidly - assisted by a drive to stock more fashionable
womenswear at its core high street chain.

Michael Brown, Eversheds managing partner for London, the south and east, said
he did not think anyone from the firm's Norwich offices was involved, but other
staff who had come in to King's Cross were the worst affected.

"We have heard that some staff had to get off trains on the Underground and walk
along the tracks, although fortunately no one was injured," he said.

Mr Brown said all around the office, near St Paul's, shops were shut and people
were walking around trying to get home.

"The mood is very sombre and people are very nervous," he said

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

                    Copyright 2005 Eastern Daily Press (EDP)

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                                  July 8, 2005

City: FTSE resumes upward path after terror attack shock

SECTION: EGI NEWS

LENGTH: 216  words


The bulldog spirit was evident in London today as the FTSE 100 Index resumed its
upward path after the shock of yesterday's terror attack.

The FTSE opened nearly 50 points higher and held on to most of those gains
during the first hour of trading to stand 42.1 points ahead at 5200.4.

Many of the stocks that took a hammering at the hands of nervous investors
yesterday were able to recoup much of their losses, led by insurer Prudential
which rose 2% or 10.5p to 512.5p.

Sentiment was also supported by the Dow Jones Industrial Average overcoming a
shaky start to close in positive territory last night.

In London, airport operator BAA improved 11p to 610p as investors took a less
pessimistic view of the impact of the terror attacks on the travel industry.
This was also reflected in shares of British Airways, which rose 3.25p to 264p.

Only four stocks were in negative territory, including banking giant HBOS - off
a penny at 870p - and leisure giant Whitbread, down 3p at 961.5p.

Corporate news was thin on the ground in the top flight, but discount clothing
retailer Peacock was in focus in the lower tiers.

Peacock lifted 3% or 7p to 265p after it told investors that its new financial
year had begun solidly - assisted by a drive to stock more fashionable
womenswear at its core high street chain.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright 2005 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Global Capital Euroweek

                                  July 8, 2005

Swap spreads recover after London terrorist attacks

SECTION: SWAPS

LENGTH: 657 words


Trading in the euro swaps market continued sporadically yesterday (Thursday)
after the bomb attacks in London, but with diminished liquidity.

"It is gradually improving, but a few banks that were evacuated have not
returned yet," said a trader yesterday afternoon.

The Bund market rallied in the wake of the attacks, and asset swap spreads
gapped wider. The 10 year asset swap spread widened to a high of 10.5bp after a
week of narrowing, but by yesterday afternoon it had come back to around 9.9bp.

Until the events of yesterday, the euro swap curve had been flattening as the
market sold off. "We've had a bear flattener," said one trader. The euro has
sold off 15 cents from its high against the dollar, while oil continues to trade
in the $60 a barrel region.

In addition, hopes of an ECB rate cut before the end of the year are fading. The
2s/10s curve has flattened to 100bp from 107.25bp a week ago. The 10s/30s has
also flattened to 54.5bp.

The bond markets saw extremely slim pickings this week. Lehman Brothers issued a
Eu500m seven year deal in the same week as it sold a $1bn five year global, but
chose to price the euro denominated bonds in floating rate at Euribor plus 25bp
- an indication of the attenuated arbitrage in the euro bond market at the
moment.

Dollar swap spreads widened sharply at the beginning of the session yesterday in
the wake of the bombing attacks in London. However, within a few hours, prices
had receded to former levels, and the overriding feeling was that the swap
market had taken this latest terrorist outrage in its stride.

"Prices moved about 1bp higher, but then people realised that this thing was not
going to get out of control and the offers started coming in," said a dealer in
New York during the afternoon session.

Going into the close, the two year was at 37bp, the five year was at 44bp, the
10 year was at 43bp and the 30 year was at 46bp. These prices were back to where
they had been at the close on Wednesday, and were still 0.5bp-0.75bp narrower
than the open that day.

Swap spreads narrowed due to a combination of rallying Treasury markets, and a
moderate pick-up in swap-driven issuance in the second half of the week.

Treasuries improved in the run-up to the June employment data, which will be
released today (Friday). The 10 year closed on Wednesday yielding 4.08% and by
yesterday afternoon in New York had dipped to 4.04%. The two year versus 10 year
curve has flattened even further a little over 30bp, while 12 months ago it was
120bp.

Though the debt markets are still slow, there was a little more business of
interest to swap dealers in the second half of the week. Lehman Brothers sold a
$1bn five year global for its own account at 67bp over Treasuries. Lehman was
spotted hedging the issue after pricing, indicating that it had been swapped to
floating dollars. A level in the low 20s over Libor was probably achieved.

American General Finance brought a $700m seven year, which was increased from
$350m, and may also have been swapped to floating dollars. Insurance firms often
swap fixed debt to floating, but not invariably, commented derivatives analysts
in New York.

The Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) sold a $4bn three year, increased from an
original $3bn. The issuer usually swaps such issues to floating rate.

The differential between three month Libor and 10 year swap rates is now less
than 120bp, and as this narrows further and short end swap rates rise, the
incentive to swap fixed rate liabilities to floating diminishes.

Due to this, and the effect of higher rates and a flatter curve, dealers expect
dollar swap spreads to widen from this point. "There is absolutely no incentive
to roll out along the curve at the moment," said a veteran dealer in New York.

In the sterling market, the European Investment Bank added £250m to its 4.5%
notes due October 2008. The proceeds are likely to have been swapped to floating
rate sterling.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EUROW


              Copyright 2005 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                  July 8, 2005

Vigilance in wake of terror attacks

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 241 words


Humberside Police have stepped-up security at Grimsby and Cleethorpes train and
bus stations in the wake of the terror attacks on London. Officers will be
keeping a close eye on the two sites as the aftershocks of yesterday's quadruple
bombing spread across the country.

Spokeswoman Gemma Bell said: "As part of our increased vigilance we will be
paying extra attention to train and bus stations.

"Officers will be in and around these places as a result of the attacks in
London." Meanwhile, people wanting to travel towards the capital may face delays
as they are forced to re-arrange train routes.

Great North Eastern Railway (GNER) is terminating all southbound trains at
Peterborough station until further notice on the East Coast main line, used by
many people from the Grimsby area who join it at either Doncaster or Newark.

A statement said: "GNER wishes to advise passengers intending to go to London
not to travel until we receive further information.

"Other services will run as near to the normal timetable as possible, although
they will be affected by the revised operations necessary.

"Alternate road transport is not available. All ticket restrictions have been
lifted.

"Tickets which were valid today, on trains which are affected, will be valid on
other GNER trains once services resume.

"You may obtain a refund on your ticket. GNER wishes to apologise for any
inconvenience that this may cause."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                   © Copyright 2005 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  July 8, 2005

Attack on London: Four bombs in 50 minutes - Britain suffers its worst-ever
terror attack

BYLINE: Hugh Muir, Rosie Cowan and Julian Borger in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1225 words


At least 38 people were killed yesterday and more than 700 injured as terrorists
struck at the heart of London, causing the biggest loss of life in a terrorist
attack on mainland Britain.

In a series of coordinated strikes, explosive devices were detonated on three
underground trains and a bus travelling through central London during the
morning rush hour.

Last night it was feared the death toll could rise , with the explosions leaving
many people seriously injured.

Police denied that they had recovered any unexploded devices. But a source told
The Guardian that three controlled explosions had been carried out on "suspect
devices".

Furthermore Vincent Cannistraro, the former head of the CIA's counter-terrorism
centre, told The Guardian that "two unexploded bombs" were recovered as well as
"mechanical timing devices".

Emergency services rushed to east, west and central London as the bombs went off
in sequence and without warning over a 50-minute period.

The first device exploded at 8.51am on a Circle line train between Aldgate East
and Liverpool Street stations. Seven people were killed.

At 8.56am a second device exploded on a train between King's Cross and Russell
Square, killing 21 people.

At 9.17am there was another blast on a train at Edgware Road station which blew
a hole through a wall into another train on an adjoining platform. Two other
trains were affected and seven people were killed.

At 9.47am a fourth blast blew the top off a doubledecker bus in Tavistock
Square, central London, possibly killing more than a dozen people.

As the emergency operation swung into operation, the tube and bus network was
shut down and ordinary Londoners began a desperate effort to help the terrified
and the injured. Passengers, their faces bloodied, blackened and cut, were
comforted by underground staff and passersby. Many rushed from offices and shops
to help paramedics.

Witnesses described scenes of devastation. Geraldine Formon, who was in Russell
Square, said: "I saw at least five people jump from the top deck of the bus.
Half of it was blown away. They were jumping on to the street to escape. It was
such a big explosion and the bus was packed as the tube was closed. People were
covered with dust and debris."

Jackie Head, who was travelling on the King's Cross train, said the effect had
been instantaneous. "Suddenly there was a massive bang, the train jolted. There
was immediately smoke everywhere and it was hot and everybody panicked. People
thought they were just going to suffocate."

Intelligence and anti-terrorist officials said last night there was little doubt
that a group affiliated to or inspired by al-Qaida had carried out the attacks.

Tony Blair last night praised the "stoicism and resilience" of Londoners in the
face of yesterday's onslaught on the capital's transport system by bombers he
implied were Islamist terrorists.

"We know these people act in the name of Islam but we also know the vast and
overwhelming majority of Muslims here and abroad are decent and law-abiding
people who abhor this act of terrorism," he said in a televised statement from
Downing Street.

Last night Jack Straw, the foreign secretary underlined this when he told a TV
interview: "There's an assumption that this is an al-Qaida-based organisation.
It has the hallmarks of an al-Qaida-based organisation and also its
ruthlessness. News of the bombings was relayed to Mr Blair at the G8 summit in
Gleneagles. After reading a joint statement from the G8 leaders, he rushed to
London for meetings with security chiefs.

In the afternoon, as Mr Blair chaired a meeting of Cobra - the top-level
emergency group - an Islamist website posted a statement claiming the attacks
had been carried out by a European cell of al-Qaida. A body calling itself the
Secret Organisation of the al-Qaida Jihad in Europe said the attacks were in
retaliation for Britain's involvement in US-led operations. The statement, which
could not be immediately confirmed, said: "Rejoice for it is time to take
revenge against the British Zionist crusader government in retaliation for the
massacres Britain is committing in Iraq and Afghanistan. The heroic mujahideen
have carried out a blessed raid in London. Britain is now burning with fear,
terror and panic in its northern, southern, eastern and western quarters."

Scotland Yard said the four devices had been "conventional explosives", not
containing chemical or biological material, but could not initially say what
size the devices were, whether they had been carried by suicide bombers or
whether they had been left in packages on the trains and the bus.

The deputy assistant Met commissioner, Brian Paddick, said: "This clearly was a
callous attack . . . deliberately designed to kill and injure innocent members
of the public."

Mr Paddick said the security level in London had been high: "We are content that
the security level was appropriate, notwithstanding the G8 summit." He said
there were 1,500 Met officers in Scotland, guarding the G8 summit and 31,000
officers in London.

Mr Paddick said the emergency services had rehearsed for such a scenario and
that the plans had worked as they should have done. He said there was no
intelligence about other devices but he warned people to be vigilant.

While concentrating on the emergency response and the effort to catch the
bombers, Scotland Yard also activated long-established plans to reassure the
public, especially ethnic minority groups who fear they may become targets.

Senior community figures were alerted immediately and members of Muslim groups
were called to an urgent meeting. The Guardian has learned that within hours of
the attacks, 30,000 abusive and threatening emails were sent to the Muslim
Council of Britain's website.

Ken Livingstone, London's mayor, was in Singapore celebrating London's
successful Olympic bid but last night returned to London. In a statement he
said: "This was not a terrorist attack against the mighty and the powerful. It
was not aimed at presidents or prime ministers. It was aimed at ordinary,
working- class Londoners, black and white, Muslim and Christian, Hindu and Jew,
young and old.

"It was an indiscriminate attempt to slaughter, irrespective of any
considerations for age, for class, for religion, or whatever."

He added: "That isn't an ideology, it isn't even a perverted faith - it is just
an indiscriminate attempt at mass murder and we know what the objective is. They
seek to divide Londoners. They seek to turn Londoners against each other."

It is known that Scotland Yard had previously intercepted up to eight attempts
to cause a terrorist atrocity in the UK. A police source told the Guardian that
the attacks were "not on the intelligence radar".

The source said there were believed to have been up to 40 people on board the
bus that exploded at Tavistock Square, but it is still not known how many people
died in that blast, or whether a suicide bomber was among them.

One theory is that a bomber may have been on his way to a tube station, or the
bus bomb may have been planned to cause maximum panic when people flocked to
buses after the tube was evacuated.

More reports, pages 3-14

Comment, pages 23-24

Leader comment, page 25

guardian.co.uk/terrorism


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  July 8, 2005

Attack on London: Tackling terror 700 arrests; 17 convictions

BYLINE: Steven Morris

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 674 words


Since September 11, Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch, MI5 and a raft of
other security agencies have played a cat and mouse game with potential
terrorists sympathetic to the al-Qaida cause.

Hundreds of suspects, many of them young Muslim men, have been arrested and the
police claim to have broken up several terrorist cells and networks. The
government has invested millions in extra security officers and intelligence
systems.

But police, spy chiefs and ministers have repeatedly emphasised that it was
inevitable that the UK would be successfully targeted by the terrorists.

After the 2001 attacks on America, a wide-ranging review of how Islamist
terrorism is tackled in the UK was undertaken. A new network of police
counter-terrorism security advisers was set up and enhanced security at ports
and airports was introduced; more guidance was given to industry and
institutions and legislative changes were made; MI5 has already begun a
recruitment campaign to increase its size by 50% to 3,000 staff by 2008.

Security experts were in no doubt that members of al-Qaida were in the UK, not
only planning attacks but supporting British-based terrorist groups by raising
money, putting together equipment, producing false documents and providing
training.

Some of these al-Qaida members, according to MI5, had received military and
specialist terrorist training in camps overseas, for example in Afghanistan.
Relationships forged in these camps, MI5 believed, formed the basis of loose
networks of terrorists who can operate outside structured organisations.

More than 700 people have been arrested under the Terrorism Act since September
11, but half have been released without charge and only 17 convicted. Only three
of the convictions relate to allegations of Islamist extremism.

There have also been apparent false alarms, notably a report last year claiming
that Canary Wharf was a target and one in 2004 alleging that Manchester United's
Old Trafford ground was threatened.

Some Muslims have expressed anger at the arrests, claiming their communities
were being unfairly picked on.

Still, the police and MI5 say they have thwarted several attacks. In August
2004, for example, the police made "significant" arrests. Eight men were charged
with terrorism-related offences and are awaiting trial.

Recently concluded trials at the Old Bailey have presented examples of the two
different types of operative. In April, a former grammar school pupil, Saajid
Badat, 25, who became radicalised by the killing of Muslims in Bosnia, was
jailed for 13 years for planning to set off a shoe bomb on a passenger plane
bound for the US. Badat had spent two years in camps in Afghanistan. Another
failed shoe bomber, Richard Reid, who was arrested in December 2001, was also
British-born.

The other type was epitomised by Kamel Bourgass, an Algerian who was jailed for
life at the Old Bailey in April for the murder of Detective Constable Stephen
Oake in Manchester. Bourgass, also trained in Afghanistan, had been plotting a
ricin poison attack.

Shaun Gregory, the head of the department of peace studies at Bradford
University, said the number of coordinated attacks yesterday meant that quite a
large group had to be involved. "If they are British- born it is incredible that
the security services have not heard that something was being planned. And if
they are from abroad, questions will be asked about how they got in through
airports or ports."

Mr Gregory said the attacks would have huge implications for the Muslim
population of the UK. "The issue of how young men are being radicalised will
become of vital importance," he said.

Before yesterday, MI5 had pointed out that there had been attacks on UK
interests based overseas, such as the British consulate and HSBC in Istanbul in
November 2003.

After the Madrid bombings in March last year, the security services feared that
"soft" targets such as transport systems in the UK could be next. Yesterday
their fears were realised.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  July 8, 2005

Attack on London: MPs angry but united by 'attack on whole country': Commons
Terrorists will not divide us, say parties

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 344 words


MPs on all sides of the Commons rallied behind the home secretary, Charles
Clarke, when he emerged from chairing the cabinet's emergency planning group,
Cobra, in Tony Blair's absence to condemn the "criminal and appalling" crime in
the capital.

Though it is far too early to predict if the attacks will damage the government,
the interim judgment is that the public instinct will be to rally behind it -
and the newly designated Olympic venue.

Privately, ministers believed the coordinated bombings bore the hallmarks of an
attack by Islamist militants, but lacked forensic evidence.

In providing only the barest of facts - and no casualty figures - Mr Clarke
repeatedly refused to go down "speculative routes" that would fuel what he
called "the large number of rumours and uncertainty". Other MPs concurred.

The rush by Jose Maria Aznar's government in Spain to blame the Basque
separatists, Eta, for the Madrid bombs, when they were actually the work of
al-Qaida, rebounded against it when it lost the general election two days later.

Mr Clarke's Tory shadow, David Davis, endorsed calls for calm and warned against
the terrorist strategy to "demoralise and divide our communities" - which must
not happen, he told MPs. "It is right that we should be angry at to day's
atrocities. It is no less essential that we remain clear-headed and united," he
said. "We say to the terrorists: you will not succeed in setting us against one
another.

"This is not just an attack on our capital city, but on our country as a whole.
It goes without saying that the government will have our full support in dealing
with this assault upon our society."

Mr Clarke's praise of the emergency services was echoed by backbenchers.

Senior ministers, including Gordon Brown, Jack Straw and John Prescott, were
present to back Mr Clarke. Charles Kennedy was at the Cheadle byelection, unable
to return to London.

Like Mr Blair, Michael Howard issued a statement stressing the importance of the
country remaining "wholly united" against the threat.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  July 8, 2005

Terrorist attacks wipe pounds-17bn off leading UK shares;
Pound plummets to 19-month low on foreign exchanges

BYLINE: IAN McCONNELL BUSINESS EDITOR

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 809 words


SHARES went into freefall yesterday as the City's worst fears of al Qaeda
terrorist bombings in London were realised - wiping nearly pounds-50bn off the
value of the UK's top 100 companies at one stage.

Sterling plummeted on the foreign exchanges to 19-month lows against the dollar.

The FTSE-100 index of leading shares, which had tumbled by as much as 207.5
points, recovered some of its losses later in the day. However, the top 100
shares nevertheless saw their value slashed by pounds-17bn during yesterday's
session, as the Footsie finished 71.3 points lower at 5158.3.

This was the index's biggest one-day points fall since August last year.

Leading fund managers described the stock market's response to the fatal attacks
in London as "emotional" and "overstated", believing the UK economy would prove
resilient.

Although shares clawed their way back from their worst levels, even a decision
at noon by the Monetary Policy Committee to resist calls throughout this week
for a cut in UK interest rates failed to bolster the pound for long.

Sterling was last night down more than one-and-a-half cents on its close in
London on Wednesday at dollars-1.7419 - having touched dollars-1.7403. The
dollar and pound both fell against the Swiss franc as traders sought a
safe-haven currency.

The UK stock market held relatively firm early yesterday morning even after the
initial reports of explosions on the London Underground, as television networks
speculated that these may have been caused by some kind of power surge.

However, reports that a bus had been bombed in central London sent shares
plunging as the true cause of yesterday's explosions became clear.

An organisation calling itself the "Secret Group of al Qaeda's Jihad in Europe"
then claimed responsibility for the blasts.

As shares tumbled, leading fund managers made clear their belief that this was
an over-reaction.

Ian Rushbrook, who manages Personal Assets Trust in Edinburgh, said: "I suppose
that one would say that it illustrates that equities are risky. The economic
damage done, of course, is negligible, but investors are emotional beings. They
have been piling into the market with great enthusiasm. This simply resets their
fear agenda."

Rushbrook contrasted yesterday's terrorist attacks  with those on the World
Trade Center in New York on September 11, 2001.

He said: "It is not really a twin towers catastrophe in the sense it rocks the
entire financial system (although it is) a horrendous attack (and) what the
purpose of it is, God knows."

Sandy Nairn, founder of fund manager Edinburgh Partners, described the stock
market reaction to the London terrorist attacks as "completely overstated". He
said: "It affects lots of things, but not stock markets."

Asked if there would be any knock-on economic impact, Nairn replied: "None at
all."

However, 13 of 20 economists polled by news agency Reuters said they believed
the attacks would have at least some shortterm economic impact, with some
worried that already fragile consumer confidence could be further damaged.

The explosions disrupted City dealing rooms yesterday morning. Even before the
full extent of the carnage became evident, the City feared the worst.

One London-based dealer said yesterday morning: "We are farming out orders to
other financial centres, such as Paris, because of the uncertainty on the ground
in London."

Another trader said: "There's nothing on the screens. It stops.

The news comes and goes. People don't know what to do . . .

You can't get a price on anything on any side."

The London Stock Exchange remained open for trading, but freed mid and
smaller-cap market-makers of obligations to provide two-way prices on stocks,
and asked members to switch off automated trading systems.

Shares tumbled across Europe. German stocks were down nearly 2-per cent last
night, and Paris's CAC-40 index lost 1.4-per cent.

Insurance stocks slid. In London, shares in British Airways tumbled 4-per cent,
and hotel company Hilton Group lost 3-per cent.

Gold rose sharply on investors' flight for safety.

Oil plunged nearly dollars-5 a barrel at one stage from a record high of
dollars-62.10 set earlier, as traders fretted that the terrorist attacks in
London could take a heavy toll on the global economy and therefore demand for
crude. However, as these fears subsided, oil recovered and US light closed down
53 cents at dollars-60.75 a barrel.

Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, said he did not
believe the attacks on London"will have any serious impact" on financial markets
in the long term. He said he had spoken with Alan Greenspan, chairman of the US
Federal Reserve, and Mervyn King, Bank of England governor, and concluded
financial systems were working normally.

VOLATILE SESSION FOR FTSE-100 - Graph showing fall and rise of FTSE-100
yesterday - not available on database - see hardcopy or PDF

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                                  July 8, 2005

Muslims' leader condemns terror attacks

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 516 words


The leader of East Yorkshire's Muslim community today condemned the bombings as
"barbaric". The imam of the Hull mosque, Rahmat Aziz Salik, said he sent his
deepest sympathies to those affected by the blasts.

In an e-mail from Mecca in Saudi Arabia, where he is on holiday, he spoke of his
shock and his fears of possible reprisal attacks on his community.

He said: "What happened in London was totally un-Islamic and inhumane.

"I strongly condemn these barbaric and indiscriminate terrorist attacks on
innocent civilians. I extend my deepest sympathy to those affected by this
tragic incident, and convey my condolences to the families of those who have
lost their lives.

"I request Humberside Police to take extra precautions in the region against any
possible backlash of this terrorist attack in the local community. I urge the
Muslim community in Hull and surrounding area to stay calm, and be aware of
their personal safety." Mr Salik, who was awarded a Community Pioneer Award for
his work in Hull, added: "I'm sure those responsible for this horrific attack
will be brought to justice and I pray we never witness anything like this
again." The imam's 21-year-old son Zia, a student at the University of Hull,
said his "heart sank" when he heard of the bombings.

He said: "This is an inhumane act against innocent civilians, and there is no
religion in the world that would allow this.

"People use the banner of Islam to do things like this, but it's just a handful
of extremists. I have studied my religion since I was a child and have never
come across anything that gives permission to kill.

"I can't describe the feeling when you hear about something like this. My heart
sank, not just for the people who lost their lives, but also because of the
impression it gives of Muslims. It gives the wrong impression.

"It is a tragic event. There is no other way to describe it." Police and council
workers have toured the city's three mosques amid fears of reprisals on Muslims.

Police patrols have been increased around the mosques to try and send a warning
to the public that any trouble will not be tolerated.

Officers were also accompanied by Steve Ibbetson, the city council's asylum and
refugee service manager, who said the Muslim population in the city was shocked
and appalled by the loss of life, and fearful of revenge attacks.

He said: "The mood was one of concern and sadness. People were unhappy this had
happened and felt it was am unwarranted attack on people.

He said he tried to reassure the Muslim population that the police and council
would protect them in the face of any hostilities.

He added: "Many of the people who are here as refugees and asylum seekers in the
city are fleeing this type of action in their own countries and would not want
to see it happening here." The Muslim Council of Britain said: "The evil people
who planned and carried out these series of explosions in London want to
demoralise us as a nation and divide us as a people.

"All of us must unite in helping the police to capture these murderers."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                        © Copyright 2005 Hull Daily Mail

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

TERROR IN LONDON: PREDICTED BOMB ATTACKS REVEAL INTELLIGENCE GAPS ON AL-QA'IDA

BYLINE: BY JASON BENNETTO CRIME CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1015 words


It was the attack Britain's police and intelligence chiefs had been predicting,
and dreading. Despite spending millions of pounds on counter-terrorism, having
some of the world's most advanced surveillance equipment, and a nation
supposedly on high alert, the terrorists succeeded yesterday in getting through
the UK's defences.

Up until now, the police and security services have been congratulated at
foiling any terrorism act since the 11 September 2001 atrocities. Police say
they have thwarted five major al-Qa'ida plots in the UK. But they are still
struggling to get anything like a full understanding of the al-Qa'ida threat in
the United Kingdom.

Lord Stevens, the previous commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, was not
thanked for saying last year that an attack by Islamist extremists in London was
'inevitable'. But yesterday's bombings showed just how difficult it is to stop a
determined opponent, especially with the gaps in intelligence.

Knowledge about the overall strength and structure of al-Qa'ida and its
associates in Britain is, at best, patchy and blurred. Scotland Yard has said
about 200 British citizens and foreign nationals have travelled to al-Qa'ida
training camps and returned to the UK. But intelligence officers believe the
true figure could be up to 3,000.

Most of these Islamic extremists are known to the authorities, but a significant
number have almost certainly returned without being traced. This was illustrated
by Idris Bazis, a French-Algerian living in the Moss Side district of
Manchester. The 41-year-old came to the attention of the British authorities
only after he travelled to Iraq and committed a suicide bombing attack in
February this year.

One of the most alarming developments for the intelligence agencies has been the
radicalisation of young British-born Muslims. MI5 and the anti- terrorist branch
have become increasingly concerned at the number of these would-be terrorists
who have no history of violence or extremism.

In March this year Saajid Badat, 25, admitted plotting to blow up an aircraft
bound for America in the first major prosecution of an al-Qa'ida terrorist in
the UK since the 11 September attacks. The British-born Muslim with no history
of extremism had planned to detonate a bomb at the same time as the London-based
'shoe bomber' Richard Reid, who is serving a life sentence in the United States.
But Badat changed his mind and dismantled his shoe bomb, which was seized by
police at his home in Gloucester in November 2003.

Anti-terrorist officers believe Badat became radicalised by extremists at a
mosque in south London in the late 1990s after he fell out with his father. He
then travelled to Afghanistan and spent two years at an al- Qa'ida training
camp. In a separate case, which has yet to come to court, several young Muslim
men with no history of extremism have been charged with plotting to make a bomb
in the south-east of England.

Another problem for the UK's counter-terrorism officers is the random structures
of al-Qa'ida groups and supporters in Britain. Some cells are closely aligned to
Osama bin Laden, but others are merely sympathetic towards al-Qa'ida's aims.
There are also loose-knit affiliations and lone fanatics.

The tactics adopted by the extremists are varied and therefore difficult to
guard against. Police have long been fearful of an attack by suicide bombers.

New guidelines were drawn up by Scotland Yard in 2003 by the Met's Deputy
Assistant Commissioner Barbara Wilding, who travelled to Israel and Sri Lanka to
gather first-hand accounts from police and intelligence agencies on how to hunt
down and guard against suicide bomber cells. Her confidential report in which
she effectively calls for a 'shoot-to-kill' policy " has been circulated to
chief constables. One of their biggest operations resulted in an al-Qa'ida
supporter being jailed for 17 years in April this year for leading a plot to
terrorise Britain with ricin and cyanide. As he was sentenced at the Old Bailey,
the court heard that Kamel Bourgass, an Islamic extremist from Algeria, had been
convicted last year of murdering a Special Branch officer, Stephen Oake.

Bourgass, who is serving a life sentence for the murder of DC Oake during an
anti-terrorist operation in Manchester two years ago, was convicted of plotting
to produce ricin from a flat in Wood Green, north London.

Bourgass was recruited, inspired and guided by Abu Doha. Doha, 39, who was
living in London, was a member of the Salafist Group for Call and Combat (GSPC),
a terrorist group which has committed widespread atrocities in Algeria. In 1998,
a US indictment says, he won permission from Osama bin Laden to set up the
Khalden training camp in Afghanistan for Algerians and other north Africans.
Doha was arrested at Heathrow in February 2001 trying to board a flight to Saudi
Arabia with a false passport. He is in Belmarsh prison, south-east London,
fighting extradition to the US.

Since the 11 September attacks, much of the police and security services' work
has been aimed at disrupting and deterring suspected al-Qa'ida followers and
supporters through raids and arrests. These operations have often been aimed at
breaking up suspected cells, fund-raisers and sympathisers who provide
logistical support such as safe house and forged papers.

Intelligence officers admit privately that sometimes they have had to act
prematurely because of the risk of a terrorist act. This has resulted in some
suspects being released without charge or facing relatively trivial offences. A
significant number of innocent people have also been caught up, which has led to
considerable bad feeling among Muslim communities who increasingly feel
victimised.

Of the 702 people arrested under the Terrorism Act 2000 since the 11 September
attacks and the end of last year, comparatively few convictions of terrorists
have resulted. Of those arrested, 119 were charged with terror offences and a
further 135 with other crimes. Only 17 have been convicted so far under the
Terrorism Act.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

TERROR IN LONDON: LONDON UNDER ATTACK: THE BLITZ

BYLINE: BY ALLAN MASSIE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 854 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Many London buildings, particularly in the East End, were reduced to rubble by
Hitler's Luftwaffe during the Blitz. The bombing attacks began in September 1940
and ended in May 1941 MIRRORPIX


Sometimes, you think, we are becoming soft, far more ready to give way to sloppy
self-indulgent emotionalism than our parents and grandparents were; that the
upper lip is more often wobbly than stiff. And then you get something like this.

I was in my study, looking out over the green tranquil country of the Scottish
Borders, sheep grazing in the field below the woods, when my daughter telephoned
to tell me bombs were going off all over London. I turned on the television, and
one of the first things I saw was a man with the left side of his face all cut
and bloody being interviewed.

I can't remember just what he said, but his tone was familiar, immediately
recognisable. He was, I suppose, in his forties, may be a little younger,
certainly of a comfortably post-war generation. He was calm, relaxed,
self-deprecating; it might have been John Mills or Jack Warner telling Hitler:
'London can take it, Britain can take it.' It was moving, comforting and, yes,
inspiring.

You might advance high-faluting explanations of, for instance, race memory
telling Londoners this is how you behave in an emergency. But I don't think it's
necessary. It's enough to say this was an expression of something enduring in
our character. London is a much more cosmopolitan city than it was in the time
of the Blitz, but the spirit is the same. The city imposes its character on
those who live there. It's a matter of London pride:

London Pride has been

handed down to us.

London Pride is a flower

that's free.

London Pride means

our own dear town to us.

And our pride for ever will be

Noel Coward would have recognised his London in yesterday's. And throughout the
United Kingdom and across the world, we who weren't there felt ourselves to be
Londoners too.

For years, ever since 11 September, we have been warned that a terrorist outrage
here was not only likely but inevitable: 'It's not whether but when.' Now that
'when' has happened, and the first shock and horror will already have been
succeeded by the thought that it might have been even worse. And the next
thought is that life goes on, people go about their business, more warily
perhaps, but undeterred. I had another call later in the day, this time from a
girl in my publisher's publicity department. She was ringing to ask if I could
go to a book festival on a date in January. That, too, is an example of the
spirit of the Blitz. It might, she admitted, be difficult for her to get home
that evening; but work goes on.

London has been through it before. The Blitz destroyed great parts of the city.
The East End was left in ruins, Docklands flattened, St Paul's Cathedral stood,
as if by a miracle, alone in a wilderness of devastation. The Palace of
Westminster was bombed and the House of Commons went up in flames. And even when
victory was at last in sight, came the rockets " the V1 and the V2 " bringing
death without warning. Londoners shrugged their shoulders and called them
'doodlebugs'. All that was years before most of today's Londoners were born.
Many are too young to remember the bombsites where willowherb and other weeds
flourished. But then, in the years of peace, came the IRA bombing campaign, and
Londoners bore that too without flinching. Most remarkable, the terrorists then
were regarded with contempt rather than hatred. I would guess it's the same
today and will be the same tomorrow.

Orwell, in his 1940 diary, remarked: 'The only change I have noticed since the
air raids began is that people are much more ready to speak to strangers in the
street.'

He also recorded a conversation I have always liked, one that seems appropriate
to what I take to be the mood of London today. 'Yesterday, while having my hair
cut in the City, I asked the barber if he carried on during raids. He said he
did. And even if he was shaving someone? I said. Oh yes, he carried on just the
same.' Hitler and the Luftwaffe weren't going to order his life " my
interpretation, not Orwell's. His was characteristically more sour: 'And one day
a bomb will drop near enough to make him jump, and he will slice half somebody's
face off.'

It seems somehow appropriate, however horrible also, that the London bombing
should have come just as we have been commemorating the sixtieth anniversary of
the end of the Hitler war, a few days after the Prince of Wales opened a new
museum devoted to life on the Home Front in those years.

Appropriate, for two reasons. First, because it serves as a reminder of the
human capacity for mischief and destruction. And secondly, because London's
response to yesterday's evil acts shows that any doubts or fears we may have had
were groundless. We are the same people we were 60 years ago, capable of the
same stoicism. London can take it, and it can do so because its stoicism is
laced as it always has been with humour.

Orwell again: 'A lot of bombs in Greenwich, one of them while I was talking to E
over the phone. A sudden pause in the conversation and a tinkling sound:

I: 'What's that?'

E: 'Only the window falling in."

Business as usual. London Pride.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

TERROR IN LONDON: LONDON UNDER ATTACK: THE IRA CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL MCCARTHY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 858 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Emergency workers survey the damage in the City of London after the IRA set off
a bomb that killed Edward Henty, a photographer, and injured 44 people on 24
April 1993 MIRRORPIX


We've been here before. Thirty years ago, London was the target of a sustained
and vicious terror bombing campaign, the perpetrators at that time being the
Provisional IRA. Beginning in 1973, it was a period of atrocities in which many
Londoners died: killed by car bombs, bombs in stations, bombs in restaurants,
bombs in litter bins, bombs with warnings and bombs without. Many other people
were disfigured, maimed, disabled for life.

The targets ranged from Hyde Park (aimed at the Household Cavalry) to Harrods
(aimed at Christmas shoppers) and the campaign culminated in the big Docklands
bomb at South Quay, near Canary Wharf, in February 1996, whose alleged purpose
was to shake up the faltering Irish peace process.

Anyone who lived through the IRA campaign in the capital at its height, in the
mid-Seventies, will remember that it made people wary, jumpy and suspicious,
often especially suspicious (let's be honest) of young men with Irish accents.
But then, if you put your own bag down and forgot about it for a minute, you
could start a full-scale panic.

Yet it did not shut London down, or prevent normal life from continuing, and
that should be remembered too " even though the Provos were every bit as
determined to wreak maximum chaos and fear as those who set off yesterday's
explosions.

After four years of guerrilla warfare in Northern Ireland, Irish republican
terrorism arrived in London on 8 March 1973 with four big car bombs planted
across the capital. Two were defused, but the others " one in Great Scotland
Yard, a street off Whitehall, and the other outside the Old Bailey " went off,
killing one man and injuring nearly 200.

The bombing team that did it, including the Belfast sisters Dolores and Marion
Price, were captured at Heathrow.

There was then a whole series of bombs, often targeting civilians
indiscriminately, such as that at the Tower of London, packed at the time with
tourists, in July 1974. The campaign reached its height in the winter of 1975-76
with the activities of four men who became known as the Balcombe Street gang "
Harry Duggan, Martin O'Connell, Edward Butler and Hugh Doherty " who specialised
in tossing bombs into crowded London restaurants. They killed several people
before they were caught after a siege at a flat in Balcombe Street, Marylebone,
where they had taken refuge.

The blast that probably did the most damage to the capital's physical structures
was towards the end of the campaign when the Provos attacked Bishopsgate at the
heart of the City of London with a one-ton fertiliser bomb in a tipper truck.
The ultra-modern buildings of the financial district which took the brunt of the
explosion were massively damaged, to the tune of more than £1bn, not least
because they contained so much glass. The glass shrapnel killed a young
photographer from the News of the World, Edward Henty, who was covering the
scene for his newspaper. Only a year before, the IRA had attacked the nearby
Baltic Exchange building with a similar-sized bomb.

The one London outrage the Provos did not manage to carry out was the one that
gave yesterday's events their peculiarly grim horror " exploding a bomb on a
London Underground train between stations. But it was not for want of trying.

On 15 March 1976, 36-year-old Vincent Kelly set out to do just that. Just before
the afternoon rush hour he boarded a train on what was then the Metropolitan
Line (now the Hammersmith and City Line) at Stepney Green in the East End,
carrying a bomb in a duffel bag. He intended to detonate it at Liverpool Street
or another of the busy stations in the city centre. But he got on the wrong
train, boarding one that was heading out of town. He realised his mistake when
the train came out above ground at Plaistow, where he got off and boarded an
inbound train on the opposite platform. But by now the fuse on his bomb was
running down and just as the train pulled out of West Ham station it went off,
injuring but not incapacitating him. Kelly jumped off the train pursued by the
driver and the guard: he shot them both, killing the former, Julius Stephen.
When he was finally cornered by the police he turned the gun on himself.

Had Kelly succeeded, he might well have wreaked carnage similar to yesterday's
devastation between Russell Square and King's Cross. But even then, the capital
would have continued its life. Don't let's tempt fate now, but London is
probably just too big, too multi-faceted and too resilient to bring to its knees
with a terror bombing campaign. The Provos failed, although they tried hard
enough.

Yesterday Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein, said he had sent a message of
sympathy and solidarity to Tony Blair and to London's Mayor, Ken Livingstone.
'On behalf of Sinn Fein I offer my sincere condolences to the victims and the
families of those killed and injured and to the people of London,' he said.

No doubt some will think that time moves on, and peace has come, and such a
message is entirely appropriate, although those who remember the deaths and
awful injuries of 30 years ago may perhaps take a different view.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

MARKET REPORT: STAGECOACH RESILIENT IN FACE OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN FOLEY

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 74

LENGTH: 784 words


Share prices lurched downwards at 9.57am yesterday, when it became clear there
had been more than one 'incident' on London's Underground. They lurched
downwards again at 10.17am when the first newsflashes came through indicating an
explosion on a bus " and ending the hope that this could be anything other than
a co-ordinated terrorist assault on the capital. By 11.39am, the FTSE 100 index
was down 207.5 points, 4 per cent, and £4.98bn had been erased from the value of
the UK's 100 biggest companies.

In the end, however, the day was characterised by resilience rather than panic.
The early hedge-fund activity that knocked the market was not followed by
selling by longer-term investors. Londoners had long feared such an attack and
market professionals knew that equities had bounced back, eventually, from the
shock of 11 September 2001, and the impact of last year's Madrid bombings. If
anything, traders were keener to nick a bargain in the sell-off than to steer
clear of the market altogether. By the end of the day there had been a
significant amount of buying activity, and the London Stock Exchange recorded
one of its busiest trading days, with 4.2 billion shares passing through its
systems. The FTSE 100 closed at 5,158.3, down 71.3, while the mid-cap FTSE 250
was off 109.0 at 7,387.9.

Typical of the defiance of the day were the bus company shares, including those
of Stagecoach, whose vehicle was blown up in Tavistock Square. Most saw their
shares fall up to 10 per cent at their worst, but recovering to end less than 4
per cent lower. Stagecoach ended at 115.5p, down just 1.25p. National Express,
which has doubled its presence in the London market, was down 30.5p at 880p;
FirstGroup fell 10p to 323.5p; Arriva was off 12p at 534p; and Go-Ahead fell 31p
at 1,248p.

The Stock Exchange had ordered market participants to turn off their so-called
'black boxes', the computers which automatically generate share trading orders.
These can often exaggerate market movements and were blamed for the extremity of
the stock market fall in the days after 11 September 2001. Market makers were
also relieved of their obligation to trade after the Exchange declared a 'fast
market' when more flexible rules apply.

The early theory was that terrorism would deter people from travelling, and
would exacerbate the downturn in consumer confidence which has already triggered
a string of profits warnings. So tourism stocks were hardest hit. British
Airways was the worst blue-chip performer, off 11.5p at 260.75p, while the
airports operator BAA fell 20p to 599p. EasyJet, which had published mildly
disappointing June passenger numbers at the start of the day, ended down 10p at
254.25p, and Ryanair slipped EUR0.14 to EUR6.32. Shares in the tour operators
MyTravel and First Choice Holidays were down 0.17p at 5.85p and 5.5p at 187.25p,
respectively.

Carnival, the cruise operator, was 71p lower at 3,159p. And hotels groups were
also marked down. Hilton was 9.75p lower at 288.25p, with InterContinental
Hotels down 20p at 701.5p and Millennium & Copthorne Hotels falling 12.25p to
357.25p.

For a long time, there were no blue-chip stocks recording share price gains, but
two closed higher. Amvescap was 13p better at 408p. On Wednesday it rejected a
takeover bid from CI Financial of Canada. The hope is that CI will team up with
the bigger Sun Life of Canada to make a knockout bid, or the drama will tease
out another bidder. The other FTSE 100 stock on the rise, Shire Pharmaceuticals,
was up a penny at 620p. The drug company agreed to pay $ 1.6bn (£920m) for the
American biotech group Transkaryotic Therapies, but some of the US firm's
shareholders are holding out for more money. Its shares are trading above the
level of Shire's cash offer.

There was an early sharp sell-off on Wall Street, which came on top of the
previous day's oil price-related drop, but again most of the ground was quickly
recovered. One dealer said the effect of the attacks had not been as pronounced
on the US markets as London traders had expected earlier in the day. 'The world
has gone hard to this sort of thing, and the shock effect gets less,' he said.

There were even some traders looking, discreetly, for companies that may stand
to win new business as a result of the attacks. Underground repair work was
being added by some to this week's Olympics victory as a reason for buying
Balfour Beatty, the engineering project expert, whose shares were up 1.75p to
349p. IG Group, the financial spread-betting firm which reported a busy day, was
up 2.5p at 152p. And Eruma, a little company which makes bomb-proof blinds,
which floated last week, jumped 0.75p to 7.75p.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

TERROR IN LONDON: PREDICTED BOMB ATTACKS REVEAL INTELLIGENCE GAPS ON AL-QA'IDA

BYLINE: BY JASON BENNETTO CRIME CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1015 words


It was the attack Britain's police and intelligence chiefs had been predicting,
and dreading. Despite spending millions of pounds on counter-terrorism, having
some of the world's most advanced surveillance equipment, and a nation
supposedly on high alert, the terrorists succeeded yesterday in getting through
the UK's defences.

Up until now, the police and security services have been congratulated at
foiling any terrorism act since the 11 September 2001 atrocities. Police say
they have thwarted five major al-Qa'ida plots in the UK. But they are still
struggling to get anything like a full understanding of the al-Qa'ida threat in
the United Kingdom.

Lord Stevens, the previous commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, was not
thanked for saying last year that an attack by Islamist extremists in London was
'inevitable'. But yesterday's bombings showed just how difficult it is to stop a
determined opponent, especially with the gaps in intelligence.

Knowledge about the overall strength and structure of al-Qa'ida and its
associates in Britain is, at best, patchy and blurred. Scotland Yard has said
about 200 British citizens and foreign nationals have travelled to al-Qa'ida
training camps and returned to the UK. But intelligence officers believe the
true figure could be up to 3,000.

Most of these Islamic extremists are known to the authorities, but a significant
number have almost certainly returned without being traced. This was illustrated
by Idris Bazis, a French-Algerian living in the Moss Side district of
Manchester. The 41-year-old came to the attention of the British authorities
only after he travelled to Iraq and committed a suicide bombing attack in
February this year.

One of the most alarming developments for the intelligence agencies has been the
radicalisation of young British-born Muslims. MI5 and the anti- terrorist branch
have become increasingly concerned at the number of these would-be terrorists
who have no history of violence or extremism.

In March this year Saajid Badat, 25, admitted plotting to blow up an aircraft
bound for America in the first major prosecution of an al-Qa'ida terrorist in
the UK since the 11 September attacks. The British-born Muslim with no history
of extremism had planned to detonate a bomb at the same time as the London-based
'shoe bomber' Richard Reid, who is serving a life sentence in the United States.
But Badat changed his mind and dismantled his shoe bomb, which was seized by
police at his home in Gloucester in November 2003.

Anti-terrorist officers believe Badat became radicalised by extremists at a
mosque in south London in the late 1990s after he fell out with his father. He
then travelled to Afghanistan and spent two years at an al- Qa'ida training
camp. In a separate case, which has yet to come to court, several young Muslim
men with no history of extremism have been charged with plotting to make a bomb
in the south-east of England.

Another problem for the UK's counter-terrorism officers is the random structures
of al-Qa'ida groups and supporters in Britain. Some cells are closely aligned to
Osama bin Laden, but others are merely sympathetic towards al-Qa'ida's aims.
There are also loose-knit affiliations and lone fanatics.

The tactics adopted by the extremists are varied and therefore difficult to
guard against. Police have long been fearful of an attack by suicide bombers.

New guidelines were drawn up by Scotland Yard in 2003 by the Met's Deputy
Assistant Commissioner Barbara Wilding, who travelled to Israel and Sri Lanka to
gather first-hand accounts from police and intelligence agencies on how to hunt
down and guard against suicide bomber cells. Her confidential report in which
she effectively calls for a 'shoot-to-kill' policy " has been circulated to
chief constables. One of their biggest operations resulted in an al-Qa'ida
supporter being jailed for 17 years in April this year for leading a plot to
terrorise Britain with ricin and cyanide. As he was sentenced at the Old Bailey,
the court heard that Kamel Bourgass, an Islamic extremist from Algeria, had been
convicted last year of murdering a Special Branch officer, Stephen Oake.

Bourgass, who is serving a life sentence for the murder of DC Oake during an
anti-terrorist operation in Manchester two years ago, was convicted of plotting
to produce ricin from a flat in Wood Green, north London.

Bourgass was recruited, inspired and guided by Abu Doha. Doha, 39, who was
living in London, was a member of the Salafist Group for Call and Combat (GSPC),
a terrorist group which has committed widespread atrocities in Algeria. In 1998,
a US indictment says, he won permission from Osama bin Laden to set up the
Khalden training camp in Afghanistan for Algerians and other north Africans.
Doha was arrested at Heathrow in February 2001 trying to board a flight to Saudi
Arabia with a false passport. He is in Belmarsh prison, south-east London,
fighting extradition to the US.

Since the 11 September attacks, much of the police and security services' work
has been aimed at disrupting and deterring suspected al-Qa'ida followers and
supporters through raids and arrests. These operations have often been aimed at
breaking up suspected cells, fund-raisers and sympathisers who provide
logistical support such as safe house and forged papers.

Intelligence officers admit privately that sometimes they have had to act
prematurely because of the risk of a terrorist act. This has resulted in some
suspects being released without charge or facing relatively trivial offences. A
significant number of innocent people have also been caught up, which has led to
considerable bad feeling among Muslim communities who increasingly feel
victimised.

Of the 702 people arrested under the Terrorism Act 2000 since the 11 September
attacks and the end of last year, comparatively few convictions of terrorists
have resulted. Of those arrested, 119 were charged with terror offences and a
further 135 with other crimes. Only 17 have been convicted so far under the
Terrorism Act.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

TERROR IN LONDON: LONDON UNDER ATTACK: THE BLITZ

BYLINE: BY ALLAN MASSIE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 854 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Many London buildings, particularly in the East End, were reduced to rubble by
Hitler's Luftwaffe during the Blitz. The bombing attacks began in September 1940
and ended in May 1941 MIRRORPIX


Sometimes, you think, we are becoming soft, far more ready to give way to sloppy
self-indulgent emotionalism than our parents and grandparents were; that the
upper lip is more often wobbly than stiff. And then you get something like this.

I was in my study, looking out over the green tranquil country of the Scottish
Borders, sheep grazing in the field below the woods, when my daughter telephoned
to tell me bombs were going off all over London. I turned on the television, and
one of the first things I saw was a man with the left side of his face all cut
and bloody being interviewed.

I can't remember just what he said, but his tone was familiar, immediately
recognisable. He was, I suppose, in his forties, may be a little younger,
certainly of a comfortably post-war generation. He was calm, relaxed,
self-deprecating; it might have been John Mills or Jack Warner telling Hitler:
'London can take it, Britain can take it.' It was moving, comforting and, yes,
inspiring.

You might advance high-faluting explanations of, for instance, race memory
telling Londoners this is how you behave in an emergency. But I don't think it's
necessary. It's enough to say this was an expression of something enduring in
our character. London is a much more cosmopolitan city than it was in the time
of the Blitz, but the spirit is the same. The city imposes its character on
those who live there. It's a matter of London pride:

London Pride has been

handed down to us.

London Pride is a flower

that's free.

London Pride means

our own dear town to us.

And our pride for ever will be

Noel Coward would have recognised his London in yesterday's. And throughout the
United Kingdom and across the world, we who weren't there felt ourselves to be
Londoners too.

For years, ever since 11 September, we have been warned that a terrorist outrage
here was not only likely but inevitable: 'It's not whether but when.' Now that
'when' has happened, and the first shock and horror will already have been
succeeded by the thought that it might have been even worse. And the next
thought is that life goes on, people go about their business, more warily
perhaps, but undeterred. I had another call later in the day, this time from a
girl in my publisher's publicity department. She was ringing to ask if I could
go to a book festival on a date in January. That, too, is an example of the
spirit of the Blitz. It might, she admitted, be difficult for her to get home
that evening; but work goes on.

London has been through it before. The Blitz destroyed great parts of the city.
The East End was left in ruins, Docklands flattened, St Paul's Cathedral stood,
as if by a miracle, alone in a wilderness of devastation. The Palace of
Westminster was bombed and the House of Commons went up in flames. And even when
victory was at last in sight, came the rockets " the V1 and the V2 " bringing
death without warning. Londoners shrugged their shoulders and called them
'doodlebugs'. All that was years before most of today's Londoners were born.
Many are too young to remember the bombsites where willowherb and other weeds
flourished. But then, in the years of peace, came the IRA bombing campaign, and
Londoners bore that too without flinching. Most remarkable, the terrorists then
were regarded with contempt rather than hatred. I would guess it's the same
today and will be the same tomorrow.

Orwell, in his 1940 diary, remarked: 'The only change I have noticed since the
air raids began is that people are much more ready to speak to strangers in the
street.'

He also recorded a conversation I have always liked, one that seems appropriate
to what I take to be the mood of London today. 'Yesterday, while having my hair
cut in the City, I asked the barber if he carried on during raids. He said he
did. And even if he was shaving someone? I said. Oh yes, he carried on just the
same.' Hitler and the Luftwaffe weren't going to order his life " my
interpretation, not Orwell's. His was characteristically more sour: 'And one day
a bomb will drop near enough to make him jump, and he will slice half somebody's
face off.'

It seems somehow appropriate, however horrible also, that the London bombing
should have come just as we have been commemorating the sixtieth anniversary of
the end of the Hitler war, a few days after the Prince of Wales opened a new
museum devoted to life on the Home Front in those years.

Appropriate, for two reasons. First, because it serves as a reminder of the
human capacity for mischief and destruction. And secondly, because London's
response to yesterday's evil acts shows that any doubts or fears we may have had
were groundless. We are the same people we were 60 years ago, capable of the
same stoicism. London can take it, and it can do so because its stoicism is
laced as it always has been with humour.

Orwell again: 'A lot of bombs in Greenwich, one of them while I was talking to E
over the phone. A sudden pause in the conversation and a tinkling sound:

I: 'What's that?'

E: 'Only the window falling in."

Business as usual. London Pride.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

TERROR IN LONDON: LONDON UNDER ATTACK: THE IRA CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL MCCARTHY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 858 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Emergency workers survey the damage in the City of London after the IRA set off
a bomb that killed Edward Henty, a photographer, and injured 44 people on 24
April 1993 MIRRORPIX


We've been here before. Thirty years ago, London was the target of a sustained
and vicious terror bombing campaign, the perpetrators at that time being the
Provisional IRA. Beginning in 1973, it was a period of atrocities in which many
Londoners died: killed by car bombs, bombs in stations, bombs in restaurants,
bombs in litter bins, bombs with warnings and bombs without. Many other people
were disfigured, maimed, disabled for life.

The targets ranged from Hyde Park (aimed at the Household Cavalry) to Harrods
(aimed at Christmas shoppers) and the campaign culminated in the big Docklands
bomb at South Quay, near Canary Wharf, in February 1996, whose alleged purpose
was to shake up the faltering Irish peace process.

Anyone who lived through the IRA campaign in the capital at its height, in the
mid-Seventies, will remember that it made people wary, jumpy and suspicious,
often especially suspicious (let's be honest) of young men with Irish accents.
But then, if you put your own bag down and forgot about it for a minute, you
could start a full-scale panic.

Yet it did not shut London down, or prevent normal life from continuing, and
that should be remembered too " even though the Provos were every bit as
determined to wreak maximum chaos and fear as those who set off yesterday's
explosions.

After four years of guerrilla warfare in Northern Ireland, Irish republican
terrorism arrived in London on 8 March 1973 with four big car bombs planted
across the capital. Two were defused, but the others " one in Great Scotland
Yard, a street off Whitehall, and the other outside the Old Bailey " went off,
killing one man and injuring nearly 200.

The bombing team that did it, including the Belfast sisters Dolores and Marion
Price, were captured at Heathrow.

There was then a whole series of bombs, often targeting civilians
indiscriminately, such as that at the Tower of London, packed at the time with
tourists, in July 1974. The campaign reached its height in the winter of 1975-76
with the activities of four men who became known as the Balcombe Street gang "
Harry Duggan, Martin O'Connell, Edward Butler and Hugh Doherty " who specialised
in tossing bombs into crowded London restaurants. They killed several people
before they were caught after a siege at a flat in Balcombe Street, Marylebone,
where they had taken refuge.

The blast that probably did the most damage to the capital's physical structures
was towards the end of the campaign when the Provos attacked Bishopsgate at the
heart of the City of London with a one-ton fertiliser bomb in a tipper truck.
The ultra-modern buildings of the financial district which took the brunt of the
explosion were massively damaged, to the tune of more than £1bn, not least
because they contained so much glass. The glass shrapnel killed a young
photographer from the News of the World, Edward Henty, who was covering the
scene for his newspaper. Only a year before, the IRA had attacked the nearby
Baltic Exchange building with a similar-sized bomb.

The one London outrage the Provos did not manage to carry out was the one that
gave yesterday's events their peculiarly grim horror " exploding a bomb on a
London Underground train between stations. But it was not for want of trying.

On 15 March 1976, 36-year-old Vincent Kelly set out to do just that. Just before
the afternoon rush hour he boarded a train on what was then the Metropolitan
Line (now the Hammersmith and City Line) at Stepney Green in the East End,
carrying a bomb in a duffel bag. He intended to detonate it at Liverpool Street
or another of the busy stations in the city centre. But he got on the wrong
train, boarding one that was heading out of town. He realised his mistake when
the train came out above ground at Plaistow, where he got off and boarded an
inbound train on the opposite platform. But by now the fuse on his bomb was
running down and just as the train pulled out of West Ham station it went off,
injuring but not incapacitating him. Kelly jumped off the train pursued by the
driver and the guard: he shot them both, killing the former, Julius Stephen.
When he was finally cornered by the police he turned the gun on himself.

Had Kelly succeeded, he might well have wreaked carnage similar to yesterday's
devastation between Russell Square and King's Cross. But even then, the capital
would have continued its life. Don't let's tempt fate now, but London is
probably just too big, too multi-faceted and too resilient to bring to its knees
with a terror bombing campaign. The Provos failed, although they tried hard
enough.

Yesterday Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein, said he had sent a message of
sympathy and solidarity to Tony Blair and to London's Mayor, Ken Livingstone.
'On behalf of Sinn Fein I offer my sincere condolences to the victims and the
families of those killed and injured and to the people of London,' he said.

No doubt some will think that time moves on, and peace has come, and such a
message is entirely appropriate, although those who remember the deaths and
awful injuries of 30 years ago may perhaps take a different view.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

MARKET REPORT: STAGECOACH RESILIENT IN FACE OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN FOLEY

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 74

LENGTH: 784 words


Share prices lurched downwards at 9.57am yesterday, when it became clear there
had been more than one 'incident' on London's Underground. They lurched
downwards again at 10.17am when the first newsflashes came through indicating an
explosion on a bus " and ending the hope that this could be anything other than
a co-ordinated terrorist assault on the capital. By 11.39am, the FTSE 100 index
was down 207.5 points, 4 per cent, and £4.98bn had been erased from the value of
the UK's 100 biggest companies.

In the end, however, the day was characterised by resilience rather than panic.
The early hedge-fund activity that knocked the market was not followed by
selling by longer-term investors. Londoners had long feared such an attack and
market professionals knew that equities had bounced back, eventually, from the
shock of 11 September 2001, and the impact of last year's Madrid bombings. If
anything, traders were keener to nick a bargain in the sell-off than to steer
clear of the market altogether. By the end of the day there had been a
significant amount of buying activity, and the London Stock Exchange recorded
one of its busiest trading days, with 4.2 billion shares passing through its
systems. The FTSE 100 closed at 5,158.3, down 71.3, while the mid-cap FTSE 250
was off 109.0 at 7,387.9.

Typical of the defiance of the day were the bus company shares, including those
of Stagecoach, whose vehicle was blown up in Tavistock Square. Most saw their
shares fall up to 10 per cent at their worst, but recovering to end less than 4
per cent lower. Stagecoach ended at 115.5p, down just 1.25p. National Express,
which has doubled its presence in the London market, was down 30.5p at 880p;
FirstGroup fell 10p to 323.5p; Arriva was off 12p at 534p; and Go-Ahead fell 31p
at 1,248p.

The Stock Exchange had ordered market participants to turn off their so-called
'black boxes', the computers which automatically generate share trading orders.
These can often exaggerate market movements and were blamed for the extremity of
the stock market fall in the days after 11 September 2001. Market makers were
also relieved of their obligation to trade after the Exchange declared a 'fast
market' when more flexible rules apply.

The early theory was that terrorism would deter people from travelling, and
would exacerbate the downturn in consumer confidence which has already triggered
a string of profits warnings. So tourism stocks were hardest hit. British
Airways was the worst blue-chip performer, off 11.5p at 260.75p, while the
airports operator BAA fell 20p to 599p. EasyJet, which had published mildly
disappointing June passenger numbers at the start of the day, ended down 10p at
254.25p, and Ryanair slipped EUR0.14 to EUR6.32. Shares in the tour operators
MyTravel and First Choice Holidays were down 0.17p at 5.85p and 5.5p at 187.25p,
respectively.

Carnival, the cruise operator, was 71p lower at 3,159p. And hotels groups were
also marked down. Hilton was 9.75p lower at 288.25p, with InterContinental
Hotels down 20p at 701.5p and Millennium & Copthorne Hotels falling 12.25p to
357.25p.

For a long time, there were no blue-chip stocks recording share price gains, but
two closed higher. Amvescap was 13p better at 408p. On Wednesday it rejected a
takeover bid from CI Financial of Canada. The hope is that CI will team up with
the bigger Sun Life of Canada to make a knockout bid, or the drama will tease
out another bidder. The other FTSE 100 stock on the rise, Shire Pharmaceuticals,
was up a penny at 620p. The drug company agreed to pay $ 1.6bn (£920m) for the
American biotech group Transkaryotic Therapies, but some of the US firm's
shareholders are holding out for more money. Its shares are trading above the
level of Shire's cash offer.

There was an early sharp sell-off on Wall Street, which came on top of the
previous day's oil price-related drop, but again most of the ground was quickly
recovered. One dealer said the effect of the attacks had not been as pronounced
on the US markets as London traders had expected earlier in the day. 'The world
has gone hard to this sort of thing, and the shock effect gets less,' he said.

There were even some traders looking, discreetly, for companies that may stand
to win new business as a result of the attacks. Underground repair work was
being added by some to this week's Olympics victory as a reason for buying
Balfour Beatty, the engineering project expert, whose shares were up 1.75p to
349p. IG Group, the financial spread-betting firm which reported a busy day, was
up 2.5p at 152p. And Eruma, a little company which makes bomb-proof blinds,
which floated last week, jumped 0.75p to 7.75p.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 July 08, 2005

Under Attack - London's morning of carnage and terror;

SECTION:  Pg. 2

LENGTH: 419 words


The devastating terrorist attack in which four bombs exploded on the Underground
and a bus in London killed almost 40 people and left 95 seriously injured.

Scotland Yard officially confirmed last night that 38 people are dead and there
were 700 casualties, 300 of whom were taken to hospital by ambulance.

But a police source said the toll is likely to rise to at least 41 dead.

The explosions came in a horrifying 60 minutes of rush-hour carnage, as world
leaders began talks in Scotland at the G8 summit.

Seven people died in an explosion on a Circle line train 100 yards from
Liverpool Street Underground station at 8.51am.

The blast happened in the region of Moorgate, Liverpool Street and Aldgate
stations.

At 8.56am, a total of 21 people died following a blast on the Underground close
to Russell Square and King's Cross stations.

With emergency services reeling, five people were killed in an explosion at
9.17am at Edgware Road Underground station.

Police said the blast ripped through a carriage, a wall and into two other
trains.

At 9.47am at least two people were killed when an explosion tore through the
back of the number 30 Hackney to Marble Arch bus at the junction of Woburn
Square and Tavistock Place.

Yesterday British prime minister Tony Blair said: "It is through terrorism that
the people that have committed these terrible acts express their values and it
is right at this moment that we demonstrate ours.

"They are trying to use the slaughter of innocent people who have died and many
are injured."

And in a statement delivered on behalf of the G8 leaders, Mr Blair added: "We
condemn utterly these barbaric attacks."

Terrorists calling themselves the Secret Organisation Group of al-Qaida of Jihad
Organisation in Europe claim responsibility for the attacks on an Islamic
website.

The group is unknown and the claims are not yet authenticated.

Queen Elizabeth paid tribute to the dead and said: "The dreadful events in
London this morning have deeply shocked us all."

Flags at Buckingham Palace are lowered to half mast.

In a provocative speech, Respect MP George Galloway said Londoners had "paid the
price" for Tony Blair's decision to go to war in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Commuters later faced chaos attempting to return home, with hotels fully booked
as some opted to stay the night in the city.

However, many more faced the prospect of walking home or attempting to use the
crippled transport network.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 July 08, 2005

Under Attack - Survivors speak of terror on the Tube;

SECTION:  Pg. 2

LENGTH: 322 words


Survivors yesterday spoke of their terror following the first Tube tunnel blast
between Liverpool Street Station and Aldgate East in which seven people died and
many more were seriously injured. Steve Nichols, London Underground chaplain,
who was counselling the emergency services in St Botolph's Church near Aldgate
East station, said there weren't "really words to describe what had happened".

"There was one poor lady who had been impaled by one of the poles in the train
and she was still alive," he said.

"The people have been picking up various body parts. It is obviously very grim."

Terry O'Shea (42) a construction worker from Worcester, who was in the carriage
behind the one where the explosion happened at 8.51am, wept as he described the
scene.

"There was a loud bang and we felt the train shudder," he said. "Then smoke
started coming in to the compartment. It was terrible. People were panicking,
but they calmed down after one or two minutes.

"As they led us down the track past the carriage where the explosion was, we
could see the roof was torn off it, and there were bodies on the track."

Shocked passengers spoke of the horror of seeing people ripped to pieces in
yesterday's third blast close to Edgware Road station. Carol Miller (35) from
Oxford, who was on a Circle Line train going in the opposite direction from the
one hit, said: "People were screaming, as you'd expect, in that situation.

"I saw one lady who was ripped to pieces, lying between the two trains. People
were trying to help her.

"It was the most horrendous thing I've ever seen in my life. "People were
screaming out, there was debris everywhere.

"We were trying to open doors to let in air but we couldn't."

" It was a massive explosion and immediately everything filled up with smoke,"
she said.

She said survivors were trapped for about 20 or 30 minutes before being led to
safety.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 July 08, 2005

Under Attack - Terrorists strike fear into heart of London;
 Former Irish News journalist Anne Madden was among the thousands travelling to
work in the heart of London as the bombers struck. Having only recently moved to
the city, she reports on the fear that gripped the streets of her new home

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 433 words


It felt like just a typical morning rush hour. My commute takes me into one of
the busiest stations in London - Waterloo.

From here it is the usual squeeze on to one of the busiest tube lines,
Waterloo-City, which transports thousands of people to the heart of London's
city business district.

Half a million people work in the City district - that's the population of
Belfast in an area that feels little bigger than CastleCourt. We all fit in
because we work several storeys high.

I came out of Bank tube station with all the other suits, blissfully unaware of
the unfolding crisis.

There were grey clouds over London and they were about to thicken.

As I passed Moorgate tube station, which is beside my offices I noticed dozens
of people standing confused and a bit vexed on the pavement.

Tube workers in luminous jackets were urging people out of the station and
pulling across the metal criss-cross shutters.

They were shouting: "There's been a fire. Everyone out, the station is shut."

Suddenly the sound of drilling from a nearby worksite was drowned out by the
wail of sirens, police and ambulance, which seemed to be coming from every
direction.

I hurried into the office, only to find I was one of the few who had arrived.
One by one people appeared with news of traffic chaos and long walks from the
other end of the city.

As an hour passed we grew concerned about some absent colleagues but we couldn't
contact them because the mobile phone networks were jammed.

Then we grew concerned for our own safety as the reported number of explosions
increased, including one on a bus.

It became clear that London was under some kind of coordinated terrorist attack
- the one we'd all been waiting for since September 11 - unfortunately just
three weeks after I'd arrived to work in the English capital.

Ironically the thought had crossed my mind just the previous day when the Red
Arrows flew overhead to celebrate London's Olympics bid win. At the sound of the
low-flying planes I nearly hit the floor.

However, this was as real as the casualty numbers coming through confirmed.

By mid-morning the skyscrapers around us had pulled all their blinds down -
apparently to prevent the impact of breaking glass - and we followed suit.

Police informed us we ought to stay inside for our own safety and besides the
whole transport network had shut down.

All eyes were glued to the TV screens but information was slow coming through
and each siren wail made people more nervous.

I don't know how I'm getting home tonight.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 July 08, 2005

Under Attack - Outrage as scale of terrorist attacks emerges from debris;

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 769 words


A group calling itself the Secret Organisation Group of al Qaida of Jihad
Organisation in Europe claimed responsibility for the attacks on an Islamic
website.

The message said: "O nation of Islam and nation of Arabism: Rejoice for it is
time to take revenge from the British Zionist Crusader Government in retaliation
for the massacres Britain is committing in Iraq and Afghanistan.

"The heroic mujahidin have carried out a blessed raid in London. Britain is now
burning with fear, terror and panic in its northern, southern, eastern, and
western quarters."

The outrage echoed the al Qaida assault on Madrid commuters in 2004 in which
almost 200 people died.

The terror attacks began at 8.51am when the bomb exploded in the tunnel near
Liverpool Street station, killing seven people.

At 8.56am, 21 people died in a blast in a tunnel between King's Cross and
Russell Square.

At 9.17am, seven people died when a blast ripped through a tunnel wall at
Edgware Road station, damaging three trains.

At 9.47am a blast tore the roof off the bus.

Two hours later paramedics were still rushing to the scene of the King's Cross
blast deep underground on the Piccadilly line.

At Liverpool Street station the wounded were treated by medics as they lay on
the concourse.

It was the same at King's Cross while the Hilton Metropole on the Edgware Road
was used as a makeshift treatment centre.

The bus blast occurred only a few hundred yards from Russell Square station. It
had been diverted from its normal route because of the Tube blasts. London was
thrown into chaos in the wake of the blasts with shops, banks and offices
closing and thousands of people left stranded on the streets as mainline
stations were shut and Tube and bus services cancelled.

The blasts were initially blamed on a power surge but it soon became clear that
it was a co-ordinated terrorist attack on the capital.

The G8 gathering had prompted fears of a terrorist spectacular.

Home Secretary Charles Clarke told a sombre House of Commons the blasts were
"criminal and appalling acts".

As the scale of the attack became clear, ministers attending the regular
Thursday cabinet meeting convened an emergency Cobra committee to deal with the
crisis.

The blasts were condemned by all G8 leaders as "barbaric".

Speaking at Gleneagles, President Bush vowed that the terrorists would be
brought to justice.

The Queen spoke of her shock at the "dreadful events in London this morning".

But Respect MP George Galloway said Londoners had "paid the price" for Tony
Blair's decision to go to war in Iraq and Afghanistan.

He called on the Prime Minister to withdraw the British troops from Iraq in
order to remove people in the UK from "harm's way".

All London hospitals were put on major incident alert after the explosions.
Neighbouring counties also sent emergency aid to London.

Metropolitan Police officers in Scotland for the G8 summit were urgently
redeployed to London.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair said: "There is no doubt it is a
terrorist incident."

He said the bomb which ripped through the bus in Tavistock Square had exploded
in the "back of the upper part of the bus".

He refused to confirm or deny reports that the explosion was the work of a
suicide bomber.

In the wake of the Tube attacks, survivors gave harrowing accounts of the
carnage, describing piles of bodies on wrecked trains.

One eyewitness described seeing dead bodies lying in the street after the bus
bomb. The security guard at the nearby London School of Tropical Hygiene and
Medicine said the blast completely blew the bus apart.

Ayobami Bello (46) said was only 30 metres from the bus when it exploded.

"It was terrible. The bus went to pieces. There were so many bodies on the
floor," he said.

DEADLY BOMB ATTACKS UNFOLD

8.51am

Liverpool Street Station

There is an explosion on a tube train 100 metres from the station on the Aldgate
to Liverpool Street service.

Seven people are confirmed dead.

8.56am, between Russel Square and King's Cross Stations

A device explodes in a train carriage.

Twenty-one people are confirmed dead.

9.17am

Edgware Road Station

A train pulling out of the station in the direction of Paddington is caught in a
bomb blast.

Seven people are confirmed dead.

9.47am:

Tavistock Square/Upper Woburn Place

Two people are confirmed dead after the top of a double decker bus is blown off.
The bus was travelling from Hackney to Marble Arch. A 38th person died last
night.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 July 08, 2005

Under Attack - Plans in place to deal with terror strike;

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 361 words


Officials have put huge efforts into drawing up emergency plans to deal with a
mass terror strike on British soil.

The Home Office published a document in May last year - thankfully not required
to be set into motion yesterday - which set out decontamination processes in the
wake of a chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear (CBRN) strike, such as a
'dirty bomb'.

Separate guidance has also been issued on how to evacuate hundreds of thousands
of people in the event of a strike on London.

Most importantly, all emergency services have repeatedly rehearsed their
reaction to a terror strike.

The most high-profile exercise was staged in September 2003 with a simulated
chemical strike on an Underground train at Bank station in the City of London.

The Home Office paper deals with mass deaths after terror attacks, accidents or
natural disasters, and is aimed at emergency planners in town halls across
England and Wales.

It was too early to say how many of its recommendations would be implemented
after yesterday's blasts.

The paper warns planners to select carefully the sites of temporary mortuaries,
explaining the facilities may be required for "months and in some cases years"
after a CBRN incident.

Buildings used to hold the bodies of those killed in a so-called "mass fatality
incident" may be so stigmatised that they would need to be demolished
afterwards, the 90-page document says.

One recommendation from the paper is that a so-called Identification Commission
should be set up in the event of a disaster to ensure bodies were correctly
identified.

Chaired by the local coroner, the commission would include police, pathologists
and other identification specialists such as forensic anthropologists and
fingerprint experts.

Police would also appoint a senior identification manager with the specific duty
of helping to identify victims.

"The coroner will set the identification criteria, in consultation with the
police senior identification manager and the lead pathologist," the document
says.

"It is against these criteria that the identification of each victim will be
judged."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 July 08, 2005

Under Attack - Mayor Livingstone warns terrorists they 'will fail';

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 320 words


Ken Livingstone warned terrorists who rocked London with a series of attacks:
"Whatever you do, however many you kill - you will fail."

The London Mayor branded them cowards for targeting innocent people in an
"indiscriminate attempt at mass murder".

The attack happened a day after London was named as the host for the 2012
Olympic Games and brought an abrupt end to celebrations.

Official celebrations to mark London's Olympic win have now been put on hold,
London 2012 confirmed.

As the delegation prepared to board a flight home from Singapore, Mr Livingstone
said: "This was not a terrorist attack against the mighty and the powerful.

"It was not aimed at presidents or prime ministers. It was aimed at ordinary
working-class Londoners, black and white, Muslim and Christian, Hindu and Jew,
young and old.

"Indiscriminate slaughter irrespective of any consideration for age, class,
religion, whatever.

"That isn't an ideology. It isn't even a perverted faith. It is just an
indiscriminate attempt at mass murder."

Vowing that the terrorists will fail to destroy free society, he said: "I can
show you why you will fail in the days that follow look at our airports, look at
our seaports and look at our railway stations and even after your cowardly
attacks you will see that people from the rest of Britain, people from around
the world will arrive in London to become Londoners and fulfil their dreams and
achieve their potential."

International olympic committee president Jacques Rogge has written to Prime
Minister Tony Blair and Mr Livingstone to express his sympathy.

Giselle Stewart of the IOC said: "At the IOC we are concerned with security at
Games time.

"We have full confidence in London for security at the Olympic Games.

"It is a very sad fact of society today that tragic and shocking attacks of this
nature can happen in any city at any time."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 July 08, 2005

Under Attack - Long and Bloody TRAIL OF TERROR;

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 606 words


Yesterday's explosions in London are the latest in a long and bloody line of
outrages against western targets by suspected al Qaida terrorists.

On March 11 2004, two-and-a-half years after the September 11 attacks, a series
of bombs ripped through commuter trains in Madrid, killing 191 people and
wounding 1,500.

The Spanish government, a supporter of the war on Iraq, initially blamed the
Basque separatist group Eta, but al Qaida later admitted the attack.

The government's handling of the situation led many people to turn against it in
elections three days later when the opposition Socialists, who pledged to pull
Spanish troops out of Iraq, were swept to power.

On November 15 2003, terrorists said to be linked to al Qaida bombed two
synagogues in Istanbul, Turkey.

Five days later on November 20, two more suicide car bombings in Istanbul hit
the British Consulate General and the HQ of HSBC bank in the city.

The series of attacks killed 61 people - including British Consul-General Roger
Short - and injured hundreds more.

Analysts said the November 20 bombings showed that al Qaida had realigned its
sights towards attacking British targets.

On November 9 2003, Saudi authorities claimed al Qaida was behind a suicide car
bombing that killed 17 people in Riyadh.

On August 5 2003, Jemaah Islamiya - the al Qaida-linked group thought to be
behind the Bali bombing in 2002 - was blamed for a car bombing of the US-run JW
Marriott luxury hotel in Jakarta, which killed 12 people.

On May 13 2003, a series of suicide bombings in the Saudi Arabian capital,
Riyadh, killed at least 34 people, in attacks on housing compounds for
foreigners.

In December 2002, a suspected Muslim extremist, cradling his hidden gun like a
baby under his jacket, slipped into a Christian hospital in southern Yemen and
opened fire, killing three American missionaries and seriously wounding a
fourth.

Yemeni officials said the gunman was linked to al Qaida.

On November 28 2002, a vehicle packed with explosives ploughed into the Paradise
Hotel near the port of Mombasa in Kenya, killing 11 Kenyans and three Israeli
tourists.

In a simultaneous attack, two shoulder-launched missiles were fired at an
Israeli passenger plane nearby but narrowly missed the aircraft.

On October 12 2002, two bombs exploded in a busy nightclub area on the
Indonesian island of Bali, killing 202 people, including 28 Britons.

One hit Paddy's Irish Bar in the island's Kuta tourist district and the second
exploded in a van outside the Sari nightclub in the same area.

The al Qaida-linked terror group Jemaah Islamiyah was blamed for the Bali
attacks.

In June 2002, a suicide bomber blew up a truck at the US consulate in Karachi,
Pakistan, killing 14 Pakistanis.

An attempted suicide attack on a Paris to Miami airliner in December 2001 by
London-born Richard Reid, an al Qaida sympathiser, was thwarted when he was
overpowered by passengers as he tried to ignite explosives in his shoe. He was
jailed for life by an American court.

In the September 11 2001 terror attacks, Osama bin Laden's organisation used
operatives willing to die - hijacking passenger jets and flying them into the
World Trade Centre in New York.

The attacks on New York, the Pentagon, and the hijacked plane that crashed into
a field in Pennsylvania, claimed nearly 3,000 lives - including those of 67
Britons - the world's largest act of terrorism.

Bin Laden was linked by the US to the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Centre
which killed six people and injured 1,000 more. He denied involvement.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                  July 8, 2005

UN: Security Council condemns 'barbaric' London terrorist attacks, unanimously
adopting resolution 1611 (2005)

LENGTH: 395 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-JULY 8, 2005-UN: Security Council condemns 'barbaric' London
terrorist attacks, unanimously adopting resolution 1611 (2005) ©1994-2005 M2
COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Calling the terrorist attacks in London today "barbaric", the Security Council
condemned without reservation the attacks and expressed its utmost determination
to combat terrorism in accordance with its Charter responsibilities.

Through the unanimous adoption of resolution 1611 (2005), the Council, meeting
just hours after the deadly bomb blasts shook London, expressed its deepest
sympathy and condolences to the victims of the attacks and their families, and
to the people and Government of the United Kingdom.

The Council urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
resolution 1373 (2001), to cooperate actively in efforts to find and bring to
justice the perpetrators, organizers and sponsors of those barbaric acts.

The meeting began at 12:50 p.m. and was adjourned at 12:51 p.m.

Council Resolution

The full text of resolution 1611 (2005) reads, as follows:

"The Security Council,

"Reaffirming the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations
and its relevant resolutions, in particular its resolutions 1373 (2001) of 28
September 2001 and 1566 (2004) of 8 October 2004,

"Reaffirming the need to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of
the United Nations, threats to international peace and security caused by
terrorist acts,

"1. Condemns without reservation the terrorist attacks in London on 7 July 2005,
and regards any act of terrorism as a threat to peace and security;

"2. Expresses its deepest sympathy and condolences to the victims of these
terrorist attacks and their families, and to the people and Government of the
United Kingdom;

"3. Urges all States, in accordance with their obligations under resolution 1373
(2001), to cooperate actively in efforts to find and bring to justice the
perpetrators, organizers and sponsors of these barbaric acts;

"4. Expresses its utmost determination to combat terrorism, in accordance with
its responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations."

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                  July 8, 2005

UN: Security Council press statement on London terrorist attack

LENGTH: 252 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-JULY 8, 2005-UN: Security Council press statement on London
terrorist attack ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Following is the Security Council press statement on the London bombings
delivered by Council President Adamantios Th.

Vassilakis (Greece):

I wish first to express the Council's outrage and indignation at today's
appalling terrorist attacks against the people of the United Kingdom that cost
human life and caused injuries and immense human suffering.

We express our deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims
and to the people and Government of the United Kingdom. We stand by their side
in these difficult hours.

At this moment it is important to send a strong message against those who have
committed these unjustifiable crimes.

They have to know that the international Community is determined more than ever
to combat collectively the scourge of terrorism which constitutes a serious
threat to international peace and security. Those responsible for these
horrendous acts will be bought to justice and punished.

The resolution just adopted condemns unequivocally these abhorrent terrorist
attacks. The resolution was adopted unanimously and this demonstrates the
collective will of the Council to fight terrorism.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                  July 8, 2005

FOE: London terror attacks condemned by Australian groups

LENGTH: 220 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-JULY 8, 2005-FOE: London terror attacks condemned by Australian
groups ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Peace and social justice groups wish to express their sincere sorrow for the
loss of life and injury in London overnight.

We condemn all acts of terrorism, whether state sanctioned or the actions of
individuals or small groups, as indefensible.

Today's tragic events show us that the current strategies in the War on Terror
are not effective and do not promote peace..

Situations like this call for cool heads and a careful re-assessment of the
reactions and short and long-term strategies to global affairs.

True peace can only be achieved through international co-operation which
genuinely addresses the needs, wishes and aspirations of the whole human
community.

MAPW: Sue Wareham 02 62416161 Victorian Peace Network: Jacob Grech 0402 246491
Friends of the Earth Australia : John Hallam 02 9567-7533 h02-9810-2598 People
for Nuclear Disarmament: Cameron Edwards 0415 202060 CICD: Pauline Mitchell 03
9663 3677. Greenpeace, James Courtney 0418-927-821

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                  July 8, 2005

NATO: Statement by the North Atlantic Council on terrorist attacks in London

LENGTH: 261 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-JULY 8, 2005-NATO: Statement by the North Atlantic Council on
terrorist attacks in London ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The North Atlantic Council met this morning in extraordinary session to express
its solidarity with the United Kingdom and the British people following the
barbaric and criminal terrorist acts perpetrated yesterday in London.

It expressed its condolences and deepest sympathy to the victims, their families
and friends and all the people of the United Kingdom.

The Council condemned in the strongest possible terms terrorism in all its
forms. NATO Allies reaffirmed their determination to combat this scourge, and to
defend with all means at their disposal the Alliance's values of freedom,
tolerance and democracy.

The solidarity and determination of NATO countries is far stronger than the will
of those engaged in terrorism to cause death and destruction to innocent people
in a desire to impose extremism on the world.

Whatever the terrorists seek to do, we are determined that they will never
succeed in destroying what the Allies and all nations throughout the world who
share our values hold dear.

Terrorists kill and destroy indiscriminately and seek to divide our societies.
But NATO countries stand united and will remain steadfast in this battle against
terrorism.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                  July 8, 2005

QANTAS AIRWAYS: Qantas has announced that all of its flights are operating as
normal following yesterday's terrorist attacks in London

LENGTH: 208 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-JULY 8, 2005-QANTAS AIRWAYS: Qantas has announced that all of its
flights are operating as normal following yesterday's terrorist attacks in
London ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Qantas Executive General Manager John Borghetti said four Qantas services had
departed from London's Heathrow Airport since the attacks, with the first flight
due to arrive in Perth this afternoon and the second in Sydney this evening.

"Our services have not been disrupted and customers wishing to book flights to
and from the UK can do so through the normal channels," Mr Borghetti said.

He said that Qantas had instituted a waiver and refund policy.

Customers with tickets issued before or on 7 July 2005, for travel to and from
the UK up to and including 31 July 2005, can defer or cancel travel without
penalty.

Customers wishing to change their plans should call Qantas on 13 13 13 or their
travel agent for assistance as soon as possible.

Qantas operates 27 flights a week from Australia to London.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 M2 EquityBites

                                  July 8, 2005

European stocks affected by terrorist attacks in London, UK

LENGTH: 131 words


M2 EQUITYBITES-8 July 2005-European stocks affected by terrorist attacks in
London, UK ©2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD http://www.m2.com

Stocks fell in Europe and the British pound hit a 19-month low against the US
dollar after explosions hit London's transportation system on Thursday (7 July).

However, market recoveries later in the day indicated that the economic effects
would be brief, The Associated Press reported.

Britain's FTSE 100 stock index fell 71.30 points, or 1.4%, to close at 5158.30,
after being down nearly 200 points earlier in the day. In Germany the DAX index
closed down 1.9% at 4,530.18, regaining 65 points from the day's low. In Paris
the CAC 40 benchmark lost 1.4% to close at 4,220.62, recovering from a dip of
4.5%.

(Comments on this story may be sent to admin@m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                     Copyright  2005 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Market Rasen Mail

                                  July 8, 2005

Local children caught up in London terror attacks

LENGTH: 216 words


CHILDREN from Middle Rasen Primary School were caught up in the terror and
turmoil which followed the terrorist attacks in central London on Thursday, June
7.

The party was on the circle line of the London Underground, just two trains
behind the one blown up at Edgware Road station.

Only a day earlier they had been at the heart of the celebrations in Trafalgar
Square as London was awarded the 2012 Olympic Games. They were included in a
huge photo that took the centre pages of the Daily Telegraph.

But excitement soon turned to terror and tears said governor Nick Pope who was
with the 17 children and six adult helpers on their way to Legoland for the day.

"There are a lot of emotions and a lot of tears. It's been a hell of a week for
them" he told the Rasen Mail from the capital.

The school made attempts to bring the children home a day early, by coach, as
all rail links were stopped, but difficulties getting a coach in or out of
London meant that they had to stay at the Baden Powell Hostel a further night,
returning home on Friday.

Headteacher Phil Young said everyone was fine and all parents had been
telephoned and reassured that none of their children had been involved.

? See next week's Rasen Mail for a full story and log on for daily updates.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               PR Newswire Europe

                              July 8, 2005 Friday

Ontario Police Leaders Encourage Vigilance in Wake of London Terrorist Attacks

LENGTH: 289 words


TORONTO, Canada, July 8 /PRNewswire/ --

- Police Chiefs Offer Condolences to Families of Victims

Ontario's police leaders today offered their condolences to the families of
victims of yesterday's terrorist attacks in London and urged Ontarians to be
vigilant in the wake of these heinous crimes.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and families of yesterday's
attacks and with those who were injured," said Chief Armand La Barge, President
of the Ontario Association of Chiefs of Police. "We stand with our British
brothers and sisters in law enforcement and emergency services. Their incredible
response to the attacks was a testament to their professionalism and dedication
to their communities."

La Barge urged Ontarians to be vigilant in light of the attacks, noting that
those who perpetrate terrorist acts operate across political and cultural
borders.

"Police services in Ontario pride themselves in their crime prevention efforts.
Ontario's towns and cities are among the safest in the world because of the
partnerships between police services and their communities," said La Barge.
"While there is no information at present that would indicate that Ontario is at
risk from a terrorist attack, we must remain vigilant in our efforts against
terrorism."

Ontario Police services have offered any assistance to law enforcement agencies
in Britain following the terrorist acts in London.

               The Ontario Association of Chiefs of Police is
                   the voice of Ontario's Police Leaders,
            representing the 30,000 sworn and civilian members of
                     police services across the provinceOntario Association of
Chiefs of Police

CONTACT:

For further information: Joe Couto, Director of Government Relations and
Communications, T. +1-[416]-926-0424, F. +1-[416]-270-0372 [cell], E.
jcouto@oacp.on.ca

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 PR Newswire Europe Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved.

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Scarborough Evening News

                                  July 8, 2005

MP HITS OUT AT TERRORIST BOMB ATTACK

LENGTH: 303 words


SCARBOROUGH and Whitby MP Robert Goodwill today said the attitude of the British
towards yesterday's carnage in London proves "the terrorists will never win".

As he spoke, the official death toll this morning was over 50 killed in the four
bombs in the capital, with 700 injured.

Early today Liverpool Street Station was evacuated following a scare, but it
reopened.

The MP, who was in the capital yesterday, said: "People were going about with a
business as usual attitude. The stiff upper lip is the sort of British attitude
which underlines why the terrorists will never win.

"It was very eerie in London last night walking around with very little traffic.
A lot of restaurants and West End theatres closed down because of a shortage of
staff and because there was not enough customers about."

He was unable to get a train home last night because mainline railway stations
were closed but managed to get a seat on the first King's Cross to York train
out of London at 9am today.

Dozens of people in Scarborough have spent today and yesterday checking up on
loved ones visiting or working in London.

Tom Pindar, former chairman of the Pindar print and multi-media company, said
Dawn Price from Scarborough, who works for Pindar Confidential, had been 100
yards away from the bus bomb explosion near Russell Square.

Mr Pindar said: "She had heard a big bang. She told me that she had to have a
police escort to go in or out of our company flat. When I spoke to her she
sounded very calm.

"I was due to go to London myself yesterday, but turned back just before I got
to Scarborough railway station when my wife rang to tell me what had happened.

Jessica Cathcart, an Evening News correspondent who lives in Scalby, was one of
many parents who were concerned about the fate of

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                                  July 8, 2005

Groups condemn terrorist attacks

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 321 words


North Lincolnshire Council, the South Humber Race Equality Council, Humberside
Police and the North Lincolnshire Multi-Faith Partnership are united in their
condemnation of the appalling terrorist attacks in London. He groups said they
'utterly condemn' the attacks, which cause death, destruction or harm to
innocent people.

The chairman of the South Humber Race Equality Council, Jawaid Ishaq, said: "We
are united in condemning these attacks. Our sympathy is with the victims and
their families.

"The affects are far reaching and felt by all our communities. We are proud the
people of North Lincolnshire live together harmoniously and stand together in
difficult times." North Lincolnshire Council leader, Coun Alan Holgate, added:
"The council is shocked and appalled by the incidents in London. Our thoughts
are with the victims, relatives and friends of all those involved. The council
wishes to praise the professionalism of the police and all the emergency
services in responding to these terrible events. They acted magnificently.

"The attacks appear to be the work of extremists and do not reflect the views
and beliefs of our local racial and religious communities." Chief Supt Graham Di
Duca, of Humberside Police, said: "The police are working nationally and locally
to counter terrorism. We will respond to the needs of any local people and their
families who are caught up in the events in London.

"Fortunately North Lincolnshire is a very tolerant and safe area to live in."
Denise Lawton, chairman of the Multi-Faith Partnership, added: "Our faith
communities in North Lincolnshire are united in their shock and sadness at the
appalling terrorist attacks.

"The partnership works to develop mutual respect and understanding among people
of all faiths in North Lincolnshire. Today's news is truly terrible. Our
thoughts and prayers are with all those caught up in this shocking situation."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 8, 2005, Friday

Terror alert downgraded, then attacks came out of the blue

BYLINE: Michael Evans Defence Editor

SECTION: Home news; 11

LENGTH: 746 words


The co-ordinated bombs across London yesterday came out of the blue. There had
been no intelligence warning of an imminent or likely attack.

The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre, which operates from the headquarters of
MI5, had uncovered no evidence in recent weeks of an al-Qaeda-style plot to
attack London.

The terrorist alert level had been lowered by one grading more than a month ago
because it had been judged that the threat, while still high, was lower than it
had been since the attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001.

MI5, which advises the Government on appropriate terrorist alerts, had
recommended that the threat status could safely be reduced from "severe general"
to "substantial".

Before the attacks yesterday, Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan Police
Commissioner, spoke on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme at 7.20am. He said: "We
have been described by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary as the envy of
the policing world in relation to counter-terrorism and I am absolutely positive
that our ability is there."

On the possibility of an attack, he added: "It is difficult to calculate whether
it is inevitable that they will get through."

Since the Bali bomb in October 2002, which killed 202 people, the Government has
introduced a more complex series of threat levels because it was felt that the
old system was not sufficiently flexible. There are now seven gradings, and
"substantial" is fourth, behind "severe general", "severe specific", where there
is definite intelligence, and "imminent".

Security sources said there had been no reason to raise the alert status because
it was high enough, and there had been no indications of any plot to hit London
to coincide with the G8 summit in Scotland or the announcement of the host city
for the 2012 Olympic Games.

The sources said it was realised that there would be accusations that the
intelligence services had failed. "But we have always warned that intelligence
never reveals a complete picture. It's a cheap shot to blame the intelligence
services, but nothing was known in advance of these attacks," an official said.

One key aspect for the security and intelligence services is to try to pinpoint
the precise motivation behind the attacks. Tony Blair said in his statement that
the terrorists had chosen the G8 summit to launch the bombings.

However, security experts said that after the jubilation over the announcement
of the Olympics for London it would be a classic strategy for alQaeda to erase
that jubilation with a shock attack. "Jubilation one day and disaster the next,
that's the sort of impact these terrorists like to make," one intelligence
expert said.

The terrorist threat level had been maintained at "severe general" -the third
highest -throughout the general election because of the perceived risk of a
possible attack to disrupt voting. It had also been at that level for the
wedding of the Prince of Wales in April.

Unlike some European countries, including France, the high threat level had
remained unchanged since the September 11 attacks, because of the known ambition
of al-Qaeda to hit Britain, as America's strongest European ally.

However, the G8 summit was not considered to be an event that by itself merited
raising the alert level. This would have happened only if there had been a surge
in intelligence indicating that al-Qaeda or an affiliated group had begun to
focus on the summit.

Reports that Israel had given notice of possible terrorist attacks in London
were dismissed by the Israeli Embassy and by British security officials.

Intelligence officials said that the terrorism analysis centre would re examine
all recent secret material to see whether, with hindsight, there had been
indications that might have been missed.

The centre, which has the prime responsibility for assessing intelligence on
international terrorism and answers to Dame Eliza Manningham-Buller, the
Director-General of MI5, had been in close contact with other European agencies
because of the threat to European capitals after the Madrid bombing in March
last year.

There is no indication as yet that yesterday's bombings were directly linked to
the Madrid atrocities. British officials said that there were similarities in
the co-ordinated attacks and indicated that some of the explosives may have been
detonated by remote control, using mobile phones -again, similar to methods used
in Madrid.


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The Lake District

                                  July 8, 2005

MP talks of 'guilt' at terror attacks

BYLINE: The Westmorland Gazette

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 321 words

DATELINE: The Lake District


THE Conservative Party's chief whip David Maclean has spoken of his fellow MPs'
feelings of guilt that they were not the target of yesterday's (Thursday's)
terrorist attacks in London.

Speaking to The Westmorland Gazette from his parliamentary office the MP for
Penrith and the Border said the mood at Westminster was sombre. It had been
anticipated he said that the first wave of an attack on the capital would be on
the Houses of Parliament.

"It's not exactly what we expected and in some ways a lot of people here feel
guilty that innocent Londoners have been targeted when we expected to be
targeted."

He expressed his sympathies to those involved adding: "We will not give in to
terrorism."

Former Casterton School pupil Anna Bruce-Lockhart 28 had been evacuated from the
underground and made it to King's Cross "It was then I heard the blast a huge
bomb that turned out to be the bus exploding in Tavistock Square she said.

The production sub-editor continued to work at The Guardian newspaper offices. A
former Westmorland Gazette employee, she has an aunt and uncle, Karen
Bruce-Lockhart and John Morris, based in Sedbergh.

Virgin Trains was running a reduced service to and from Euston yesterday
afternoon, and passengers were being advised not to travel to the capital.

Local food champion Peter Gott, of Endmoor, was in London yesterday as, every
week, he and Les Salisbury Jnr, of Furness Fish and Game in Ulverston, travel to
Borough food market to sell their wares. Colleague Andrew Sharp, aka Farmer
Sharp of Lindal-in-Furness, said he intended to join them in London last night.

l The Westmorland Gazette website - www.thisisthelake district.co.uk - has a
London attacks section, with news and links. If you have a story, please contact
the newsdesk on 01539-710161, or leave a message over the weekend on
01539-720555.

See our London Terrorist Attacks section for more.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hertfordshire

                                  July 8, 2005

Everyone urged to give blood after terror attacks

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 84 words

DATELINE: Hertfordshire; St. Albans Observer


IN the wake of the terrorist bomb blasts in central London blood donors are
being urged to keep their appointments.

Forthcoming sessions in the St Albans area include:

The Quality Hotel in London Road on July 13 and 27.

Canons Health Club on July 23.

Oaklands College Smallford on July 24.

Redbourn Village Hall on July 18.

Asda in Hatfield on August 8.

Donors can avoid waiting by calling 0845 7711 711 to make an appointment. Visit
www.blood.co.uk for more information.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Essex

                                  July 8, 2005

Defiance: commuters back to work after terror attacks

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 298 words

DATELINE: Essex; Essex Colchester


Brought to you by the Evening Gazette
(http://www.thisisessex.co.uk/essex/about_this_site/hosts-gazette.html)

ESSEX commuters rocked by the terror attacks on London today defiantly got back
to work.They showed that despite more than 40 people being killed in the
Underground and bus blasts in London yesterday they would carry on as normal.

As the rush hour started at Colchester North Station it seemed like any other
day except for a high police presence to reassure commuters at all stations.
Train operator One was running normal rail services in to the capital and London
buses and tube services were operating as close to a regular service as possible
with some exceptions around the bomb sites. Many Essex commuters stayed in the
capital last night but a large number of those who managed to get home yesterday
were heading back to their desks today. Heading for the platform at North
Station today Tony Martin said: "It's no different to any ordinary day. "You
have as much chance as a train crashing really." Mark Weston said: "I'm not very
concerned." He added that it was just one those things. John Ridling said: "I
know the safety is not all there. You just get on with it. "If everyone is going
to worry about it no one is going to get out of bed." Maggie Lydon who works in
West London said she was used to disruption from when the IRA used to attack.
"It's business as normal " she said. Donna Read of Colchester who works in the
City said: "I need to go in to work. We didn't get much done yesterday. It was
hard to concentrate." Returning to the G8 summit at Gleneagles Tony Blair
launched a manhunt with all resources targeted at tracking down the terrorists.
For the latest updates on the situation see www.thisisessex.co.uk and follow the
link to

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                                  July 8, 2005

Terrorist attack unnerves the City

BYLINE: Julia Breen (feedback@nne.co.uk)

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 471 words

DATELINE: The North East


CITY traders panicked yesterday as bomb blasts shook London.

The FTSE 100 plunged by more than 200 points but recovered later in the day
closing down 71 points.

Some economists predicted that the Bank of England could move to cut rates in
coming days if the attack had a serious impact on the Footsie and sterling.

The London Stock Exchange remained open but took action to stabilise the market
including asking traders to switch off certain electronic trading systems.

At the same time investment banks evacuated buildings near areas where bombs
went off.

The Bank of England continued its monthly rate-setting meeting as planned
yesterday when it kept the cost of borrowing at 4.75 per cent - despite pressure
from manufacturers business retailers and home owners to cut rates.

But last night Jonathan Said economist at the Centre for Economics and Business
Research believed it was still possible the Bank of England's Monetary Policy
Committee (MPC) could meet in the coming days as it did following the September
11 terrorist attacks.

He said: "If the impact on the FTSE and more importantly the pound worsens the
bank may consider cutting rates so as to prevent additional negative pressure
upon the UK's consumer slowdown."

But Simon Rubinsohn chief economist at fund manager Gerrard said a rate cut next
month was still possible but said it was unlikely the bank would want to create
an impression of panic by cutting rates before then.

"Such a move would have indicated how powerful these sorts of attacks can be on
the economy he said.

Investment bank UBS evacuated its office near Liverpool Street, but continued
trading from its other four sites in the capital, while staff at Dresdner
Kleinwort Wasserstein and Goldman Sachs were advised to stay indoors until
further notice.

The Footsie recovered as police and emergency services gained control of the
situation in the afternoon.

Reassurance also came from New York, where the Dow Jones Industrial Average
opened only marginally lower.

In London, shares in hotel operators and airlines were under the most pressure
as investors worried about the impact on people's willingness to travel.

Investment was switched into traditional safe havens, such as government bonds.

Steven Saywell, senior currencies strategist at Citigroup, said: As far as
markets are concerned it is the uncertainty that will trouble people.

"Obviously it is a nasty incident and markets would look to know more about who
was behind it - the wider situation and whether we can we expect more of this.

"We have seen buying of currencies such as the Swiss franc and because the
attacks happened in London the pound has suffered on the back of that."

Banks closed a number of their branches in central London as a precaution.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  July 8, 2005

Nation pays high price to fend off terror attacks

BYLINE: David Barrett

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 982 words


Vast resources have been spent on counter-terrorism in Britain since the
September 11 attacks. VAST resources have been spent on counter-terrorism in
Britain since the September 11 attacks.

High-profile buildings such as the Houses of Parliament and Scotland Yard have
erected security walls and introduced rigorous searches of visitors.

The Government has spent £56 million on mass decontamination units for use in
the event of chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear (CBRN) attacks, such
as a "dirty bomb". Another £132 million has gone to the fire service for search
and rescue, £85 million to the NHS to cope with bio-terrorism and £49 million to
the Metropolitan Police's counter-terrorist work.

The Security Service, MI5, has already begun a recruitment campaign to increase
its size by 50 per cent to 3,000 staff by 2008.

Last July, Chancellor Gordon Brown said spending on security in the UK was £950
million a year before the 2001 atrocities at the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon. Now overall security spending will rise from £1.5 billion in 2004-05
to reach £2.1 billion by 2007-08.

The new Serious and Organised Crime Agency planned by the Government will also
play an important role in tackling the links between organised crime and
terrorism.

In February 2003, the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, warned
that al Qaida terrorists had a "substantial" presence in Britain.

Although spending has increased massively, there have been comparatively few
convictions of terrorists in the courts. In all, 702 people were arrested under
the Terrorism Act 2000 between September 11, 2001, and the end of 2004. Of
those, 119 were charged with terror offences and a further 135 with other crimes
under general criminal law. Only 17 have been convicted under the Terrorism Act.

Generally, there is a lack of information about the arrests and subsequent court
cases, leading the all-party Home Affairs Select Committee to express concern on
April 5 this year, and to call for better statistics.

There have also been a series of high-profile cases in which defendants accused
of terror-related offences have been cleared or had their cases dropped.

Muslim convert Sulayman Zain-ul-abidin, from Greenwich in south-east London,
claimed he had been a "trophy" scapegoat for the authorities after September 11.
He was cleared at the Old Bailey in August 2002 of trying to recruit Islamic
terrorists by offering weapons training through his Ultimate Jihad Challenge
website.

In April of the same year an extradition application by the US against the west
London pilot Lotfi Raissi was dismissed.

Mr Raissi said at the time: "They started the investigation because I was
Muslim, Algerian, Arabic and a pilot. It just gave them licence to
discriminate." An attempt by the US government to extradite the London
bookseller Yasser al-Siri, on charges that he funded al Qaida, failed in July of
the same year, after the Home Secretary ruled there was insufficient evidence to
proceed.

The Government has faced the difficult problem of balancing security
requirements against human rights. In December 2004, the House of Lords ruled
that the controversial internment powers rushed through Parliament in the weeks
after September 11 were illegal.

The ruling led to the release, in March 2005, of the final ten foreign terrorism
suspects who had been detained without charge or trial at Belmarsh prison under
the powers for more than three years. They have to keep a night-time curfew,
banned from using mobile phones and the Internet and must get the Home Office's
approval to meet people.

In March 2005, the Home Secretary, Charles Clarke, pledged a new anti-terrorism
Bill in the following session of Parliament which would include a new offence of
"acts preparatory to terrorism" allowing more suspected terrorists to be tried
in the criminal courts. But he has faced criticism from the opposition for
refusing to allow phone tap evidence and other surveillance material to be made
routinely admissible in British courts.

The Conservatives say this could lead to more terrorists being convicted and
jailed, but the plan is believed to be opposed by the security services.

The Government's preparations for a possible terrorist attack on Britain have
previously been attacked as "half-hearted" by the Conservatives. The Government
has taken a number of measures in recent years to prepare emergency services for
a terrorist attack on London.

In September 2003, ministers ordered a major counter-terrorism exercise
involving a simulated "chemical strike" on an Underground train at Bank station
in the City of London. The emergency services were required to recover the
"casualties" overcome by the chemical, bring them to street level and
decontaminate them in special shower tents. No actual chemicals were used in the
simulation, but the incident involved staff at University College Hospital and a
police cordon round streets near Bank station.

Last November, the Government's Civil Contingencies Bill received Royal Assent.
The law was designed to improve the UK's ability to deal with the consequences
of major disruptive incidents by improving local planning processes, building
better contacts between agencies and improving the link between local areas and
central government. Ministers said the legislation would help ensure front-line
services could deal with the full range of emergencies, from localised major
incidents to catastrophic emergencies.

London has also put in place a Strategic Emergency Plan to co-ordinate its
response to a catastrophic incident. It includes details of key plans to deal
with major incidents including the Command and Control Protocol, the
Communication Protocol, the Mass Fatalities plan, the large-scale evacuation
framework and the Site Clearance plan.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                     © Copyright 2005 Western Morning News

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                             July 9, 2005 Saturday

TIM FEARS TERROR ATTACKS ON GAMES

BYLINE: KIM BRISCOE

LENGTH: 347 words


A BURTON Olympic hopeful has spoken of his fears that terrorist attacks could
mar the Games when they come to London in 2012.

Canoeist Tim Mumford, of Horninglow, said he hoped that the games would be "an
amazing opportunity" for people of all backgrounds to become involved in sports
and in supporting and watching the Olympic games. Tim, a former pupil at de
Ferrers Specialist Technology College, recently represented the Great Britain
under-23 squad at an international competition in France. He told the Mail he
was delighted the capital had been successful in its bid for the "greatest
sporting event", but he was fearful of a repeat of Thursday's bomb blasts in
London.

He said: "It's really exciting and amazing that we won the games." However he
said: "There could perhaps be terrorist attacks like in London, which could
spoil it." The 22-year-old suffered a huge setback in his canoeing career when
he broke his back in a car crash 18 months ago. Since then he has fought his way
back to fitness, but is uncertain if he will make it to the 2008 games in
Beijing. He said: "It's only three years away, I've got quite a bit of work to
do on strength and fitness and it will be quite hard. "I will be 29 when London
comes around and there's still plenty of time for me to go to the games there.
To represent Great Britain at the Olympics in London would be incredible -- it's
the greatest sporting achievement you can do. "I'm definitely hoping I will have
the fitness and strength -- hopefully nothing else will happen like the other
year -- it set me back a long way." Tim said by 2012 he hoped he would have the
experience to be able perform at his best. He also said that it would prove to
be a big boost for canoeing in the country if new facilities were built. He
said: "For canoeing in general it will be really good. There isn't a slalom
course in the south of England at the moment.  "I don't know where they are
going to build it, but I don't think they will use the one at Nottingham. It
will mean a lot of people will be able to experience the slalom and canoeing."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2005 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             July 9, 2005, Saturday

GOLF: I FEAR OPEN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: By David Mccarthy

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 55, 68

LENGTH: 317 words


US OPEN champion Michael Campbell last night admitted he'll travel to St Andrews
in fear after the London bombing atrocities.

The New Zealander, who lives in Brighton, has been told by a security expert
friend that measures to protect players and fans at the top golf tournaments are
woefully inadequate.

Campbell said: 'I'm now concerned for security and safety at The Open.'

The Kiwi, who isn't playing at this week's Scottish Open at Loch Lomond, said on
his website: 'I have a good friend who was one of the chief security personnel
at the last Olympics in Athens.

'He attended one of the golf Majors and was appalled at the shortcomings in
security.

'At the Majors I've contested, including last month's US Open, I have never had
any concerns. But after listening to this fellow, my view has changed
dramatically.

'I am heading to St Andrews with genuine concerns.'

However, American Ryder Cup captain Tom Lehman, who is at Loch Lomond, is
confidentsecurity arrangements at the home of golf will be adequate.

And Lehman is convinced his compatriots will cross the Atlantic to play next
week despite Thursday's terrorist attacks.

He said: 'I think the American players will come over. The security is always
pretty tight.

'The Open is pretty small by comparison to what happened. We will be playing in
a golf tournament, while lives have been changed. It's a tragedy.'

Every player at Loch Lomond wore a black ribbon yesterday in memory of those
killed in London.

Lehman, the 1997 champion at the Scots event, is seven under at the halfway
stage but double bogeyed his last hole, the ninth, after failing to get relief
from a cart path behind the green.

He said: 'I got really unlucky with the ruling on the last. I was behind a
television tower and made a six on a hole that is a five wood and a sand wedge,
so it leaves a bad taste in the mouth

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 9, 2005

HOLY TERROR AFTER PASTOR ATTACKS CAR

BYLINE: By Paul Gilbride

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 344 words


A CHURCH pastor smashed up a teenager's car with a baseball bat after his bible
group was harassed by a gang.

John Cameron, 27, was seething with rage when the youths assaulted him and threw
burgers at the youngsters in a fast food restaurant.

So when he dropped off the group the pastor, of Peterhead's Pentecostal
Christian Zion Tabernacle Church, armed himself with a baseball bat and went
looking for revenge.

And when he found the gang sitting in a car he shattered the vehicle's
windscreen, cutting the youths inside.

Cameron, who admitted the attack but was admonished by a sheriff, said last
night: "I was absolutely furious.

"I went out with the baseball bat but all I really wanted to do was give them a
scare so they wouldn't do anything like that again. But when I found the five
who attacked me they were locked in a car and refused to get out. Something
inside me snapped. I wasn't thinking straight."

Deeply religious Cameron, who has been a minister since he was 17, was attacked
by five members of the gang as he left the restaurant and was left with facial
injuries.

Realising he needed to get the children to safety Cameron got to his feet and
got them into the church minibus.

But the gang followed.

The pastor was joined by 17-year-old Christopher Kelman, a member of his
congregation, who came with him to find the gang. The teenager armed himself
with a golf club. The pair found the gang sitting outside the town's Halford's
store and a war of words followed.

It ended with Cameron smashing the window of one of the cars while Kelman
smashed the window of another vehicle with his golf club.

Cameron, who resigned from the church after the incident, said: "I lost
everything in a matter of minutes.

"What happened that night destroyed my whole life. I still can't believe I did
it.

I apologised to my congregation and I resigned from the church. I was devastated
but I felt it was the only thing I could do."

Sheriff Edward Savage said they had both acted out of character and were
provoked.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                                  July 9, 2005

The lessons we learn from terrorist attacks

SECTION: Features; General; Columnist; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 530 words


There was a terrible feeling of deja vu. As first snippets of news drifted
through confused and unclear. Gradually the news fog lifted. There had been four
bombs in central London. When I was a student in the early 1970s we were on a
ward round when, suddenly there was a loud explosion. London stopped. Was this
the result of the gas worker's strike which was in the news? The consultant said
he would carry on with the ward around. His pager then went off and he left. An
IRA bomb had exploded outside the Old Bailey opposite the hospital. There had
been a warning but it was too late.

A policeman had tried to clear a pub opposite the bomb but, amazingly, some of
the drinkers did not believe him and were slow to leave. They got clear. The
policeman lost his leg.

As the bomb exploded office workers watching from behind large glass windows
were showered with glass. Looking up and down the road there were some buildings
with all windows intact. Further away there might be several smashed. Blast is
complicated.

In the same year there was another bomb in the Tower of London. There were fewer
victims with more serious injuries. As the bomb had exploded in a confined area
many victims had ear damage. One had a broken leg and ear damage. This created
an unexpected problem. The lift to the ear nose and throat ward was too small
for a bed with traction. He was the first patient needing ear surgery with a
broken leg.

The injuries are similar to those following Thursday's bombings. There were some
very serious injuries, not only broken bones but serious chest wounds and
burning in the throat causing breathing problems. There were also ear drums
damaged from blast and multiple minor cuts. It was the first time the hospitals
had faced such difficulties since the Blitz. There was a danger of the hospital
being overwhelmed by the sheer volume of the work.

A bomb was found at Heathrow and successfully defused. The same caller rang to
say that there was another bomb in the main fuel depot. My brother, who was a
young policeman, was called and joined others, searching around the large fuel
tanks. Afterwards he told me that he was not too worried. If it had gone off he,
and a large proportion of West London, would not have known anything. This
second call was a hoax.

We faced other hoax calls. Areas were often cordoned off and buildings evacuated
from bomb scares. I was evacuated from Victoria Coach Station and all buses
cancelled after one hoax call. I went across the road but many irate passengers
stood underneath the glass roof complaining to the staff.

"I'll miss my bus".

"No bus will leave here until we get the all clear".

"But I've got a ticket. It'll go without me" So is there anything today's
generation can learn from our experience? In the early 70s our bombs were 30
years after the Blitz. This week's bombs were another 30 years on. The response
of the emergency services shows how much they have learnt. They appear to have
been superb. It is the terrorists who have not learnt. Neither the Blitz in the
1940s nor the IRA bombs in the 70s led to Londoners giving in. These bombs will
be equally ineffective.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                   © Copyright 2005 Herald Express (Torquay)

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 9, 2005, Saturday

07/07: TERROR IN LONDON: 'ATTACK WAS ON THE CARDS'

BYLINE: BY NIALL MOONAN

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 98 words


IRISHMAN Des Gill was sitting in his pub across the road from London's Edgware
Road tube station when one of the first blasts went off.

The scene was turned to chaos as survivors stumbled from the Underground.

Des, from North Dublin, said rescuers then began the search for bodies.

He added: "The people caught up in it didn't come to the pub, they would have
been going in the opposite direction.

"This was on the cards, it was a question of when, not if.

"This is a very Muslim area, at night time it is like Beirut, but I don't know
why the bombers picked here."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 9, 2005, Saturday

Purpose and effects of the terrorist attacks in London

SECTION: Features; 24

LENGTH: 81 words


From Professor Rudolf Hanka.

Sir, The Metropolitan Police have given 0870 1566344 as the telephone number for
inquir-ies about relatives who might have been affected by the terrorist bombs
in London. Calls to numbers starting with 0870 cost more than standard calls and
the organisation concerned usually takes a share of the extra money collected.
Surely a public body has not chosen to profit in this despicable way from the
misfortune of others?

R. HANKA Cambridge


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Dorset

                                  July 9, 2005

TERROR ATTACKS: DORSET ON HIGH ALERT

BYLINE: Echo reporters (newsdesk@dorsetecho.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: Dorset; Weymouth


POLICE warned people to be vigilant today as security was stepped up at train
stations ports and the Weymouth and Portland National Sailing Academy.

The force was placed on alert and extra officers drafted in to cover transport
centres in the wake of the London bombings.

As well as at the academy - the Olympic 2012 sailing venue - staff were warned
to be on guard at Portland Port.

Dorset Police Assistant Chief Constable Adrian Whiting said: "My message to the
public is to be vigilant and alert but not to be alarmed.

"Anyone seeing suspicious activity should immediately report it to the police by
dialling 999.

"We are committed to working together with the Muslim community to make sure
that they are not targeted as a result of the London bomb attacks."

Police said they were watching Dorset bus stations ports and train stations in
the wake of the atrocity.

Staff at Tophill Junior School on Portland cancelled a trip to London today and
took pupils on activities in Dorset instead.

Police blew up a suspect package at Poole train station yesterday afternoon and
closed some stations temporarily.

Bosses at the sailing academy increased security after talks with police amid
fears that it could be a target. Academy director John Tweed said: "We have been
talking with police about security issues and we will be stepping up security.

"We had such good news with the Olympics but now we've really been brought back
down to earth. Our thoughts are with those who were injured or killed in
London."

Employees at Portland Port Ltd were asked to watch for anything suspicious.

Port director Rupert Best said: "We are still at level one alert of the
International Shipping and Port's Security initiative which was brought in after
September 11 but because of the G8 Summit we have already increased our
vigilance."

A spokesman for Bovington Army Camp said that security was stepped up with
increased vigilance checks on people entering the base and guards on duty. He
added that it was normal practice in such circumstances.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 10, 2005

ATTACK ON LONDON: Anti-terror drill revealed soft targets in London

BYLINE: by Mark Townsend and Gaby Hinsliff

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 541 words


A MASSIVE anti-terror exercise carried out last April to find out how safe
London's transport systems were from attack raised concern over the
vulnerability of passengers, The Observer can reveal.

Washington sources have revealed that the biggest transatlantic
counter-terrorism exercise since 9/11 - which included 'bombs' being placed on
buses and explosives left on the London underground - raised fears over the
vulnerability of 'soft targets' in the capital.

The anti-terror drill, codenamed Exercise Atlantic Blue, involved 10,000
personnel in the US and 2,500 in the UK. It was billed as the biggest test of
the anti-terror defences of both the UK and the US and was designed to improve
security. The exercise featured simulated explosive, biological and chemical
attacks and, in the case of London, concentrated on testing security weaknesses
in the transport system.

However, a source for Homeland Security, the leading US security department,
said that, following the London exercise, the capital's 'defences were broadly
positive but there was concern over soft targets'.

It has also emerged that the Japanese interior minister warned last month that
the G8 nations should clamp down further on security around underground trains.
A dozen commuters died and more than 5,000 were injured in the 1995 attack on
the Tokyo underground in which members of the cult Aum Shinrikyo released sarin
gas.

Charles Clarke, the Home Secretary, confirmed that the need to improve
underground security had been discussed at a G8 summit of interior ministers in
Sheffield in mid-June, at which MI5 chief Eliza Manningham-Buller delivered an
assessment of the threat to G8 nations. 'The Japanese particularly raised it
because of the sarin issue. It was a very moving discussion - the Russians were
talking about Beslan, the Japanese about the underground. We got more of a
common sense of determination,' he said.

Whitehall sources said the tube had long been the focus of concern, both because
of the difficulty of rescuing people and because of the way that, in some cases,
tunnels amplify the blast. A full-scale mock attack was staged in September 2003
to give emergency services the chance to rehearse: lessons learnt from it,
including the need for specially adapted trolleys to use in rescuing passengers
from narrow tunnels, were put into place last week. Firefighters have also been
trained to drive tube trains, so that if a driver were killed they would be able
to move a train to the safety of a platform; the trains hit last week were too
badly disabled to be moved.

A subway attack formed a prominent element of Exercise Atlantic Blue. During the
exercise, led in the UK by the Metropolitan Police, the role of the intelligence
services in intercepting 'chatter' is understood to have been praised.

A source at Homeland Security said that post-exercise debriefings were still
ongoing and that a final report into the UK and US exercises would be published
later in the year.

Although the rescue effort itself went smoothly last week, Whitehall sources
said transport had presented the most problems, with privatised rail and bus
companies struggling to coordinate decisions to suspend services.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 10, 2005

Comment: INSIDE POLITICS: ATTACK ON LONDON: Terror mustn't kill argument: The
unified response to the atrocities will soon and rightly give way to a vigorous
debate about the most effective response to terrorism

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1881 words


EVERY PRIME MINISTER has his ups and his downs, the fulfilment of high hopes and
the materialisation of deepest dreads. What is rare is for both to happen in the
same week. In the many years of the premiership of Tony Blair, never has he been
on such a churning rollercoaster which so mirrored the soaring and plunging mood
of the country itself.

On Wednesday, the Prime Minister danced a jubilant jig in the gardens of
Gleneagles after the surprise triumph of London's bid for the 2012 Olympics, his
lobbying reliably reported to have made an important contribution to the victory
over the French. By Thursday, the same fists that had punched the air in triumph
were clenched by his sides as he gave his grim response to the bombings in
London.

On Friday, he was out exalting again as he tried to sell the outcome of the
Gleneagles summit as a success. The agreements made there won't make poverty
history in Africa, but they promise to do enough to alleviate some of the
suffering on that continent to make it plausible to call this the most
substantial product of a G8 summit in the history of the rich country club.

During the election and in its immediate aftermath, it was widely predicted that
the Blair premiership had entered the twilight zone. We would need to devote
increasingly less time to paying attention to anything said or done by the
hollow man of Downing Street as the authority was sucked out of him.

TODAY, THE focus is back on Tony Blair as intensely as it has ever been. Like
him or loathe him, admire this Prime Minister or despise him, these past few
days have reaffirmed him as one of the most striking actors on the world stage.

For good and bad, Tony Blair has always been a politician who runs on his
intuition. His casualness about evidence and carelessness about detail has often
made officials and close aides groan when it comes to the realm of
policy-making. The same people turn admiring when they observe his capacity to
read, articulate and mould critical political moments. Instinct impelled him to
take the risk which a more cautious politician would have eschewed of flying to
Singapore to join the lobbying for London to host the Olympics. Given the G8's
dismal history of delivering so little from its summits, he took another gamble
when he strove to do something ambitious with that.

His first, instinctive reaction to the bombings was from some notes scribbled
down on the back of an envelope. What he said was unscripted in that sense. In
another, the expressions of resolve in the face of terrorism, combined with the
appeal for there not to be recrimination against Muslims, had been rehearsed in
his head many, many times before in anticipation of the day when he would have
to use the words.

'We will not be terrorised,' said the Prime Minister. Even as he said it, he
was, if not terrorised, inwardly flinching. At 10.45 on Thursday morning, when
precisely how many bombs were going off was still murked in conjecture and
confusion, the Prime Minister had a conference call involving key officials as
well as cabinet ministers, Charles Clarke, Alistair Darling and John Prescott.
Blair, at that point still at the G8 summit and debating with his advisers
whether he should make the dash back to London, was desperate to know the scale
of the horror being perpetrated on the capital. Neither the officials nor his
ministers could give him very precise answers.

One of the participants in that call says that they were all 'very, very
frightened that it was going to be much worse'. The fear was that the bombs
which ripped apart three tube trains, a bus and so many innocent lives were only
the start. They shuddered in collective anticipation of something much more
terrible.

A crucial art of the political leader in a crisis is to mask his own fear with a
calming projection to the public of certainty and resolution. Tony Blair has
made himself a master of that art. When he made the first of his three
statements, the Prime Minister sounded a lot more certain that he knew what was
going on than he did.

This provided one of the striking political images of the week: the other
leaders of the G8 grouping behind him to give a visual expression of their
support. Over his right shoulder stood George W Bush, architect of the war in
Iraq; over his left shoulder stood Jacques Chirac, the most vocal critic of the
invasion. This was the most compelling illustration of the near unanimous
political unity - no less striking for being easy to predict - that we have seen
in the immediate aftermath of the attacks.

The solidarity among the international leaders was mirrored among almost all the
domestic politicians. Sir Menzies Campbell, for the anti-war Liberal Democrats,
offered the government unqualified backing for its response to the bombings. The
measured and supportive stand taken by David Davis, the shadow home secretary,
will have done no harm to his ambitions to become the next leader of the
Conservative party.

CHARLES CLARKE has been notable for his cool refusal to rush into knee-jerk
pledges of draconian legislation. The Home Secretary has also been commendably
honest by not succumbing to the temptation to argue that identity cards might
have prevented these bombings. It seems to have been grasped early on both
within government and among the mainstream opposition politicians that the
public pillory awaits anyone seen trying to extract political advantage from the
death and suffering.

The response of Ken Livingstone was, to my mind, particularly striking.
Unbelievable as Tony Blair might have once found this in the days when the mayor
of London was his bete rouge, Mr Livingstone took one of the most crucially
supportive stances on the bombings. Downing Street has always feared that an
atrocity in London would provoke a massive public backlash against Britain's
participation in the war in Iraq. Chronology makes a nonsense of the suggestion
that al-Quaeda terrorism is a creation of the war. The first attack on the World
Trade Centre was in 1993. The destruction of the Twin Towers and the strike on
the Pentagon took place before the war. So did the slaughter at a disco in Bali.
It can't be argued that if it hadn't been for Iraq there would never have been
bombings in London. But it can't be denied convincingly either that Iraq has
made London more of a target for Islamist terrorism.

That was why Mr Livingstone's intervention was so crucial to the shaping of the
public mood. He was an opponent of invasion of Iraq. He is a loather of George W
Bush. He was one of those who warned that the war would expose Britain to a
heightened risk of terrorist attack. He had experienced as acutely as anyone the
24-hour swing from euphoria to horror as London's Olympic gold was followed by
the black day of the bombings. He could have done a George Galloway and told
Londoners that they had 'paid the price' for the Blair alliance with Bush.
Rather than blame the attacks on the war, Mr Livingstone blamed the bombings on
the bombers: 'A criminal attempt at mass murder.'

He produced some of the most potent condemnation when he said that this was not
'a terrorist attack against the mighty and the powerful'. Quite right: it was
aimed at the Presidents and the Prime Ministers at the G8 summit in the sense
that the bombings were almost certainly intended to coincide with their presence
in Britain. But the horrific consequences were felt, in the words of their
mayor, by 'ordinary, working-class Londoners, black and white, Muslim and
Christian, Hindu and Jew, young and old.'

That there has not been mass finger-pointing at ministers, but mass revulsion
against the terrorists has been a great relief in Downing Street. There are
other consolations they have drawn from these horrific events. This government
has not had an impressive record when it comes to contingency planning: remember
the paralysis inflicted during the fuel protests by a tiny number of blockaders
at refineries, recall the pandemonium of the foot and mouth epidemic. Ministers
are quietly satisfied - in truth, some are rather astonished - that the response
to the bombings was so impressive. As was the stoicism displayed by Londoners.
The warnings from the likes of the commissioner of the Metropolitan Police and
the head of MI5 that an attack was inevitable had their desired effect of
psychologically bracing the capital.

But not everyone, whatever they say now, thought it was bound to happen. Forty
six months had passed since the attacks on the Twin Towers and the Pentagon. It
was 16 months since the train bombings in Madrid. The longer time passed, the
more loud and self-satisfied became those voices who argued that the threat was
a vast exaggeration, even a confabulation, of securicrats and politicians trying
to manufacture a climate of fear in which to justify authoritarian legislation.
This claim infuriated the ministers with responsibility for dealing with the
terrorist threat. 'They called us dupes or liars,' says one senior member of the
cabinet. That this particular band of critics has been proved so horribly wrong
provides ministers with a sort of grisly vindication.

It will be short-lived. The politicians can't be confident that the public mood
will remain so phlegmatic should this prove to be merely the beginning of a
series of attacks of mounting magnitude.

Soon and rightly, from Tony Blair down, ministers will have to face testing
questions. A pattern that emerged after both the 11 September atrocities in the
United States and the train bombings in Madrid was that the authorities had made
mistakes and missed warning signs that might have apprehended the perpetrators
of those outrages before they could commit their mass murder. The media and the
opposition parties will be doing their job - in fact, they will be doing their
duty - when they probe whether mistakes were made both before the bombings and
in the response to them.

THE ONUS of proof is still on the government to show that its proposed new
anti-terror laws are both effective and proportionate. Very senior figures in
the cabinet - Gordon Brown and Jack Straw both - remain highly sceptical about
the merits of identity cards. When such key ministers as the Chancellor and the
Foreign Secretary are unconvinced, the government is still a long way from
establishing that identity cards are not a hugely costly distraction from
tackling terrorism.

There has been much to be impressed about the response of the political classes,
the tone set by Tony Blair. He showed that he retains the capacity to catch and
speak for the public mood in triumph and tragedy alike.

That blanket unity in crisis will not last too long. And it should not last too
long. The debate about how best to respond to this terrorism needs to be the
more, not less, vigorous in the wake of these atrocities. By the Prime Minister,
by everyone, it is said that the terrorists must be shown that it will be
business as usual. The most powerful way to demonstrate that Britain will not be
terrorised is for democracy to carry on with its usual business of arguing.

Flanked by his fellow G8 leaders at Gleneagles, Tony Blair condemns the
terrorist attacks on Thursday.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Life

                                 July 10, 2005

London Terror: IRA feared Tube attacks would backfire

LENGTH: 230 words


THE IRA ruled out no-warning bombings on the London Underground, as far back as
the 1970s - because they feared an anti-Irish political backlash in Britain.

It was a senior Belfast IRA man, who urged the Provo's Army Council, that the
best way to get results from Britain would be to target the Tube system,
according to a well-placed source.

It is understood he was a top figure with experience on the IRA's "England
Team".

His proposal was that timer-device charges would be placed on Tube trains during
peak passenger rush-hour, just as al-Qaida-linked operatives did, last week.

But, in the disastrous aftermath of the Birmingham and Guildford bombs, IRA
leaders backed off.

However, one IRA member of the "England Team", lost a leg when the bomb he was
carrying on the Underground to a target elsewhere, exploded prematurely,
injuring several others.

And, the IRA in England regularly paralysed the railway system, by planting
bombs and phoning coded warnings to the authorities.

One problem faced by IRA bombers, in England, was that their operatives came
mainly from Ireland, and their accents automatically raised suspicion.

Later, they used operatives with English accents to organise attacks.

MI5 fear that the Islamic terrorists behind last week's London massacre, may
also be an "enemy within", speaking with English accents.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2005 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             July 10, 2005, Sunday

Terror attacks won't tip economy over the edge

BYLINE: David Smith

SECTION: Business; Business; 4

LENGTH: 1248 words


WE have learnt a lot about how economies respond to terrorist attacks. The
immediate reaction to the September 11 attacks four years ago was that such an
assault on America's financial capital (and simultaneously on its seat of
government) would devastate the United States, if not the entire global economy.

At the time I took a different view, arguing that the damage to consumer and
business confidence would be short-lived, and that the policy response, in
interest-rate cuts and expansionary American fiscal policy (extra federal
spending and tax cuts) would ensure a quick bounce-back.

This is what happened. America's economy contracted in the third quarter of 2001
but recovered strongly in the fourth -and has continued to grow ever since. In
the final three months of 2001, encouraged by lower interest rates and a
patriotic duty to spend, consumers ensured that American retail sales rose at
the fastest rate for 10 years.

The Madrid bombings of March 2004, in which there was a bigger death toll than
the London attacks, had no discernible impact on the Spanish economy. Spain's
central-bank governor, reporting recently on his country's stronger-than
expected 3.1% growth last year, made no mention of any terrorist effect.

So what about Britain and the impact of the London bombings? The first clue has
to come from the response of the Bank of England's monetary policy committee
(MPC).

The MPC, which was meeting as news of the attacks unfolded, had already been
under pressure to cut rates because of the economy's recent weakness.

Instead it decided on a "business as usual" approach. Most economists had
expected the Bank to wait until August, and its next inflation report, before
changing direction on rates, and that is what the MPC did, leaving base rate
unchanged at 4.75%. Although there was economic justification for a cut, to have
done so could have looked like panic, and a delay made good sense.

The question, however, is whether the weakness the MPC was being urged to
respond to ahead of Thursday's meeting will now intensify. Have the terrorists,
in other words, hit the economy when it was already down? Talking economic
numbers when there has been large-scale injury and loss of life always verges on
the callous but the question bears asking.

For retailers across the country, recent months have been grim. The British
Retail Consortium reported last week that in relative terms June was not as bad
as May, because the weather picked up a bit. Like-for-like sales, though, were
still down on a year earlier.

London retailers, moreover, could be forgiven for thinking events are conspiring
against them. On Monday the central London congestion charge, which shops large
and small say has already hurt trade, went up from £5 to £8. Tie that in with
fresh worries about using public transport and you would not want to be a London
retailer. The hope of an immediate feelgood factor arising from the award of the
Olympics has been dashed. The fear is that the tourist trade will be hit.

The housing market, slow across the whole country, is particularly soft in
London.

The latest Halifax house-price index, published last week, showed that prices
nationally were up by 3.7% on a year earlier.

In Greater London, however, they were down by 2.5% in the second quarter
compared with the same period in 2004, the first time annual London house-price
inflation has turned negative on the Halifax measure for 10 years.

The housing market is, of course, at the heart of the current slowdown in the
economy. Mortgage-equity withdrawal, the amount of capital people take out of
housing, usually in the act of moving or remortgaging, has slumped. Figures last
week showed that equity withdrawal dropped to £6.4billion in the first quarter,
compared with £15.9billion a year earlier. It will fall further.

In the absence of a strong consumer and buoyant housing market, the problem is
that there is little growth coming from anywhere else. Official figures show
manufacturing is close to recession, although some industry bodies think this
overstates the gloom. Even so, Britain's production sector is certainly not
striding forward.

That leaves the economy without an obvious motor. After the shock downward
revision of growth in the first quarter to 2.1%, Geoffrey Dicks at Royal Bank of
Scotland points out that even if there is growth of 0.5% or 0.6% for each of the
remaining quarters, the annual figure for 2005 will only scrape up to 2%, barely
half the chancellor's 3% to 3.5% forecast. Even that may be pushing it. The
National Institute of Economic and Social Research estimates that the economy
expanded by only 0.3% between the first and second quarters.

This growth shortfall does not mean, by the way, that the chancellor will be
rushing to put up taxes. The fiscal rules are devised on a cyclically adjusted
basis, specifically so they do not require the Treasury to make a bad situation
worse by making a weak economy even weaker with tax hikes.

But what about that terror impact? Before the bombers struck on Thursday
morning, we were all busy working out how big an economic effect the 2012
Olympics would have. The answer, despite the hype, was that it would be small.
The impact of last week's terrorist attacks will be even smaller; tiny in fact,
and we should not fall into the trap of blaming the weakness that was there
anyway on a few lunatics with explosives.

The question for the MPC will be how to inject some impetus into the economy in
response to that weakness. It has done it before, but this time the task looks
more challenging.

PS: Most things will carry on as usual. On Tuesday George Osborne, the shadow
chancellor, will give a Centre for Policy Studies lecture, "Principles of a
Conservative economic policy". As Gordon Brown's seventh opponent in just over
eight years -and by some distance the youngest -he faces a tough task. The
Tories have not used their time in opposition to build a credible alternative
economic policy.

But what Osborne says about Brown's approach makes good sense. The Tories are
moving towards the idea of targeting Brown, even when it involves praising
Blair, the argument being that he is the one they will have to beat in four
years' time.

So the chancellor, they will argue, is a barely-reconstructed old Labour figure
who threatens the middle classes, business and investors.

The Railtrack e-mail evidence, in which Brown's advisers and officials talk of
its shareholders as "grannies", speaks to the latter point. He has been accused,
in the High Court action brought by Railtrack shareholders against the
government, of being the financial "Mr Big" who forced the company into
insolvency.

The chancellor, Osborne will argue, has correctly identified the challenge
facing Britain; how to compete in the future with the emerging industrial giants
of China and India.

But Brown's solution, increasing the size of the state, raising the tax burden
and bogging down enterprise with red tape and tax complexity, mean policy is
pointing in precisely the opposite direction to the rhetoric. The chancellor has
presided over a system of tax credits that has been expensive and hugely
inefficient. His failure to get to grips with Britain's supply-side shortcomings
compound that. If Osborne is able to build on this well-aimed criticism, he may
do much better than his predecessors.

david.smith@sunday-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Economic Outlook

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 10, 2005, Sunday

Attack is the best defence against terror

SECTION: Features; Pg. 022

LENGTH: 1108 words

The final toll from last week's attacks on London is likely to be well over 50.
Bodies are still being recovered from the tunnel near King's Cross station where
one of the bombs exploded. The horrific aftermath of the attacks has generated a
determined desire to identify those responsible. It has also led to agonised
reflection on whether there was anything we could have done to prevent the
slaughter - and if there is anything we could do to prevent future outrages.

While there has as yet been no definitive identification of the perpetrators,
there is little doubt that the terrorists who planted the bombs did so in the
name of a perverted conception of Islam. Whether they actually belonged to
al-Qaeda hardly matters. The intelligence services now believe that, since the
destruction of its training bases in Afghanistan, al-Qaeda is less an
organisation and more the name of an ideology whose adherents hate Western
democracy and liberalism. They wish to replace it with a theocracy, governed by
religious leaders who interpret Islamic law in medieval fashion.

Osama bin Laden, the nominal leader of al-Qaeda, did not personally plan the
bombings in London, or give the orders for them to proceed - as he seems to have
done for the attacks on New York and Washington on September 11, 2001. But he,
and what he stands for, will have inspired the terrorists who callously ended
the lives of so many Londoners.

It is difficult for most people who live in tolerant, liberal, secular societies
to realise how utterly devoted al-Qaeda's adherents are to their alien vision of
the world. Those fanatics believe - as Osama bin Laden himself has stressed -
that they have a God-given duty to "kill unbelievers". They are not interested
in compromise and negotiation.  As one Islamic terrorist has said: "We are not
trying to exact concessions from you. We are trying to destroy you."

That is why it is utterly fatuous to assert - as the likes of George Galloway do
- that last week's outrage was "Tony Blair's fault for going to war in Iraq".
The bombs in London were not planted to secure the withdrawal of British troops
from Iraq, and the terrorists who left them on the Tube trains and on the bus
would have done so whatever the British Government's policy had been in that
war. The Spanish experience demonstrates that fact: the Spanish government's
response to the Madrid bombings was to withdraw its troops from Iraq. Within
months of its withdrawal, at least two further mass-murder plots by Islamic
fundamentalists were thwarted by Spanish police.

There is in fact no foreign policy initiative that will make the slightest
difference to the murderous intentions of the people responsible for last week's
bombs. Indeed, there is no policy of any kind that will make any difference at
all - short of adopting the extreme, Wahaabi version of Islam advocated by Osama
bin Laden and his supporters.

That is why it is also a mistake to believe that fundamentalist-inspired
terrorism can be stopped if only we address its "causes". Those causes are, it
is frequently asserted, poverty and political disenfranchisement. It simply is
not true, however, that poverty is an incubator of terrorism, or that terrorists
come from backgrounds that mean the only opportunities open to them are the ones
which involve violence. The terrorists who hijacked passenger jets on 9/11 were
not poor. Ziad Jarrah, one of the hijackers, came from a wealthy Lebanese family
which had him educated privately in a Christian rather than a Muslim school
because they thought the education was superior. Mohammed Attah, who led the
operation, was also born to a wealthy family in Egypt and was sent to Germany to
gain a PhD. Omar Sheikh, whose main claim to notoriety is being part of the team
that slit the throat of Daniel Pearl, the reporter for The Wall Street Journal,
was born to a middle-class family in London. He attended Forest School in north
London, where the fees are around pounds 10,000 a year.

The reality is that we cannot address the "causes" of terrorism, for the simple
reason that no one knows what they are: no one knows why people decide to become
mass murderers, or how to prevent them from doing so. The only defence we have
is to penetrate and destroy the terrorist organisations themselves: to identify,
arrest and imprison the terrorists and their leaders.

To his credit, Tony Blair has been very clear about that point. The legislation
that he has introduced has been dedicated to the arrest and imprisonment of
terrorists, not to futile attempts to appease them. What is needed now is not
new legislation, but the effective and efficient enforcement of the laws already
on the statute book.

Effective enforcement, however, has so far proved to be beyond the capacity of
this Government. When those who planted last week's bombs are identified, it is
quite likely that some of them will prove to have been in Britain illegally.
Kamel Bourgass - the "ricin terrorist" who stabbed and killed Pc Stephen Oake as
he searched the flat in Manchester where the toxin was found - was in Britain
illegally. The immigration laws, which are draconian, are in fact paper tigers:
they are simply not being effectively enforced.

Again, the anti-terrorist legislation that the Government has already enacted
has "emergency measures" - they include indefinite detention without trial -
sufficient to deal with the terrorist threat. That legislation was, however,
neutered by the Law Lords earlier this year, when they ruled that the law was a
violation of human rights: its provisions were "not strictly required by the
exigencies of the situation".

In the light of what happened last week, the Law Lords may regret that decision.
We are at war with fundamentalist terrorists. It is impossible to prevent all
future acts of mass murder in London: no open society can stop individuals who
are determined to plant bombs from doing so. But the law can and should be
tilted to ensure that the balance swings away from the terrorists.

The security services and police should not be judged as having failed because
they have not managed to eliminate terrorist outrages from Britain. Their task
is to reduce the terrorist events we face to an absolute minimum. On that basis,
MI5 and the police have not done "scandalously badly", as has been so frequently
claimed. They have uncovered and frustrated several other plots, including one
that involved an attempt to get hold of radioactive material in order to make a
"dirty bomb". The only crumb of comfort to be extracted from last week's horror
is that it could have been much, much worse.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 10, 2005, Sunday

MCC members could be liable if terrorists attack Lord's

BYLINE: BY ALEXANDER D UGDALE

SECTION: News; Pg. 008

LENGTH: 626 words

MEMBERS OF Marylebone Cricket Club risk unlimited liability in the event of a
major terrorist attack at Lord's, The Sunday Telegraph can reveal.

A senior member of the MCC, Dr Nigel Knott, yesterday exposed how all of the
18,000-strong club could be forced to pay limitless costs should the ground's
insurance fail to provide adequate cover following a bomb blast.

The MCC currently carries product and public liability insurance worth pounds 30
million, while the England and Wales Cricket Board is also obliged to provide
the same cover, again up to pounds 30 million. But Dr Knott, 63, insisted that
such a small figure would have no chance in covering the potentially huge
insurance claims from members of the public should death or injuries occur as a
result of a terrorist strike.

Dr Knott, a member of the club for 40 years and chief executive of an IT
company, said yesterday: "The MCC is a private member club carrying unlimited
liability at Lord's.

"That means that if a bomb goes off in the middle of a game, the 18,000 members,
myself included, are in a position where if there is insufficient insurance to
cover we could be sued through the club.

"I've been very concerned that as members we are exposed to this unlimited
liability and have been attempting to have the situation clarified.

"As usual, nobody is listening, but the situation has become critical in light
of the attacks on London last week. It is clear that members of the public are
not properly covered by any public liability insurance."

Dr Knott, of Bradford-on-Avon, Wiltshire, first raised questions over the issue
four years ago at an inquiry headed by senior members of the MCC.

His concerns went largely unanswered, prompting him to raise the subject again
three months ago in a letter to Simon Gibb, an MCC accountant. In the letter,
dated April 7, 2005, Dr Knott wrote: "I am concerned about the very important
unresolved matter of our unlimited liability as members of MCC.

"Many organisations, including the Government, now accept that there is a very
real risk of terrorist attacks in this country and this raises the issue of
public places such as Lord's being a possible target.

"We are therefore conscious of the need to protect our personal estates against
any possible catastrophic claims. The rules of the club make it clear that
members are in an identical situation to those who suffered serious losses at
Lloyd's and members cannot resign after the event without liability." Dr Knott
continued yesterday: "We can draw whatever conclusions we like from the events
of last week. However, Lord's is a very high-profile cricket ground and holds
around 30,000 people.

"I believe that unless there are pretty serious security improvements, and I
know it's being looked at because of this week, then the current security is
totally inadequate.

"This issue is now fairly high profile and I think members of the public, if
they go in to watch a match, assume that if anything happened, there would be
sufficient financial recompense there to make good the damage they suffer.

"I think the current pounds 60 million would barely cover petty cash claims. In
the event of a catastrophic incident at Lord's, and possibly other Test match
grounds as well, we have asked whether the ground itself may have to be sold."

A spokesman for the MCC said: "The MCC committee continues to examine the
benefits and disadvantages of the club's present status and indeed any change of
status which might be deemed appropriate.

"It has taken, and shall continue to take, legal and tax advice on this subject.
If the committee recommends any change to the club's status, this would need to
be put to its members, by way of resolution, at a general meeting."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                              July 11, 2005 Monday

Plea for help 'linked to terror attacks'

BYLINE: CHERYL SMITH

LENGTH: 352 words


A CHARITY worker who helps orphans in eastern Europe has spoken of her sadness
after receiving racist phone calls demanding to know why she is helping
"terrorists".

Emma Woodall, Burton and Swadlincote area representative for the Samaritan's
Purse received two disturbing phone calls after an article in the Mail requested
help improving an orphange near the capital of Azerbaijan. The charity worker,
who is hoping to raise £8,000 to improve facilities at one of Azerbaijan's
"worst" orphanages, said the callers seemed agitated that an article requesting
help for 170 orphans was in the Mail on the same day as the terrorist bombings
in London. Mrs Woodall received two phone calls at 11.30pm and midnight on
Thursday, but she believes the callers were working together as the content of
their threats were very similar.

She said the two males, who sounded drunk and extremely agitated, asked why she
was helping "dirty pa**s" and said the children did not need help because they
"looked fat enough". The 26-year-old said she could not understand the
unreasoned attitude of people who put people into categories rather than seeing
their individual actions -- and who also were sadly lacking in geographical
knowledge. She said: "These children really need our help, and the attacks in
London by terrorists have nothing to do with them --they were done by a group of
criminals. "The callers obviously haven't got a map for a start, as they don't
appear to know where Azerbaijan is. "They seem to have just seen the dark skin
of the children in the photograph and taken out the day's events on me. It is
bizarre." Burton police's community engagement chief inspector Steve Mould said
the racist comments unfortunately showed the naive attitude of a small minority
of people. He said: "The individuals making these calls are obviously not very
well informed, and we could do without this kind of response.   "The individuals
that carried out the London bombings are not representative of the wider Islamic
community. "They were criminal events and the individuals involved are not
representative of any Islamic view."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2005 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 11, 2005, Monday

Terror attacks soften taxman's heart

BYLINE: By Selina Mills

SECTION: City; Your Business Pg. 034

LENGTH: 238 words

THE Inland Revenue has said it will deal "sympathetically" with any late
employers' benefit forms due in last Wednesday but held up by the disruption
caused by the terror attacks on London.

The lengthy list for forms, which include form 42, detailing an employer's
issuance of securities and options, and P11Ds, covering expenses and benefits,
had to be posted by July 6 - the day before the attacks. Late forms incur an
initial penalty of pounds 300 and a further pounds 60 each day they are not
received.

A Revenue spokesman said that, while the deadline stood, it would be reasonable
over late arrivals.

"There is no question of any customer affected by Thursday's tragic events
having to pay a penalty because a return was submitted late," he said.

Accountant Grant Thornton said the penalties for late applications were severe.

Ellie Gamble, senior tax manager, said: "If unapproved share awards to over
1,000 employees are unreported, the penalty can be as high as pounds 300,000."

But she said that submitting a form late was preferable to submitting an
incorrect form. "If P11D is filed late, the normal penalty is pounds 300. If it
is returned incorrectly, the penalty rockets to pounds 3,000."

Other accountants said the penalties were an extra tax. "This is a stealth tax
by any other name," said Nick Wallis, of Smith and Williamson.

"The authorities are taking a much more hard-line approach."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 11, 2005, Monday

BOMB US AND YOU BOMB THE WORLD Among the missing are Muslims and Jews, black and
white, young and old and people from all corners of the world; last week's
outrage shows how everyone has been affected by the terrorist attacks on the
melting pot of London

BYLINE: By Nicole Martin

SECTION: Features; Art Sales Pg. 018

LENGTH: 654 words

MONIKA Suchocka from Poland, Mihaela Otto from Romania, Gamze Gunoral from
Turkey, Anthony Fatayi-Williams from Nigeria, Slimane Ihab from France, Behnaz
Mozakka from Iran, Shahera Islam, a Muslim, Miriam Hyman, a Jew.

As the home-made posters bearing the names and faces of the missing show, an
attack on London is an attack on the world. Christians, Muslims, Hindus, Jews
and Sikhs; they come from every religion, faith, colour and background,
reflecting the diversity of a city where one in three people belongs to an
ethnic minority and more than 300 languages are spoken.

More than 40 people are still missing feared dead after Thursday's bombings,
among them an Italian publishing executive who had just got engaged, a Hindu IT
manager, a hairdresser, a hospital cleaner, a computer analyst, an accountant
who survived the Lockerbie bombing and a Vietnamese tour guide who was soon to
be married.

All set off in the morning before becoming lost in the sea of anonymous faces
during the rush to work. Today they appear on hastily prepared posters tied to
railings, stuck to lamp posts or handed out at hospitals by families and friends
clinging to the faintest of hopes that their loved-one may still be alive. Each
poster tells a different story, but many represent the young, aspirant working
Londoners trying to fulfil their potential in a city that rivals New York as the
greatest melting pot in the world.

There is Laura Webb, 28, a personal assistant; Gladys Wundowa, 51, a hospital
cleaner; Benedetta Ciaccia, 30, an Italian business analyst; Rachelle Chung For
Yuen, 27, an accountant who moved to London from Mauritius five years ago; and
Karolina Gluck, 29, an administrator from Poland.

Ojara Ikeagwu, 55, a social worker with three children, smiles proudly in her
graduation picture; Shahera Islam, a 20-year-old Muslim, bank worker "as
comfortable in high heels and jeans as a traditional shalwar kameez", is
pictured with her siblings; and Shyanuja Parathasangary, 30, stands happily
alongside her sister. Board any bus or train in the capital and dozens of
different languages can be heard besides English: Albanian, Turkish, Polish,
Chinese, Vietnamese, Hebrew, Czech, Russian, Arabic, Urdu, French or Spanish.

Walk down Oxford Street or stroll through Hyde Park and orthodox Jews black
wearing broad-brimmed hats can be seen alongside Muslim women in hijab and
teenagers in baseball caps and low-slung jeans.

The city's ethnic make-up is geographically diverse. Although there are clusters
of ethnic groups - such as a large Japanese community in Finchley, and a large
concentration of people from Hong Kong in Barnet - London's different groups are
not particularly concentrated as they are in New York. Within 24 hours of
celebrating the city's success in being awarded the 2012 Olympics, Ken
Livingstone, the London mayor, rounded on those responsible for the
"indiscriminate" attacks.

"This was not a terrorist attack against the mighty and the powerful," he said.
"It was aimed at ordinary Londoners, black and white, Muslim and Christian,
Hindu and Jew, young and old.  "They chose to come to London, as so many have
come before, because they come to be free, they come to live the life they
choose, they come to be able to be themselves . . .

"Nothing you do, however many of us you kill, will stop that flight to our city
where freedom is strong and where people can live in harmony with one another."

His sentiments were shared by Trevor Phillips, the chairman of the Commission
for Racial Equality. He said: "London's very nature means that this was a
multi-ethnic, multi-faith and multi-racial tragedy.

"The harrowing images of strangers of different races and religions comforting
each other as they emerged from the bomb blasts shows that London is a city
content in its diversity and its reaction to this attack should be an example to
all." nmartin§telegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 11, 2005

Bus bomb clues may hold key to terror attack

BYLINE: Rosie Cowan, Duncan Campbell, Richard Norton-Taylor and Giles Tremlett
in Madrid

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words


The police and security services were last night pinning their hopes for an
early breakthrough in their search for the perpetrators of Thursday's attacks in
London on evidence from the shattered number 30 bus and its passengers, both
living and dead.

It was reported last night that Britain's security alert had been raised to its
highest level - "severe specific" alert - by the joint terrorist analysis
centre. The upgrading makes it clear that the security services believe that the
perpetrators of the attack are still at large.

Officials indicated that the three synchronised bombs on the underground were
placed by individuals who then fled, leading to a warning from the home
secretary, Charles Clarke, of possible further attacks as the total of dead was
expected to reach 60.

The key to the investigation is now seen to lie in the bomb on the bus, which
went off about an hour after the underground Explosions, killing 13 passengers
as the bus passed through Tavistock Square. Police are now almost certain the
tube bombs were not suicide attacks, but were positioned at the doors of
carriages before the perpetrators got off.

Among the theories being examined about the bus bomb yesterday is that it may
have been a deliberate tactic to cause maximum mayhem as those fleeing the tube
boarded buses. Another theory is that the device went off by accident as the
bomber tried to make his way to another target.

Police sources said they could not rule out that the bomber may be among the
dead, who have not been formally identified.

A number of passengers and the bus driver survived the blast, and detectives
will interview them in the hope that they can provide clues, all the more so as
the CCTV camera on the bus was not working.

Police will examine hundreds of thousands of hours of CCTV footage from tube
stations and street cameras all over London today in the hope this could yield
pictures of the bombers. But this will be a long process because they have not
yet established which stations the bombers used. Scotland Yard set up a special
email address for witnesses to send mobile phone and video footage and
photographs of the scenes to detectives at images@met.police.uk.

There have already been 1,700 calls to the confidential anti-terrorist hotline,
some of which, police said, contained important information.

Specialists from 30 countries are assisting the Metropolitan police in their
investigation. Spanish police have brought with them information about how the
Madrid train bombings that killed 191 people were carried out last March.

Security sources said they were keeping an open mind about who was responsible.

One person under scrutiny yesterday was Mustafa Setmariam Nasar, a Syrian linked
to the Madrid bombers and now said to be in Iraq, who was reported to have set
up a "sleeper cell" in London.

A Spanish-nationalised Syrian who lived in north London from 1995 to 1998, Nasar
was described by the chief prosecutor in the Madrid bombings case as a suspect
in the "initiation, preparation and carrying out" of the attacks. Tall,
red-haired, pale-skinned and green-eyed, Nasar, according to Spanish police, has
been able to travel without raising suspicion.

Security sources said they were pursuing a number of individuals. "No one name
has risen to the top of the heap. They are all being looked at, all given equal
weighting," a senior anti-terrorist official told the Guardian.

The former commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Lord Stevens, said yesterday
that he believed the people who had carried out the attacks were "British born
and bred, brought up here and totally aware of British life and values". He
dismissed suggestions, both by security sources and in the media, that the
terrorists were possibly Algerian or Moroccan.

Lord Stevens, writing in the News of the World, said he believed that up to
3,000 British-born or British-based people had passed through Osama bin Laden's
training camps. Of these, he believed that there were now about 200 committed
"home-grown terrorists willing and able to slaughter innocents for their
perverted view of Islam".

Lord Stevens said that eight planned attacks had been thwarted in the past five
years. On one occasion, he said, 1,000 undercover Metropolitan police officers
had been deployed to watch suspected terrorists believed to be about to carry
out an attack.

"No one can say Lord Stevens is right or wrong," a senior intelligence official
said.

Intelligence sources described a "very small number of inner-core al-Qaida
people" in Britain consisting of 30 or so members, with several hundred who have
been to training camps or have fought in Afghanistan, Bosnia or Chechnya. They
also referred to a third group of "home-grown" radicalised Britons not linked to
the other groups and therefore difficult to investigate and know about.

A joint Home Office and Foreign Office report, Young Muslims and Extremism, said
Britain might now be harbouring thousands of al-Qaida sympathisers.

Forensic pathologists have begun the process of identifying the dead at a
temporary mortuary set up in a military barracks in the City of London, but
because many of the victims were so badly injured in the blasts formal
identification may take some time. Names of the dead will not be publicly
released until the legal identification process through the coroner has taken
place.

Police arrested three British men returning from the US at Heathrow early
yesterday morning, but a senior Scotland Yard source said they had been picked
up at the airport after being turned back by the US authorities and were not
believed to have had anything to do with the bombings. They were later released
without charge.

A security alert which led to the evacuation of 20,000 people from Birmingham
city centre on Saturday was said yesterday by senior police sources not to be
connected to the London attacks.

Mr Clarke warned that the terrorists could strike again. "Our fear is, of
course, of more attacks until we succeed in tracking down the gang that
committed the atrocities on Thursday," he said.

It also emerged yesterday that friends and relatives of the missing are being
charged up to 40p a minute when they call the police casualty bureau.

More than 100,000 people have called the 0870 number since Thursday's attacks
hoping for news of their missing loved ones. The calls cost up to 10p a minute
from landlines and 40p from mobiles.

The telecoms regulator Ofcom yesterday criticised the use of the 0870 number for
the hotline, describing it as "inappropriate". Ofcom said its guidelines stated
that public service bodies should be wary of using the code, both because of the
costs to callers and because the number could not always be accessed by people
calling from abroad.

It was announced over the weekend that a two-minute silence is to be held at 1pm
this Thursday to remember those dead and injured.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 11, 2005

G2: The new Thatcher? His impressive performance after last week's terror
attacks has strengthened his position as favourite to become the next Tory
leader. But who really is David Davis? And why do so many in his party loathe
him? Tom Bower on the man traditionalists hope can save the Conservative party
from itself (continued from page 5)

BYLINE: Tom Bower

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1403 words


Man of the party

Rather than sulk, Davis accepted Eric Forth's advice to remain on the front
bench, shadowing John Prescott, while watching IDS's strategy misfire. By
December 2002, few of the divided and mutinous Tories doubted that Duncan Smith
would be challenged in the summer if the party's ratings failed to improve. The
vote of confidence was finally held on October 29 2003. Duncan Smith lost by 75
votes to 90 and resigned. (Davis says he voted for IDS "because I don't believe
in regicide".) Some whispered that Vanessa Gearson, the assistant whose
allegations that Betsy Duncan Smith had benefited from a misuse of parliamentary
funds damaged the leader, was supported by Davis. "Not true," he now says. "She
was just caught in the middle."

Davis quickly emerged as a favourite candidate for the leadership against
Michael Howard; though he did not have a majority among MPs, he could have won
among the membership, vindicating the approach he had taken during his
chairmanship of the party. But with just 18 months to go before the next
election, the Tories' slim chance of winning would have been eradicated by
exposing party divisions in a leadership contest. Davis decided during the
weekend before Duncan Smith's resignation that to prevent that schism, he would
not run against Howard. (According to John Blundell, their discussions about his
decision were codenamed "Operation Kneecap".)

Unlike Howard, Davis did not believe the Tories could win the general election,
but as shadow home secretary, he recognised the opportunity to boost his own
status. Labour was under sustained attack for the steep rise of illegal
immigrants, not least from whistleblowers in the Home Office's own immigration
department. Angered by the department's indecision, officials sent Davis
privileged information about ministers ignoring warnings. Asked in 2003 about
the numbers of illegal immigrants in Britain, David Blunkett admitted, "I
haven't got a clue," and did nothing to find out.

Despite an open goal, Davis was careful. Leaked information from James Cameron,
an official at the British embassy in Bucharest, about the granting of roofers'
work visas to Romanians with one leg, was denied by Beverley Hughes, the junior
Home Office minister. Her further denials that she had been warned about the
visa scams by her officials, Davis knew to be untrue, thanks to information from
Steve Moxon, another whistleblower. Hughes was allowed to slowly bury herself by
misleading the Commons, and in April 2004 she resigned.

Blunkett had every reason to dislike Davis, not least for the Tory's admission
that "being nice across the dispatch box doesn't work". Davis could have added
that since appearing nice did not attract votes, he was content to appear nasty.
Then Davis latched on to the minister's false denial that he had hastened the
visa application for his son's nanny, winning Blunkett's resignation, his second
scalp. Even Davis's avowed enemies in the Notting Hill set could find little
fault, except to accuse Davis of further laziness in initially ignoring James
Cameron's original emails for some days. (Davis admits to a day's delay because
Cameron's message started, "Please don't think I'm mad . . .")

The Notting Hill Group's accusations against Davis intensified during the
general election campaign. He was blamed for his long absences from London; his
refusal to appear on the Today programme; and for arguments about policy with
Michael Howard ("pretty nasty", according to an observer, "like dealing with a
bar of soap"). The two politicians never ate dinner together.

Davis now says that he rejected Today's offer of unattractive slots before 7am
for tactical reasons: "I'm not jumping to the media's tune if it's tactically
unwise." More important, he says, he proved his loyalty to Howard by supporting
ID cards, although he was personally opposed to the policy. "He handled it very
well," says Michael Forsyth, a former minister and admirer of Davis's since the
early 1970s. "He proved (he had) the intellectual capacity to do the job." Asked
about his frequent absences from London while Oliver Letwin, also fighting a
marginal seat, was there every day, Davis blames the greater distances he needed
to travel.

But there were other reasons for Davis's relative invisibility during the
campaign. Finding himself in a surprisingly marginal constituency after 2002, he
had become a Lib Dem target for decapitation. Jon Neal, the Lib Dem candidate,
was fighting a negative campaign suggesting that Davis had ignored the
constituency. Davis calculated that support from workers at the British
Aerospace factory in Brough, and extra votes from workers attracted by his good
organisation, would secure victory if he worked the streets every night. His
reward at the count was an increased share of the vote.

The poor performance of the party on May 5 did not surprise Davis. Publicly, he
blamed Oliver Letwin's refusal to cut more taxes and the modernisers' push for
sympathetic conservatism, which might appeal in London, but not in the Midlands
and the north. The "modernisers", he believed, were excessively introspective
about the party and the process, and insufficiently concerned about Britain as a
whole. To Davis's surprise, Howard had to the end believed that the
Conservatives would win, which was not entirely fanciful; just 15,000 extra Tory
votes in 34 constituencies would have meant a hung parliament and a political
earthquake. But Howard's failure was Davis's opportunity.

Davis's platform was ready as soon as Howard unexpectedly resigned on the day
after the election. As a One Nation Tory, he advocated "new Tory idealism and a
culture of hope" on the basis of "timeless Tory principles that are universal in
their appeal". He appealed to people feeling trapped by a system that seemed to
have forgotten them. Parents, patients and pensioners would be the Tories'
targets. Bigger government, he would say, was not the solution, but the problem.
His challenge was to change the terms of the political debate.

But first, Davis has to win the leadership contest in the late autumn. And
considerable obstacles lie in his path, not least those whose dislike of Davis
is undisguised. Politics, Bruce Anderson wrote recently, "is full of characters
whose ambitions outrun their abilities . . . It is hard to think of a better
example than David Davis. In 18 years as an MP . . . he has never said, written
or done anything to suggest he is anywhere near prime-ministerial calibre."
Whisperers, meanwhile, accused Davis of plotting to immediately overthrow
Howard; of encouraging his colleagues to threaten a new MP; and again of
disloyalty, idleness and stupidity.

"You can measure people in politics by their enemies," says Davis, who has urged
his troops to ignore the mob. But politicians can also be measured by their
cronies, and the most heavily criticised of Davis's coterie is Derek Conway, his
best friend and whip for the campaign. Conway is accused of being aggressively
poisonous and doing more harm than good. (Davis dismisses those judgments as
"snobbery from the nastiest people in Parliament".) Conway, meanwhile, ripostes:
"I'm a Geordie, not a smoothie from Boodles." As a fellow council estate lad,
Conway has proven himself by charging with Davis towards the sound of gunfire.
It is this quality that Davis hopes will restore the Tories' fortunes - rather
than those offered by his main challenger, David Cameron, whom Davis supporters
see as a clubbable and inexperienced Oxbridge socialite.

Should Davis fulfil his ambition, the real struggle for the Tory recovery will
begin. On the eve of his return to Australia, Lynton Crosby, the Conservative
party's election mastermind, told the deflated Tory hierarchy that their brand
was badly tarnished, and the task of rebuilding the image would take years
rather than months. Davis, he said, was the best person to restore the party's
fortunes.

Despite a strong showing in recent weeks by David Cameron, Davis's supporters
believe that at the moment the leadership race is Davis's to lose. Like Michael
Howard, he has a positive story to tell of success from humble origins; unlike
him, he has no past ministerial embarrassments to defend. Many Tories may have
to swallow hard to accept his leadership, but they did the same 30 years ago for
Margaret Thatcher.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 11, 2005

Sterling's fall expected to continue;
Fears of further terrorist attacks and prospect of cut in base rate maintain
downward pressure

BYLINE: DOUGLAS HAMILTON

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 659 words


FEARS of fresh terrorist attacks like the one that rocked London last Thursday
and the prospect of a cut in base rates next month will keep the pressure on
sterling this week, City currency dealers predict.

They expect the pound to slump to fresh lows against the dollar and other
currencies when foreign exchange markets re-open today after the weekend break.

Sterling tumbled in nervous trade on Friday as investors worried about the
economic impact of Thursday's fatal attacks in London and the risk of new ones.

As the police sifted through the wreckage of a double-decker bus and burned-out
Underground trains for clues on the perpetrators of the attacks, sterling slid
to its lowest level against the greenback since December 2003 and hit a fouryear
low against the Canadian dollar.

Trading was jittery on Friday when several rail stations were evacuated, and
City traders expect much the same this week.

"It all boils down to the implications for household spending, " said Adarsh
Sinha, currency strategist at Barclays Capital.

"It's the key downside risk the Bank of England has in mind as far as the UK
economy is concerned. These attacks may have exaggerated the fears about
consumption."

The pound skidded to below dollars-1.74 in Friday's dealing and at one point hit
its lowest level in 19 months at dollars-1.7310.

It was also weaker against the euro, trading at just above 68p per euro. On
Thursday it fell as low as 68.92p, its weakest since late May. Against the Swiss
franc, it traded near Thursday's closing levels at 2.26 francs, compared with
Thursday's low of 2.2408, its weakest since May 19.

Sterling also hit a four-year low against the Canadian dollar at
Cdollars-2.1193, and fell to 98.80 on its trade-weighted index, its weakest
since January 2004.

Despite the pound's poor performance on the markets last week, some traders
remain bullish about prospects.

Some analysts said a number of investors felt the deep fall had gone too far and
bought the pound back at the end of European trading hours.

"The pound has sold off far too much, " said Jim Webber, chief economist at
Canadianowned TD Securities. "It's overdone and I would expect it to bounce back
- there will be long-term buyers at these kinds of levels."

The economic impact of the terrorist attacks became a key question.

Many pundits in the Square Mile said the Bank of England could speed up the
widelyexpected cuts in interest rates, which many believe are needed to revive
faltering consumer spending, undermining the pound's yield appeal to
speculators.

A slowdown in domestic demand is a key problem for the UK economy, and City
economists said in the short term, consumption could be hit even more as
shoppers and tourists stay away from London.

"Last week's events occurred when the UK economy was seen as vulnerable anyway.
The likelihood of a UK interest rate cut has systematically increased and
pressure for sterling is likely to remain, " said Kristjan Kasikov, currency
strategist at Calyon, the investment arm of French bank Credit Agricole.

AReuters poll out late last week showed 22 out of 27 economists predicting a
rate cut in August after the Bank of England's monetary policy committee left
rates steady at 4.75-per cent on Thursday.

The Bank said on Friday that it had no plans to hold an emergency MPC meeting.

Currency traders will be closely watching UK consumer inflation figures for June
that are due out tomorrow for clues on when rates might be trimmed.

Standard Chartered economist Gavin Redknap said markets may latch on to the
continuing weakness in manufacturing as a reason to expect the Bank of England
to cut interest rates.

But a lower cost of borrowing was unlikely to help the sector, because it
remains squeezed due to a high value of the pound, weak demand in Europe and
fierce competition from Asia, he  said.

Redknap said: "The recent fall in sterling should help manufacturers later in
the year, but for now the outlook remains decidedly gloomy."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 11, 2005, Monday

TERROR IN LONDON: PSYCHOLOGICAL SCARS OF ATTACKS ARE JUST BEGINNING TO SURFACE

BYLINE: RAJ PERSAUD

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 543 words


Today is the first day of the return to anything like a normal working week for
the UK generally and London specifically, following an unprecedented emotional
roller-coaster ride of Live8, the Olympic bid then terrorist outrage. What is it
going to be like for millions of commuters to get back on to trains and buses
today having witnessed such terrible events? What is the longer lasting impact
on the psyche of the nation and capital of such extraordinary shared
experiences?

Psychiatrists know from extensive research on New York's population, as well as
across the US, after 9/11, combined with experience from other traumas, that
some will be so psychologically scarred they will never be able to commute
again. These are most likely to be those who escaped but were trapped on the
Underground, or on that bus, or the road in close proximity to the explosions.
How proximal you come to a close shave with death predicts how likely you are to
suffer from severe psychological difficulties, such as post-traumatic stress
disorder (PTSD).

The symptoms include hyper-vigilance " every time sufferers hear a siren, or the
Tube shudders to a halt, their mind automatically catapults to the worst
possible inference as to their personal safety, rendering a normal life
impossible. Insomnia, nightmares and flashbacks are a cluster of symptoms of
PTSD.

But you didn't have to be on the bus in Tavistock Square or on the Underground
at Edgware Road, Russell Square or Aldgate to be profoundly psychologically
affected. Modern instant communications technology combined with a hyper- vivid
media beaming intense eyewitness experience and testimony, means there is now a
sense we have all journeyed on those buses and trains with the casualties and
survivors. These were people doing very ordinary things and in the very
neighbourhoods we can closely identify with.

Psychiatric research into 9/11 confirms that those who watched the rolling news
media most incessantly, even if they were thousands of miles away from New York,
were often as likely to be as traumatised as those who were actually there.

But a series of studies has found that the closer you live geographically to the
location of a disaster, the higher your chances of developing PTSD. Another
discovered almost half of the total US population experienced at least one
symptom of PTSD in the week after 9/11.

Those most affected emotionally are going to be the more socially isolated " and
loneliness is a worryingly common problem in a large, anonymous city like
London. Perhaps the most widespread sentiment, though, is a kind of listlessness
as previous preoccupations now seem so trivial in comparison to the enormity of
what has happened.

But there is a particular psychological issue. It is the deep problem for
survivors and relatives of never knowing what actually happened to the victims.
These kinds of events are almost psychologically unique in the long-term torture
they can inflict, by depriving knowledge of the last moments of loved ones,
leaving an empty dark space where only nightmares can roam.

Dr Raj Persaud is Gresham professor for public understanding of psychiatry and
consultant psychiatrist at the Maudsley Hospital in south London

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Internet Business News

                                 July 11, 2005

E-mail virus poses as London terrorist attack news footage

LENGTH: 198 words


INTERNET BUSINESS NEWS-©1995-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

MessageLabs, a provider of e-mail security and management services to
businesses, has revealed that it has intercepted copies of an e-mail posing as a
video news clip of the terrorist attacks in London which instead contains a
Trojan designed to compromise the recipient's computer.

The e-mail containing this Trojan has been designed to appear as a CNN
Newsletter which asks recipients to 'See attachments for unique amateur video
shots'. When executed the attachment copies itself to %Windir%\winlog.exe and
modifies the Windows registry key so that it runs automatically on system
start-up. The Trojan then attempts to obtain a list of the SMTP servers that the
user's machine is configured to use and starts to use these servers to send
unsolicited e-mail.

In addition, MessageLabs has revealed that the numbers of 'legitimate' e-mail
volumes rose sharply on the morning of 7 July due to the terrorist attacks in
London, with traffic doubling from the usual 500,000 e-mails per hour to over 1
million. The peak hour for traffic saw an extra 750,000 e-mails cross
MessageLabs servers.

(Comments on this story may be sent to info@m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright  2005 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 11, 2005, Monday

07/07: TERROR IN LONDON: AHERN: ATTACK WAS ON US ALL

BYLINE: BY DAVID LOWE

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 403 words


TAOISEACH Bertie Ahern has called the bomb attacks which ripped through London
on Thursday "an assault on everyone".

He offered his sympathy to all those affected by the tragedy and said: "It has
just been a horrific week and a very sad week. Obviously I condemn these attacks
in the strongest possible way.

"I offer my sincere condolences to the families and friends of the victims of
this horrific tragedy."

Mr Ahern referred to the blasts, which have officially claimed 49 lives, coming
within a day of London winning the 2012 Olympic bid.

He added: "The British people were so proud to win the Olympic bid and then
within 24 hours it has all turned the other way on them.

"I think it is a weekend for us to be close to them and to think of them and to
share our prayers with them."

The Taoiseach described the British as a friendly people who welcomed all
nationalities to the UK capital.

He said: "As is typical in these terrorist atrocities wherever they happen, it's
not just British people.

"It's Chinese people, Sierra Leone people, Portuguese people because it is an
international city.

"We are with them. We un- derstand the problems of terrorism and people have to
stand together.

"Whether it is cooperation at European level or co-operation at world level we
have to stand together to fight this."

Mr Ahern also mentioned talks he had had with the British Prime Minister Tony
Blair about the problem of restoring peace to Iraq.

He added: "He [Tony Blair] says that in an enormous area of Iraq now the British
soldiers are back at barracks.

"They are not on the streets at all. They are only on call when necessary. There
are huge parts of Iraq where there has been no difficulty for a long time.

"The suicide bombers are terrible but it is inevitable.

"How long do you get through any day until you hear that there has been another
suicide car bomber?

"I think most days it is 20 or 30 people that have been killed in it.

"The question is, how do they get a strategy that can win this over? What else
can they do?"

Mr Ahern said continued violence in Iraq appeared to leave the US and the UK
with no other option but to continue training Iraqis.

He said: "I cannot see the policy change and I cannot see all the resistance
ceasing.

"Perhaps if they are lucky they'll get more and more peaceful parts, which seems
to be their strategy."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 July 11, 2005

Sword attack terror

SECTION: News; 999; Theft; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 321 words


A man with a samurai sword burst into a hi-fi shop. The robber pointed the sword
and shouted threats at a CCTV camera - watched by staff locked in the back
office.

The swordsman and two accomplices took £11,000 of equipment.

It was the second raid in eight days on the Bang and Olufsen store in Arnold and
police have not ruled out a link.

Today, salesman Alan Stuart, 55, of Arnold, explained how the raiders struck at
4.20pm on Friday.

He said: "I was in the office when I heard the doorbell ring.

"I looked up at the CCTV monitor and saw the men dressed head-to-toe in black.

"One of them was brandishing a samurai sword. He was holding it up above his
shoulder with both hands, just as if he was going to strike with it.

"I shouted to my colleague it was a robbery. She was about to open the office
door but I said these guys were armed.

"I hit the silent panic alarm which links to the police. We are just thankful
neither of us were in the shop." One of the men was wearing a balaclava and the
other two wore hoods and caps. Only one spoke.

They stole two Beolab 5 speakers which weigh nine-and-a-half stone each and cost
£10,000 a pair.

They also took a £1,200 CD player, which smashed on the pavement as they left
the Thackerays Lane shop. They drove off in a blue Vauxhall Astra which was
later found burnt out.

On Thursday, June 30, three men stole two Beolab 8000 speakers worth £2,300.

But all the stolen products are protected by a pin code and cannot be used.

Nobody was hurt in either robbery.

Ian Winn, company director of Bang and Olufsen's Nottingham stores said: "We are
now looking at getting a door control system." Sergeant Kevin Walker, based at
Arnold High Street, said: "We are not necessarily linking the two robberies, but
we have not ruled out a link." Anyone with information should call police on
0115 967 0999 or Crimestoppers 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    © Copyright 2005 Nottingham Evening Post

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 11, 2005

Bus bomb clues may hold key to terror attack

BYLINE: Rosie Cowan, Duncan Campbell, Richard Norton-Taylor and Giles Tremlett
in Madrid

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words


The police and security services were last night pinning their hopes for an
early breakthrough in their search for the perpetrators of Thursday's attacks in
London on evidence from the shattered number 30 bus and its passengers, both
living and dead.

It was reported last night that Britain's security alert had been raised to its
highest level - "severe specific" alert - by the joint terrorist analysis
centre. The upgrading makes it clear that the security services believe that the
perpetrators of the attack are still at large.

Officials indicated that the three synchronised bombs on the underground were
placed by individuals who then fled, leading to a warning from the home
secretary, Charles Clarke, of possible further attacks as the total of dead was
expected to reach 60.

The key to the investigation is now seen to lie in the bomb on the bus, which
went off about an hour after the underground Explosions, killing 13 passengers
as the bus passed through Tavistock Square. Police are now almost certain the
tube bombs were not suicide attacks, but were positioned at the doors of
carriages before the perpetrators got off.

Among the theories being examined about the bus bomb yesterday is that it may
have been a deliberate tactic to cause maximum mayhem as those fleeing the tube
boarded buses. Another theory is that the device went off by accident as the
bomber tried to make his way to another target.

Police sources said they could not rule out that the bomber may be among the
dead, who have not been formally identified.

A number of passengers and the bus driver survived the blast, and detectives
will interview them in the hope that they can provide clues, all the more so as
the CCTV camera on the bus was not working.

Police will examine hundreds of thousands of hours of CCTV footage from tube
stations and street cameras all over London today in the hope this could yield
pictures of the bombers. But this will be a long process because they have not
yet established which stations the bombers used. Scotland Yard set up a special
email address for witnesses to send mobile phone and video footage and
photographs of the scenes to detectives at images@met.police.uk.

There have already been 1,700 calls to the confidential anti-terrorist hotline,
some of which, police said, contained important information.

Specialists from 30 countries are assisting the Metropolitan police in their
investigation. Spanish police have brought with them information about how the
Madrid train bombings that killed 191 people were carried out last March.

Security sources said they were keeping an open mind about who was responsible.

One person under scrutiny yesterday was Mustafa Setmariam Nasar, a Syrian linked
to the Madrid bombers and now said to be in Iraq, who was reported to have set
up a "sleeper cell" in London.

A Spanish-nationalised Syrian who lived in north London from 1995 to 1998, Nasar
was described by the chief prosecutor in the Madrid bombings case as a suspect
in the "initiation, preparation and carrying out" of the attacks. Tall,
red-haired, pale-skinned and green-eyed, Nasar, according to Spanish police, has
been able to travel without raising suspicion.

Security sources said they were pursuing a number of individuals. "No one name
has risen to the top of the heap. They are all being looked at, all given equal
weighting," a senior anti-terrorist official told the Guardian.

The former commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Lord Stevens, said yesterday
that he believed the people who had carried out the attacks were "British born
and bred, brought up here and totally aware of British life and values". He
dismissed suggestions, both by security sources and in the media, that the
terrorists were possibly Algerian or Moroccan.

Lord Stevens, writing in the News of the World, said he believed that up to
3,000 British-born or British-based people had passed through Osama bin Laden's
training camps. Of these, he believed that there were now about 200 committed
"home-grown terrorists willing and able to slaughter innocents for their
perverted view of Islam".

Lord Stevens said that eight planned attacks had been thwarted in the past five
years. On one occasion, he said, 1,000 undercover Metropolitan police officers
had been deployed to watch suspected terrorists believed to be about to carry
out an attack.

"No one can say Lord Stevens is right or wrong," a senior intelligence official
said.

Intelligence sources described a "very small number of inner-core al-Qaida
people" in Britain consisting of 30 or so members, with several hundred who have
been to training camps or have fought in Afghanistan, Bosnia or Chechnya. They
also referred to a third group of "home-grown" radicalised Britons not linked to
the other groups and therefore difficult to investigate and know about.

A joint Home Office and Foreign Office report, Young Muslims and Extremism, said
Britain might now be harbouring thousands of al-Qaida sympathisers.

Forensic pathologists have begun the process of identifying the dead at a
temporary mortuary set up in a military barracks in the City of London, but
because many of the victims were so badly injured in the blasts formal
identification may take some time. Names of the dead will not be publicly
released until the legal identification process through the coroner has taken
place.

Police arrested three British men returning from the US at Heathrow early
yesterday morning, but a senior Scotland Yard source said they had been picked
up at the airport after being turned back by the US authorities and were not
believed to have had anything to do with the bombings. They were later released
without charge.

A security alert which led to the evacuation of 20,000 people from Birmingham
city centre on Saturday was said yesterday by senior police sources not to be
connected to the London attacks.

Mr Clarke warned that the terrorists could strike again. "Our fear is, of
course, of more attacks until we succeed in tracking down the gang that
committed the atrocities on Thursday," he said.

It also emerged yesterday that friends and relatives of the missing are being
charged up to 40p a minute when they call the police casualty bureau.

More than 100,000 people have called the 0870 number since Thursday's attacks
hoping for news of their missing loved ones. The calls cost up to 10p a minute
from landlines and 40p from mobiles.

The telecoms regulator Ofcom yesterday criticised the use of the 0870 number for
the hotline, describing it as "inappropriate". Ofcom said its guidelines stated
that public service bodies should be wary of using the code, both because of the
costs to callers and because the number could not always be accessed by people
calling from abroad.

It was announced over the weekend that a two-minute silence is to be held at 1pm
this Thursday to remember those dead and injured.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 11, 2005

G2: The new Thatcher? His impressive performance after last week's terror
attacks has strengthened his position as favourite to become the next Tory
leader. But who really is David Davis? And why do so many in his party loathe
him? Tom Bower on the man traditionalists hope can save the Conservative party
from itself (continued on page 5)

BYLINE: Tom Bower

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 4526 words


Action Man's self-introduction was scripted in Hollywood: "Failure is not an
option. We're going to get this guy back." The scene was a Cabinet Office room
in Whitehall on Saturday August 26 1995. The intelligence officers, civil
servants and military personnel gathered at the meeting of Cobra, the secret
committee summoned for major emergencies, were impressed by the junior Foreign
Office minister. Few realised that he had hijacked a famous line from Apollo 13,
the movie about a stricken spaceship. But over the following hour, the experts
confirmed their judgment about that weekend's duty minister, one David Davis.

The 14 men had been summoned following the kidnap of Sergeant Tim Cowley, an
assistant to the defence attache at the British embassy in Bogota. Colombian
criminals had seized Cowley, 32, while he was birdwatching in the countryside. A
ransom demand was expected, which the British government would reject. Cowley
could only hope that a British SAS group would pinpoint his captors' hideout in
the Andes and rescue him before he was murdered. "One solid mistake over the
following weeks," Davis was told, "will guarantee Cowley's death." But Davis,
after a year's training as a Territorial in the SAS and a pre-Westminster career
as an industrial troubleshooter, was unusually qualified as a politician to ask
the right questions and give cool leadership.

Four months later, in the midst of a gunfight, Cowley was rescued. At a discreet
party in the Foreign Office to welcome Cowley back, Davis presented him with a
gift wrapped in Christmas paper: a toy Action Man. Participants of the Cobra
meetings at that celebration described Davis as an "extremely good manager" and
a "hard-working man, able to master a complex brief", whose "relaxed manner
could be misinterpreted by some as a lack of serieux ".

That "misinterpretation" is widely shared among Davis's critics in Westminster,
who have accused him of egoism, shallowness and phony bravado. Their hatred is
raw, especially since Davis is favourite to become the party's next leader. As
the post-election exhaustion among Michael Howard's closest advisers turns to
frustration, they have focused their anger on his "idleness" and "disloyalty"
during the unsuccessful campaign, painting a picture of an uneducated
adventurer, unskilled in spreading emollience and philosophically ignorant.

To their irritation, Davis's statesmanlike performance this week, following the
terrorist attacks on London, has only enhanced his claim to lead the party. His
quiet, magisterial condemnation of the bombings in the Commons on Thursday
overshadowed the home secretary's own performance. That success infuriated those
angered by Davis's ambitions.

Davis's detractors are concentrated in two groups. First, there are the older
Conservatives, mostly privately educated Eurosceptics and traditionalists who
now pose as modernisers. The second group are the so-called "Notting Hill" set:
thirtysomething, articulate, intelligent Londoners, they seek to recapture the
centre ground dominated by Blairism. Led by George Osborne, Ed Vaisey, Michael
Gove and especially David Cameron, they accuse Davis of being a disloyal master
plotter. What the detractors might be said to have in common is that many are
products of Oxbridge. Sophisticated, wealthy and cliquish, their resistance to
Davis could be explained by class: Tory toffs who dislike the working-class
product of a single-parent family.

Pertinently, the last outsider resented by traditionalist Tories was Margaret
Thatcher. Like Davis, she was criticised before her selection as leader 30 years
ago for lacking ideas, and was lampooned even after her election as "Hilda". Yet
within five years Thatcher had restored the Tories' fortunes. Davis's friends
resist the comparison with Thatcher, but there are similarities.

Hungryfor decades to become the party's leader, Davis has a political vision as
simple and unsophisticated as was Thatcher's appeal to the common man. Accused
of not having developed his principles in the past 20 years to match changes in
society, he replies: "My principles are 200 years old: low taxation, a small
state, and help for those in need." Compared to the modernisers, who discuss
convoluted rainbow coalitions to restore Tory fortunes, Davis's approach looks
populist and uncomplicated. But by travelling lightly, promising merely to raise
the opportunities and expectations of those at the bottom of society, he evokes
suspicion among those spouting cultural gestures and promoting open-neck shirts
or liberalism on drugs as proof of "modernisation".

Davis expects success, and that self-belief irritates his opponents. His hurdle
is to convince Tory traditionalists and intellectuals that Britain's
multiculturalist voters, especially the young and female, can be persuaded to
trust the Tories once again to fulfil their aspirations. As well as economic
freedom, Davis makes much of his commitment to social freedom, and mentions his
personal experience as his qualification to overcome working-class prejudice. By
comparison, says one of his Westminster friends, "the closest the Notting Hill
people come to workers is when their window cleaner calls once a month".

To Davis's credit, when he first arrived in Westminster, most Tories were
unaware of his impoverished background. Soon after his birth in York on December
23 1948, his natural father disappeared, leaving his son to be brought up by his
grandparents in a prefabricated home in Walmgate, near the city wall. When he
was seven, his mother Betty Brown met and married Ronald Davis, a manual worker,
and they moved to Wandsworth in south London. The small flat was "a terrible
little slum", says Davis. Nevertheless, moving to London transformed his life. A
teacher called Williams taught him to read and write in one term, and remains
his hero.

But he learned through personal experience the importance of stimulating
ambition in those at the bottom of society: education alone was not enough.

Tough upbringing

After Davis's half-sister Pauline was born, the family was allocated a flat in
Aboyne, a council estate in Tooting. By then, Ron Davis was a politically active
shop steward at Battersea power station and David Davis had discovered that his
grandfather Walter Harrison (his mother's stepfather) had been a shop steward
and a communist agitator who had led the Jarrow march from York to Aldermaston.
Politically, Davis was naturally to the left.

By his own account, school, even for ambitious working-class children at Tooting
Bec grammar, was an unremitting challenge. Fights were common: on one notable
occasion he successfully confronted a gang who had terrorised and attacked a
fellow pupil who was gay. More than 30 years later, a newspaper tracked down the
assailants who mournfully recalled Davis's retributive assault. His damaged nose
(broken five times so far) and a long scar above his lip, inflicted by a crowbar
during another fight in Brixton, mark Davis as either reckless or brave.

On the eve of taking his physics A-level, Davis argued again with his
stepfather, whom he blamed for being jealous of his relationship with his
mother. He fled to live with a female friend of his mother in Battersea: he
would not see or speak to his mother for five years. Today he remains strangely
unconcerned about his mother's sentiments. He is also unemotional about their
eventual reconciliation, showing more enthusiasm for his stepfather's funeral:
"It was fascinating - like a Mafia dream. There were hundreds of people there.
All these people I didn't know came up to me and shook my hand, saying, 'You're
the young Mr Davis.' " Soon after, he secretly searched for and found his
natural father, who had married and lived with his family. Davis pledged not to
reveal his identity and would, until 2005, misleadingly insist, "I have never
contacted him. I don't even know if he is still alive."

After he failed his A-level, Davis's parents refused him any further help in
securing him a university place. At 18, he became an emotionally deaf
individualist whose survival depended upon resolute self-confidence. He worked
as a clerk in an insurance company and joined the Territorial branch of the SAS
to earn the money to fund retaking the examinations: the SAS Territorials were
the hardest to join, but paid the most. He was taught to handle explosives, and
excelled at physical endurance, especially playing rugby.

Today, Davis's worst critics carp about his SAS credentials being as phony as
his broken nose. He is "a tough guy who hasn't achieved anything and doesn't
even read books", according to one disdainful Tory. Some feel that his "basher"
image suggests a lack of intellectual power to develop the party's philosophy.

Despite performing badly again in his A-levels, Davis arrived at Warwick
University in 1968 to study molecular science. After the enforced gap year he
was more mature and more politically interested than his contemporaries. Davis
remembers a challenge to Germaine Greer, a university lecturer, during a debate
about feminism: "What has your philosophy to offer the single mum living at the
top of a tower block in Coventry?" she was asked. He was unimpressed by her
reply; the student sit-ins and protests against the Vietnam war also contributed
to an increasing alienation from the left.

By the end of his first year, besides single-handedly establishing Radio
Warwick, Davis had become preoccupied by Iain Macleod's One Nation Conservatism.
The political conversion was consummated at meetings of the Federation of
Conservative Students, a political hothouse attracting many who would become
famous. By the early 70s, the smiling rugby player with the flat voice had
attracted substantial support in the federation. In 1973, he stood for the
chairmanship against Neil Hamilton, later to become notorious for his
involvement in the al-Fayed bribery scandal, and Tony Baldry, the current MP for
Banbury. On the eve of the election, Baldry, the favourite, was encouraged to
drink excessively - some say at Davis's expense. In the event, Baldry was urged
by Davis's supporters to make an impromptu speech in the bar. "We've got
Thatcher by the short and curlies," the Heathite slurred, reeling across the
floor. By daybreak,

his vote had evaporated. Hamilton's speech the following day was brilliant,
hilarious and so rightwing that he attracted no support. Davis's leftish speech
won the vote even though it was atrociously delivered. As chairman of the
federation, he was on the first rung to becoming party leader: "The bright star
of my generation," according to his friend and fellow Tory, John Blundell.

In that year, he married Doreen Cook, who had also studied molecular science at
Warwick and become a teacher. A striking redhead, she was going out with someone
else when they met. "I won her over with persistence, tenacity and doggedness,"
recalls Davis. They settled in Clapham, south London, amid a small circle of
loyal friends, and he completed a two-year course at the London Business School.
Julian Franks, his tutor in corporate finance, recalls Davis's "impressive
intellect and tremendous energy".

Getting his hands dirty

Unlike his fellow students, Davis did not seek a job at McKinseys, the
management consultant, or a blue-chip multinational corporation. He applied to
Rank Xerox and Silver Roadways, the transport division of sugar manufacturer
Tate & Lyle. "I wanted to get my hands dirty and learn the nitty-gritty," he
says. The interview room at Tate & Lyle was illuminated by a gas lamp. In the
midst of the three-day week, the executive moaned, "It's the end of civilisation
as we know it." "Don't be daft," replied Davis, "it's just another strike."

Over the next 13 years at Tate & Lyle, while the Tory party recovered to trounce
Labour in 1979, Davis was quietly building an unspectacular career with an
unglamorous corporation, and enjoying family life with two daughters (a son was
born later). Ceaselessly, he encouraged his daughters' academic work, moving to
Croydon to be close to a better state school, and teaching them to ski,
scuba-dive and rock-climb. His ambition was rewarded when both daughters won
places at Oxbridge.

In 1982, Davis's career was improved by a two-year mission to rescue a failing
subsidiary in Canada. His successful troubleshooting was rewarded by his
becoming the company's director of strategic planning in London. He also wrote
abook called "How to Turn Round a Company", a potential blueprint for
transforming a political party. By the end he was a committed free-marketeer,
convinced above all that the NHS could only be efficient by contracting out
services.

The return to England invigorated his interest in politics. Eager to enter
parliament, he rebuilt his relationship with the party by canvassing during
various election campaigns, meeting the party's leaders and reading Hyeck,
Friedman and Popper to understand modern social and economic theories. In 1987,
he applied to become the candidate in Boothferry, a safe seat in Yorkshire. Few
rated his chances as a first-time applicant, but he won the nomination; two
weeks later, Michael Heseltine arrived in the constituency. Hearing about
Davis's easy political career, he advised: "I'd keep quiet about that if I were
you." The election was won easily with a 54.8% share of the vote.

Leaving London - a bonus for his wife, who disliked city life - Davis bought a
17-acre farm in the constituency. He undertook what was to become an annual
pilgrimage: a 192-mile walk from Bees Head in the Lake District to Robin Hood's
Bay in North Yorkshire. His study at home was filled with computer equipment,
gadgets and books on everything from technology and military history to
mythology, anthropology and psychology. His heroes are "outsiders who made it":
Wellington, Disraeli and Gladstone.

Aged 38 when he was elected, Davis's professional career at that time was not
exceptional among MPs, although his burning ambition was clear to some. As Alan
Clark wrote in his diary after one of Davis's visits to Saltwood, Clark's castle
in Kent, Davis had completed the "black route without turning a hair, then
retraced his footsteps, hands in pockets - first time that's ever been done".
The "black route" was walking along the unprotected battlements above an
uninterrupted 50ft drop. The visitor was described by Clark as "clever, tough
and congenial"; in front of his log fire, Clark confided to Jonathan Aitken that
he could imagine Davis as a good Tory leader.

In 1989, Davis climbed the first rung on the ministerial ladder, becoming a
parliamentary undersecretary at the DTI and working briefly for Francis Maude.
The following year, he voted against Thatcher's withdrawal of free eye tests.
Whether Thatcher acknowledged his protest in her final, tumultuous months is
unknown, but in November 1990, the new prime minister John Major rewarded an
early supporter by appointing Davis as a junior whip.

The year after the 1992 election was tumultuous for the government and for
Davis. After quitting the ERM, the government, with a majority of just 21, was
rocked by its eurosceptic MPs, eager to prevent ratification of the Maastricht
treaty. Saving the government in the lobbies was the responsibility of Davis,
who became known as "the Hammer of Maastricht". His soft-spoken brutality won
praise even from his adversaries - and a mention in one newspaper as a potential
leader.

"He was quiet and courteous," recalls Teddy Taylor, one of the Tory rebels.
"Unlike other whips, he was never horrible." But to Davis, any praise for saving
the government was a mixed blessing. By conviction, Davis was eurosceptic,
especially after his experience in Canada convinced him that subsidies for EU
sugar beet distorted world markets. But hardened Euro-sceptics developed a
grudge against Davis that some still recall. His success did, however, stir John
Major to offer him in 1993 the post of minister of state in the Foreign Office,
specialising in Europe. "Douglas Hurd wants you," said Major. "Not on your
bloody life," Davis replied. Loyal and ambitious, he succumbed, however, and
believes that his relationship with the Euro-phile Hurd was good. Others are
less sure.

Critics sharpen their knives

Bruce Anderson, the journalist, would describe Davis's early performances at the
dispatch box as "like a freshly captured slave who had just been chosen to
become a castrato". Peter Oborne also reported the junior minister as delivering
a "chronically boring" speech against a referendum on Europe while he "clung to
his leaden script like a drowning man to a raft". Davis lacked both a hinterland
and well-intentioned allies to offer guidance.

Hurd's replacement by Malcolm Rifkind did not improve Davis's reputation. He was
disappointed in June 1996 not to be promoted to the cabinet, or at least be
appointed a privy councillor. There were reports of threats to Major from Davis,
although Davis denies sending a protest letter. Nevertheless, he admits general
unease about Major's handling of the continuing BSE crisis in the wake of the
European ban on trade in beef. Major dismissed reports of his Davis's imminent
resignation as "nonsense" but the rumours were encouraged by the apparent
disappearance of the junior minister's customary briefings to the media. "I was
at the conference," Davis has said. Others say he stayed in his room. He was
certainly angered by Major's advocacy of unpopular policies until the bitter
end.

On Davis's return to London, the rumours of his resignation persisted; he now
admits to three attempts to resign, all resisted by Major. Rifkind recalls being
awoken at 1am by a Foreign Office telephone operator announcing that Davis
needed to speak to him urgently, and assumed it was an international crisis. To
Rifkind's surprise, Davis told him that the Times would be reporting his
intention to resign. "What should I do?" he asked. Puzzled, Rifkind suggested he
say "I'm not resigning" and replaced the receiver. The bizarre incident, the
minister concluded, showed Davis's preoccupation with himself. (Davis denies the
incident.) Later that year, both Davis and Eric Forth, a friend and another
junior minister, were made privy councillors, suggesting that Major appreciated
their loyalty.

The legacy of those few years has permanently stained Davis's reputation. His
elders frowned on his blatant ambition and crude methods. The toffs, he failed
to realise, were less concerned about his achievements than the manner in which
they were accomplished, questioning his "depth and breadth" and
"trustworthiness". In the dying days of the Conservative government, while
immersed in worthless Euro-negotiations, Davis remained oblivious to his
critics.

Few Tories returning to the Commons after Labour's landslide victory in 1997
deluded themselves about a rapid return to office. Most assumed another defeat
before the party could recover; many headed for lucrative directorships in the
City. Pondering his personal fate, Davis made a clever decision. Rather than
serve as a shadow minister, he secured the chairmanship of the Public Accounts
Committee (PAC), parliament's most powerful scrutiniser.

"It's a great way of learning about how government works," he would say about
his four years as chairman. "You also discover that bad public services don't
affect the middle classes, but the poor." He examined excessive "sickness" among
prison staff; fraud and maladministration among charity administrators unchecked
by the charity commissioners, and scrutinised the royal family's accounts. "I'm
like a kid in a toy shop," he bubbled, relishing the opportunity to deploy his
financial, scientific and military expertise. A notable success was the inquiry
into the crash of an RAF Chinook helicopter on the Mull of Kintyre in 1994,
killing 29 people. An RAF inquiry blamed the pilots, but after re-examining the
evidence, the PAC, under Davis, criticised the RAF's inquiry as prejudiced and
blamed equipment for the crash. Michael Tapper, the pilot's father, credited the
quest for the truth to "a quite exceptional politician. Davis was a tough
operator against the MOD and Geoffrey Hoon, throwing him back on his heels".
Davis, a qualified pilot, would fly himself to the Mull of Kintyre for an
emotional ceremony on the 10th anniversary.

But Davis was not blind to the Conservative's inherent problems. Although he
won't reveal who he supported for the leadership in 1997, Davis became
disillusioned with William Hague and even more with his inexperienced advisers.
In an open letter published in June 1999, he criticised Hague's "serial
apologia" for Conservative governments that "has created a new mythology of
failure" and "demoralises our supporters, cripples our tactics, but most of all
it is plain wrong".

In a rehearsal of his current rallying cry, he reasoned that while Labour had
succeeded by abandoning redundant principles such as clause 4, Tory principles
"have been the foundation of our electoral success throughout this century".
Focus groups, he wrote, were a poor foundation for political principles, and
while the party undoubtedly needed new policies, its principles were sound:
"Parties do not lose elections because they are too principled. They may lose
because their principles are out of touch with the beliefs of the people, or
because their principles do not work. That is the story of the Labour party. It
is emphatically not the story of the Conservative party."

The following year he renewed his criticism of Hague after the polls showed the
Tories at 29%, compared with Labour's 51%. Hague's mistake, he said, was to copy
Blair's spin doctors and fail to champion low taxes. His more trenchant
criticisms of Hague, expressed in City boardrooms, were reported back to
Westminster, reinforcing his reputation as disloyal. Yet, four years later,
Davis is seeking a rapprochement with Hague, whose talents he feels should no
longer be wasted.

Stranger alliances have been forged in politics, not least Davis's admiration
for Alastair Campbell. He has visited Campbell's home for a party and arranged
that Alexander, his son, spend a day with Campbell in Downing Street as work
experience. Davis appreciates rogues and admires Labour's manipulator for his
ruthlessness, lamenting: "There is no Tory Campbell around."

Davis's misgivings about the Conservative leadership were strengthened by the
electoral rout in 2001. Boundary changes and his efforts to help in a
neighbouring constituency had reduced his own vote to a marginal majority of
1,903, down from 7,514 in 1997. Encouraged by friends, especially David Maclean,
Eric Forth, Nick Herbert and Derek Conway, a fellow whip who ranks among his
best friends, Davis stood in the first round of the leadership election against
three others. Coming fourth with just 18 votes, despite a spirited campaign as
"poor boy made good", he withdrew and supported Iain Duncan Smith against
Michael Portillo, whom he disliked politically and personally. The reward, after
Duncan Smith's selection, was the chairmanship of the party.

But Davis's honeymoon with Duncan Smith was short-lived. After the Tories'
disastrous performance at a byelection in Ipswich, he argued outspokenly against
the party's strategy. Davis disliked IDS's fostering of a compassionate image
based upon "hocus pocus" focus groups. He disagreed with the modernisers'
attempts to foist more black and women candidates on to constituencies
regardless of their individual merits, although six out of 20 associations had,
on his recommendation, selected women. He denies blocking reform, but does not
deny his dislike of Dominic Cummings, Duncan Smith's head of strategy, who
opposed tax cuts and had said, "The only thing less popular than the euro is the
Tory party." Their warfare intensified as IDS's weaknesses became more apparent.

As the 2002 summer recess approached, Davis suggested at a shadow cabinet
meeting that he take an early holiday (before parliament rose) and remain alone
in London during August to prevent the government enjoying an uninterrupted
propaganda period. That was agreed by Duncan Smith. In mid-July, Davis flew with
his family to Florida to fish and fly - he was due to requalify for the third
time as a pilot and fly across the southern states. Days after his departure,
newspapers began speculating about a "shake-up of the top team" with Duncan
Smith replacing his "old enemy Davis" with "modernisers" who disdained Davis's
pursuit of the "core vote", instead of a wider inclusiveness. Other reports
leaked to the media portrayed Davis as a lazy, unenthusiastic obstructionist and
an office bully who was even said to have thrown a glass ashtray into a
fireplace. Someone told of a research assistant who was telephoned by Davis at
3am and, after protesting, was asked, "Well, do you want to work for me or not?"
Others mentioned his absence from Central Office on the night of the May local
elections and his refusal to do the rubber-chicken circuit among the
constituencies. But the worst was Duncan Smith's complaint about Davis's
disappearance to Florida before the summer recess.

Since his mobile telephone was broken - conspiracy theorists whispered about a
Central Office plot - Davis was unaware of Duncan Smith's gripes that he was
promoting himself as the leader in waiting. When they finally spoke - Davis in a
telephone box and IDS in Buckinghamshire - the chairman accepted that the leader
wanted, after 10 months, to "freshen" his team. He resigned.

Once again, Davis's reliability as a team player appeared to be the issue. On
his return, he called friendly journalists to report his sadness that "vendettas
and character assassination have crippled the last three Conservative
leaderships. We cannot allow this to happen again." But he could not resist
striking back at Cummings, whom he blamed for making a quip to newspapers
comparing him to David Davis, the Football Association executive: "One Davis
runs the FA, the other does FA." Davis's riposte was robust: "If you are hunting
big game, you must make sure you kill with the first shot."

In fact, Davis's chairmanship did create tensions in Central Office. One cause
was his refusal to meet two potential donors because they expected favours.
Unlike other MPs, Davis had not only refused company directorships and
hospitality to avoid conflicts of interest, but had even wanted to return two
tickets on Concorde won in a charity raffle in fear of compromising himself. He
admitted opposing IDS's free vote on gay adoption and the repeal of section 28.
"In my view," he said, "the protection of children comes first and the rights of
adults second." He also refused to join the attack on single mothers and, to the
dismay of many, supported hanging serial murderers. Each issue proved Davis a
man of principle, but also suggested someone whose interpretation of the party's
soul and purpose contradicted Duncan Smith's modernisers.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 11, 2005

G2: The new Thatcher? His impressive performance after last week's terror
attacks has strengthened his position as favourite to become the next Tory
leader. But who really is David Davis? And why do so many in his party loathe
him? Tom Bower on the man traditionalists hope can save the Conservative party
from itself (continued from page 5)

BYLINE: Tom Bower

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1404 words


Man of the party

Rather than sulk, Davis accepted Eric Forth's advice to remain on the front
bench, shadowing John Prescott, while watching IDS's strategy misfire. By
December 2002, few of the divided and mutinous Tories doubted that Duncan Smith
would be challenged in the summer if the party's ratings failed to improve. The
vote of confidence was finally held on October 29 2003. Duncan Smith lost by 75
votes to 90 and resigned. (Davis says he voted for IDS "because I don't believe
in regicide".) Some whispered that Vanessa Gearson, the assistant whose
allegations that Betsy Duncan Smith had benefited from a misuse of parliamentary
funds damaged the leader, was supported by Davis. "Not true," he now says. "She
was just caught in the middle."

Davis quickly emerged as a favourite candidate for the leadership against
Michael Howard; though he did not have a majority among MPs, he could have won
among the membership, vindicating the approach he had taken during his
chairmanship of the party. But with just 18 months to go before the next
election, the Tories' slim chance of winning would have been eradicated by
exposing party divisions in a leadership contest. Davis decided during the
weekend before Duncan Smith's resignation that to prevent that schism, he would
not run against Howard. (According to John Blundell, their discussions about his
decision were codenamed "Operation Kneecap".)

Unlike Howard, Davis did not believe the Tories could win the general election,
but as shadow home secretary, he recognised the opportunity to boost his own
status. Labour was under sustained attack for the steep rise of illegal
immigrants, not least from whistleblowers in the Home Office's own immigration
department. Angered by the department's indecision, officials sent Davis
privileged information about ministers ignoring warnings. Asked in 2003 about
the numbers of illegal immigrants in Britain, David Blunkett admitted, "I
haven't got a clue," and did nothing to find out.

Despite an open goal, Davis was careful. Leaked information from James Cameron,
an official at the British embassy in Bucharest, about the granting of roofers'
work visas to Romanians with one leg, was denied by Beverley Hughes, the junior
Home Office minister. Her further denials that she had been warned about the
visa scams by her officials, Davis knew to be untrue, thanks to information from
Steve Moxon, another whistleblower. Hughes was allowed to slowly bury herself by
misleading the Commons, and in April 2004 she resigned.

Blunkett had every reason to dislike Davis, not least for the Tory's admission
that "being nice across the dispatch box doesn't work". Davis could have added
that since appearing nice did not attract votes, he was content to appear nasty.
Then Davis latched on to the minister's false denial that he had hastened the
visa application for his son's nanny, winning Blunkett's resignation, his second
scalp. Even Davis's avowed enemies in the Notting Hill set could find little
fault, except to accuse Davis of further laziness in initially ignoring James
Cameron's original emails for some days. (Davis admits to a day's delay because
Cameron's message started, "Please don't think I'm mad . . .")

The Notting Hill Group's accusations against Davis intensified during the
general election campaign. He was blamed for his long absences from London; his
refusal to appear on the Today programme; and for arguments about policy with
Michael Howard ("pretty nasty", according to an observer, "like dealing with a
bar of soap"). The two politicians never ate dinner together.

Davis now says that he rejected Today's offer of unattractive slots before 7am
for tactical reasons: "I'm not jumping to the media's tune if it's tactically
unwise." More important, he says, he proved his loyalty to Howard by supporting
ID cards, although he was personally opposed to the policy. "He handled it very
well," says Michael Forsyth, a former minister and admirer of Davis's since the
early 1970s. "He proved (he had) the intellectual capacity to do the job." Asked
about his frequent absences from London while Oliver Letwin, also fighting a
marginal seat, was there every day, Davis blames the greater distances he needed
to travel.

But there were other reasons for Davis's relative invisibility during the
campaign. Finding himself in a surprisingly marginal constituency after 2002, he
had become a Lib Dem target for decapitation. Jon Neal, the Lib Dem candidate,
was fighting a negative campaign suggesting that Davis had ignored the
constituency. Davis calculated that support from workers at the British
Aerospace factory in Brough, and extra votes from workers attracted by his good
organisation, would secure victory if he worked the streets every night. His
reward at the count was an increased share of the vote.

The poor performance of the party on May 5 did not surprise Davis. Publicly, he
blamed Oliver Letwin's refusal to cut more taxes and the modernisers' push for
sympathetic conservatism, which might appeal in London, but not in the Midlands
and the north. The "modernisers", he believed, were excessively introspective
about the party and the process, and insufficiently concerned about Britain as a
whole. To Davis's surprise, Howard had to the end believed that the
Conservatives would win, which was not entirely fanciful; just 15,000 extra Tory
votes in 34 constituencies would have meant a hung parliament and a political
earthquake. But Howard's failure was Davis's opportunity.

Davis's platform was ready as soon as Howard unexpectedly resigned on the day
after the election. As a One Nation Tory, he advocated "new Tory idealism and a
culture of hope" on the basis of "timeless Tory principles that are universal in
their appeal". He appealed to people feeling trapped by a system that seemed to
have forgotten them. Parents, patients and pensioners would be the Tories'
targets. Bigger government, he would say, was not the solution, but the problem.
His challenge was to change the terms of the political debate.

But first, Davis has to win the leadership contest in the late autumn. And
considerable obstacles lie in his path, not least those whose dislike of Davis
is undisguised. Politics, Bruce Anderson wrote recently, "is full of characters
whose ambitions outrun their abilities . . . It is hard to think of a better
example than David Davis. In 18 years as an MP . . . he has never said, written
or done anything to suggest he is anywhere near prime-ministerial calibre."
Whisperers, meanwhile, accused Davis of plotting to immediately overthrow
Howard; of encouraging his colleagues to threaten a new MP; and again of
disloyalty, idleness and stupidity.

"You can measure people in politics by their enemies," says Davis, who has urged
his troops to ignore the mob. But politicians can also be measured by their
cronies, and the most heavily criticised of Davis's coterie is Derek Conway, his
best friend and whip for the campaign. Conway is accused of being aggressively
poisonous and doing more harm than good. (Davis dismisses those judgments as
"snobbery from the nastiest people in Parliament".) Conway, meanwhile, ripostes:
"I'm a Geordie, not a smoothie from Boodles." As a fellow council estate lad,
Conway has proven himself by charging with Davis towards the sound of gunfire.
It is this quality that Davis hopes will restore the Tories' fortunes - rather
than those offered by his main challenger, David Cameron, whom Davis supporters
see as a clubbable and inexperienced Oxbridge socialite.

Should Davis fulfil his ambition, the real struggle for the Tory recovery will
begin. On the eve of his return to Australia, Lynton Crosby, the Conservative
party's election mastermind, told the deflated Tory hierarchy that their brand
was badly tarnished, and the task of rebuilding the image would take years
rather than months. Davis, he said, was the best person to restore the party's
fortunes.

Despite a strong showing in recent weeks by David Cameron, Davis's supporters
believe that at the moment the leadership race is Davis's to lose. Like Michael
Howard, he has a positive story to tell of success from humble origins; unlike
him, he has no past ministerial embarrassments to defend. Many Tories may have
to swallow hard to accept his leadership, but they did the same 30 years ago for
Margaret Thatcher.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                 July 11, 2005

MISSING: 'A gentle, funny, generous, kind-hearted guy' caught up in the terror
attacks in London

LENGTH: 807 words


FAMILY and friends are desperately awaiting news of Peterborough man James
Adams, who has been missing since the terror attacks on London.

Close friends of the 32-year-old fear he may have been on board one of the
bombed underground trains, but are praying that if he was, he is still alive
somewhere.

Childhood friend MP David Lammy, a former head boy of Peterborough's King's
School, has paid an emotional tribute to Mr Adams, who he describes as a
"gentle, funny and kind-hearted".

The pair met as young lads at King's, sang together in the Peterborough
Cathedral choir and have remained firm friends.

Choking back tears, Mr Lammy, a Labour MP for Tottenham in London, said: "I met
James in my first few moments of joining King's School. We were both cathedral
choristers and James was one of my very best friends in those years.

"We stayed in contact, and he is a very, very gentle, funny, generous,
kind-hearted guy.

"I have never heard anyone say a bad word about James. I really hope to God that
he's not been caught up in this awful evil that we witnessed in London."

Mr Adams, who lives alone in Artindale, Bretton, is a devout Christian and
member of Bretton Baptist Church.

He was travelling to The Strand, where he works as a mortgage consultant, when a
bomb was detonated in a carriage on a Piccadilly Line Tube train travelling
between Russell Square and King's Cross.

Friends and family fear Mr Adams could have been on board.

Mr Lammy said: "He would have caught the Tube from King's Cross, and he would
have probably run off the platform and jumped on to the first carriage he came
to, which we know is where the bomb went off.

"At the moment, we only know that James is missing.

"I have been speaking to his family, who are very worried and I stand ready to
help them in any way I can."

He added: "James, wherever he is, would want people to concentrate on the
positive side of life and on the faith which keeps us all going.

"There's absolutely no doubt about that.

"He would want us to have a laugh and a smile and a prayer and he would want to
move forward."

Mr Lammy said he, along with the rest of the country, was shocked to the core by
the horror of the events on Thursday, when bombs exploded on three London
Underground trains and a bus, bringing death, injury and chaos.

He said: "I'm sick to the pit of my stomach.

"I can't quite get my head around this unspeakable evil.

"There's just no way anybody could warrant such destruction, and this has ruined
not just the lives of those that have been taken, but also their families,
communities and neighbourhoods.

"It's a wicked, evil thing to have done and I know that the Metropolitan police
will stop at nothing to catch these people. It's just awful."

Friends and neighbours of Mr Adams are anxiously awaiting news of his
whereabouts.

It is known he called his mother on Thursday morning to tell her he had arrived
in King's Cross and was on his way to work.

Neighbours gathered in Artindale at the weekend as police support officers
talked with Mr Adams' family.

One neighbour, who asked not to be named, said: "We all know Mr Adams and
everyone here is very worried about what may have happened to him."

Close friend Amanda Garratty (41), of Ringwood, Bretton, received a text message
from James before the explosion.

She said: "I just hope he is in a hospital somewhere, but we have heard nothing.

"We're very worried and upset. We have hardly slept and are just waiting for the
phone to ring."

Emergency teams remove last bodies

EMERGENCY teams have now removed all the bodies they believe to have been in the
train which was blown up between King's Cross and Russell Square.

However, they are continuing to search the carriages in order to make sure there
are no more.

A total of 49 people have died and 700 people were injured at four blast sites
between Aldgate and Liverpool Street Tube stations, King's Cross and Russell
Square Tube stations, Edgware Road Tube station and on a bus in Tavistock
Square.

The final death toll is expected to reach more than 70, and forensics teams now
face the grim task of trying to identify each of the dead.

Some relatives have already been informed that their loved ones were killed, and
London hospitals are still treating 62 people who were injured in Thursday's
attacks.

Police and security agencies say they are now almost certain they are not
dealing with a suicide bomb attack.

They have praised the public response to their request for photographs and film
taken after the attacks.

Prime Minister Tony Blair is expected to reject demands for an inquiry into the
bombings.

Conservative leader Michael Howard has called for an inquiry into what happened,
to see if any lessons could be learned.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                TelecomWorldWire

                                 July 11, 2005

E-mail virus poses as London terrorist attack news footage

LENGTH: 213 words


TELECOMWORLDWIRE-11 July 2005-E-mail virus poses as London terrorist attack news
footage ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD http://www.m2.com

MessageLabs, a provider of e-mail security and management services to
businesses, has revealed that it has intercepted copies of an e-mail posing as a
video news clip of the terrorist attacks in London which instead contains a
Trojan designed to compromise the recipient's computer.

The e-mail containing this Trojan has been designed to appear as a CNN
Newsletter which asks recipients to 'See attachments for unique amateur video
shots'. When executed the attachment copies itself to %Windir%\winlog.exe and
modifies the Windows registry key so that it runs automatically on system
start-up. The Trojan then attempts to obtain a list of the SMTP servers that the
user's machine is configured to use and starts to use these servers to send
unsolicited e-mail.

In addition, MessageLabs has revealed that the numbers of 'legitimate' e-mail
volumes rose sharply on the morning of 7 July due to the terrorist attacks in
London, with traffic doubling from the usual 500,000 e-mails per hour to over 1
million. The peak hour for traffic saw an extra 750,000 e-mails cross
MessageLabs servers.

(Comments on this story may be sent to tww.feedback@m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Essex

                                 July 11, 2005

Essex: Defiant commuters back at work after terror attacks

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 346 words

DATELINE: Essex; Eveninggazette


Essex commuters rocked by the terror attacks on London today defiantly got back
to work.

They showed that despite more than 40 people being killed in the Underground and
bus blasts in London yesterday they would carry on as normal.

As the rush hour started at Colchester North Station it seemed like any other
day except for a high police presence to reassure commuters at all stations.

Train operator One was running normal rail services in to the capital and London
buses and tube services were operating as close to a regular service as possible
with some exceptions around the bomb sites.

Many Essex commuters stayed in the capital last night but a large number of
those who managed to get home yesterday were heading back to their desks today.

Heading for the platform at North Station today Tony Martin said: "It's no
different to any ordinary day. You have as much chance as a train crashing
really."

Mark Weston said: "I'm not very concerned."

He added that it was just one those things.

John Ridling said: "I know the safety is not all there. You just get on with it.
If everyone is going to worry about it no one is going to get out of bed."

Maggie Lydon who works in West London said she was used to disruption from when
the IRA used to attack. "It's business as normal " she said.

Donna Read of Colchester who works in the City said: "I need to go in to work.
We didn't get much done yesterday. It was hard to concentrate."

Returning to the G8 summit at Gleneagles Tony Blair launched a manhunt with all
resources targeted at tracking down the terrorists.

* For the latest updates on the situation see www.thisisessex.co.uk
(http://http://www.thisisessex.co.uk) and follow the link

*  More in today's Evening Gazette

* Get the latest news on the London terror attacks and other national news
headlines here: This Is Network News: National (http://uknews.newsquest.co.uk)

Published Friday July 8 2005

Brought to you by the Evening Gazette
(http://www.thisisessex.co.uk/evening-gazette)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Dorset

                                 July 11, 2005

Service to remember victims of terror attacks

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 247 words

DATELINE: Dorset; Bournemouth


THE horrific events in London have spurred a Boscombe pastor who was in the city
when the bombs went off to hold a multi-faith remembrance service in
Bournemouth.

The Rt Rev Dr Barry Rathbone of the Beacon Project was just off Russell Square
when the bus exploded in nearby Tavistock Place at 9.47am on Thursday.

"It was round the corner - I saw all the police start to close the road off and
we heard there had been an explosion so we got in the car and left " he said.

"We decided to beat for it out of London and go to Brighton and when we got
there they'd shut Brighton station and Brighton Pier as well. It was horrific
really.

"I think it's just appropriate that we should spend a short time giving thanks
for the lives that were lost and praying that this sort of thing doesn't happen
again."

The Beacon Project which meets at the chapel in Boscombe Cemetery on Gloucester
Road is a multi-faith organisation representing Muslims among others.

As police investigate claims by an Islamist website that a group affiliated to
Al Qaida was responsible for the attacks Rev Rathbone condemned people who hide
behind a false "mask of religion" to commit atrocities.

"We all know that whoever did this was not Muslim by nature " said Dr Rathbone.

"It's not the action of somebody who follows a faith."

The service will be held at 10.30am this Sunday at Bos-combe Cemetery chapel
with a minute's silence at 11am.

First published: July 9 2005

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 July 11, 2005

Terrorist attack death toll 'likely' to be 49

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 81 words


Police yesterday gave a likely final death toll of around 49 for Thursday's
terrorist attacks in London. All visible bodies have been removed from the four
explosion sites, although rescue workers were continuing to search under a Tube
train between King's Cross and Russell Square. The bodies are being taken to a
temporary mortuary at an undisclosed military site but none has yet been
formally identified. A total of 63 victims were still being treated in London
hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                     © Copyright 2005 Western Morning News

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 12, 2005, Tuesday

NEW TERROR LAWS ON CARDS AFTER ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY GAVIN CORDON

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 609 words


THE government is prepared to bring forward new emergency anti-terrorism powers
if they are needed after the London Tube and bus bombs, Tony Blair said last
night.

The prime minister told a sombre House of Commons the police investigation into
Thursday's attacks was 'among the most vigorous and intensive' Britain has ever
seen.

Earlier, chancellor Gordon Brown pledged: 'We will do whatever it takes and
spend whatever is necessary to defend the people of this country.'

While Mr Blair said the government would 'analyse very carefully' what could be
learned from the bombings, he stopped short of promising the inquiry called for
by the Conservatives.

The overwhelming mood in the chamber was for MPs across the political spectrum
to rally behind the Government in the face of the terrorist threat. Mr Blair, in
turn, promised to seek cross-party consensus on any new anti-terrorism powers.

He said that, for the time being, the government was sticking to its plan to
publish a bill for pre-legislative scrutiny in the autumn, and to be tabled in
parliament the following spring.

However, he said ministers were ready to act more swiftly if the police and the
security services felt they needed new powers.

The prime minister's official spokesman later stressed ministers believed they
had already identified where new powers were required but were ready to listen
to any request from the security services for further measures The new
counter-terrorism bill is expected to include the creation of a new offence of
'acts preparatory to terrorism' as well as consolidating existing measures.

The current plan to wait until next year to legislate is so that MPs can
consider a report on the operation of the government's controversial new control
orders, passed at the end of the last parliament.

Mr Blair, who earlier chaired a meeting of the government's Cobra emergency
response team, told MPs it had now been confirmed that 52 people had died with a
further 56 still in hospital.

The prime minister praised the 'magnificent' response of the emergency services
following the attacks as well as the 'stoicism, resilience and sheer undaunted
spirit' of Londoners.

'We are united in our determination that our country will not be defeated by
such terror but will defeat it,' he said.

He also strongly defended the police and the intelligence agencies saying he
knew of no intelligence specific enough to have allowed them to have prevented
the attacks.

Immediate offers of help had come in from all the world's intelligence agencies,
he said.

While he said it was 'probable' the attacks had been carried out by 'Islamist
extremist terrorists', he emphasised the 'overwhelming majority' of Muslims
stood 'four square' with the rest of Britain in condemning the attacks.

THERE are growing fears among senior police officers of a follow-up attack, and
Britain was reportedly put on its highest-ever state of terrorist alert last
night.

James Hart, commissioner of City of London Police, said: 'We can't possibly
assume that what happened on Thursday was the last of these events. There are
people out there who wish us harm and we have to be vigilant.'

Meanwhile, Muslim leaders called for calm following a series of attacks on
British mosques.

Arson and criminal damage were reported at mosques in Tower Hamlets and Merton,
both in London, Telford, Leeds, Bristol and Birkenhead.

The Mazhirul Uloom mosque in Mile End, east London, reportedly had 19 windows
broken and damage was caused to the door of the Pakistan Consulate in Bradford.

A 27-year-old man was arrested in Bradford

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 12, 2005

GLASGOW DRIVER ON BUS BOMB HOAX CHARGE;
South side depot evacuated just 24 hours after terror attacks devastated London

BYLINE: By ALEX ROBERTSON Crime Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 143 words



HIGHLIGHT: Larkfield bus depot in Victoria Road was evacuated after phone call


ABUS driver has appeared in court after a Glasgow depot was evacuated during a
bomb scare.

Thomas Lamb, a driver with First Glasgow, was arrested on Friday and spent the
weekend in custody.

The company's Larkfield depot on Victoria Road in the south side was evacuated
at 8am on Friday following a hoax bomb call - a day after the London terrorist
attacks.

The anonymous caller said the company had just seven minutes to evacuate the
depot.

The call, believed to have been from a mobile phone, was made amid heightened
security at the depot following the London explosions.

Lamb, 32, of McCulloch Way, Neilston, Renfrewshire, appeared in private on a
breach of the peace charge at Glasgow Sheriff Court.

The Crown Office said the case was continued for further examination and Lamb
was bailed. He is likely to be suspended from duty pending the outcome of the
case.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 12, 2005

Attack on London: Terror cell 'capable of further attacks': Security Experts
point to home-grown group using small explosives which can be easily hidden and
detonated

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor and Duncan Campbell

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 712 words


A small British-based terrorist cell with the ability to strike again placed the
bombs on the London underground and bus, intelligence and anti-terrorism
officials suggested yesterday.

A senior police officer warned that another attack could be imminent and
anti-terrorism officials pointed to the possibility of future bombings.

"It is more difficult to detect home-grown groups," said one anti-terrorism
official. "They are less conspicuous and they don't move around."

The task of the security and intelligence agencies was made more difficult,
officials said, because local cells do not need to take instructions from
abroad. But they said they had no concrete evidence to back up their suspicions.

"People are radicalised and take it on themselves (to carry out terrorist
attacks)," a senior anti-terrorism official said.

Another told the Guardian: "It was not necessarily a closely affiliated
(al-Qaida) group waiting for the green light. They do it in their own time."

He said it would not have been difficult for a small group of individuals to
plant bombs on the underground. No detailed reconnaissance was needed, and there
was no complicated access, he said. "It could have been a very self-contained
operation".

"If the bombers had got away and live to fight another day, they would do it
again," an official said. "If they did not, (the attacks) could be replicated.
They have identified a gap in the defences."

Security and intelligence sources said it was not difficult to make small bombs
with timers and detonators. Microchips and a small circuit board could explode a
device which previously required large and unwieldy equipment.

Christophe Chaboud, the head of the French Anti-Terrorism Coordination Unit and
one of five senior officials sent by the French government to London immediately
after Thursday's attacks, told Le Monde that the explosives used appeared to be
of military origin.

"The charges were not heavy but powerful," said Mr Chaboud. "Among the victims,
many of the wounds (lesions) were in the lower limbs, indicating that the
explosives were placed on the ground, perhaps under the seats. The type of
explosives appear to be military, something which is very worrying. We're more
used to cells making home-made explosives with chemicals. How did they get them?
Either by trafficking, for example, in the Balkans, or they had someone on the
inside who enabled them to get them out of a military establishment."

Asked about his discussions with British anti-terrorism officials, he replied:
"I noticed sangfroid but also serious concern. We know the bombings in Madrid
would have been the start of a wave of attacks thwarted by the speedy actions of
the Spanish police."

The French official said that "for us, the bombings were not a surprise, but the
confirmation of something that was inevitable, given the international context,
notably the war in Iraq . . . The war in Iraq has revived the logic of total
conflict against the west."

A senior British anti-terrorism official said it was "entirely possible" the
explosives had a military origin, adding that nothing had been ruled out.

The police have said only that the bombs contained less than 10lb (4.5 kg) each
of "high explosives" and were small enough to be carried in rucksacks.

A source from a European intelligence agency represented at the meeting in
London of 30 countries told Reuters news agency the attacks were most likely
carried out by a local cell of Islamist militants with no track record.

"We think the known Islamists who live in Britain are under such close
observation that they're limited in their capacity for action. Against that
background, the suspicion is that it's a local group," the source said.

Senior police officers continue to warn of the possibility of a further attack.
The commissioner of police for the City of London, James Hart, said there was a
strong possibility of another attack. Mr Hart said: "We can't possibly assume
that what happened on Thursday was the last of these events."

In a bid to get closer to potential home-grown terrorists, newly recruited
police officers are being encouraged to plan a terrorist attack. The course is
designed by Hertfordshire police.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                       July 12, 2005 Tuesday 9:06 PM GMT

WRESTLING BOSSES ATTACKED FOR INSENSITIVE TV TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: MOVIE

LENGTH: 114 words


World Wrestling Entertainment bosses have been deluged by complaints following a
WWE SMACKDOWN tournament, featuring Arab-American fighters, which aired in
America hours after the London bombings last week (07JUL05).

Despite disclaimers during the show, urging parental discretion, some viewers
have attacked the WWE for showing the event on cable station UPN at all.

The Smackdown event featured a group of Arab-Americans being attacked by top
wrestlers.

One disturbing moment featured wrestler MUHAMMAD HASSAN praying in the ring
while five masked terrorists attacked longtime wrestling hero THE UNDERTAKER.

WWE spokesman GARY DAVIS says, "We all feel bad about the timing of the
segment."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2005 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 July 12, 2005

Terror attacks are wake-up call for reform

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 2329 words


From: Malcolm Naylor, Grange View, Otley.


WE are all both victims and guilty of the terrorist attacks in London.

We are victims of suffering, fear and not knowing where terrorists will strike
next; we are guilty for tolerating a corrupt undemocratic political system which
allows idiots to take power and lead the county into an unjust war.

Blair was warned before attacking Iraq that this would make us less safe but
still went ahead to appease Bush.

And perversely Blair will use this attack as justification for more control and
identity cards. He creates a problem and uses it to advantage to establish a
totalitarian state.

It is but a step away and this should be a wake-up call for political and
democratic reform, not ID cards.


From: Ken Fraser, Harrogate.

THOSE responsible for the death and havoc in London will be remembered with
total disgust for ever. It is hard to imagine the thinking behind such acts: one
can only imagine that al-Qaida and Osama bin Laden use the name of Islam to
discredit it - a very Machiavellian ploy.


From: Brian Ward, Shann Park, Keighley.

WHAT a pleasure to read the refreshing comments of Bill Carmichael ("Time the
gloves came off in our fight against terror", July 8). I would be willing to bet
that almost all the majority of normal members of our UK population would agree
with him.

We do indeed suffer greatly from the attitudes of the "weak-willed politicians,
activist judges and legally aided lawyers". To his list I might add the
insidious encroachment of the "do-gooders" who now pervade our society.

It is indeed more than time for our elected Government to take positive action
in the fight against both terrorists and political activists who engage in
criminal activities, such as the wanton attacks on business premises in Scotland
as "demonstrations" against the G8 discussions.

Deport all known agitators, as Mr Carmichael states, as well as all illegal
immigrants as soon as they are first discovered; adopt a policy of zero
tolerance towards agitators and terrorists; employ the water cannon on all
agitators instead of allowing them to attack our police officers: I can imagine
no other state allowing such events to occur. It smacks through and through of
the lily-livered, never-upset-anyone attitude which now prevails among

all levels of our decision makers.

What kind of support would a campaign with these aims attract?


From: Bernie Smith, Lintmill of Boyne, Banff, Scotland.

I would like to say I agree completely with Bill Carmichael's article (July 8).

Spot on. Well done, Bill.


Drivers pay penalty for flawed policy

From: Paul Buckley, Jebb Farm, Haigh, Barnsley.

PARLIAMENT'S public accounts committee has concluded that the Highways Agency
lacked leadership and urgency regarding road congestion. Is this connected to
the request by Transport Secretary Alistair Darling for an honest approach to
road pricing and car tax?

In 2004, the revenue raised from the motorist was £42.2bn. Yet the total
expenditure by the Department of Transport was £10.4bn, of which £6.7bn was
spent on roads.

This means that the motorist is funding other transport expenditure by £4.8bn,
and other government departments to the tune of £31.8bn.

The anti-motoring lobby will point to the negative externalities associated with
motoring, but have these been quantified, and how much are they? If there was a
massive shift from taxed private motoring to subsidised public transport, where
will the Government seek the shortfall from?

There could be a number of benefits to the motorist from introducing a car
tracking system for pricing.

It would be completely unacceptable for car theft clearance rate to be anything
under 100 per cent.

Current arbitrary and flawed speed limits should be scrapped. The tax raised on
the main road users, private motorist, and road haulage should be used firstly
to maintain the road infrastructure to a safe, comfortable standard.

Political dogma of the Labour Party continues to fail to recognise that public
transport may not be the best option, particularly in rural areas.

This was highlighted in the last Budget when the Chancellor announced a subsidy
for the elderly to use buses. Why not subsidise the elderly in rural areas to
use private taxis? It may make more sense.

Licence for bureaucracy

From: Don Burslam, Elm Road, Dewsbury Moor, Dewsbury.

I refer to the letter from Sandrine Fletcher, of the TV Licensing Press Office
of the North (Yorkshire Post, July 7). Phew! It is quite clear that checking
whether people have licences, or black and white televisions, must cost a
fortune. As is the way with bureaucratic organisations, too, the empire is
infinitely extendable.

Why not dismantle the whole thing and arrange for licences to be issued when the
set is sold? Retailers could receive a payment for this. Simple!

It would be interesting to see how other countries manage, but these lumbering
bureaucratic "solutions" are a complete waste of time and money. We never learn,
though, and now we are sailing merrily into the father and mother of all
bureaucratic nightmares - ID cards. I suppose it does create jobs for our
post-manufacturing society.

Olympic divide

From: Tim Mickleburgh, Littlefield Lane, Grimsby, Lincolnshire.

WHEN I was a schoolboy, I enjoyed watching the Olympics on television. Indeed, I
used to memorise the athletic winners listed in the Guinness Book of Olympic
Records. So the prospect of an Olympic Games coming to London would have
certainly excited me. Today, however, I am wishing that the IOC had voted for
Paris after all.

Why? Well, to begin with, any such large-scale project will cost people money.
London council taxpayers, for instance, will see their hard-earned money
squandered in this direction.

But more importantly, I fear that a 2012 Olympics will further increase the
North-South divide in Britain. You see, the South- East of England is already
the richest part of our nation. Yet it will receive even more investment, in the
way of improved transport links and so on. Meanwhile, we in the provinces are
forced to endure public travel provision that Londoners would never put up with.
So roll on 2013, and the end of the jamboree

Racing uncertainty

From: Ken Brooke, Main Street, Leconfield, Beverley.

ANYONE who has attended Beverley Races recently will be aware of the difficulty
in leaving the car parks. You may well leave the car park, not necessarily in
the direction you want to travel.

Someone has devised a wonderful scheme: if you park on the course side, you will
be sent into Beverley. So if you wish to travel back towards York or the M62,
hard luck; you will finish up in Beverley and the authorities hope you will
eventually disappear up your own exhaust.

However, if you park on the opposite car park, you will be sent in the direction
of York, in the hope that motorists will discover a route back to Beverley.

I wrote to the Chief Inspector at the local police station (as yet
unacknowledged). I suggested a simple solution, have two exits at either side
car park, sign one exit for those wishing to travel towards Beverley, the other
for those travelling in the York direction. Each one leaving at alternate times.

The present situation simply encourages the motorist to perform "U" turns, short
cuts and other acts that will result in an accident sooner rather than later. I
have spoken to the chairman of the course. He and his staff are as exasperated
as the frustrated motorist.


What would Mrs Pankhurst think now?

From: Heather Causnett, Escrick Park Gardens, Escrick, York.

I found the article on not-so-desperate housewives ("Housewives who aren't
desperate any more", July 6) interesting, but rather depressing.

Today's women are selfish enough to do exactly as they want, no matter who it
hurts.

If I had been a young woman in Emily Pankhurst's day, I would have joined forces
with her and her brave band to win rights for women.

However, I think Emmeline would turn in her grave if she could see just how far
the wheel has turned, and at what cost to society.

Now, as a direct result of feminism, we have desperate children instead of
desperate housewives. Because women are no longer dependent on men, they have no
real interest in keeping their marriages going and their families together.

Teenage pregnancies and abortion are rife, and instead of encouragement to
marry, our governments offer financial advantages to single mothers, with free
housing and endless benefits.

Nobody would wish to return to the time when children of unmarried mothers were
branded as bastards and women who "got into trouble" were treated as lepers and
turned to backstreet abortionists, with tragic results. Of course, older women
have every right to look after themselves, but their own mothers were prepared
to look after their families and bring them up decently with standards and
morals.

Many of today's young women will never reach middle age - drink, drugs and
self-abuse will have taken their toll, and any children they have will pay the
price. Children run away from promiscuous, irresponsible and violent mothers and
their ever-changing, abusive "partners" in their thousands, creating horrendous
problems for society. Many don't even know who their natural fathers are.

I truly deplore the abysmal behaviour of many of today's young women and tremble
for the coming generations.


Secret garden tells the story of a great landscape designer

From: Allan Mirfield, Grange Road, Eldwick, Bingley.

WHILE the gardens at Weston Park in Sheffield may indeed be the best preserved
example of the work of Robert Marnock (Yorkshire Post, July 2), surely those at
Milnerfield in Gilstead, near Bingley must be the most secret and neglected?

Between 1869 and 1872 Sir Titus Salt employed Marnock, one of the greatest
landscape designers of the 19th century, to complement the new Wagnerian Gothic
mansion being built for his son, Titus junior.

Tinged with an air of gloom and doom, behind high walls that the late Sir Fred
Hoyle vainly tried to scale in his youth, the mansion was spectacular. Even Bill
Bryson made reference to the estate in his journal of travels around our small
island.

Marnock planted yew, laurel and holly in a naturalised landscape to give a dark
approach to the mansion set in 28 acres, constructing drives, embankments,
terraces and even a boating lake and a croquet lawn.

Even though the mansion was a ruin longer than a home, it survived until
demolition 50 years ago.

However, all Marnock's work is preserved, as the park within the estate has
remained untouched, slowly reverting to nature. Originally owned by Salts Ltd,
then Illingworth Morris and now a private holding company, no public access is
officially recognised into the park.

Development has thus far been prevented by planners but Marnock's work deserves
public recognition and enjoyment. The adjacent walled garden is hardly
recognisable except for the ancient espaliered fruit trees and the glass or vine
house ruins.

Moves are being made to protect and preserve the estate as a site of historical
interest, even though it has lain forgotten and neglected for decades, simply
because it is a unique example of Robert Marnock's work on a grand scale.

It is, in the meantime, a hidden gem but largely unknown and thus unacknowledged
as such by the general public.


French grapes of wrath

From: BH Sheridan, Redmires Road, Sheffield.

I AM saddened that B Wright of The Wright Wine Company is rejoicing in the fact
that customers are avoiding French wines (Letters, July 9). Nor do I like the
unhealthy triumphalism vis-à-vis "the French" who, thanks to an electoral
anomaly, have been saddled with the insufferable Jacques Chirac.

As a wine merchant, your correspondent will know that France still produces the
very greatest and the most interesting wines while the trendy New World,
although also boasting some great wines at a price, produces the most
predictable. There will be smallholders and other farmers in North Yorkshire who
will have some sympathy for small French wine producers who are being crowded
out by the huge wineries of Australia, South Africa and California.

French winemakers rely increasingly on exports to the USA and the UK and they
have my support. Next time I am browsing round North Yorkshire outlets I will
give The Wright Wine Company a miss.


In search of applause

From: Robert Bottamley, Thorn Road, Hedon, near Hull.

HULL City councillor Kath Lavery complained (Letters,

July 8) that Yorkshire Post journalist Alex Wood had neglected to praise
councillors and officers for a booklet they produced.

In view of the authority's infinite capacity for wallowing in self-praise and
self-delusion, could it be that Ms Wood considered her own congratulations to be
unnecessary?

For whatever they produce (or fail to produce), senior councillors and officers
are well paid. Conversely, there are dedicated employees and volunteers who
often receive scant reward or recognition - most notably from those who draw the
highest salaries and demand the greatest applause.


Trafalgar celebration

From: Janet Cavill, High Street, Wath-on-Dearne,

near Rotherham.

LIKE Stan Crowther of Rotherham (Yorkshire Post, July 6), I have wondered why we
celebrated the Battle of Trafalgar in July, rather than on Trafalgar Day which
is October 21.

When I was a pupil at the Ellis Church of England Secondary School at Brampton
Bierlow between 1948-1951, we used to celebrate Trafalgar Day every year in
October.

In the afternoon each class used to perform Ally Boys. We met in the school hall
and each class competed for the best performance. I have to admit that I am not
sure of its origins, but it was always a good afternoon.

Ally Boys begins with the lines:

"Ally Boys, Ally Boys - all in a ring.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

                       Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                      July 13, 2005 Wednesday 4:21 PM GMT

Pakistan says it helped UK foil terror attacks before May election

LENGTH: 326 words


ISLAMABAD (AFX) - Pakistan provided Britain with information that helped it foil
terrorist attacks in the run-up to the May general elections, the South Asian
country's interior minister said

Arrests were made in a number of countries as a result of the details provided
by Pakistan, like Britain a key ally in the US-led 'war on terror', minister
Aftab Sherpao told a news conference here.

'Let me be specific that before the general elections in UK we had received
reports that this sort of a situation may arise before the elections and that
was aborted because the information was provided by the government of Pakistan,'
Sherpao said.

'Arrests were made in various countries,' Sherpao said but gave no further
details.

Britain's election on May 5 was won by Labour leader Tony Blair, a staunch ally
of US President George W. Bush, and passed off without any attacks.

The minister said Islamabad was cooperating with London after allegations three
of the four men suspected of launching last week's bombings in the British
capital were Britons of Pakistani origin.

None of the four were on the files of security services, papers said, making
them so-called 'cleanskins', terrorists with no previously known link to
suspicious groups.

'I don't want to be specific in this case because that would not be proper at
this juncture,' Sherpao said. 'But whatever useful information that we have we
will be providing it to the British government,' Sherpao said.

He declined to say whether Britain had asked for information from Pakistan in
relation to the London attacks.

The Pakistani community in Britain is about one million strong.

mmg/dk/dv/lam

COPYRIGHT


Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.

The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.


AFX News and the AFX Financial News logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            July 13, 2005, Wednesday

DISNEY RIDE GIRL FIGHTING FOR LIFE;
 LEANNE, 16, SUFFERS HEART ATTACK AFTER TRIP OF 'TERROR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 335 words


A MIDLANDS teenager was fighting for her life in a Florida hospital today after
collapsing as she stepped off the Tower Of Terror ride at Disney World.

Leanne Deacon, 16, from Kibworth, Leicestershire, complained of a headache and
dizziness as she got off the ride yesterday morning but told her mother she
would be fine.

She was led outside but rapidly deteriorated and was taken back in, where it was
cooler and dark, Orange County Sheriff's spokesman Jim Solomons said.

Disney staff called paramedics and she was rushed to hospital. On the way she
lost consciousness and suffered a heart attack but was resuscitated, Mr Solomons
said.

'They initially considered flying her to a specialist facility but there
happened to be a neurosurgeon in the hospital at the time,' he added.

Leanne underwent surgery late last night. A hospital spokeswoman said her
condition was 'critical'.

The Twilight Zone Tower Of Terror ride was closed and was being tested for
malfunctions. Walt Disney World said the local sheriff's office had finished an
initial investigation and found no indication of any problems.

'Our concern is for the family and we are working with them to provide whatever
assistance they need,' the company said in a statement.

Leanne's father was last night believed to be planning to travel from the family
home to Florida.

The ride opened in 1994 and is set in a haunted hotel. Visitors shoot up 13
storeys in a 'phantom elevator' before plummeting back to ground twice. It lasts
about five minutes.

Two people have died at Disney World this year. Four-year-old Daudi Bamuwamye,
from Pennsylvania, passed out on Epcot's Space Mission ride on June 13 and later
died. Authorities are awaiting results of an autopsy.

Gloria Land, aged 77, from Minnesota, died in February after riding the Magic
Kingdom's Pirates of the Caribbean. A medical examiner's report said Land was in
poor health from diabetes and several mini-strokes and her death 'was not
unexpected

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            July 13, 2005, Wednesday

TERRORIST BOMBING : HOMEGROWN GANG IN SUICIDE ATTACKS;
 POLICE TRACE THE TERROR SQUAD TO BRITISH SOIL NICK ALLEN AND NEVILLE

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 856 words


THE London terror bombings were the first suicide attacks on British soil and
were carried out by homegrown terrorists, it was revealed last night.

One of the four suicide bombers was thought to be Shahzad Tanweer, 22, who
friends described as a cricket-loving sports science graduate, and another of
the bombers was only a teenager.

At least three of them are believed to have been British males of Pakistani
origin who lived in West Yorkshire.

Detectives are still unsure about the identity of the mystery fourth bomber.

A relative of one of the suspects was arrested in West Yorkshire yesterday and
was being brought to London to be quizzed by the anti-terrorist branch.

Just 20 minutes before, the bombers were captured on CCTV at King's Cross
station, talking casually as they carried their bombs in rucksacks. A senior
security source said: ' They were chatting. You would think they were going on a
hiking holiday.'

The images, which were spotted by detectives at 8pm on Monday, provided a
breakthrough in the investigation which saw dramatic developments, beginning
with a series of dawn raids in West Yorkshire.

Bomb-making equipment was found at one of the six addresses raided in Leeds and
Dewsbury. Later, police also found explosives in a car at Luton station, where
the bombers are thought to have met, and controlled explosions were carried out.

Detectives and the security services fear there could be a second suicide bomb
team and that an al-Qaida mastermind could have orchestrated the attacks before
fleeing the UK.

The bombers appear to be the security services' worst nightmare, so-called
'clean skins', apparently ordinary young men who had not previously come to
their attention' How many clean skins have we got waiting in the wings?'

a senior security source said.

Sources said there was 'strong' forensic evidence linking Tanweer to the blast
on the train near Aldgate. His semi-detached home in the Beeston area of Leeds,
where he lived all his life, was sealed off.

The driving licence and cash cards of another suspect, who was 19 and from
Leeds, were found in the mangled wreckage of the number 30 bus which blew up in
Tavistock Square, killing 13 people.

He had told his parents he was going to London with friends on the day of the
attacks and at10.20pm that day they reported him missing to the police casualty
bureau.

Documents belonging to a third suspect, who was 30 and from Dewsbury, West
Yorkshire, were found in the debris of the Edgware Road blast. All three men
were believed to have been friends but not related.

They are thought to have used hire cars to travel from West Yorkshire to Luton
last Thursday morning.

All four men then boarded a Thameslink rail service to King's Cross where they
were captured on CCTV just before 8.30am.

They then split up, three of them detonating their bombs on separate trains
simultaneously at 8.50am.

As police try to formally identify the bombers, some bodies from the blast sites
are being fast tracked through the identification process.

Police were also examining a second car recovered in the Luton area which is
thought to have been used by the bombers.

Mohammed Answar, 19, a friend of Tanweer, was stunned to hear he was suspected
of being a suicide bomber and said they played cricket together only last week.

He said: ' It's impossible. It's not in his nature to do something like this,
he's is the type of guy who would condemn things like that.'

Another friend, Azzy Mohammed, 21, said: ' He's the kind of person who gets
along with anyone. His sense of humour is very good. He's a sweet lad.'

Neighbours said he was a 'good Muslim' who lived with his parents, a younger
brother and two sisters. His father is understood to own a fish and chip shop.

In a morning of frenzied police activity in West Yorkshire, during which they
raided the homes of three suspects, officers carried out a controlled explosion
to get into a property in Hyde Park Road, Burley. More than 500 people were
evacuated from the surrounding area.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke, head of Scotland's Yard
anti-terrorist branch, said: 'The investigation is moving at great speed. It
quite early led us to have concerns about the movement and activities of four
men, three of whom came from the West Yorkshire area. We are trying to establish
their movements in the run-up to last week's attack and specifically to
establish whether they all died in the explosions.'

Assistant Commissioner Andy Hayman, leading the police hunt, said the bombings
were the work of 'extremists and criminals'.

Police have so far confirmed that 52 people died in last Thursday's blasts.

The names of two more people killed in the London bombings were released by
police yesterday.

Scotland Yard confirmed that Jamie Gordon, 30, from Enfield, north London, who
worked for City Asset Management in Old Street, and Philip Stuart Russell, 28,
from west London, who worked at JP Morgan, died in the bus blast.

Three victims have now been named. The first was 53-year-old Susan Levy

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police forensic officers load a car into a covered trailer in Dewsbury,
West Yorks; Armed police take up positions outside a house in Leeds during a
series of anti-terror raids Picture: RUI VIEIRA; Officers Andy Hayman, right ,
and Peter Clarke brief the press; Police at Luton station where a car was linked
to attacks; Tony Blair: We won't be beaten

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Fife Free Press

                                 July 13, 2005

FORMER TOWN MAN ESCAPES TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 831 words


A FORMER Glenrothes man escaped the London terrorist attack by three minutes.

Neale Hanvey was in King's Cross Station when the second train travelling on the
Piccadilly line to Russell Square was blown up at 8.56 a.m

The bomb was one of four which exploded during the morning rush-hour on
Thursday.

Underground trains and a double decker bus were ripped apart by the blasts which
are believed to have killed 52 people and injured more than 700.

Neale (pictured), who is originally from Pitteuchar, had been heading to work
later than usual.

And his train was held at a King's Cross platform when an announcement was made
asking everyone to evacuate the station immediately.

But the 40-year-old told The Gazette he could easily have been on the King's
Cross train that fateful day as he regularly travels to work on that route.

Neale, who works as a senior oncology (cancer) nurse at the University College
Hospital, revealed: "I went through King's Cross Station at about 9 a.m and it
was about then the blast happened.

"I was stuck on the Victoria Line train - which heads from Finsbury Park to
Warren Street, via King's Cross - at the platform.

"I had three minutes to wait until it left and there was an announcement which
told everyone to leave the station immediately because there was an emergency.

"It normally takes 10 minutes, but the train was delayed because of what
happened.

"When I did get to the Accident and Emergency department for a meeting there was
a rumour about a bomb at Liverpool Street," he added.

"The 9 a.m meeting I had was cancelled and, at 9.30 a.m., an announcement on the
hospital tannoy said there had been a major incident.

"I went in to work later than normal as I usually go in about 8 a.m. I could've
been caught up in it and could have easily been on the King's Cross train as I
take that route regularly.

"It's just the thought of what happened in those carriages, these people will
have been blown to pieces, it really is horrible."

Neale - who initially contacted relatives after hearing there had been an
incident - explained that although he didn't treat any of the casualties, he was
involved in co-ordinating the response from the hospital where he works.

His role involved clearing the hospital of all non-urgent cases and non-elective
surgery in preparation for receiving the casualties of the bombings. He also
kept staff informed of developments as they unfolded.

"I didn't hear or see any of the blasts but we were all very shocked by what
happened," Neale said.

"Everyone pulled together and the whole team did a tremendous job, making sure
we had enough space for the casualties."

But the former Pitteuchar man, who lives in the city's Finsbury Park, felt
apprehensive about travelling in to work on the tube the day after the bombings.

"I was a lot more tense that I would normally be and everybody was more alert,"
he explained.

"People were checking each other out and it just felt very uncomfortable.

"People were understandably uneasy. Worries about terrorism are part of daily
life here and everybody thinks about it all the time.

"But we have to get on with our lives and the feeling here is that these
bombings will not stop us from doing that an GLENROTHES MSP Christine May said
what happened on Thursday felt very close to home as she lived in London for 10
years.

"I watched it on television and recognised a lot of the places," she said.

"I telephoned friends and some relatives in London and, thankfully, they are all
ok.

"Your heart just goes out to people and you watch in admiration as you see how
everyone rallied round and helped one another, comforting those who were
injured."

Thursday's terrorist attacks also brought back memories of the Madrid bombing
for the town MSP as her daughter, Olivia, came within a day of being caught up
in the blast last March.

Olivia has been working as a language tutor in the Spanish capital since autumn,
2003, and uses the rail link targeted by the bombers three times a week.

Fortunately, she wasn't on the train when the terrorist bomb killed about 200
people.

Mrs May said: "I was speaking to my daughter on Thursday night and she was on
the e-mail almost immediately after it happened. She was asking if everyone was
ok.

"She was also remembering what it was like in Madrid and almost re-living the
shock and the trauma of what happened."

MEANWHILE, emergency services were called to the McDonald's Restaurant in
Kirkcaldy High Street on Thursday when staff discovered a suspicious bag in an
upstairs toilet.

After initial investigations by police and fire service personnel, army bomb
disposal experts were called to assist in the safe recovery of the item.

A police spokesman said as a precaution, cordons were established and adjoining
properties were evacuated.

The item was removed from the restaurant and later found to be a discarded
ladies handbag.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 13, 2005

Comment & Analysis: Unlawful, unworkable, unnecessary: The retention of internet
records would not stop terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Simon Davies

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 813 words


'Our values will long outlast theirs" is a powerful proclamation against
terrorism with which the government should be rightly pleased. But whether Tony
Blair's words are anything more than a catchy slogan will be put to the test
today when Charles Clarke meets his European counterparts in Brussels to thrash
out a response to the London bombings.

In recent days the home secretary has been touting the notion that our phone,
email and internet records should be archived for at least a year for use by
security services and police. Clarke believes that mobile and internet service
providers should create databases containing information on who we email, who
emails us, who we phone, where we use our mobile, our account details and the
internet sites we visit. That information would then be made available to police
in other EU countries. The idea is known as "communications data retention", and
has for many years been a contentious law-enforcement ambition.

Is this proposal a measured and appropriate response to the atrocities?
Definitely not: mass surveillance at this scale would be unlawful, unworkable,
disproportionate and ridiculously expensive. It is yet another insane technology
fixation conceived in a vacuum and nurtured on rhetoric. Legal opinions from the
European commission and the European parliament's legal affairs committee both
indicate the complete lack of a legal basis for such proposals.

Sure, the government can argue that the proposal could dodge human rights law
under the national security exemption. But it is not good enough to merely claim
an exemption; the claim must be comprehensively established and rigorously
documented. The government has never provided quantifiable evidence that
retention of this personal information is anything more than a shameless grab
for greater surveillance. It has published no discussion paper, no research
findings, and no risk or opportunity assessment.

In a report published last month by Erasmus University in Rotterdam, researchers
reviewing 65 relevant police investigations concluded that data retention was
unnecessary. In just about every case police could use existing account and
billing information from service providers - as British officers could with the
four alleged suicide bombers responsible for the London attacks. Based on the
Erasmus findings, the government does not have a leg to stand on with its
argument that the proposals are "essential" for policing and national security.

The Dutch justice minister has ventured down an almost identical road, only to
be slated by members of his own party and by all opposition parties; the
government had not established that the proposals were necessary and it had
failed to consider less invasive alternatives. Importantly, it had also failed
to conduct any valid investigation into the effectiveness, costs and economic
impact of its proposal.

Full retention of and access to this level of data requires, in effect, a full
internet wiretap on every user. Christian Democrat MP Hans Franken cited
calculations amounting to a euros 7m initial investment for a small Dutch
internet service provider with a 2.5% market share. This equates to a cost
burden of hundreds of millions of pounds to UK service providers, which will be
passed on to the consumer.

Despite these drawbacks the UK government has been relentlessly pushing for data
retention since August 2000, more than a year before the events of September 11.
The proposals have been rejected time and time again, both at home and in
Brussels.

When the government drafted the regulation of investigatory powers bill,
designed to extend and har monise police powers, the retention idea provoked
uproar in the House of Lords, schisms in the Commons, and an icy response from
business and civil-liberties groups. It was withdrawn.

Two years later, backed by continuing police submissions, David Blunkett again
dipped his toe in the water, only to have it bitten off by an unexpectedly
hostile public reaction (remember the "snoopers' charter"?). Now Clarke is
attempting to resurrect the idea. He believes the bombings provide justification
for a third attempt. The error in his argument is that the terrorist threat has
never provided a practical, moral or legal foundation for the proposals that
will be put forward today.

Blair has been unequivocal on one point: "all the surveillance in the world"
could not have prevented the London bombings. Why then is Clarke hellbent on
pursuing retention as a means of countering terrorism?

We should see the UK proposals for what they really are: a desperate political
stunt to give a pretence of leadership in Europe.

Simon Davies is the director of Privacy International and a visiting fellow in
the department of information systems at the London School of Economics

simon@privacy.org


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 13, 2005, Wednesday

SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY: DANGEROUS LINES;
 MOBILES CAN SIGNAL LIFE AND DEATH IN TERRORIST ATTACKS. BUT IS IT

BYLINE: JIMMY LEE SHREEVE

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 857 words


The most visible technology during last week's terrorist attacks on London was
the mobile phone. People were using the devices to let family and friends know
they were OK, to check and spread the news, and to take digital photographs of
events as they unfolded.

Mobiles were a key part of communications for emergency services " and were
widely suspected to have been used by the terrorists, too. They have become key
weapons in terrorists' armouries. And this is one of the reasons why, as part of
its emergency plans, the Government has the power to shut down mobile networks.
The only problem is that, as well as stopping terrorists, this also disrupts the
legitimate use of mobile phones.

In the immediate aftermath of the attacks, there was certainly downtime on the
mobile networks " many people were unable to contact family and friends. This
was mainly due to the surge in calls after the explosions, which put
communications systems under enormous strain. But some of the downtime was due
to the Government bringing its emergency powers into play under a protocol
called 'Access Overload Control'. These powers allow it to shut down networks
totally or prioritise them for emergency services.

A statement from the network operator O2 confirmed that the company was
instructed to implement the Access Overload procedures: 'During the course of
the day, the police requested priority access for the emergency services in
parts of central London. We granted this request, which was subsequently removed
as the congestion eased.'

Another measure taken by O2 and other operators to deal with the demand was to
use a procedure called half-rate coding, which allows more mobile calls to be
made using existing bandwidth, but with reduced voice quality and little or no
mobile data or video services. Emergency personnel are given priority under this
procedure, too.

Experts now say that mobile phones weren't used to actually detonate the London
bombs " they were in the Madrid bombings last year " which explains why the
Government didn't use its powers to shut down the networks completely. 'I doubt
cell phones would have been used in the London bombings,' says Raymond E Foster,
a retired Los Angeles policeman and co-author of the forthcoming book Global
Terrorism: From Cold War to Flaming-Hot War. 'Because of the problems with
signal penetration, using cell-phone technology seems like a bad idea for
underground detonation. One of the bombs detonated in a very deep tunnel, which
rules out the possibility that it was triggered remotely.'

Mobiles could have been used as timers. But if they were used in this way,
shutting down the networks wouldn't have made any difference " calls would have
been stopped, but not the mobile phones themselves.

While the Government's emergency powers to shut down networks would seem to be
in all our best interests, there are those who feel it could work against us.
'One of the problems with the Government having the power to close down or limit
mobile-phone communications is that it stops ordinary people being able to tell
each other what is going on,' says Ian Henshall, author of 9.11 Revealed: the
Facts Behind the War on Terror. 'This could have serious implications when you
consider that initial news reports insisted that there was a power surge on the
Underground. The real news reports came from everyday citizens calling friends
and families and telling them the truth " that terrorists were mounting an
attack on the Underground. If the Government shut down mobile-phone
communications, then the reality of what was happening wouldn't get out for some
considerable time. All you'd get is the official line, which they would justify
as preventing panic, but it could lead to greater loss of life.'

However, Foster feels that shutting down mobile networks around bomb sites is
justified, 'but you would have to be pretty sure there was a device and it would
take time to implement'. He points out that such measures are not taken in the
US. 'You couldn't easily shut down cell- phone networks in the States, or at
least it would be very impractical. There are too many vendors, and you would
need a court order to shut the system off. Even if you had the protocol in place
to shut down the system without a court order, you would still need to call all
the companies.'

The fact that the US cannot easily shut down mobile networks as in the UK sets
off alarm bells for Henshall. 'We should strongly question why the British
Government has set up A ccess Overload emergency powers, and ask whether it is
truly in the public interest,' he says.

In any large-scale emergency, mobile-phone networks can go down due to overload.
But according to the wireless industry expert John Green of US-based Business
Edge Solutions, the next-generation wireless networks may be better able to
handle the heavy traffic that comes during emergency situations.

'As the technology moves on, the ability of a single cell to cope with more
simultaneous transactions will increase over time,' Green says. 'And new
technologies will also help considerably.'

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Kirkintilloch Herald

                                 July 13, 2005

MPs stunned by London terror attacks

LENGTH: 410 words


EAST Dunbartonshire MP Jo Swinson managed to travel back to Glasgow on Thursday
to attend her sister's wedding, despite the chaos on London's transport network
following the bombings.

She said: "In the morning, I was able to travel into Westminster by overground
train, and what struck me was how calm everyone remained.

"I was almost expecting people to panic because of the terrible things that had
happened.

"However, everyone responded in a tremendous show of solidarity, and that has to
be one of the few positives to come out of these awful events.

"At night, the whole public transport system had more or less ground to halt,
but I needed to get to the airport as I was flying back home.

"I was the bridesmaid at my sister's wedding on Saturday, so I had to get back,
otherwise I would have stayed in London for the weekend.

"I did manage to get a lift to the airport and get a flight back to Glasgow, but
I was severely delayed and had to cancel a surgery I had arranged for
Kirkintilloch on Thursday."

ROSEMARY McKenna, MP for Kirkintilloch East, Lennoxtown, Milton of Campsie and
Twechar, was in London getting ready to come back to Scotland when the
terrorists struck.

She explained: "My sister phoned and told me to put the television on.

"It was awful. The atmosphere was very busy and people were very depressed but I
expect when I go back down people will say that they are going to get on with
things.

"A normal 40 minute journey by car to the airport took two-and-a-half hours and
the police were carrying machine guns, stopping random cars and searching them.

"The people in the cars were absolutely ashen-faced and distraught."

Rosemary added that if she can help any local people make arrangements to get to
London to look for relatives or to help, they can call 0207 2194135.

Coatbridge and Chryston MP Tom Clarke was at his desk in the House of Commons
when he heard the news of the London bombings.

He said: The news was conveyed to me by the Sergeant at Arms Department who are
responsible for security. Immediately my thoughts and concern were for the
innocent people who had set off to work that morning.

"This was a calculated and brutal attack exercised by fanatics against
indefensible women and men who had no chance to defend themselves. It was an
outrageous act of violence which I utterly condemn.

"Londoners are as warm and friendly people as anywhere in Britain."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Market Rasen Mail

                                 July 13, 2005

Local children caught up in London terror attacks UPDATE

LENGTH: 367 words


CHILDREN from a local school were in the thick of both the celebrations and the
nightmare of London last week.

Eighteen pupils from Middle Rasen Primary School went from the euphoria at the
heart of the capital's Olympic celebrations to seeing all their plans thrown
into chaos by the terrorist outrage, in less than 24 hours.

The ten and 11-year-olds were on a five-day trip with six leaders and just the
day before the explosions, they were in Trafalgar Square as London learned of
its success in being awarded the 2012 Olympic Games.

"It was the icing on the cake for our trip," said teacher in charge Anthony
Wells.

The next day, everything turned to horror and chaos. They were on Underground
when suddenly they were evacuated from their circle line train.

They were told that a power failure was to blame but in truth one of four bombs
to rock the heart of London had exploded on a train at Edgware Road, only
minutes in front of them.

The party had been ushered to Kensington Gardens and the children were unaware
of the emergency until they returned to their hostel.

"We didn't know exactly what was going on until we got back and saw it on the
news," said Mr Wells. "We didn't see or hear anything and were never in any
danger.

"Thursday was just a disappointing end to a fantastic week," he added.

Headteacher Phil Young, who was not on the trip, said a possible terrorist
attack was part of the school's risk assessment plan and the actions taken by
staff on the trip had worked out exactly as planned.

As all trains were cancelled Mr Young arranged for a coach to pick them up and
bring them home that day, but they could not get out of London and returned to a
tearful reunion with parents on Friday.

Parents of the children in London were all reassured that everyone was alright -
even before some had heard of the terrorist attacks.

Mel Fenwick, whose 10-year-old daughter Kate was on the trip, said the day had
been 'very distressing' but had been 'very well dealt with by the school'.

? Get your copy of today's (Wednesday's) Market Rasen Mail and see page 4 for
what the children have to say about their dramatic 24 hours in London.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Petersfield Post

                                 July 13, 2005

Ten yards from terrorist attack

LENGTH: 118 words


A Petersfield man has been recalling the horror of his close encounter with the
bomb attacks in London.

David Jeffery was standing just ten yards away from the London bus which was
blown up in Tavistock Square at 9.47am last Thursday.

The bus blast killed 13 people, with the attacks on the underground taking the
death toll to 52 people in total, with over 700 people injured.

Mr Jeffery, of Woodbury Avenue, was walking on the opposite side of the road
when the final bomb was detonated.

"I heard the loudest bang I've ever heard and I looked round and there was a
great hail of glass fragments coming at me," he said.

For full story see the July 13 edition of the Petersfield Post

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hertfordshire

                                 July 13, 2005

Religious groups plead for unity after terror attacks

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 233 words

DATELINE: Hertfordshire; Watford Observer


RELIGIOUS groups across south west Herts are appealing for people to stand
"shoulder to shoulder" in the wake of last week's terrorist attacks.

Their pleas come amid fears the number of racially aggravated crimes could rise
in the next few weeks following Thursday's attacks.

It is now believed more than 52 people lost their lives in the London
explosions.

Saeed Ahmed from the Watford Central Mosque said: "We are all concerned about
what has happened and all the communities and different faiths of Watford are of
the same opinion.

"This was a deplorable act and one that must not be repeated. It must never be
condoned and it must not be justified in any way."

Representatives of different faiths came together to discuss the terrorist
attacks at a meeting in the town hall on Tuesday.

Mayor Dorothy Thornhill who led Tuesday's Faith Forum said: "While we have known
for some time that extremists were targeting London that does not make it any
less shocking and painful when a terrorist attack does happen.

"What we need to make clear is that the people responsible for this are
criminals who need to be brought to justice.

"In Watford people from different backgrounds live together peacefully. I do not
think that the terrible events of last Thursday have done anything to change
that."

For full story see Friday's printed version of Watford Observer.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 July 13, 2005

Homegrown terrorists attacked London

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 699 words


The London terror bombings were the first suicide attacks on British soil and
were carried out by homegrown terrorists, it was revealed last night. One of the
four suicide bombers was thought to be Shahzad Tanweer, 22, who friends
described as a cricket loving sports science graduate, and another of the
bombers was only a teenager. At least three of them are believed to have been
British males of Pakistani origin who lived in West Yorkshire.

Detectives are still unsure about the identity of the mystery fourth bomber.

A relative of one of the suspects was arrested in West Yorkshire yesterday and
was being brought to London to be quizzed by the anti-terrorist branch.

Just 20 minutes before blowing themselves up, killing around 50 people, the four
suicide bombers were captured on CCTV at King's Cross station, talking casually
as they carried their devices in army-style rucksacks.

A senior security source, who has viewed the footage, said: "They were chatting.
You would think they were going on a hiking holiday." The images, which were
only spotted by detectives at 8pm on Monday, provided a crucial breakthrough in
the police investigation which saw dramatic developments yesterday, beginning
with a series of dawn raids in West Yorkshire. Bomb making equipment was found
at one of the six addresses raided in Leeds and Dewsbury.

Later, police also found explosives in a car parked at Luton station - where the
four bombers are thought to have met up - and a series of controlled explosions
were carried out. Detectives and the security services fear there could still be
a second suicide bomb team waiting to strike and that an al Qaida mastermind
could have orchestrated the attacks before fleeing the UK.

The bombers appear to be the security services' worst nightmare, so-called
"clean skins", apparently ordinary young men who had not previously come to the
attention of the authorities.

"How many clean skins have we got waiting in the wings?" a senior security
source said. "What we don't know is whether someone came in under the al Qaida
methodology, whether they came in, did the preparation and left the country the
day before the attacks." Sources said there was "strong" forensic evidence
linking Tanweer to the blast on the underground train near Aldgate. His
semi-detached home in the Beeston area of Leeds, where he had lived all his
life, was sealed off yesterday.

The driving licence and cash cards of another suspect, who was 19 and from
Leeds, were found in the mangled wreckage of the number 30 bus which blew up in
Tavistock Square, killing 13 people. He had told his parents he was going to
London with friends on the day of the attacks and at 10.20pm that day they
reported him missing to the police casualty bureau.

Documents belonging to a third suspect, who was 30 and from Dewsbury, West
Yorkshire, were found in the debris of the Edgware Road blast. All three men
were believed to have been friends but not related. They are thought to have
used hire cars to travel from West Yorkshire to Luton last Thursday morning. All
four men then boarded a Thameslink rail service to King's Cross where they were
captured on CCTV just before 8.30am.

They then split up, three of them detonating their bombs on separate trains
simultaneously at 8.50am.

The bus bomb detonated 57 minutes later. Detectives are still unsure whether
that bomb had been destined for a fourth tube train. One theory is that three
bombers travelled west, east and south on the London Underground from King's
Cross and the fourth was supposed to go north but the Northern Line was closed
that day. As police try to formally identify the bombers, some bodies from the
blast sites are being fast tracked through the identification process.

Police were last night also examining a second car recovered in the Luton area
which is thought to have been used by the bombers.

Meanwhile, the Muslim Council of Britain last night expressed "shock and
anguish" that their youth may have been involved in the London terror attacks.
Secretary General Iqbal Sacranie pledged the council's "absolute commitment" to
bringing those responsible to justice.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                     © Copyright 2005 Western Morning News

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Batley Today

                                 July 14, 2005

WE STAND TOGETHER - ARCHBISHOP HEARS OF TERROR ATTACKS IN BATLEY

LENGTH: 506 words


The Archbishop of Canterbury's visit to Batley took on a grave note of urgency
as news of the terrorist attacks in London filtered North.

Dr Rowan Williams was in Batley to celebrate the continuing good relations
between people of all faiths in the town and to launch a formal dialogue between
Muslims and Christians.

He was being given a tour of the Madina mosque, the largest mosque in Batley,
and the madressah in Purlwell when reports of the attacks first reached his
party.

Members of all faiths joined in prayer for the victims of the attacks at an
informal lunch at the Indian Muslim Welfare Society (IMWS) before the Archbishop
went to the National Coal Mining Museum in Overton for a seminar on The
Tolerance of Difference.

When he arrived in Wakefield Dr Williams called for Muslims and Christians to
stand together in the wake of the attacks.

He said: "The appalling events in London this morning have shocked us all. So I
want first and foremost to extend my personal sympathy and condolences to
everyone who is suffering and grieving at this time.

"All those caught up in this tragedy - and that includes, of course, the
emergency services whose selfless dedication and commitment is so vital at times
like this - all are in my own prayers and in the prayers of a great many people.

"As it happens I have spent this morning with Muslim colleagues and friends in
West Yorkshire; and we were all as one in our condemnation of this evil and in
our shared sense of care and compassion for those affected in whatever way.

"Such solidarity and common purpose is vital for us all at this time of pain and
sorrow and anger."

The aims of the conference appeared increasingly important in the wake of the
attacks.

Guests at the IMWS included Jackie Eames of Batley High School for Girls
(formerly Howden Clough Girls School), the Mayor of Kirklees, Coun Margaret
Fearnley and Batley and Spen MP Mike Wood.

Ebrahim Dockrat of the IMWS welcomed the Archbishop to the centre. He said: "As
a community we welcome the positive approach you have adopted to bringing
together Christians and Muslims. We welcome the positive remarks you have made
about the Muslim faith and practices."

Speaking at the centre the Archbishop said: "We must have faith not only in God
but in one another. There must exist a basic trust between our communities which
is able to stand firm against all those elements in society which try to
undermine it."

He told the gathered dignitaries that both Christians and Muslims faced the same
challenges when it came to issues like parenting and the role of faith, the role
of the family in modern society and media perceptions of people with faith, and
must work together to find common solutions.

Chairman of the IMWS, Bashir Karolia, said that the seminars had gone very well.

He said: "This high profile event has helped to build Muslim-Christian dialogue
and highlighted how important it is to gain a greater mutual understanding of
our different religions."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            July 14, 2005, Thursday

WAR ON TERRORISM : PAKISTAN 'STOPPED ELECTION ATTACK

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 168 words


Pakistan's interior minister yesterday said a terror attack was thwarted in
Britain before the May General Election - and arrests were made in several
countries - because of help from Pakistan's government.

'Before the General Election in the UK we received reports this sort of
situation might arise, and attacks were aborted because of information provided
by the government of Pakistan, and arrests were made in various countries and
here,' Interior Minster Aftab Khan Sherpao said.

Sherpao spoke at a news conference in Islamabad to discuss the alleged role of
British citizens of Pakistani origin in last week's terror attacks in London.

He said Pakistan was fully co-operating with Britain in the current
investigation.

'Whatever useful information that we have we will be providing to the British
government,' he said. He would not comment on a New York Times report that the
UK was was seeking access to Zeeshan Haider, a 25-year-old British national
arrested in May near Peshawar

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       July 14, 2005, Thursday Edition 1

Do not let terror attacks divide us

BYLINE: By Sonia Sharma, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 437 words


   Muslims across Britain have condemned the London bombings. Here Noor Ullah
Mian, 68, a retired schoolteacher, from Gateshead, tells Sonia Sharma it is now
even more important to stick together as a community

We are shocked and condemn unequivocally and without reservation the barbaric
attacks in London.

Our hearts and minds go out to the innocent victims of this heinous crime and we
express our sincere and deep condolences to the families, friends and relatives
of the victims.

It is too early to lay a blame on any particular group but with past experience
all the hallmarks of the attack do point the finger towards al Qaeda, whose
members happen to have Muslim names.

They are doing all these evil acts in the name of Islam, which in fact is a
religion of peace. The Koran, the holy book of Muslims, says: "He who slays a
soul unless it be [in punishment by in decree of a court of law] for murder or
for spreading mischief on earth, shall be as if he had slain all mankind; and he
who saves a life shall be as if he had given life to all mankind."

These terrorists have hijacked the word Jihad and are misleading and misguiding
the simple-minded youth who are frustrated and disappointed for some economic,
religious or political reasons.

Their major objective is to isolate the Muslim community in Britain and
elsewhere, and thereby create circumstances in which more and more young people
feel alienated, unhappy, frustrated and desperate and fall into their net and
work as raw material for their terrorist activities.

These terrorists have no religion and have no moral values. They are simply evil
perpetrators and their aim is only to weaken and ultimately destroy the peace
around. They have their own agendas and to achieve their goals they use religion
or any ideology.

The word Jihad means a struggle to eradicate any evil in the society, and where
it means holy war, it must be a declared war, should have the sanction of an
established Islamic state and should be taught according to the strict rules and
discipline laid down in the Koran and in the decrees of the Holy Prophet.

Otherwise it is treason by a deviant and non-conformist group waged for its
ulterior motives and must be defeated by the full force of the law of the land.

One of the most shameful fall-outs of terrorism is that it aims to divide
communities by creating fear and suspicion.

Britain is a good example of a multi-cultural society where all faith
communities have been living together peacefully.

It is now more important that we do not give in to terrorism by allowing
ourselves to be divided.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 14, 2005

Life: This Week: What can computer models tell us about the terror attacks on
London?

BYLINE: Alok Jha

SECTION: Guardian Science Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 422 words


They will be able to pinpoint exactly where the bombs were placed and how much
explosive was used in each attack.

The government's Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (DSTL) has been given
the task of gathering information on the bombs, which killed more than 50 people
and injured hundreds. The DSTL's forensic explosives lab at Fort Halstead will
head the investigation to identify and explain what happened during the
explosions.

Understandably, the investigators are keeping quiet on the exact details of
their work, but explosives experts have suggested that 3D models of the blasts
could be used to better understand the dynamics of the explosion.

"We could tell them where the device was placed, we'd be able to tell them how
much explosive was used," says Neil Fisher, director of security solutions at
Qinetiq, the former government defence research lab. "The forensic chemists will
be able to tell which type of explosive was used. We understand the science of
those explosives, the chemistry, so we can analyse how much explosive was used
to cause that much damage."

The computer models are created by examining the blast scene and recording the
position of every piece of debris. "When you're capturing the real world, you're
doing it with a laser and a camera, so the equivalent we use takes 6m data
points on each take," says Fisher.

"You get a very accurate facsimile of the real world which you can then stitch
together to make your simulation."

Once the simulation has been created, specific programmes are then run to watch
the effects of different types and amounts of explosive.

"We would try to match those simulated effects with what's happened in the real
world," says Fisher. "Sometimes you'll get blast but not a lot of heat. Others,
like Semtex - you can make a lot of heat out of them as well as a blast wave."

The modelling is done in two parts. After the simulated blast is compared with
the actual event, the information is validated by recreating the explosion for
real. "Qinetiq has a large number of ranges and test sites where we are actually
licensed to go and do that," says Fisher.

Computer models of explosions have a good pedigree in solving terrorist bombing
mysteries. The explosion on board Pan Am flight 103, in 1988, was modelled by
precursors to the program used by Qinetiq. Investigators showed that it would
take only a small amount of plastic explosive - less than half a kilogram in the
case of flight 103 - to bring down a Boeing 747.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 14, 2005

Attack on London: Terror hits home in alarmed communities: Dewsbury Disbelief
and fear in a town written off by Islamist extremists

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 680 words


On the streets of Dewsbury yesterday, people were still in disbelief at the news
that a man from the small town was involved in the London bombings. Mohammad
Sidique Khan had moved to Dewsbury with his wife within the last year and was
barely known to locals. But his mother-in-law, Farida Patel, was a pillar of her
community. A retired teacher, she had recently spearheaded a campaign against
the closure of a school.

Sulaiman Kazi, a solicitor, said: "Until this incident there was no whiff of
extremism. The message from the mosques was about self development," in contrast
to injustices suffered by Muslims across the world. "People are revulsed how
this could be done in their name."

Muslim leaders and community activists said whatever turned Khan into a mass
murderer owed nothing to the teachings in their mosques and madrasas.

"The mosques are moderate," said Tahir Zaman, a 33-year-old businessman who left
school with two GCSEs and made his fortune in property and from selling beds.

He added: "In 33 years here I have never heard of a talk by any imam on jihad.
"The teachings here are different compared to London. Groups like al-Muhajiroun
don't exist here."

Muslims in Dewsbury said extreme Islamic groups had given up trying to gain a
foothold in Dewsbury, but still tried up the road in Leeds, which has a large
student population.

"Leeds is as far away for us as London," said Mr Zaman.

He was adamant that the community would have "cried out" if anybody had had the
slightest inkling of what Khan was planning.

Dewsbury is a main base for the moderate Muslim charity Tableek-e-Jamat, which
sends missionaries around the world and is a dominant force in the West
Yorkshire town's Islamic ideology.

Sitting surrounded by beds at his factory, Kozee Sleep, Mr Zaman said: "I
condemn the London bombing though I understand why it is happening; the reasons
are in Chechnya, Palestine, Iraq, Afghanistan and Bosnia. But our sharia law
does not permit us to kill."

In May's general election the far-right British National party received its
largest vote in any constituency in Dewsbury, with some 5,000 people supporting
it.

Yesterday the BNP was reported to be on the streets trying to exploit the
tragedy.

A local Labour councillor, Jonathan Scott, said: "We have had the BNP circling
around today and they are talking to people, trying to cause trouble. So we are
here talking to the community to reassure people and prevent a knee-jerk
reaction." Some have already suffered from the backlash to the bombings.

Ali, a taxi driver who sports a medium length beard, said: "I was sitting in the
cab and this white man standing outside said: 'I want to fight you for what you
have done in London, I want to square up to you'."

He added: "Yes I am scared. On the roads drivers swear at you, abuse about being
a Muslim and a terrorist. Things are getting worse."

Habib Akudi's wife has even suggested he does not wear traditional Muslim
clothes when he takes the train to London for business. It is the same train
route the bombers are believed to have taken.

Mr Akudi is on the committee of one of the town's 15 mosques, and said: "My wife
said I shouldn't travel to London. There have been discussions in the community
about not going out, but I say we have to continue our lives."

He cannot believe what has been done in the name of his faith, but fears that
Muslims may pay a price. "Trouble is going to happen because isolated idiots in
the English community think they're doing something noble by knocking over some
girl in a hijab."

Back in his cab, Ali lamented a gap he saw between the older and younger
generations of Muslims in the town, especially young people who lose touch with
their faith.

"Young and old, hardly a word is said even though they live in the same house,
they hardly know each other. There's too much freedom. Parents can't reprimand
their children if they do something wrong. That's why the gap is widening. The
young are a mixed up race, some don't know right from wrong."


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                                 July 14, 2005

Urge for calm after terror bomb attacks

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 307 words


Millionaire passengers aboard the world's biggest "private yacht" may extend
their visit to the English Riviera because of the recent terrorist attacks in
London. The luxurious World-ResidenSea is questioning whether to go ahead with
its planned trip to London after the capital was targeted by suicide bombers
last week.

Tourism bosses have agreed the £209 million 43,000 tonne 200 apartment ship can
stay in Torbay for longer if it decides to forgo its London excursion.

Deirdre Makepeace, of Torbay Development Agency, hailed the ship's arrival
tomorrow a major coup for the Bay.

Around 100 wealthy passengers are expected in Torquay when the ship docks off
Princess Pier at 8am. Torbay Mayor Peter Killick and the harbour master Kevin
Mowatt are due to board at 10.30am.

IN THE Commons today Tony Blair said that the Government was taking urgent
action to exclude and deport religious extremists from abroad who tried to stir
up hatred in the wake of the London bombings.

The Prime Minister issued an appeal for calm following the disclosure that at
least some of the terrorists who carried out the suicide attacks were born and
bred in Britain.

At the same time, he told MPs that he would be bringing forward talks with the
opposition parties on new powers for the police and security services to combat
the incitement and instigation of terrorist attacks.

In a hushed Commons chamber, Mr Blair spoke of his "shock" at the discovery that
the bombers were from Britain.

But he stressed that they were in no way typical of British Muslims, who are
overwhelmingly decent and law-abiding citizens, and he condemned any reprisals
against the Muslim community.

He said there was now a need for worldwide action to uproot the "evil ideology"
and "twisted teachings" that lay behind the terrorists' actions.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

                   © Copyright 2005 Herald Express (Torquay)

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 14, 2005, Thursday

TOWER 'SAFE FROM TERROR ATTACKS'

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 51 words


MOSCOW The developer of a skyscraper that would be Europe's tallest has said
state-of-the-art construction and design methods would make it safe from terror
attacks similar to those that destroyed the World Trade Centre in New York. The
Federation Tower will house offices, a hotel and apartments.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               New Civil Engineer

                             July 14, 2005 Thursday

Olympics and terror attacks

SECTION: ARTICLE; Archive; News

LENGTH: 511  words



HIGHLIGHT: The question


The past week saw London's Olympic 2012 victory overshadowed by terrorist
attacks on the transport network. What are your thoughts on these events?

Coming the day after London's joy in winning the 2012 Olympics, a victory
largely achieved from showing the passion of youth and the magnificent diversity
of our capital, the events of Thursday were particularly hard to take.

London seemed a quieter place the morning after, with fewer people on the tube
and train, but there also seems to be a quiet determination not to let such
depravity break our spirit or our unity. I am sure we will recover. Londoners of
all colours and creeds are determined to go forward together and that is
certainly the message in all I have read and heard since the blasts.

Andy Walker, 41, communications director, London The bombings were a vile and
evil event carried out by a minority group of cowardly scum.

We should pay tribute to all who helped in the aftermath. Well done to the
people of London who have picked themselves up and carried on as usual. While we
still have the ability to do this then terrorists will not win.

Robert Pike, 43, project manager, Exeter My thoughts and prayers are with all
those affected.

The coincidence of G8 and London winning the 2012 bid is a headline-hitting time
for the terrorists. It will not stop the capital working and we all need to be
vigilant about what is happening around us. London's 2012 Olympic Games is great
news. Let's do it better than any other Olympic capital by delivering to time
and budget.

John D Brownlie, 56, project director, Shrewsbury The Olympics will give a
massive boost to the economy; we can only hope that the planning system can turn
around projects expediently. It does not have to take 19 years of studies to
conclude that Crossrail, Thameslink 2000 and the Thames Gateway are needed.

Other countries achieve faster procurement. The only response to terrorism is no
response;

business as usual, or they win.

John Sreeves, 47, senior bridge engineer, Swindon This demonstrates the harsh
cruelty of life - up one day and tragically down the next.

Rob Andrew, 40, policy manager, Cornwall One has to be pleased that we have won
the Olympics and it can only be good for east London as well as the country in
general. As to the sad events of last week - it was almost expected.

Trevor Odell, 44, technical specialist, Surrey What a difference a day makes.

Like it or not Tony Blair has made decisions which have affected the lives of
billions of people not only in this country but across the world. The decision
to make a strong bid for the Olympics has paid off although the consequences of
failure were insignificant. The decision to go to war has been less than
successful with the consequences of failure likely to affect the lives of many
far beyond the 2012 Olympics.

Charles Brewerton, project engineer, Brighton Talk about a contrast from one day
to the next. I honestly think that the dastardly attack will serve to unite us
more to enjoy the fruits of the 2012 Olympics.

Philip Norris, 59, managing director, Tutbury

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: New Construction Engineer


                            Copyright 2005 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Southern Reporter

                                 July 14, 2005

SBC sends its support in wake of terror attacks

LENGTH: 306 words


LOCAL MP Michael Moore has been talking about his shock and horror at the terror
attacks on London, writes Bob Burgess.

And Scottish Borders Council has condemned the bombings and sent a letter of
support to London mayor Ken Livingstone.

Mr Moore was at his office in Westminster when the suicide bombers struck on
Thursday.

He told us: "We have lived in different and dangerous times since the September
11 attacks on the USA.

"We knew there could be other attacks and that we were possible targets. What
has happened is a manifestation of those fears."

The Liberal Democrat defence spokesman learned of the explosions in a phone call
from his wife, Alison, who was in Edinburgh.

He told us: "I had come into the office early to write a speech for a defence
debate when I got the phone call. None of the blasts happened around
Westminster, but this is a main traffic artery and there was the sad sound of
sirens. All my team managed to get here safely."

Immediately after the attacks, security across the country was tightened.

Mr Moore said it was too early to say whether the bombings would change his
opposition to national identity cards.

SBC convener Alasdair Hutton expressed sympathies and condolences in a letter
"on behalf of the people of the Scottish Borders" to Mayor Livingstone.

He wrote: "Living as we do in a very rural part of the United Kingdom, far from
the nation's capital, it may be easy to imagine that we might feel detached from
these dreadful scenes of destruction and carnage, but we want you and all the
people of London to know that at this time we stand together with you,
determined that those who perpetrate these acts of barbarism and cowardice
should not succeed."

Flags on council buildings were flown at half-mast in tribute to the victims of
the blast.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hertfordshire

                                 July 14, 2005

Muslims condemn terror attacks

BYLINE: Alex Lewis

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: Hertfordshire; St. Albans Observer


MUSLIMS in St Albans have condemned the bombings in London and warned of the
possibility of revenge attacks.

Abdul Shahid of the Bangladeshi Welfare Association said: "Everyone has
condemned what happened on Thursday.

"It is people using the name of Islam to cause chaos for other people.

"People went to the mosque and the imam said be vigilant and make sure that if
you see anything it is reported to the police and the authorities.

"We must be calm and be aware of what is happening.

"There was an incident in London a young lady wearing the hejab Islamic
head-dress was attacked. That is terrible.

"I just hope nothing happens like that round here. Everyone is a bit worried."

There are thousands of Muslims in St Albans and London Colney mostly of either
Bangladeshi or Pakistani origin.

Gulzar Hussain general secretary of the Bangladeshi mosque in Hatfield Road
said: "We condemn these barbaric attacks.

"Somebody may have done this in the name of Islam but it is not in the concept
of Islam.

"The police are coming to see us to see if there any problems but so far there
haven't been any."

Mayor Malcolm MacMillan visited the Pakistani mosque in Hatfield Road yesterday
(Wednesday) to express his support for the community.

Mosque president Abdul Hakim told him how the mosque discouraged extremists but
said there had been a few instances of local Muslims being abused in the street.

He said the mosque was working closely with police and leaders of other faiths
but was unhappy with the negative picture of his faith portrayed in the media.

Councillor MacMillan said: "I have been here 28 years and almost every Muslim I
have met has been peace-loving. It is very important we get that message across.

"Ninety-nine per cent of Muslims are repelled by what has happened."

The London bombings are thought to be the work of Islamic extremists motivated
by the presence of British troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 July 14, 2005

Security increased after terror attacks

BYLINE: Rachel Sixsmith

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 418 words


POLICE in Ealing have heightened security in the borough following the terrorist
attacks in London last week.

The attacks caused terror in the capital as four bombs exploded in central
London on Thursday morning killing at least 52 people and injuring more than
700.

Detectives believe the attacks which saw three bombs explode in the underground
at 8.50am at Edgware Road King's Cross Russell Square and Liverpool Street and
another at 9.47am on a bus in Tavistock Square were carried out by British
suicide bombers.

The driver of the number 30 bus walked seven miles to Central Middlesex Hospital
in Acton after the bomb went off.

George Psarabakis 50 of north London was in shock after the attack and walked to
the hospital after helping victims of the blast.

He was treated for shock and released at 2pm when he went home to be reunited
with his wife and two children.

Chief Superintendent Collette Paul commander of Ealing police and Cllr Ranjit
Dheer deputy leader of the council said in a joint statement: "We like everyone
throughout London have been left extremely shocked and saddened by the tragic
events last Thursday."

On the day of the attacks all tube stations were closed including stations in
the Ealing and schools were also shut.

A meeting was held on the day of the attacks at with Ealing Borough Police and
Ealing Borough Council at Southall Town Hall.

It was agreed that that there would be increased police presence throughout the
borough at all tube stations and particularly outside all places of worship to
prevent race-hate crimes.

Chief Supt Paul said: "We are doing rotating visits throughout all places of
worship. The increased visible police and partner agency presence across the
borough is not a response to any specific threat.

"This presence is to reassure the public particularly in communities where
people may feel vulnerable at this time."

Borough liaison officers are being stationed wherever there is a potential for
hate crime and police are aiming to remove any racist graffiti within two hours.

Chief Supt Paul confirmed that a couple of racist incidents have occurred in the
area since the attacks but that they were very low key. She said: "We have had a
couple of incidents. One was a telephone call to a mosque in the borough."

Ealing Council has set up a book of condolence at the town hall

Members of the public and residents who remain concerned about relatives and
friends can call 0870 156 6344

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 July 14, 2005

Leaders call for unity after terror attacks in capital

BYLINE: Rachel Sharp

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 411 words


COMMUNITY leaders have called for calm and vigilance across Hillingdon following
the terror bombings in London last week.

The call comes from Hillingdon police Hillingdon Council and community leaders
across the borough after an emergency meeting was held last Thursday evening.

Since the terrorist attacks in London last Thursday which are now known to have
claimed the lives of at least 52 people police have stepped up patrols at train
stations across Hillingdon as well as at mosques.

Borough Commander for Hillingdon Chief Superintendent Mark Toland vowed police
would increase their presence over the coming weeks to provide reassurance to
the public.

Two security alerts were sparked in Hillingdon following the bombs one at around
midday on the day of the bombings when an unattended bag was left on the number
207 bus at Uxbridge bus garage and one on Saturday morning at Uxbridge train
station. Both turned out to be false alarms. Inspector Jeff Bannister of the
partnership office at Uxbridge told the Times: "The majority of calls to suspect
packages are resolved when initial inquiries prove the packages to be innocent.
However it is prudent to deal with these calls properly even though they may
cause temporary disruption to routine lifestyle."

Amir Ahmed from the Hillingdon Muslim Council told the Times: "On behalf of my
colleagues and the Muslim communities we represent please accept our sincere
appreciation and thanks for everyone's support and solidarity towards our
combined efforts to restore harmony and normality to life in the country. The
Muslim communities are unanimous in the condemnation of all atrocities
individual or institutionalised be it here or anywhere in the world quite
regardless of who-so-ever may be responsible.

"All life is precious. Our heartfelt condolences and sympathies reach out to
everyone touched by the carnage. Let all of us together develop and progress in
peace and harmony."

Police believe the three Tube explosions went off almost simultaneously at
around 8.50am. One train was travelling between King's Cross and Russell Square
where 21 people were confirmed dead and the others were at Liverpool Street
where seven were confirmed dead and Edgware Road where another seven died. The
fourth bomb exploded on the number 30 bus at Tavistock Square leaving 13 dead.

Contact the Metropolitan Police Casualty Bureau on 0870 1566344 for queries
about relatives or friends.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 July 15, 2005

Police hunt national terror cell after fourth attacker is traced to Aylesbury

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto

LENGTH: 1343 words


A national terrorist network behind the London suicide bombers began to emerge
as it was revealed that the fourth killer was a Jamaican-born British teenager
in Buckinghamshire.

After police released CCTV images of Hasib Hussain yesterday - rucksack on his
back - at Luton station at 7.20 on the morning of the attacks (pictured page 1),
anti-terrorist officers and MI5 are trying to track down other members of the
terrorist unit. They are thought to include a bomb-maker and a planner. Among
those being investigated is a man in his mid-40s who stayed at the Leeds house
where the bombs were made, but left the country for Iraq months ago.

The man responsible for detonating the rucksack bomb outside King's Cross
station, killing at least 25, was living in Aylesbury with his wife and was
called Lindsay Jermalne. Known as "Jermal", he is thought to have driven about
20 miles to Luton station where he met the other three suicide attackers who had
driven down from Leeds on Thursday morning. The terrorists travelled by train
into King's Cross, where they split up and set off four bombs, killing at least
53 people.

A hire car thought to have been driven by Jermalne was found in the Luton
station car park with explosives inside. Bomb experts detonated nine controlled
explosions on the car before it was taken for forensic analysis.

Detectives believe the disclosure that one of the terrorist team had been living
about 150 miles from the core of the suicide squad suggests a wider network of
contacts, with the key figures possibly based in Luton.

There was confusion yesterday about spelling of the name of the King's Cross
bomber and some suggestions it could be a false identity. The young man, who was
a bodybuilder, apparently converted to Islam four years ago and worked as a
carpet-fitter.

Police and the security services were investigating his background yesterday and
tracing all his contacts over the past few months, at home and abroad. His
rented semi-detached home in Northern Road, in the multiracial town of
Aylesbury, was raided by armed police at 7pm on Wednesday. Forensic specialists
spent yesterday examining the property for clues to the movements and identity
of the gang.

The discovery that the fourth bomber comes from a different background to the
other three extremists suggests that they are part of a wider network.
Intelligence officers are trying to establish what links the two groups, whether
they are both in contact with a radical cleric or have met in Pakistan.

The three Leeds bombers - Mohammad Sidique Khan, 30, Shahzad Tanweer, 22, and
Hasib Hussain, 18, - are known friends, all British-born of Pakistani origin. As
part of the Leeds inquiry, Army bomb-disposal experts were yesterday examining a
former community centre in the Beeston area of Leeds.

The building, in Lodge Lane, is a short distance from the home of Tanweer, the
bomber who killed seven in the Aldgate blast. The bombers may have met at the
property. It had been assumed the fourth bomber was also from Leeds and was one
of the Asian group.

Detectives will also consider possible connections with another British citizen
from Jamaica who turned to terrorism. The best-known of the failed British
suicide bombers is Richard Reid, from Brixton, south London, who was overpowered
on 22 December 2002 while trying to light a cord in his shoe, the heel of which
contained explosives, on a plane bound from Paris to Miami. Reid, a petty
criminal who converted to Islam, was jailed for life in the US in 2003. Deputy
Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke, head of the Met's anti-terrorist branch,
said yesterday that the police investigation had uncovered a "vast amount of
information" but there were still many unanswered questions. He said: "Who
actually committed the attacks? Who supported them? Who financed them? Who
trained them? Who encouraged them? This will take many months of intensive,
detailed investigation. This has been and still is a fast-moving investigation,
with new leads emerging literally by the hour."

He added that officers had taken more than 500 witness statements and had seized
more than 5,000 CCTV tapes. Mr Clarke said detailed forensic examinations were
still continuing at the scenes of the blasts and that searches were being made
in West Yorkshire and Aylesbury.

Peter Neyroud, Chief Constable of Thames Valley, said of the house raid in
Aylesbury: "This development shows terrorism is not something that happens to
other people, is not something that develops in large cities but can happen in
rural Buckinghamshire. This is why it is so important for all of us to be alert,
play our part and work together to conquer these criminals."

As part of the inquiry, antiterrorist police are continuing to trawl through
thousands of hours of CCTV tapes, trying to trace the routes and contacts made
by the four bombers. Reports that a "fifth" bomber was identified at Luton
station standing with the four terrorists have been denied by two security
sources. Instead, the police are investigating anyone who was seen near the
bombers in case they have some association.

There have also been unconfirmed reports from the United States that the
"mastermind" who co-ordinated the attacks is believed to be British and of
Pakistani origin. Security sources say that several possible al-Qa'ida members
are currently being investigated but that no one person has been identified yet
as the prime suspect.

The mystery of the bus bomber's 'missing hour'

The suicide bus bomber went "missing" for an hour and 21 minutes before he
detonated his explosive, killing a total of 13 people.

Anti-terrorist officers are appealing to the public for help in finding out
where Hasib Hussain, 18, travelled and who he possibly met in the minutes
leading up to his suicide attack.

Film from surveillance cameras have tracked the teenager leaving King's Cross
station at 8.26am on Thursday, but there is no trace of him until he set off his
bomb on the No 30 bus in Tavistock Square to the west at 9.47am.

Detectives are baffled as to why the young killer did not set off the bomb along
with his fellow terrorists on Tube trains at 8.50am. Instead he waited nearly
another hour.

It has been widely reported that the most likely reason was that Hussain was
meant to travel north on the Northern line - with the other three heading south,
east, and west - but was unable to complete this journey because the line was
closed. However, Transport for London said yesterday that, although the Northern
line had severe delays, it was working up to the time of the blasts. The bomber
could also have travelled north on the Piccadilly line or the Victoria, but
chose to go above ground. He probably walked around for several minutes before
boarding the bus.

He may have lost his nerve, it could have been part of a plan, or he may have
met up with a fellow terrorist or contact while in and around King's Cross.

Detectives have now appealed to the 80-odd people on the No 30 bus involved in
the blast to contact them in case they remember seeing him getting on. Police
released images from CCTV footage yesterday showing Hussain at Luton station at
7.20am after driving from Leeds.Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke, head
of the anti-terrorist branch, said: "We need to establish his movements up until
9.47am and up until the explosion occurred in Tavistock Square. Did you see this
man at King's Cross? Was he alone or with others? Do you know the route he took
from the station? Did you see him get on to a No 30 bus? And if you did, where
and when was that?"

It is unclear where exactly Hussain boarded the bus, which started its journey
at Marble Arch at 9am. By 9.30am it was in Euston Road near the junction with
Gower Street, heading east. The closure of King's Cross station on the route
ahead, because of the attacks on the Underground, meant that the bus had to be
diverted from its normal route, to travel south into Woburn Place and Tavistock
Square.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Newspaper

               © Copyright 2005 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Cabinet Maker

                                 July 15, 2005

Shoppers not deterred by terror attacks on London

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 521 words


London retailers have reacted with characteristic British stoicism to the
devastating terror attacks which killed more than 50 people on Thursday 7 July.

The attacks came at a fragile time for the UK economy which, this month, saw the
biggest fall in year on year retail growth for more than two decades, and
inflation hitting its highest level for seven years.

But a survey of selected furniture retailers in the N1 area close to the north
London attacks revealed that both retailers and consumers had reacted with
get-on-with it attitudes.

Early indications from our poll suggest Londoners will not be easily deterred
from shopping.

David Hills, Biggs Furniture md said the Saturday following the attacks had been
the busiest for months.  On Thursday, the main concern was the safety of other
Londoners and on Friday most people felt the same way,' he said.  But the
following day we had the best Saturday we have had for some weeks.'

Craig Railton, Revelloyd manager said the attacks would not turn the company off
course.  It won't make any difference to us. It is one of those very unfortunate
things. But people will still buy furniture; people will still buy houses.'

Twentytwentyone also continued as normal. The high-end contemporary furniture
retail market in London has struggled of late with some high profile casualties,
but Mia Thittichai, manager said footfall in the store had been much the same as
before the terror struck.

We have noticed no significant dip in trade,' she said.  We are in the middle of
a sale and have had a lot of enquiries. It is difficult to say how much it is
going to affect people's state of mind, but early indications suggest it is
comparatively the same as before.'

There were notes of caution among respondents too, most of whom acknowledged a
tough trading environment.

Michael Caddington, Ebenezer Wildwood manager said business had been at its
slowest for seven years.  People are returning and really trying to get on with
things, but I wonder whether these attacks might end up putting people under,'
he said.

Claire Gardener, Chochosan owner said she envisioned Londoners getting
themselves over the hurdles' but reckoned retailers in the area would likely see
a fall in visiting consumers.

But if one of the aims of the bomb attacks was to cause maximum disruption to
the country's financial centre, then the perpetrators would have been
disappointed.

They might have expected to have been rewarded with at least a panic quarter
point interest rate cut. Instead the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee
decided to hold interest rates at 4.75% for the 11th consecutive month.

It moved the CBI to join the clamour for an early rate cut - a call which will
have been complicated by inflation hitting a seven year high.

According to the Consumer Prices Index, inflation hit 2% in June, right on the
Government's target level. There is a worry that the figure could move
chancellor Gordon Brown to discourage a much anticipated quarter point cut next
month.

Pundits widely predicted the cut would go ahead.




LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                       Copyright 2005 CMP Information Ltd

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 July 15, 2005

Big City firms at greatest risk of attack by terrorists

BYLINE: PATRICK SAWER

SECTION: LSE_04; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 543 words


BUSINESSES in the City are being told to update their security measures in the
wake of the bombings.

The threat of suicide attacks has dramatically altered the security landscape
for companies as well as public institutions.

Police are now advising firms to erect barriers close to the entrance to their
buildings, carry out more checks on visitors and underground car parks and
restrict entry points so that security staff are able to focus on a limited
number.

Senior police officers have emphasised the advice is not based on any specific
threat or intelligence of an imminent attack on the City, which has suffered at
the hands of terrorists in the past.

But Chief Superintendent Alex Robertson, head of the City's antiterrorist
section, said the need for tight security is more urgent in the wake of last
week's attacks by the four suicide bombers. He said: "We are very keen that
businesses in the City maintain their ability to operate normally and with
minimum disruption.

"We also believe the issue of security and terrorism should be at the forefront
of business planning."

Mr Robertson's advice is likely to prompt a series of security reviews at board
level while in other firms individual security managers will be forced to update
their arrangements.

Following the September 11 attacks on New York, companies on both sides of the
Atlantic strengthened their security arrangements and brought their evacuation
and relocation procedures up to date.

Further measures were introduced in the City following the suicide bomb attacks
on the offices of HSBC and the British Consulate in Istanbul in November 2003.

Measures have included maintaining and extending the ring of steel police
checkpoints around the City and Canary Wharf, placing concrete barriers outside
certain buildings and increasing the number of CCTV cameras.

But other measures have been more discreet, such as new arrangements for MI5 to
regularly brief companies in the finance, oil and telecommunications sectors on
the terrorist threat level.

A senior police source told the Financial Times: "We are working together to get
a consensus on advice on how to identify suicide bombers and how to manage
issues around suicide bombers."

Kevin Rosser, senior analyst at Control Risks Group said: "The effect of 7/7
will probably be to accelerate a process already under way of companies
reviewing their security measures and procedures and enhancing them where they
find gaps."

Meanwhile the death toll of the London bombings continues to rise, after
Australian authorities named Sam Ly as the latest victim, bringing the total to
54.

Mr Ly, 28, died last night at the National Hospital for Neurology in central
London, following the explosion on the No30 bus in Tavistock Square.

Arthur Edlin Frederick, 60, of Seven Sisters, died in the Piccadilly line blast
at Russell Square, where as many as 26 people were killed.

Police have named three more of the bombers' victims, after confirming they died
in the attacks.

Anat Rosenberg, 39, was killed on the No30 bus. Jonathan Downey died in the
Edgware Road bomb.

Guardian trainee David Foulkes, 22, from Oldham in Manchester, was also killed
in the Edgware Road blast.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 15, 2005

NAME RATS WHO PROFITED FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: Scottish Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 141 words


'RATS of the Year' title must go to the hotel owners and black cab drivers who
charged up to four times the normal price to thousands of terrified customers
seeking shelter and transport following the London terrorist bombings.

These greedy and despicable individuals took advantage of the atrocity and
carnage in order to profit from the misery and suffering of others trying to
seek comfort and help in their hour of need. These poor people became the
victims of these vicious rogue taxi drivers and hoteliers within the London
area.

The individuals concerned should be named and shamed for their selfish and
inhumane deeds, and barred for life from being employed within the public
service industry on which they have brought eternal shame and disgrace during
one of Britain's worst peacetime disasters.

John F O'Hare, Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                 July 15, 2005

UN: Conference on Disarmament concludes second part of 2005 session; Observes
minute of silence in honour of victims of terrorist attack in London

LENGTH: 2482 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-JULY 15, 2005-UN: Conference on Disarmament concludes second part
of 2005 session; Observes minute of silence in honour of victims of terrorist
attack in London ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

GENEVA - The Conference on Disarmament today observed a minute of silence in
honour of victims of last week's terrorist attack in London and heard statements
by Bulgaria, Peru, Hungary, Russian Federation, Brazil, China, United Kingdom,
and Pakistan as the President of the Conference, before concluding the second
part of its 2005 session.

The incoming President of the Conference, Ambassador Masood Khan of Pakistan,
said the Conference condemned resolutely the terrorist act in London as an
attack on humanity itself and offered the Conference's profound condolences and
sympathy to the Government and the people of the United Kingdom and to the
families of the victims.

The United Kingdom thanked the Conference for the condolences expressed and
spoke about the joint statement on non-proliferation which the Group of Eight
(G-8) leaders had issued.

Ambassador Khan said that if the United Nations was being reformed, then the
Conference could also be renewed. The fact that the Conference was not able to
deliver on its mandate was a source of frustration for all, but member States
must try to break the impasse. The process of exploration and endeavour must
continue.

Ambassador Khan also paid tribute to Ambassador Dimiter Tzantchev of Bulgaria,
Ambassador Elizabeth Astete Rodriguez of Peru, and Ambassador Tibor Toth of
Hungary who were leaving the Conference. The three ambassadors provided farewell
statements.

The Russian Federation and China spoke about the prevention of an arms race in
outer space. The Russian Federation informed the Conference about a new
open-ended meeting to discuss the new proposals put forward by Russia and China
on possible elements of the new legally binding agreement on the placement of
weapons of outer space, and the use of force or threat of force against outer
space objects. The meeting would be held on 16 August. China spoke about the
finalization of the report of the international conference on outer space
co-hosted on 21 and 22 March by China, the Russian Federation, the United
Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and the Simons Foundation of Canada.

The third and last part of the 2005 session of the Conference will be held from
8 August to 23 September 2005. The next plenary of the Conference will be held
at 10 a.m. on Thursday, 11 August.

Statements

MASOOD KHAN (Pakistan), President of the Conference on Disarmament, said he
wished to begin by expressing, on behalf of all the delegations of the
Conference on Disarmament, profound shock and indignation at the terrorist
attacks in London last Thursday that cost human life and caused injuries and
immense human suffering. The Conference condemned resolutely this terrorist act
as an attack on humanity itself. He offered the Conference's profound
condolences and sympathy to the Government and the people of the United Kingdom
and to the families of the victims. He invited the Conference to observe a
minute of silence in honour of the victims of the terrorist attack.

Ambassador Khan said Pakistan assumed the presidency at a time when the
Conference was standing still, while going through the motions, an oxymoron but
true all the same. Nothing significant had happened at the Conference in the
past eight years. Pakistan was assuming the presidency of the Conference for the
third time. In 1990 when it had been president for the first time, Pakistan had
said that the talks between the two super-Powers would not substitute for
multilateral talks, within the context of the United Nations, where the
interests of the smaller countries were protected. In 1996, the second time
Pakistan had assumed the presidency, the Conference had expanded with 23 new
members and had been working at full speed to conclude the Comprehensive
Test-Ban Treaty. There had been hope. Today, the Conference and its member
States were living in different times. Terrorist threats were stalking the world
attacks abounded and the goals of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation had
become more important and urgent. It was the duty of the Conference to work on,
among other issues, prevention of an armed race in outer space and negative
security assurances.

Despite all initiatives this year, agreement on the programme of work remained
elusive. The programme of work was only the beginning of the work of the
Conference, not the end. The Conference had developed what could be called a
writer's block. To break this deadlock, the President of the Conference could
take initiatives, regional groups could make suggestions, and individual
countries could make proposals.

All these methods had been tried at certain times. One questioned, among other
things, if the Conference was expecting a bolt from the blue to jolt it into
action. The impasse in the Conference was political, not procedural. The
question was how to fix these political divisions. If there was a will to work,
the Conference could function on the basis of the proposals already on the
table. The Conference could not be turned into a debating forum. Debate at best
could be a prelude and could help create and enabling forum, but the Conference
was designed to create treaties.

Ambassador Khan said that if the United Nations was being reformed, then the
Conference could also be renewed. The fact that the Conference was not able to
deliver on its mandate was a source of frustration for all, but member States
must try to break the impasse. The process of exploration and endeavour must
continue. He would continue to build on the efforts of his predecessor. It was
the collective responsibility of the member States to preserve this multilateral
forum and to rededicate it to create multilateral treaties. He planned to invite
member States to give their input on the programme of work; to invite
representatives of regional groups and China to hold consultations on the
programme of work; to hold bilateral consultations with as many delegations as
possible; and to continue to consult with the past four Presidents and with his
successor on how to progress on the programme of work. He appealed to all member
States to help break the deadlock and to breath new life in the Conference.

In conclusion, Mr. Khan paid homage to three departing colleagues, Ambassador
Dimiter Tzantchev of Bulgaria who had represented his country in the Conference
with authority and diplomatic skills since 2002; Ambassador Elizabeth Astete
Rodriguez of Peru who had represented her Government at the Conference with
elegance, authority and diplomatic skills since 2004; and Ambassador Tibor Toth
of Hungary who had represented his Government with remarkable authority,
diplomatic skills and truly Hungarian thoughtfulness. He wished them much
success and happiness for the future.

DIMITER TZANTCHEV (Bulgaria) said that, as he was leaving Switzerland for
another assignment, he would like to once again put on record Bulgaria's
position on the programme of work of the Conference. Bulgaria would support any
initiative that might become a basis for consensus within the Conference on its
programme of work. The delegation of Bulgaria had worked accordingly over the
years, having the sincere desire to bring the Conference back to its substantive
work. Those efforts would be continued by the new Ambassador as it was the hope
of Bulgaria that the Conference, which was an important forum for negotiating
multilateral agreements related to international peace and security, would find
its way out of the present situation.

ELIZABETH ASTETE RODRIGUEZ (Peru) thanked the President of the Conference on
Disarmament for his kind words. Despite the fact that her time at the Conference
had been brief and at times frustrating, she had been able to perceive the major
importance of the role that the Conference had played in the past and the
enormous potential that it still had. She had witnessed the extensive knowledge
of the member States on disarmament issues and determined efforts by the
President to achieve real progress in the work of the Conference. Peru, at the
end of August, would be assuming the presidency of this important multilateral
forum. It was possible that despite all efforts being made, when the Conference
adopted its final report in September, it might mark the ninth session during
which the Conference had been unable to agree on a programme of work. True
political will on the part of all the member States of the Conference was the
main issue. Flexibility by all those involved was necessary. Individual and
collective proposals made over the years had made relevant contributions which
would help to achieve agreement on a programme of work.

Peru had noted with concern some recent developments concerning the multilateral
disarmament process which had not been encouraging. A combination of inertia,
resentment and obstacle-placing strategies was blocking multilateral disarmament
agreements and jeopardizing all the inhabitants of the planet. The growth in
military expenditure by 6 per cent annually over the past three years was
disturbing. Peru also wished to underline that while the international situation
had changed, the three fundamental pillars of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty remained on the agenda of the entire international community. The
traditional main items on the agenda of the Conference on Disarmament remained
valid and could not be discarded. It was also clear that the Conference could
not shirk its responsibilities towards other new issues. The Conference should
commence as soon as possible a process to improve its organization of work. The
performance of the Conference needed to be strengthened by, among other things,
extending the period of the rotating presidency held by each country.

TIBOR TOTH (Hungary) said he wished to thank the President for his kind words.
He would not be pronouncing a statement in the proper sense, but would only be
making a few personal words. He felt uneasy about "wishing you all the best"
statements. It was in their inherent nature that they were better to pronounce,
rather than to be at the receiving end.

Also, he was not really leaving the arms control field and colleagues might bump
into him again in New York in autumn.

He wanted to thank all colleagues and friends, and wished only to say see you
later.

ANTON VASILIEV (Russian Federation) said that as the discussions at the official
plenary of the Conference on 30 June had clearly indicated, prevention of an
arms race in outer space, and above all the prevention of placement of weapons
in outer space, was for many States, including Russia, an important and
unalienable item of the agenda and the programme of work of the Conference. He
thanked the delegations which had highly appreciated the proposals put forward
by Russia and China in document CD/1679 on possible elements of the new legally
binding agreement on the placement of weapons in outer space, and the use of
force or threat of force against outer space objects. Three special thematic
non-papers on legal loopholes in the existing international law on outer space,
on verification aspects and on definition issues pertaining to the new treaty
proposed had also been prepared.

The Russian Federation intended to hold a new open-ended meeting to review and
discuss document CD/1679 and the three non-papers. The meeting would begin at
3:15 p.m. on Tuesday, 16 August 2005 in the Council Chamber and delegations of
all Member States and observer countries at the Conference were invited to
attend. The prime objective of the meeting was to conduct an in-depth exchange
of views on three subject matters, namely: review of the existing international
outer space law and its loopholes from a viewpoint of the prevention of
placement of weapons in outer space and justification of the need for the new
legally binding instrument in this field; verification issues of the proposed
new treaty; and key terms and definitions.

PAULINO FRANCO DE CARVALHO NETO (Brazil), delivering a statement on behalf of
Ambassador CARLOS DA ROCHA PARANHOS, said Ambassador Sergio Duarte, a senior and
very experienced Brazilian diplomat, had held the chairmanship of the 2005
Review Conference of the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
which took place in New York last May. He read out a letter that the
Secretary-General of the United Nations had addressed to Ambassador Duarte in
which he had expressed appreciation for the Ambassador's outstanding commitment
in presiding over the meeting and the extensive consultations he had undertaken
around the globe leading to the Conference.

HU XIAODI (China) said on 21 and 22 March, China, the Russian Federation, the
United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (UNIDIR), and the Simons
Foundation of Canada had jointly hosted an international conference on
"safeguarding space security: prevention of an arms race in outer space" at the
Council Chamber of the Palais des Nations. This had been the first time that
China had ever hosted an international conference on the issue of outer space
with relevant sides in the United Nations Office at Geneva since China had
joined the Conference on Disarmament in 1980. Thanks to the hard work carried
out by UNIDIR, the Conference report, had been finished. The report captured and
distilled the discussion on the main issues, and contained the key points of the
opening and closing remarks made by relevant representatives. This report would
help deepen understanding on the issue of prevention of an arms race in outer
space, enhance awareness of preserving outer space security and prevent an arms
race in outer space through political and legal means.

FIONA PATERSON (United Kingdom) said a barbaric terrorism attack on London on 7
July had coincided with the opening of the G-8 Summit in Gleneagles where
leaders had been meeting to address some of the most urgent and difficult
international problems, including the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction and their delivery means which, with international terrorism, were
the pre-eminent threats to international peace and security. The G-8 leaders had
made a joint statement on non-proliferation and had acknowledged the role of the
Conference in advancing both non-proliferation and disarmament objectives,
calling on it resume its substantive work. She thanked her colleagues who had
expressed their condolences personally or in writing concerning the tragic
events which took place in London last week.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 15, 2005, Friday

7/7: WAR ON BRITAIN: FIND THIS MAN;
 BIO-CHEMIST WANTED OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY JEREMY ARMSTRONG

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 272 words


THIS is Egyptian Magdy Mahmoud Elnashar who is wanted over the London suicide
bombings.

The 33-year-old bio-chemist is believed to have handed the keys of a terror base
in Leeds to the four killers.

He is also thought to have been close to Lyndsay Jermain, a 19-year-old Jamaican
also known as Abdullah Shaheed Jamal, suspected of being the fourth member of
the gang.

A security source said: "We have to find out what exactly his role was in all of
this. We need to know how he knew Jamal and came to give him the keys to that
flat. We have to speak to him as soon as we can."

The Mirror has traced Elnashar to an address in the Maadu area of Cairo. Last
night a woman answered the phone number of the address but did not comment.

Elnashar was noted in Leeds University biochemistry department for his devotion
to Islam. He travelled with his mother to Mecca on a pilgrima__ last January.

He said he planned to leave university in late June, saying he had a problem
with his visa, though it was updated early in February.

A source revealed that he was constantly asking the research degrees office
there for the conferment date for his PhD to be brought forward.

He told flatmates at 22 St John's Terrace in Leeds - close to the suspected
terror base at Alexandra Grove - he would "see them soon" when he left last
week.

Police have seized all documents detailing his stay in Britain. He has studied
at Leeds since October 2000.

Last night 12 West Yorkshire and Met Police officers began a fingertip search of
his flat. The back of the property was guarded by an officer with a protective
vest.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Pharmaceutical Journal

                                 July 15, 2005

Hospital pharmacists commended for their effective response to terror attack in
London

BYLINE: Old_manager

LENGTH: 357 words


Many victims of the attack were taken to the Royal London Hospital

Hospital pharmacists have been praised for the way in which they responded
to last week's terrorist attack in London.
John Farrell, head of pharmacy at the Royal Free Hospital, said that         the
pharmacy departments at the Royal Free, Whittington and University
College hospitals had been commended in a post-disaster review for their
responsiveness in supplying medicines needed to discharge patients to
make beds available for victims of the explosions.


"Pharmacy really did deliver," Mr Farrell said. "We         were planning for up
to 500 victims at the Royal Free Hospital."
Mr Farrell also praised the response of AAH and Travenol, who provided
additional emergency supplies. IV fluids were flown by helicopter to
Epping Forest and then delivered to hospitals under police escort.
As a result of lessons learnt from the emergency, stocks of ketamine         and
hepatitis B and tetanus vaccines are to be increased.
Victims of the three explosions on underground trains and another on         a
bus were taken to the Royal London, University College, Royal Free,
Whittington and St Mary's hospitals, with The Royal London Hospital
receiving the largest number.
Charles Tugwell, principal pharmacist responsible for co-ordinating the
pharmacy response at The Royal London Hospital, said: "Staff in         the
pharmacy department worked as an excellent team throughout the day
during which well over 200 casualties were treated."
The immediate response was to make sure that a full clinical pharmacy
service was provided to the A&E department. Within 20 minutes, many
staff were on the wards helping to clear beds by decanting or discharging
patients, Mr Tugwell said.
Staff remaining in the pharmacy department arranged emergency supplies
of drugs, while others made sure that the needs of operating theatres,
the intensive therapy unit, and other emergency areas, as well as the
Helicopter Emergency Medical Service, were predicted and responded to.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Journal


                            Copyright 2005 PJ Online
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Spenborough Today

                                 July 15, 2005

Community united in

condemning terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 503 words


MUSLIMS in Heckmondwike have responded to the terrorist attacks of last
Thursday, calling for friendship between communities and condemning the bombers.

As police searched addresses in Dewsbury and Leeds, condemnation of the attacks
came from Heckmondwike mosques, councillors and community leaders.

Heckmondwike councillor and chairman of the Spen Valley Area Committee, Coun
Tabasum Aslam (Lib Dem) urged people not to take revenge against Muslims.

He said: "Heckmondwike Muslims join the rest of the community and nation in
condemning the heinous terrorist attacks on London.

"At the Friday prayers the whole of the community shared the shock and sorrow
felt by all citizens."

Attacks on Muslims rose in the wake of the al-Qaeda assault on America in
September 2001, and Coun Tabasum urged people not to follow suit in the light of
last week's atrocities.

The Pakistani consulate in Bradford was attacked by arsonists on Monday, and
last Friday there was an arson attack on Jamiat Tablighul Islam Mosque in Leeds.

Coun Tabasum said: "Since a person cannot be held accountable for another
person's actions, I urge fellow citizens not to prejudge their Muslim neighbours
and make them targets of hate crimes.

"May we all stand together through these difficult times to promote peace and
love over violence and hatred."

Representatives of the town's mosques spoke with a similar message of peace.

Haji Abuzar Khan, president of Heckmondwike Muslim Welfare Society, of Jeremy
Lane, said: "As Muslims we believe that the murder of one innocent person
equates with the murder of the whole of humanity. We stand united against any
acts of terrorism."

Ishfaq Cheema, who represents Makki at Victoria Street, offered condolences to
the families of the victims. He added: "These events should not undermine the
relations among communities."

Mr Nadeem Iqbal, trustee of a the madressa, Fezan-e-Atar, on Albion Street,
Heckmondwike, said: "The fanatics responsible for these actions should be
brought to justice."

The Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, Spen Valley, also condemned the attacks.

President Mohammed Khaleeq said: "The members have all been shocked and
saddened, and strongly condemned the deplorable acts of terror in London."

Faith leaders and the Mayor of Kirklees, Coun Margaret Fearnley, issued a joint
statement. It said: "We are united in our shared concern for the people of
London following the terrorist bombings.

"We assure them of our support and our admiration for the tremendous spirit of
the people of London and the emergency services that serve them. Our faith
communities are supporting them in prayer.

"Our religions teach ways of mutual respect and care for the vulnerable."

Council Leader Kath Pinnock (Lib Dem, Cleck) said: "Like other communities,
Kirklees was shocked by the bombings and has joined with other community leaders
in expressing its support and sympathy to all the families and communities
affected.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Travel Weekly

                                 July 15, 2005

Terror attacks fail to deter air passengers

BYLINE: Caroline James

SECTION: Late News; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 101 words


EARLYfeedback suggests London's terrorist attacks have not put people off
travelling by air.

British Airways had delays averaging 20 minutes at Terminal 1. All other
airlines reported on-time flights out of London on July 7 and 8. Virgin said
passenger cancellations were no different to usual and BA reported no
significant impact on bookings. Like many airlines, it offered those due to fly
on July 7 or 8 the chance to change their plans without penalty if fulfiled by
July 29. Monarch Scheduled said bookings dived between 11am and 2pm on July 7,
but were within 5% of a normal weekend on July 9 and 10.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright  2005 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                                 July 15, 2005

'How I survived tube train terrorist attack'

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 387 words


LONDON BOMB ATTACKS: A SURVIVOR of the London bomb attacks has spoken of how a
split second decision to get in a different carriage probably saved his life.

Former George Ward School pupil Greg Tadman 28 originally from Semington said he
usually waits to get in the first carriage on the Underground at King's Cross
but because of the crowds he got on the fourth carriage instead.

Seconds after the train left the station a bomb exploded in the front of the
train killing at least 21 people.

Mr Tadman said: "I waited to get on the first carriage and I only got on the
back because I was in a strop and that probably saved my life."

After the bomb detonated Mr Tadman whose brother Guy is a firefighter based in
Trowbridge took control of the situation in his carriage.

"There was an almighty bang and then total silence for about five seconds. Smoke
poured in everywhere and the heat was tremendous. It was hard to breathe so I
told everyone to get down low " he said.

A fellow passenger a builder had a monkey wrench he used to break the windows
and they climbed out and were led back to King's Cross by Underground staff.

Mr Tadman phoned his brother and his employers at finance company Oliver Wymans
still not realising what was actually happening.

"I knew what was going on about 20 minutes after I got out but it didn't really
sink in. I got on a bus to go home then my brother phoned to say there were
bombs on buses and where was I which was pretty scary. I got home then I started
to feel really sick. I kept thinking about the silence after the blast when all
we could hear were muffled screams and bangs."

Mr Tadman grew up in Semington and was educated at the village school before
going on to George Ward in Melksham. He has lived in London for the past five
years.

He suffered minor respiratory problems after the attack but returned to work on
Monday. He said Londoners were carrying on with their business as usual and
praised the actions of Underground staff and emergency services after the
explosions.

His relieved mother Jane Cotterell of The Knapps Semington said: "I am just so
glad we have got him and he is fine. He was so close to it and it doesn't bear
thinking about.

"We were one of the lucky ones. A lot of parents don't have their children now."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Wakefield Express

                                 July 15, 2005

Terror attack victims

remembered in silence

LENGTH: 392 words


WAKEFIELD fell silent yesterday to remember the victims of last week's terrorist
attacks in London.

Canon Peter Vannozzi led a two-minute silence at Wakefield Cathedral at noon
followed by prayers for those affected by the bombings.

Earlier this week, communities across the district united in their condemnation
of the attack.

Council leader Peter Box expressed sympathy on behalf of all citizens of
Wakefield for the victims, their families and friends and said the events in
London would not undermine relations between diverse communities in Wakefield.

He said: "All sections of our community share in the shock and outrage at the
events in London. Events like this make us more determined to continue to work
together to develop a community we are all proud of."

Arshad Hussain, editor of Mango magazine, a bilingual publication for
Wakefield's South Asian community, added: "This was a terrorist attack aimed
indiscriminately at innocent people. It was planned to demoralise and divide us
as a nation. We must therefore stand together through these difficult times to
promote peace and love instead of violence and hate."

The Dean of Wakefield, the Very Rev George Nairn-Briggs, was on a train outside
King's Cross station as the events unfolded.

He said: "The train came to a halt and someone's mobile phone went off - that's
how we heard there had been a bomb. My first thought was for the victims but it
wasn't until it started to sink in that I realised I felt very upset. I had been
in no danger but felt close to those involved because I was almost caught up in
it all."

Lee Johnson, 38, of New Lane, Wakefield, was travelling to London to attend a
meeting.

He said: "I saw fire engines, ambulances and police cars. Then I saw people
walking around with blackened faces, everyone seemed confused but I still did
not know what had happened."

Peace vigils will take place across the district tomorrow. Members of the Stop
the War Coalition are inviting people to join them in the cathedral precinct
from 1pm.

There will also be a 24-hour vigil at the Belle Isle Christian Centre on
Barnsley Road from 10am. Everyone is welcome.

Wakefield Council called a meeting with community leaders last night to review
the impact of developments in the police investigation into the bombings.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 July 16, 2005

I was caught up in capital terror attacks

SECTION: Features; General; Columnist; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 311 words


I SLEPT in last Thursday. If I hadn't, I could have been on the London
underground at Edgware Road around the time of the terror attacks.

I had been for a night out and had stayed overnight near Oxford Circus.

I needed to get back to my friend's place just off Edgware Road where I had been
based.

The plan was to collect my things and take the tube from Edgware Road to
Heathrow for my return flight to Glasgow.

But because I slept in I was late, so decided to take a taxi there. I thank my
lucky stars for that.

The traffic was a nightmare, but more puzzling for the taxi driver and I were
the sheer number of people walking to work at that time of the morning - it was
so strange.

Within seconds the blaring of police, ambulance and fire engine sirens alerted
us to the fact that something terrible had happened.

Then my mobile burst into life. It was my mum, anxious to know if I was OK.

Frightening time She explained what she had seen on the news. The driver and I
listened to the car radio, and with the news quickly unfolding that it was not
just the underground that was affected, but that a bus had also exploded.

As we approached Edgware Road police had blocked off quite a large area of the
street and were directing traffic in the opposite direction.

All the surrounding streets were cordoned off by tape and manned by police, so
after explaining the situation to officers, they decided to allow me to collect
my belongings.

Edgware Road is a constant reminder of what has happened. It no longer feels
safe and relaxed.

Instead it feels disturbed and tainted, its just so unbelievable how drastically
it can change overnight.

It is worrying that living in the capital can bring with it higher risks.

Sadly this is just something Londoners and anyone working there have to put to
the back of their minds.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                   © Copyright 2005 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            July 16, 2005, Saturday

BRITAIN/TERROR AFTERMATH: WAS THIS CHEMIST LINKED TO ATTACKS?

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 135 words


AS the hunt for the bombers' support network continued, Scotland Yard detectives
were flying to Cairo after an Egyptian bio-chemist was arrested there.

Magdy el-Nashar, 33, who studied for a PhD at Leeds University, was detained in
Cairo after a worldwide search involving Scotland Yard, Interpol, the FBI and
other agencies.

He was being questioned by Egyptian officials yesterday and British intelligence
agents were being kept informed.

Anti-terrorist officers want to speak to El-Nashar over his links to a flat in
Leeds and suggestions that he knew one of the bombers, Jamaican-born Islamic
convert Lindsay Jamal.

They said it was only one of a number of international leads being pursued and
they want to speak to anyone who, even innocently, came into contact with the
bombers.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Egyptian bio-chemist Magdy el-Nashar - arrested in Cairo

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 16, 2005

Attack on London: Leaders consider terrorist fatwa: 'There can never be an
excuse for taking an innocent life'

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 217 words


Extracts from the Muslim leaders' statement at the Islamic Cultural Centre:

"The tragedy of July 7 demands that all of us, both in public life and in civil
and religious society, con front together the problems of Islamophobia, racism,
unemployment . . . and social exclusion - factors that may be alienating some of
our children and driving them to the path of anger and desperation.

Islam prohibits anger and desperation. Anger and desperation are haram
(forbidden) and may lead to some people being targeted by people with a sinister
and violent agenda.

There is, a great deal of positive work to be done . . . in order to channel the
en ergy and talent of our youth, into constructive avenues, serving God and
society for the common good.

There can never be any excuse for taking an innocent life.

The Koran clearly declares that killing an innocent person was tantamount to
killing all mankind and likewise saving a single life was as if one had saved
the life of all mankind. This is both a principle and a command . . .

Those who carried out the bombings in London should in no sense be regarded as
martyrs. It is incumbent upon all of us, to help the authorities with
information that may lead to the planners of last week's atrocity being brought
to justice."


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 16, 2005

Saturday Review: Fiction: Reality bites: A terrorist attack on London, a letter
to Bin Laden . . . Alfred Hickling on a horrible coincidence

SECTION: Guardian Saturday Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 919 words


Incendiary by Chris Cleave 245pp, Chatto & Windus, £10.99

Is this really the moment to bring out a book which begins "Dear Osama . . ."?
Or indeed any book which features a major terrorist blast in London? At least
one major bookselling chain thinks not, as Waterstone's announced that it was
pulling all national advertising for Chris Cleave's debut, which hypothesises
the effect of an al-Qaida attack at Arsenal's new stadium. To add to the air of
macabre coincidence, the book was scheduled for release on July 7.

Perhaps we had better ignore the hyperbolic reminders that the rights to the
book have been sold in 15 countries and that it is to be made into a major film
for which Cleave already appears to have done his own casting (one of the chief
characters is a floppily indecisive toff described as being "like Hugh Grant in.
Well. All his films"). Yet beneath the blatant attention-grabbing, the book has
moments in which one's attention is quite deservedly grabbed.

Cleave's text is presented as a private letter to Osama bin Laden, written by a
young, working-class woman whose husband and four-year-old son perished in the
stadium massacre. The format immediately causes one to fear a fatuous skit along
the lines of Helen Fielding's Olivia Joules, and there are passages of attempted
levity which Cleave and his publishers must surely now have cause to regret.
Cleave also takes an enormous gamble in adopting the voice of an unnamed, female
narrator who states that she intends to do her best, "but you'll have to bear
with me because I'm not a big writer".

t Cleave maintains this fragile persona with engaging consistency throughout.
Incendiary is written in faltering, faux-naif prose that is sometimes richly
sardonic ("The middle classes put up web sites about us. If you're interested
Osama just look up chav pikey ned or townie in Google") and often disarmingly
poignant: "I'm going to write to you about the emptiness that was left behind
when you took my boy away. I'm going to write so you can look into my empty life
and see what a human boy really is from the shape of the hole he leaves behind."

Most importantly, writing from a non-literary perspective enables Cleave
consistently to find words in situations for which no words may commonly be
found. The technique is employed to fine effect in an especially revealing scene
in which Prince William visits survivors of the blast in hospital: "He had this
strange expression on. It was far away and sad. You could see him thinking to
himself well I suppose I am prince of all this then. I am the prince of this
poor blown-up kingdom and one day all these blown-up people will be my subjects
and I'll be able to do nothing for them. I'll live in palaces pinning medals on
to lawyers and architects while these people watch their tired faces get older
each morning in dirty bathroom mirrors. It was that sort of an expression."

Cleave also demonstrates a facility for engineering a racy plot, though it's
clear from the outset that a narrative with such an explosive beginning is going
to struggle to come up with an equally explosive conclusion. Maybe it's already
with one eye on Hollywood that he sketches in a tug of affection between the
attractively bereaved East End rough diamond and two rival suitors: a
tough-but-tender senior cop and the vacillating Hugh Grant lookalike previously
mentioned; though the truth is that the least remarkable passages of the book
are those in which it labours to fulfil its obligations as a romantic thriller.

Yet Cleave's evocation of the aftermath of the bombing strikes the reader as
undeniably authentic - viciously indiscriminate reprisals against Muslims,
airports closing while DIY stores stay open ("people are grouting against
terror"), Elton John occupying the number one slot with a song called "England's
Heart is Bleeding". It's in details such as these that Cleave seems to get the
ratio between prophecy and satire satisfyingly correct.

And how can one fail to be impressed and moved by passages that seem precisely
to sum up the national mood following the July 7 attacks? One stand-out
paragraph almost completely presages the comment and analysis that accompanied
the actual event and is worth quoting at length: "London is a city built on the
wreckage of itself Osama. It's had more comebacks than the Evil Dead. It's been
flattened by storms and flooded out and rotted with plague. Londoners just took
a deep breath and put the kettle on. Then the whole thing burned down. Every
last stick of it. I remember my mum took me to see the Monument to the Great
Fire. London burned WITH INCREDIBLE NOISE AND FURY is what the Monument has
written on it. People thought it was the end of the world. But the Londoners got
up the next day and the world hadn't ended so they rebuilt the city stronger and
taller. Even Hitler couldn't finish us though he set the whole of the East End
on fire . . . You've hurt London Osama but you haven't finished it you never
will."

Well, Amen to that. It remains to be seen whether events will effectively
scupper Cleave's debut or exponentially boost its profile. Either way it seems
likely that the book will get noticed for all the wrong reasons; it would be
good to consider that it signals the arrival of a writer who may be worthy of
attention for all the right reasons as well.

To order Incendiary for £9.99 with free UK p&p call Guardian book service on
0870 836 0875. www.guardian.co.uk/bookshop


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 16, 2005

A fuller list of nations subjected to terrorist attacks

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 392 words


DERRICK White repeats his assertion that the London bombings were a straight
reprisal for the UK's role in Iraq (Letters, July 15).

Common sense suggests that our involvement would make Britain a more likely
target rather than a less likely one. But it is foolish to discount other
factors such as the UK's involvement in liberating Afghanistan, a war that had
broad and deep support in this country.

Does MrWhite suggest that al Qaeda's reaction to the replacement of the Taliban
regime, the destruction of its own infrastructure of training camps and the
killing and capture of many of its leaders was "No hard feelings"?

MrWhite's list of nations that have suffered terror attacks since 1993 has been
kept satisfyingly short by the expedient of leaving most off the list. So there
was no mention of attacks in Algeria, Argentina, China, Egypt, India, Iraq,
Israel, Kuwait, Morocco, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russia, South Africa, and,
most recently, southern Thailand where teachers are being assassinated. There
was no mention of foiled attacks, which to our knowledge include Bahrain,
Jordan, Singapore, and the Strasbourg bombing due to coincide with the September
11 attacks.

Most instructively, in seeking to make his case he also fails to mention that
French personnel were killed in Pakistan and a French tanker was bombed off the
coast of Yemen. They are inconvenient to his case, so have been discounted.

Peter Gibson, Dunluce, Prospect Road, Dullatur.

JACK COHEN provides figures for Israeli deaths over the past five years, his
argument being that they should elicit more understanding of  Israeli policies
than has been evident (Letters, July 15). What he does not provide are figures
for Palestinian deaths. In fact, the Israelis have killed more than three
Palestinians for every Israeli.

In the nine six-month periods since the beginning of the Intifada in November
2000, there has not been a single one in which they have killed fewer than 300;
in the one period from November 2001 to April 2002, they killed just short of
1000. By contrast, in these nine six-month periods, in only one did Israeli
deaths exceed 200, and in only three did they exceed 100.

It is depressing, but unsurprising, to see the satisfaction with which Israeli
agents have seized on the deaths in London as a propaganda opportunity.

J W Morrison, 9 Bryce Road, Currie.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 July 16, 2005

Feature - London United;
 Ken Livingstone reflects on last week's terror attacks and the remarkable way
in which Londoners have responded

BYLINE: Ken Livingstone

LENGTH: 1100 words


Just over a week ago, London was struck by its most terrible event since World
War II. Criminals indiscriminately murdered and maimed Londoners of every race,
religion, age and occupation.

They exploded their bombs in a city that, only 18 hours before, had
spontaneously erupted with joy after winning the right to stage the world's
greatest international sporting event - the Olympic games.

Three months ago, Newsweek magazine surveyed the world's great cities. It chose
to put London on its front cover as symbolising the spirit of today. Over the
last 10 days, under circumstances that it would never have chosen, London has
shown why that was right.

For over a week, with extraordinary intensity, Londoners have lived out triumph
and very deep grief with the eyes of the entire world on them.

London was tested in way it has not been for more than half a century. It
responded in a way that, beneath the immediate sorrow, fills Londoners with the
deepest pride.

By now, many have said it, but it can never be repeated too often.

London's emergency and transport workers responded with awe-inspiring efficiency
and courage. Plans honed and practised for years worked well. Many lives were
saved as a result. Stories of individual heroism are countless.

People have been working in conditions most of us cannot imagine below the
surface of Kings Cross station to deal with the horrific consequences of the
bombings. The skills of health and social workers will be required for years to
do everything possible for the victims.

But our emergency and transport services also expressed the will of millions of
Londoners who showed a calm and decisiveness in the face of tragedy that was
literally felt around the world.

Even before anyone else knew that anything had occurred, Tube and bus workers on
the spot were showing heroism and calm that spread to every emergency service
and almost every Londoner all day.

The Metropolitan Police have done an outstanding job in putting together such a
rapid and clear picture of the events leading up immediately to the bombing.

The only way to ensure that they are able to complete this work is to gather
every single piece of information.

London's response one week on, when we marked the bombings with a two-minute
silence and a vigil in Trafalgar Square, showed why the terrorists have no
chance of success whatever.

Their attack has driven Londoners closer together, not further apart, and made
them still more proud of their city. But what the terrorists can do is ruin
individual lives.

The remarkable unity showed by Londoners over the last few days is not only the
best way to commemorate those who died and to express our determination that we
will never change our life under the threat of terror but is also our best
defence against those who would attack us.

The information given by every London community has helped the police piece
together with remarkable speed what happened.

What the police above all require today is intelligence - information from every
community and help from every community to isolate and eliminate those who
threaten us all.

Take a look at the pictures of the victims that have appeared. They represent
almost every colour, faith, and shape on the face of the planet. Yet every one
was a Londoner or an eager visitor to our city.

It was an identical picture of London to the one that, 18 hours previously, had
won the Olympics in Singapore. Some found London's victory incomprehensible. I
found it easy to understand.

London chose to present its case for the Olympics with 37 children from the East
End who came from 30 nationalities and spoke over 20 languages. We showed the
real face of London. We won because London presented itself as it is today and
wants to be in the future.

Sixty years ago, our parents and grandparents fought the greatest evil the world
has ever known in conditions where nobody but the most rich took a foreign
holiday and where most Londoners had never tasted an Indian meal.

Today, externally, our capital city appears remade. It speaks over 300
languages, it has every nation in the world within it.

But the most important aspect of its spirit is identical. London remains the
greatest international city in the world.

We will express this status again today with a free gig in Burgess Park - London
United - with acts as diverse as Billy Bragg, Lemar, Suggs, the Mitchell
Brothers and Kano.

I hope that the labour movement will mobilise in large numbers for London United
to show its opposition to the bombings, its appreciation for the workers who
coped with the horrors that unfolded and its unequivocal support for a diverse
city that will not be knocked off course by anyone from its embrace of
multiculturalism and openness.

Nothing unites Londoners as much as when they are standing for the interests of
humanity and fighting an evil that threatens not only us but others.

Only one approach can bring together our enormous and diverse city - provided
that you do not interfere with any one else's right to live their life as they
wish, then you may live your life as you wish. You have more chance to be an
individual in your own way in London than anywhere else on the planet.

The only thing that a politician must do is to provide the framework within
which people can make their own choices about their own lives.

But that strength is also why I believe that our victory over those who killed
these Londoners is inevitable no matter how much we weep at this moment.

It is the dream of every human being on this planet that they should live a full
free and individual life.

That their children should live even better than they did. That is the spirit of
humanity that has ultimately defeated every evil it has encountered. And London
has not been the least in that struggle.

It is for that reason that those who came to kill and maim Londoners at random
have no chance to win. They will not even deflect us one inch from our path.

Compared with the evils that humanity has defeated in its history, they ought
not to merit even a footnote. London embraces the future, they fear it.

People will continue to live, prosper and be happy in our capital city, pursuing
their own futures, long after the world has forgotten those who attacked us even
existed.

- London Mayor Ken Livingstone writes a fortnightly column in the Morning Star.
The London United festival takes place today in Burgess Park, London SE5, from
12 noon until 8.30pm.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

               Copyright 2005 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 July 16, 2005

Feature - Beating bin Laden;
 George Galloway looks for the real answers behind last week's terror attacks in
London

BYLINE: George Galloway

LENGTH: 878 words


The explosions in the London Underground and on board the number 30 London bus
continue to reverberate politically unpredictably.

The cheering of Muslim Council of Britain head Sir Iqbal Sacranie at Thursday's
Trafalgar Square vigil would once have been as surprising as host Ken
Livingstone's declaration that the bombs "have nothing to do with the Iraq war."

My own speech in the House within hours of the atrocity, saying the opposite,
was roundly excoriated, before being effectively seconded by everyone from the
CIA and Silvio Berlusconi to Ken Clarke and Robin Cook.

I was said to have said "I told you so." But it was Mr Blair and Mr Bush who
said "I told you so."

Within two hours of the killing, they were on the lawns of Gleneagles telling us
that this all vindicated what they had been doing and copper-fastened their
armour for the ongoing crusade in Afghanistan and Iraq.

The emergence of the news that the mass murderers - the London mass murderers -
were British, playing cricket, working in fish and chip shops, their friends
using modern-day Ealing Comedy idioms like "he were sound as a pound" when
describing them has been equally destabilising.

If the criminals had only come from abroad, then one more heave of
anti-terrorist legislation might bolt the door shut again. More of this and more
of that and less of what made us Britain in the first place might just do it.

The news that the swamp of grievance among Muslims about Western policy has
seeped deeply into the souls of home-grown Muslim youth seems genuinely to have
caused surprise, as has the dawning realisation that, with a swamp in your front
room, no amount of fly swats will prove sufficient to protect us from the
horrors mutating within.

'We wish to negotiate not with al-Qaida but with the constituency which hasn't
joined it.'

Deranged columnists like the Independent's Johann Hari and his guru, the bloated
drink-soaked former Trotskyist popinjay Christopher Hitchens, writing this week
in the crazed US neocon journal the Weekly Standard, characterise this approach
as support for bin Laden, feeding him carrots to go away, appeasement,
surrender.

We in the Morning Star, however, have always despised Osama bin Laden - even
when the very same neocons were feeding him not carrots but guns, money and
journalistic panegyrics.

His medieval obscurantism was spotted first by us and what a pity that we were
not able to persuade Hari and Hitchens's new best friends that, though the "holy
warriors" were the enemy of their enemy, they were better off with the enemy
they knew.

H&H, the terrible twins, imply that we are calling for "negotiations" with
al-Qaida, which, they say, is laughable as the latter "have no programme" merely
wishing to destroy "our way of life."

But we wish to negotiate not with al-Qaida but with the constituency which
hasn't joined it yet - the Muslim masses, seething with anguish and discontent,
who are neither with George Bush nor with bin Laden.

That constituency holds the key to the resolution of the crisis between East and
West.

If we can persuade it that we know what wrongs we have done in Palestine, in
Iraq.

If we can show that we have stopped propping up the corrupt cruel kings and the
puerile puppet presidents of the Muslim world and will let them fall before
their people.

If we stop doing what we are doing and start to reverse what we have done, we
can win this constituency to peaceful coexistence.

If we do not, indeed if we do as Blair and Bush, backed by their little echoes
in the media, say they will do - more of the same - then we truly are in
trouble.

There will indeed be war without end and war throughout the world.

Contrary to the fantasies of the likes of H&H, London was not targeted because
the girl's skirts here are shorter than they are in Sweden.

Life in Switzerland is no more or less sybaritic than it is in Britain. They get
roaring drunk in Johannesburg, but these Islamists are not bombing them.

They targeted us because of our close and personal special relationship with
George W Bush and our bloody involvement in the wars that he declared. This much
is obvious.

It is an insult to the intelligence to tell the British people otherwise and it
is an insult to the dead.

The Kenyan and Tanzanian embassies, September 11 2001, Bali, Madrid, London,
Istanbul, Riyadh, Jeddah and Casablanca were all attacks on targets seen as part
of what Muslims saw as the real axis of evil - the US, Britain, Spain,
Australia, the Saudi dictatorship.

It is immaterial whether or not bin Laden "really cares" about Palestine or
whether he would stop if we withdrew from Iraq. His constituency really cares,
the human "water" in which his people swim really cares, the potential recruits
to his cause really care.

If we began to drain that swamp, which now stretches from Lagos to Leeds, from
Kuala Lumpur to Luton, from Baghdad to Buckinghamshire, then, like the
"Continuity IRA," bin Laden might well invent a new casus belli.

But, in the dried-up swamp, he would be beached like a whale.

- George Galloway is Respect MP for Bethnal Green and Bow. He writes a monthly
column for the Morning Star.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

               Copyright 2005 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Music Week

                                 July 16, 2005

Terror attacks hit trading

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 406 words


by Alan Jones

The anticipated positive effect on the albums market of Live 8 evaporated in the
wake of the terrorist bombs in London, which resulted in subdued trading for the
rest of the week. Consequently, the albums market dipped by 1.9% to 2,868,121,
while the singles market's previously substantial gains were capped at 3%, with
sales in the week of 847,288. Physical singles sales were off 6.8% at 374,547
but downloads prospered from sales of tracks which were featured on Live 8 but
not easily locatable as a single, and download sales jumped 12.3% to 471,601 -
their highest level yet - as a result.

Album sales for Sunday to Wednesday were running 7.8% ahead of the previous week
but the bombs went off on Thursday morning, and that day's trade was the worst
of the week, and down exactly 25% on the previous Thursday. Friday and Saturday
were a little better, with sales off 6.4% on Friday and 3% on Saturday.

Of the artists on the Live 8 bill, the show-stealing Pink Floyd saw their albums
make most impact, with their 2001 compilation Echoes selling 17,710 copies (a
1769% increase week-on-week), Dark Side Of The Moon selling 9,898 (693%), Wish
You Were Here selling 3,933 (773%) and The Wall selling 3,343 (184%) to re-enter
the Top 75 at 19, 41, 65 and 74 respectively.

Also making impressive gains in the Top 40: Keane's Hopes & Fears (11-5 on a 45%
increase), Razorlight's Up All Night (28-9, 154%), The Killers' Hot Fuss (22-11,
52%), REM's In Time (33-18, 115%), Scissor Sisters (45-25, 127%) and Snow
Patrol's Final Straw (30-27, 49%).

Coldplay's appearance could not prevent X&Y suffering an 18.2% fall to 84,715
sales, allowing James Blunt to take over at the top with his Back To Bedlam
album. Blunt was not on the Live 8 bill, but his album suffered a minor 3.2%
erosion in sales to 97,694 while claiming pole position for the first time. The
album had increased its sales for 11 weeks in a row, prior to last week.
Meanwhile, Blunt's current single You're Beautiful increased its sales for the
fifth week in a row. Remaining at number three, it sold 33,706 copies last week,
a 3.3% increase.

Ahead of Blunt, there was a tight battle for chart honours, with 2Pac and Elton
John's Ghetto Gospel eventually emerging triumphant, with sales of 39,627 - the
lowest for a number one for 21 weeks - winning it a very slender 0.9991% margin
over Mariah Carey's We Belong Together.




LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                       Copyright 2005 CMP Information Ltd

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 New Scientist

                                 July 16, 2005

Healing London;
How do people cope after terror attacks? With remarkable resilience, says
psychiatrist Arieh Y. Shalev, who lives and works in Jerusalem

BYLINE: Arieh Y. Shalev.

Arieh Y. Shalev is professor of psychiatry at Hebrew University and Hadassah
School of Medicine in Jerusalem

SECTION: COMMENT; Comment and Analysis; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 848  words


LAST week's terrorist attacks in London evoked in me an awkward sense of
déjà-vu. I live and work as a psychiatrist in Jerusalem, where over the past
decade terrorist bombs became part of everyday life. Eviscerated buses,
screaming sirens and the sticky scent of burnt bodies are among the basic
repertoire of my patients' nightmares.

I know well the feeling of utmost improbability that such attacks can create:
the dissonance between horror on one side of a street and, say, a poster
advertising a holiday destination or beauty cream on the other. This
juxtaposition of the incongruous and the familiar, the veneer of self-composure
that many people show, and the obvious innocence of the victims add together to
give an extreme sense of the surreal.

How can Londoners expect to deal with this in the days and weeks to come?
Research has consistently shown that, contrary to popular belief, people behave
with restrained purposefulness and mutual support during disasters. After each
act of terror, it took about two weeks for the streets of Jerusalem to again be
filled with people. Shops in Jaffa Street, which was bombed repeatedly, remained
open throughout the hostilities. Those of us who live in Jerusalem learned to
"territorialise" the threat, identifying patterns in the attacks, relying on our
instincts and judgement, and reorganising our lives such that every day of
living under terror comprised a small personal victory, rather than defeat.
Regardless of how accurate our "fear maps" and predictions of threat were, they
served us well by allowing us to carry on living relatively smoothly. Indeed,
they left space for us to actually enjoy life.

This sense of security is what terrorism seeks to disrupt by making people
fearful of when and where the next attack will happen. Here we can learn much
from the science of animal behaviour. You can instil in free-roaming animals a
permanent sense that predators are imminent by scattering their odours in
unpredictable ways. This gives the sense that no territory is safe and nothing
the animal does can effectively protect it from the threat. In a similar way,
terrorism is an attack on our perception of reality. Randomly attacking
improbable victims is designed to build a sense of permanent threat and disrupt
the normal pattern of life. Furthermore, images of horror, be it a beheading in
Iraq or scattered human remains in London, lead to a perception of incongruous
novelty which our brains may have difficulty classifying and processing.
Grotesque images that evoke particular fear and revulsion, such as mangled or
children's bodies, amplify the effects of terrorism. For this reason there is a
strong argument for not broadcasting them.

What is going on in our brains at such times? Fear and horror can leave enhanced
memory traces, mostly in those areas of the brain involved in the processing of
emotion, warning and alarm. These can result in conditioned responses that are
involuntarily triggered when the person is reminded of the event. For some
people, life may become dominated by these conditioned fear responses: this is
post-traumatic stress disorder. However, in most people exposed to terror these
early fear responses subside, or may never even develop. They can recuperate and
reflect about the events they have witnessed, whereas those for whom any
reminder evokes uncontrollable emotions avoid such reflection. This makes it
impossible for the fear pathways and the more developed areas in their brain to
interact, which is essential for healing.

In Jerusalem, despite the trauma, many factors have helped maintain a relatively
balanced perception of reality. Firstly, buildings and streets were immediately
repaired so that the centre of the city did not look like a scene of
destruction. Not every community has resources to do this, but London certainly
does. Secondly, survivors and their families were given social, medical and
financial support, so that being hurt by terror was not the beginning of social
drift. Thirdly, and most importantly, the media were consistently accurate,
reliable, timely and specific, so that by and large the people trusted them. As
Londoners will have realised, when the media announced the location, timing and
extent of the attacks, they were not only breaking bad news, they were also
giving reassurance to people whose family and friends could not possibly have
been at risk.

Finally, do not underestimate the importance of words. Human experience is
embedded in cognition and language, and images of terror are immediately wrapped
in words: the words of survivors, the anxious telephone calls to friends,
statements from police, the narratives of politicians, the mutterings of
families and clergy at the graves of young victims or around hospital beds. The
Jerusalem experience has taught us to listen to every word, weigh each
carefully, and live within the complexity of competing over-expressed
interpretations of what has happened and what it might mean.

Arieh Y. Shalev is professor of psychiatry at Hebrew University and Hadassah
School of Medicine in Jerusalem

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


 Copyright 2005 Reed Business Information, UK, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            July 16, 2005, Saturday

TERRORIST 'MASTERMIND' LEFT COUNTRY BEFORE ATTACK

SECTION: News Extra Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 163 words


Britain's security services were under new scrutiny today after it emerged the
suspected 'mastermind' of the London terror attacks was able to leave the
country days before the fatal bombings.

Politicians have called for reassurances after Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Sir Ian Blair admitted a man who had been on an intelligence service watch list
had not been put under surveillance.

His admission came as it emerged that one of the bombers - Mohammad Sidique Khan
- attended Parliament last year as the guest of a Labour MP.

Yesterday, as Muslims leaders, scholars and imams signed a letter condemning the
July 7 terrorist attacks at Regents Park mosque, in London, it was revealed many
people believed to have been caught up in the atrocity were still missing.

So far 31 of the victims of the London bombings have been officially named and
seven more identified. A total of 54 people are understood to have died,
including three of the bombers.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             July 17, 2005, Sunday

ATTACK ON LONDON: THE NEXUS OF TERROR: HOW PAKISTAN BECAME A WORLD HUB OF
EXTREMISM

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 551 words


Not for the first time in the war against terror, virtually every new turn in
the investigation of the London bombs points to Pakistan.

Every major al-Qa'ida figure in custody was captured in Pakistan. Though
Pakistan's authorities deny it, senior Taliban figures are said to be openly
living in the country.

Now Mohammed Junaid Babar, a Pakistani-American held in New York last year for
attending a 'terror summit' in Pakistan's Waziristan, has told US authorities he
knows the London bomber Mohammed Sidique Khan. Another, Shahzad Tanweer, is said
to have visited religious schools in Pakistan.

Faced with renewed global scrutiny, President Pervez Musharraf on Friday ordered
police to stop banned militant groups holding meetings and thus gave a clear
indication that the groups continue to enjoy public support.

President Musharraf's problem is that until 11 September 2001, Islamic militancy
enjoyed official support. Pakistan took over what the Americans had started,
when they backed the mujahedin fighting the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.

Once the US lost interest in Afghanistan, Pakistan adopted the networks of
militants. It used them to fight the Indians in Kashmir, and to install the
Taliban regime in Afghanistan.

But September 2001 made President Musharraf rethink his strategy. He managed a
spectacular U-turn, siding with the US against the Taliban at great personal
risk.

Public support, however, remains strong and factions in the military and the
ISI, Pakistan's intelligence service, retain links to militants. Some believe
Bin Laden has evaded capture only with assistance from elements within the ISI.

Rawalpindi

Pakistan's military HQ. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, alleged mastermind of 9/11
attacks, captured here the following year. Scene of two assassination attempts
on President Pervez Musharraf

Karachi

Country's largest city. Hotbed of militancy and sectarian strife, possible
refuge for bin Laden. US journalist Daniel Pearl kidnapped and murdered in
operation masterminded by Briton Omar Saeed Sheikh. Bomb attacks on US consulate
and French naval personnel killed 24 in 2002. Senior al- Qa'ida figure Ramzi
Binalshibh (right) caught months later

Peshawar/North-west Frontier Province/tribal areas

Most likely hiding place for Osama bin Laden. London bomber Khan identified by
US-held al-Qa'ida man who attended 'terror summit' in region last year. Terror
training camps include a religious school, known as 'the University of Jihad'

Islamabad

Capital of Pakistan. Westerners among those killed by grenades thrown into
church in March 2002

Faisalabad

Four arrests yesterday after visit to city by London bomber Tanweer during one
of his stays in Pakistan. Abu Zubaydah, said to be Osama bin Laden's chief of
staff, captured in April 2002

Quetta

Former Taliban leaders said to live openly in city, which has close links with
Kandahar, their former headquarters. Pakistan's secret services presided over
the birth of the Taliban here in the 1990s

Lahore

Two arrests yesterday in wake of London bomber Tanweer's alleged visit to
madrassa near Pakistan's second largest city. Capture of al-Qa'ida computer
expert Naeem Noor Khan last July led to wave of arrests of alleged al-Qa'ida
figures in Britain

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 17, 2005

UK tourists hit in suicide bus blast: * Five dead, 14 hurt in terror attack on
Turkish holiday resort * British woman killed by bomb

BYLINE: Tony Thompson, Henry McDonald and Jonny Diamond Istanbul

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 783 words


THE threat of terrorist attacks against British targets increased further
yesterday when a British holidaymaker was killed and three others critically
injured by a suicide bomber in Turkey.

Coming 10 days after the suicide bombings in London, the attack, which could be
the work of Islamic extremists or Kurdish radicals, revealed that Britons were
now seen as justifiable targets everywhere.

At least four other tourists, one of them an Irish national, died in the blast
which destroyed a minibus as it passed through the popular resort town of
Kusadasi in the south-west of the country.

Fourteen people were injured, including six Britons. The British tourist killed
is believed to be a young woman, who had not been identified last night. One of
those injured is believed to be a 16-year-old boy.

Initial reports suggest the suicide bomber was female and that the device
exploded on her lap as she travelled in the bus.

The British victims were part of a tour group organised by holiday firm Thomas
Cook. Turkey is one of the company's leading destinations and more than a
million Britons go there each year.

The Irish Republic's Department of Foreign Affairs said the Irish fatality was a
woman in her twenties. However, a spokesman said it could not confirm that a
second Irish person had died.

News photographs of the bombing site showed a man's charred body hanging over
the twisted remains of a seat in the devastated bus and body parts scattered
nearby.

An injured woman was lying on the road, a few metres from a beach. Civilians ran
to the bus after the attack and carried the injured from the burning wreckage.

A spokesman for Sunworld, the tour operator responsible for many of the Britons,
said its flight to Izmir departed last night at the usual time. However, any
travellers who wished to cancel their trip could so without incurring any costs.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attacks, but Kurdish
rebels have recently exploded bombs in Aegean resort towns. Kusadasi is 45 miles
south-east of Izmir. Ali Baris, the governor of Kusadasi, said the blast
occurred as the minibus travelled through the town square, but could not confirm
whether it was caused by a suicide bomber.

Iham Nehr, who works at the Dias Hotel in Kusadasi, said the minibus was part of
a local bus system known as the dolmus, he said. 'It's a very cheap way of
travelling and is used by local people and tourists. The people on the bus were
a mix of tourists and locals. The bus can take 15 or 20 people,' he added.

A spokesman for the Association of British Travel Agents estimated that several
thousand Britons would be in the region at this time. But if the bomber hoped to
deter Britons from going to Turkey they have failed.

Abta's Sean Tipton said Britons were so used to bombs at home and in other
European resorts, it would not stop them going to Turkey.

He said: 'We expect no drop in bookings because we've had so many attacks in
other resorts that have not affected tourism at all, for example in Spain with
Eta, the Basque separatists, customers ignored their attacks.

'And after 40 years of bomb threats and actual attacks at home, people in the UK
know the likelihood of being caught in an incident is very small.'

One Irish tour operator confirmed last night that one of its customers was
killed in the attack.

It refused, however, to disclose the identity of the victim. A spokesman for
Sunworld in Dublin said: 'Following an explosion in Kusadasi, Sunworld Ireland,
part of Thomas Cook, with deepest regret, confirms that one of its guests was
among the fatalities. The female guest was a passenger on the dolmus bus that
exploded. The family have been notified and we will continue to liaise with the
department.'

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Turkey was taking anti-terror
measures, but added: 'It is not possible to stop it 100 per cent, no matter how
strict security measures you take.'

The blast comes at a time of renewed fighting between Kurdish separatist and the
army. Turkish military and intelligence officials have said Kurdish rebels were
in possession of hundreds of kilograms of C-4 explosive obtained from Iraq.

Unconfirmed intelligence reports have said the Kurdish rebels have sent around
70 suicide bombers to big cities in Turkey.

More than 37,000 people are thought to have been killed in the conflict since
1984. The rebel PKK had declared a uni lateral ceasefire in 1999, but later
called it off.

Last week British holidaymaker, John Willoughby was among at least 21 people
injured when a bomb exploded in another Turkish seaside resort, Cesme.


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 17, 2005

THE LONDON BOMBS: Teacher 'led terror attacks'

BYLINE: Martin Bright, Antony Barnett and Mark Townsend

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 516 words


SUICIDE bomber Mohammad Sidique Khan, the 30-year-old teaching assistant from
Leeds, has emerged as the commander of the London terror attacks, with links to
suspected al-Qaeda operatives across three continents.

As Khan's family came forward yesterday to made a public statement expressing
their astonishment for his part in the 'horrific and evil' act that killed at
least 55 people, security sources confirmed he was linked to a previous foiled
terrorist plot in Britain. US reports also suggest that he had links to a second
plot linked to an al-Qaeda cell in Pakistan. Khan is also believed to have been
in telephone contact with a suspected al-Qaeda recruiter in New York.

The development came as the police investigation in Yorkshire focused on an
Islamic bookshop at the heart of the Leeds neighbourhood where three of the
London bombers came from. On Friday officers used a battering ram to smash open
the doors of the Iqra Learning Centre in Bude Road, around the corner from the
home of Shehzad Tanweer, who killed seven people in the Aldgate blast. It
emerged that the man still being questioned by police in London, Naveed Fiaz,
had links to the shop.

The Observer can also reveal that one of the four London suicide bombers had
telephone contact with one of the terrorist suspects controversially detained in
Belmarsh prison without trial. The Belmarsh detainees were released last year
after the Law Lords ruled that their imprisonment was illegal.

Yesterday the family of Khan expressed their sympathy to the victims, their
friends and family saying they were 'devastated'.

They urged anyone with any information to contact detectives in order to 'expose
these terror networks who target and groom our sons to carry out such evils'.

A statement issued through the policesaid: 'The Khan family would like to
sincerely express their deepest and heartfelt sympathies to all the innocent
victims and their families and friends affected by this horrific and evil act.

'We are devastated that our son may have been brainwashed into carrying out such
an atrocity, since we know him as a kind and caring member of our family.'

Last night, the wife of Germaine Lindsay spoke of her devastation at learning of
her husband's secret life. Samantha Lewthwaite, 22, said: 'I never predicted or
imagined that he was involved in such horrific activities. He was a loving
husband and father.

'My whole world has fallen apart, and my thoughts are with the families of the
victims of this incomprehensible devastation.'

Lindsay's half-sister said he had been a egreat brother, just like any sister
would want a brother to be'. But Dana Reid told Channel 4 News that he had
changed when he started to attend local mosques.

The pair drifted apart and Reid only heard about his death on the news. But she
added, that despite his change, she could not believe he would have carried out
the atrocities. 'I want proof,' she said. 'He did change but he never changed in
his love for people.'

The London Bombs:

Five-page special

Focus, pages 13-17


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 17, 2005

THE LONDON BOMBS: Teacher 'led terror attacks'

BYLINE: Martin Bright, Antony Barnett and Mark Townsend

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 442 words


SUICIDE BOMBER Mohammad Sidique Khan, the 30-year-old teaching assistant from
Leeds, has emerged as the commander of the London terror attacks, with links to
suspected al-Qaeda operatives across three continents.

As Khan's family came forward yesterday to made a public statement expressing
their astonishment for his part in the 'horrific and evil' act that killed at
least 55 people, security sources confirmed he was linked to a previous foiled
terrorist plot in Britain. American reports also suggest that he had links to a
second plot linked to an al-Qaeda cell in Pakistan. Khan is also believed to
have been in telephone contact with a suspected al-Qaeda recruiter in New York.

The development came as the police investigation in Yorkshire focused on an
Islamic bookshop at the heart of the Leeds neighbourhood where three of the
London bombers came from. On Friday officers used a battering ram to smash open
the doors of the Iqra Learning Centre in Bude Road, around the corner from the
home of Shehzad Tanweer, who killed seven people in the Aldgate blast. It
emerged that the man still being questioned by police in London, Naveed Fiaz,
had links to the shop.

The Observer can also reveal that one of the four London suicide bombers had
telephone contact with one of the terrorist suspects controversially detained in
Belmarsh prison without trial. The Belmarsh detainees were released last year
after the Law Lords ruled that their imprisonment was illegal.

Speculation will inevitably fall on a link to the Jordanian cleric, Abu Qatada,
who has been described as Osama bin Laden's ambassador in Europe. Abu Qatada has
been linked to the Madrid bombings and videos of his teachings were found in the
flat of a 9/11 bomber. It is understood that none of the so-called Belmarsh
detainees has been questioned by the police.

Security sources were last night playing down the role of the so-called 'fifth
man' who was last week believed to have masterminded the attack and was caught
on CCTV cameras with the four bombers outside King's Cross station.

They now believe that Khan was the key figure behind the plot. Khan worked as a
learning mentor at Hillside Primary School in Leeds. He helped immigrant
children settle into education in Britain and is seen in a photograph taken in
2002 at the school. On Friday it emerged Khan had visited the Houses of
Parliament as a guest of Labour MP Jon Trickett, whose wife is the headteacher
at Hillside Primary School.

In Leeds, police have sealed off a section of Tempest Road and begun searching a
property belonging to a man who used to work at the bookshop.


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             July 17, 2005, Sunday

BOMBED ON THE BEACH;
 SUICIDE TERRORIST KILLS 6 IN ATTACK ON BRITISH TOURIST BUS

BYLINE: By Billy Paterson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 99 words


SIX people died and 14 were injured yesterday after a female suicide bomber blew
up a minibus full of British tourists.

The blast tore off the roof and sides of the vehicle.

The bus was heading to the beach in the resort of Kusadasi, Turkey. Witness
Bruce Dumin, who was injured by shrapnel, told the Sunday Mail the suicide
bomber had asked for directions.

The 33-year-old added: 'She detonated the bomb without warning. It was
horrific.'

At least one British woman died in the attack while five other Britons were
seriously injured THE WAR ON TERROR: PAGES 4,5,6,7,8 & 9

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Devastating: A bloodied tourist is carried away after the blast ripped
the bus apart, inset

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 July 17, 2005

SAS READY TO MOVE ON THE FIFTH BOMBER; TIME TO GET TOUGH FEARS NEW ATTACK IS
IMMINENT AS POLICE SEEK TERRORISTS' MISSING ACCOMPLICE AND WOMEN'S SUICIDE CELL

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Tim Shipman and Andrea Perry

SECTION: U.K. 3rd Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 628 words


AFIFTH London bomber is being hunted, security chiefs warned last night as a
picture of the four known terrorists setting off to cause murder and mayhem was
released.

The SAS is on standby in case the team member - who may have backed out of the
plot at the last minute - is located.

The news came as it emerged that American investigators have established a firm
link between Al Qaeda and Mohammad Sidique Khan, the teacher who carried out the
Kings Cross bombing.

A convicted Al Qaeda terrorist, jailed in the US, named Khan as one of his
associates.

This raises new questions about why Khan was not kept under surveillance by MI5.

The Sunday Express has also learned that police are hunting for militant British
Muslim women who they fear could form a "Black Widow" terror cell like those
that have terrorised Russia.

Our chilling Page One picture shows the four bombers - Khan, Hasib Hussain,
Shehzad Tanweer and Jamaican-born Germaine Lindsay - at Luton station at 7.20am
on July 7 before they slaughtered 55 innocent commuters. A security source said:
"They look like a line-up out of Reservoir Dogs.

They have murder on their mind but they appear so relaxed and at ease."

The suspected fifth bomber is being hunted in addition to the so-called
"mastermind" who entered the UK via Felixstowe and left from Heathrow the day
before the attack.

One squadron of SAS troops is on round-the clock alert at a barracks in central
London.

A well-placed source familiar with security briefings to intelligence officers
and military personnel told the Sunday Express: "They are actively looking for a
fifth potential suicide bomber.

"They are suspicious that there were explosives left over when they left Luton
and that there was so much left behind in Leeds. This stuff is highly unstable.
You don't want to carry any more than you are going to need.

"They are investigating whether someone failed to turn up for the rendezvous at
Luton.

"He might have bottled it at the last minute. He is sure to be unstable and
frightened. They are hoping interrogations will lead them to the rest of the
network. They think there were originally going to be five bombers."

The SAS will be given the task of taking out a fifth man if it is deemed too
dangerous or too difficult for the police.

The source said: "There are also women on the list of potential bombers.
Everyone is thinking about men with rucksacks but British women have had
training abroad the same as men."

Fears that another attack is imminent were growing last night as sources
indicated that Hasib Hussain delivered explosives to a contact in London before
he blew up the No 30 bus.

The three Tube bombs exploded at 8.50am on July 7, but Hussain did not detonate
his device on the bus in Tavistock Square until 9.47am.

Evidence is also mounting that the intelligence services missed key clues that
could have prevented the atrocities.

The Sunday Express has been told that two anti-terrorism swoops last year,
codenamed Operation Crevice and Operation Rhyme, threw up hundreds of leads that
were never followed up because of a shortage of staff in MI5 and the
anti-terrorist squad.

Until earlier this year the Security Service had only enough surveillance
experts to run two round-the-clock operations. One source said: "There aren't
the resources. It's dead simple. You can only watch a handful of people. There
are literally thousands of leads that were put to one side and will have gone
cold."

The death toll from the London attacks rose to 55 yesterday when architect Lee
Harris, 30, who was a victim of the King's Cross bomb died at the Royal London
Hospital.

His childhood sweetheart Samantha Badham, 36, also died in the carnage.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 July 17, 2005

SAS READY TO MOVE ONTHE FIFTH BOMBER; FEARS NEW ATTACK IS IMMINENT AS POLICE
SEEK TERRORISTS' MISSING ACCOMPLICE AND WOMEN'S SUICIDE CELL

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Tim Shipman and Andrea Perry

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 813 words


A FIFTH London bomber is being hunted, security chiefs warned last night as a
picture of the four known terrorists setting off to cause murder and mayhem was
released.

The SAS is on standby in case the team member - who may have backed out of the
plot at the last minute - is located.

The news came as it emerged that American investigators have established a firm
link between Al Qaeda and Mohammad Sidique Khan, the teacher who carried out the
Kings Cross bombing.

A convicted Al Qaeda terrorist, jailed in the US, named Khan as one of his
associates.

This raises new questions about why Khan was not kept under surveillance by MI5.

The Sunday Express has also learned that police are hunting for militant British
Muslim women who they fear could form a "Black Widow" terror cell like those
that have terrorised Russia.

Our chilling Page One picture shows the four bombers - Khan, Hasib Hussain,
Shehzad Tanweer and Jamaican-born Germaine Lindsay - at Luton station at 7.20am
on July 7 before they slaughtered 55 innocent commuters. A security source said:
"They look like a line-up out of Reservoir Dogs.

They have murder on their mind but they appear so relaxed and at ease."

The suspected fifth bomber is being hunted in addition to the so-called
"mastermind" who entered the UK via Felixstowe and left from Heathrow the day
before the attack.

One squadron of SAS troops is on round-the clock alert at a barracks in central
London.

A well-placed source familiar with security briefings to intelligence officers
and military personnel told the Sunday Express: "They are actively looking for a
fifth potential suicide bomber.

"They are suspicious that there were explosives left over when they left Luton
and that there was so much left behind in Leeds. This stuff is highly unstable.
You don't want to carry any more than you are going to need.

"They are investigating whether someone failed to turn up for the rendezvous at
Luton.

"He might have bottled it at the last minute. He is sure to be unstable and
frightened. They are hoping interrogations will lead them to the rest of the
network. They think there were originally going to be five bombers."

The SAS will be given the task of taking out a fifth man if it is deemed too
dangerous or too difficult for the police.

The source said: "There are also women on the list of potential bombers.
Everyone is thinking about men with rucksacks but British women have had
training abroad the same as men. You only have to look at what the Chechen black
widows have done to see the dangers".

Female gunmen and suicide bombers, dressed in black, have created carnage in a
series of attacks in Russia.

A police source said: "The explosives left in Luton weren't enough to make a
fifth bomb on the same scale as the 10lb devices used in the train and bus
bombings but it is improbable that these four are self-contained and
self-sufficient."

Fears that another attack is imminent were growing last night as sources
indicated that Hasib Hussain delivered explosives to a contact in London before
he blew up the No 30 bus.

The three Tube bombs exploded at 8.50am on July 7, but Hussain did not detonate
his device on the bus in Tavistock Square until 9.47am.

Evidence is also mounting that the intelligence services missed key clues that
could have prevented the atrocities.

The Sunday Express has been told that two anti-terrorism swoops last year,
codenamed Operation Crevice and Operation Rhyme, threw up hundreds of leads that
were never followed up because of a shortage of staff in MI5 and the
anti-terrorist squad.

Until earlier this year the Security Service had only enough surveillance
experts to run two round-the-clock operations.

Damning evidence from the US now suggests that this could have been fatal.

One source said: "There aren't the resources. It's dead simple.

You can only watch a handful of people. There are literally thousands of leads
that were put to one side and will have gone cold."

Some Operation Crevice raids were launched on the basis of information obtained
from a Pakistani-American, Mohammed Junaid Babar, who pleaded guilty in June
2004 to providing material support to Al Qaeda and working to aid a plot to blow
up pubs, stations and restaurants in the UK.

On Friday, US officials revealed that he told investigators he also knew Khan,
the oldest of the four bombers. Operation Crevice led to the arrest of eight men
on terrorist charges. But French officials said last week that they believed up
to 13 suspects would be held.

It is possible that those who remained at large were the London bombers.

Tony Blair will meet the heads of MI5, MI6 and the police anti-terrorist squad
on Thursday. He will make it clear that another attack would have far reaching
effects on the way the services are run.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                        July 18, 2005 Monday 1:21 PM GMT

UK's Straw rejects claims Iraq war puts Britain in danger of terror attacks

LENGTH: 287 words


BRUSSELS (AFX) - British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw denied today that
Britain's support for the United States in its war against Iraq has made it more
vulnerable to terrorist attacks.

Straw made his remarks on arrival at a meeting of EU foreign ministers in
Brussels, following a report by the London-based think-tank, the Royal Institute
for International Affairs, also known as Chatham House, that linked the London
bombings of July 7 to Britain's involvement in the Iraq war.

'I'm astonished that Chatham House is now saying that we should not have stood
shoulder to shoulder with our long-standing allies in the United States,' he
said.

Frank Gregory, of the University of Southampton and Professor Paul Wilkinson, of
the University of St Andrews, said in their report: 'There is no doubt that the
situation over Iraq has imposed particular difficulties for the UK, and for the
wider coalition against terrorism.'

They added: 'The UK is at particular risk because it is the closest ally of the
United States.'

The report concluded that the war in Iraq gave a 'boost' to Al-Qaeda's
'propaganda, recruitment and fund-raising', and made Britain especially
vulnerable to suicide attacks.

British Prime Minister Tony Blair has said there is no link between the US-led
war launched in 2003 and the first ever suicide bombs in the UK, in which at
least 55 people were killed and some 700 injured.

loc/ss/cmr

COPYRIGHT


Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.

The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.


AFX News and the AFX Financial News logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             July 18, 2005, Monday

TURKEY HOLS SCOTS DEFY THE BOMBERS;
 DEFIANCE AS KURDS ATTACK POPULAR RESORT TERRORISTS WON'T STOP THEM TRAVELLING

BYLINE: By Steve Ventura

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 404 words


DEFIANT Scots holiday- makers headed to Turkey yesterday, despite the deadly
weekend terror attack on a minibus.

Five people, including a British woman and a teenage Irish girl were killed in a
devastating blast at the resort of Kusadasi.

Two of the dead were customers of travel giant Thomas Cook.

But passengers on the firm's flight from Glasgow to Antalya said yesterday they
were determined not to be frightened off by the terrorists.

All passengers reported to departures as scheduled.

Dundee man Robert Forrester, 38, was leaving for a two-week break in the resort
of Side with wife Vicky, 33, and sons Lucan, six, and Isaac, five.

He said: 'These people are not going to achieve their aims or put us off from
travelling.'

Derek, 49, and Doreen Dowdles, also from Dundee, were travelling to the same
resort with daughter Jennifer, 12.

Doreen, 38, said: 'These types of attacks are happening everywhere now, as was
the case in London.

'We never even considered cancelling. This would only help the cause of the
terrorists.'

Their determination was echoed by David Dalrymple and wife Liz, of Rosyth, Fife.
David43, said: 'I don't care in the slightest. We are going there to enjoy
ourselves.'

Turkish national Ibrahim Tekin, 28, who has lived in Glasgow for five years,
said he was glad Scots were not turning their back on his homeland.

The businessman, who was going back to Ankara for a week, said: 'Turkey relies
on tourism and it's a worry people will be put off from visiting when things
like this happen

Initially, a woman suicide bomber was thought to be responsible for the Kusadasi
attack which happened just after 10.30am on Saturday.

Yesterday, diplomats said the authorities thought Kurdish separatists had
planted a bomb on board. The blast ripped the vehicle apart, killing County
Durham woman Helen Bennett, Tara Whelan, 17, of County Waterford, Ireland, and
three Turks.

Helen's fiance Stephen Staples, Toni and Sam Punshon, Adam Megoran, and Michael
Aspinall, from north-east England, were among the 11 injured.

Yesterday, Helen's family issued a statement saying: 'We are truly saddened by
the tragedy that has struck our family.'

They said they intended to return home as soon as possible.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw condemned the 'repugnant' attack.

He added: 'Our thoughts and prayers are with all the victims and their families

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATED: The mangled wreckage of the Turkish minibus; UNBOWED:; The
Forrester family

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        July 18, 2005, Monday Edition 1

Terror attack victims

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 91 words


   A holidaymaker was killed and her fianc and four family members injured in a
terrorist attack on a Turkish holiday resort.

Helen Bennett, 21, of County Durham, died when a blast ripped through the
minibus taking her to the beach.

Fianc Stephen Stables, 23, a kitchen worker at Durham University, was today in
intensive care, following the bomb attack, which killed five and injured 11.

The couple and their family were due to fly home from the Aegean resort of
Kusadasi on Thursday before the attack by Kurdish separatists.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        July 18, 2005, Monday Edition 1

Metro knife attack terror

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 185 words


   Two men were stabbed in a late-night incident on the Metro in front of
horrified passengers.

The two victims, both aged 22 and from Roker, Sunderland, were returning home
after a night out in Newcastle on Saturday when they were attacked.

Police say the attacker is believed to have boarded the train at the same
station, Newcastle Central, with another man and two women.

Between Gateshead Stadium and Heworth stations, it is claimed he became abusive
and began a fight, which left the two men with cuts to their head and body.

Someone pulled the emergency cord and the train stopped at Pelaw station where
an ambulance and police were called.

Two off-duty nurses cared for the wounded men until paramedics arrived. They
were taken to Gateshead's Queen Elizabeth Hospital and released after treatment.

Det Sgt Mick Hart, of Gateshead CID, said: "They both sustained suspected knife
wounds, although no weapon has been found.

"It is not known if their attacker got off at Pelaw. We are going to view CCTV
cameras."

Witnesses should call Gateshead CID on [0191] 454 7555 ext 64145.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                 July 18, 2005

Criticall Limited: Terrorist attacks put pressure on companies to be better
prepared for emergencies; Criticall launches latest state of the art version of
event notification system that is fast, accurate and robust

LENGTH: 1147 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-JULY 18, 2005-Criticall Limited: Terrorist attacks put pressure on
companies to be better prepared for emergencies; Criticall launches latest state
of the art version of event notification system that is fast, accurate and
robust ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

London: The latest atrocities have put the spotlight back on the effectiveness
of companies' crisis management plans. A key element of these is a fast,
accurate two-way event notification system. The events of Thursday, 7th July,
demonstrate how vital it is to contact employees immediately and give them
specific instructions based on a crisis situation: whether mobilising
appropriate incident response teams or directing employees to return or stay
home, go to a different location, or just report in.

Criticall Limited (www.criticall.co.uk), the leading notifications solutions
provider, has just launched Version 2 of its EmergencyCall service to provide
companies and organisations with the latest state of the art global emergency
alert system that is fast, reliable, easy to use and value for money.

It is fast. EmergencyCall can send out 50,000 SMS, pager and landline text and
voice messages an hour, to over 170 countries in a choice of languages. Reaching
all of even the world's largest enterprise will soon be achievable in half an
hour. Compare that to the cumbersome, manual call-trees' still used by many
companies. The system is two-way, allowing acknowledgements and data responses
by return, and can be delivered via any appropriate device: telephone, mobile,
pager, SMS, fax, computer messaging, email and, most recently, BlackBerry and MS
Pocket PC. Alerts can be initiated in a matter of seconds and remotely or on the
move, via a phone, BlackBerry or PDA.

Criticall's new EmergencyCall is extremely easy to use. It features an intuitive
WebWindows' interface that creates several windows on a single web page, making
training virtually unnecessary. All of this is well demonstrated on the animated
product tour on the company's website.

There is no limit to system access for admin and monitoring, allowing real
ownership throughout the organisation and personal records are always accurate
as they are updated via restricted authorised individual access. Finally,
EmergencyCall is an easily integrated hosted ASP service, meaning that all of
the supporting infrastructure and data is totally outsourced, simply accessed
via a secure web browser.

As befits an emergency communication system, EmergencyCall is extremely reliable
and secure with 99.995% guaranteed reliability. The system uses multiple voice
and SMS/pager gateway providers, with hot switchover between them in case of
failure of any one. In line with USA SEC directives, Criticall has primary and
back-up Tier 1 data centres 250 kms apart, in London and Cardiff.

Ian Hammond, CEO of Criticall, commented: "Through our pure ASP model, we have
made enterprise notification affordable for all, allowing immediate, effective
and secure communication with employees. The costs of a notification system,
like EmergencyCall, are a fraction of the equivalent people costs associated
with manual systems. At an entry-level price of £4000 pa, even medium/small
companies can afford it.

Moreover, EmergencyCall has enormously beneficial business applications.

It can be used for quick reaction to IT problems and is invaluable in business
areas like enterprise resource planning, CRM, supply chain management and
permission marketing.

Via GPS and LBS, EmergencyCall now even has the ability to track and trace any
registered mobile phone in the UK, or suitable GPS devices globally, just by
sending them a text message."

EmergencyCall has opened up the way to a broader type of enterprise message
broadcasting capability, one that will surely transform productivity. Whatever
the message, it can now be delivered to the right people fast - globally.

About Criticall Limited

Established in 1994 and with many famous FTSE 100 customers from retail,
pharmaceutical, petrochemical and financial services industries, Criticall
specialises in multi-channel notification and response solutions. Hosted ASP
applications include: automatically alerting technical people to computer and
network problems, mobilisation of Incident Response Teams, rapid communication
to an organisation's staff for business continuity, informing the public about
incidents in their community, delivery of key information from business process
applications and true "Permission Marketing" of time critical products to
individuals who "subscribe" for services. All of Criticall's solutions are based
on a powerful notification toolset, which automatically delivers voice or text
messages to the right people via any appropriate device - telephone, mobile,
pager, SMS, fax, computer messaging, email and BlackBerry/PDAs, based on
individual contact profiles for each person - how, where, when and in what
language they can be contacted.

Criticall's products include: EmergencyCall - an automated emergency alert
service for individuals, organisations and communities involved in mission
critical, life critical or disaster recovery situations. Call-outs are initiated
via a customised interface where incidents are defined and the individuals and
groups to be called are selected, via the most appropriate device.

RollCall - a two-way text only communication, similar to EmergencyCall in
functionality, and aimed at lone workers, sales teams, operational teams,
technical support staff and executives (share price, operational issues, meeting
changes).

COMAHCall - the COMAH (Control of Major Accident Hazards) regulations state that
every Local Government area in the UK has a duty to ensure any hazardous site
with its boundaries has adequate measures to alert the public to dangers arising
from certain incidents. COMAHCall comprises a package of services which include:
inter-site communications with a secure messaging system; EmergencyCall set up
to Police, Ambulance, Fire and Local Emergency Planning Officer; on-site
communication to Incident Response Teams; hazardous warning service to the
public.

Business Partners Criticall has BT and Level 3 as technology partners and has
business alliances with the GEOS Alliance and BlackBerry. It is a member of
Survive, BAPCO, The UK Emergency Planning Society, Intellect and SIESO.

Notes to the editor:

Case studies are available on request.

CONTACT: Stewart Ross, Ross Media Relations Tel: +44 (0)7966 540787 e-mail:
stewart@rossmediarelations.co.uk Ian Hammond, Criticall Limited Tel: +44 (0)7776
232 135 e-mail: ianh@criticall.co.uk WWW: http://www.criticall.co.uk

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Statesman

                                 July 18, 2005

Charlie Whelan says ...: Don't believe it - "Westminster unites over terrorist
attack"

BYLINE: Charlie Whelan

LENGTH: 289 words


I was waiting for a taxi to take me to the Daily Politics show when news of the
London bombs began to filter through. The TV discussion I was due to join was
about how well Tony Blair was doing, and did this mean he could go on for ever?

Having seen off Europe as an issue and won the Olympics for London, and being
ready to claim a G8 summit victory on Africa (went this argument), Blair would
see out a full term. The tragic events of 7 July only added to the siren voices
claiming that their man was indestructible.

For fans such as John Rentoul at the Independent on Sunday, the only question is
"how many people seriously think there is an alternative leader of this
country". Plenty, actually, and they say that Blair is just a brilliant actor,
even if he seems to have the right words at times of crisis.

For now, however, we are not allowed to state the obvious - that the Prime
Minister's foreign policy just might have something to do with London being a
target for terrorists. Yet that is what many MPs are saying privately in
Westminster.

There was one politician who did not have to talk about Iraq, because he has
made his views well known. His words resonated because they were genuine. Ken
Livingstone held back the tears as he spoke for all Londoners: "This was not a
terrorist attack against... presidents or prime ministers. Indiscriminate
slaughter, irrespective of age, class, religion."

Here was a man who understands the city, a man who is a target himself because
he actually travels on the Tube and buses. Livingstone was the real political
hero of the week, and as time passes the views of such people will be taken
seriously. For now - just - the nation supports its leader.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      © Copyright 2005 New Statesman Ltd.

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The Black Country

                                 July 18, 2005

Muslims condemn terror attack

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 173 words

DATELINE: The Black Country; Stourbridge


MUSLIM officials from Lye have condemned the attacks on London.

The Barbaric attacks on the capital have been slammed by leaders at the Lye
Jamia Ghausia mosque and Dudley central mosque.

The Muslim community in Stourbridge Lye and Dudley say they are shocked at the
explosions.

Community leaders said their sympathies and prayers went out to the people in
London.

Muslim youth leader Shahis Mursaleen who is also the media secretary of the
international organisation Minhaj-ul-Quran expressed his sympathy and grief for
the families of the victims of this attack.

He said the Muslim community in the UK is uniting in its condemnation of these
attacks and said special prayers are being held today at mosques all over the UK
including Lye and Dudley centres.

Mr Mursaleen was also keen to make people aware Islam and terrorism are two
different and opposite things.

He added: "Islam is a peaceful faith and has nothing to do with terrorism.

"Muslims who are terrorists have nothing to do with Islam."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 19, 2005

Education: Higher: Show me the money: In the wake of terrorist attacks in
London, Linda Nordling looks at the opportunities for funding open to scientists
working to combat terrorism

BYLINE: Linda Nordling

SECTION: Guardian Education Pages, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 504 words


Before the events in London this month, the plan was to round off this column on
a lighthearted note before the summer break. A new grant for finding the latest
cosmoceutical, perhaps, or some funding for research into drinking beer. But the
atrocities of July 7 called for a change. Instead of Boswellox, this last
instalment will look at the role of scientists in combating terrorism, and the
opportunities for funding open to them to do so.

The events of 9/11 sparked a huge investment in security research across the
pond. Through the new department for homeland security, the US government is
this year pumping over $ 1bn (£570m) into science for detecting and preventing
terrorism. It is too early to say what implications the London explosions will
have on funding priorities in the UK research councils and government
departments, but investment is unlikely to go down.

The Home Office sponsors the Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear Resilience
(CBRN) science and technology programme, which has proved popular with
researchers. For its 2005 deadline, it received 540 project proposals and is now
considering a shortlist of projects. The programme is currently closed but
future calls will appear at www.homeoffice.gov.uk.

Among the research councils, the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research
Council (EPSRC) funds a Think Crime initiative that aims to understand motives,
perceptions and the risk involved in crime and terrorism. The initiative
supports only a small number of networks and research projects at the moment,
but the EPSRC wants to extend it beyond 2006 with a larger budget, and to bring
on board the other UK research councils.

A large chunk of cash for security research may in future come from abroad. The
Volkswagen Foundation has joined forces with a handful of other European funders
to sponsor grants in European foreign and security policy. The initiative funds
research projects ranging from six months to two years, aimed at postdoctoral
researchers and advanced PhD students. For more information, visit
www.volkswagenstiftung.de before the September 15 deadline.

Large sums will also come through the next EU funding programme, Framework 7.
Security is a new area in the programme, which begins in 2007, and would cover
protecting EU citizens; protecting infrastructure and utilities; border security
and crisis handling. The funding available is likely to top several hundred
million pounds over seven years.

But for some, the funding will come too late. Those waiting to hear news about
friends or relatives missing in the London blasts will take little comfort from
the fact that science is making the process of identification and investigation
faster and more reliable. Nor can technology eradicate the threat of future
attacks. This is something the government needs to consider when it draws up its
research agenda following the tragic events of this summer.

Linda Nordling is news editor of Research Fortnight ln@researchresearch.com


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 July 19, 2005

'Blair's Iraq policy made terror attacks a certainty'

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 361 words


In a recent article (Evening Post, July 8) you described Mr Blair as
"reassuring" the British people in his speeches after the London bombings.
Really? He appeared to me to be shaken and subdued, a man confronted with an
event he'd long been dreading. As in his past 9/11 speeches, he resorted to
platitudes, simplifications and disingenuous rhetoric.

After 9/11, he represented the terrorist threat against Western countries and
civilisation as being like a city surrounded by a fanatical horde who had
started blowing up the city walls and were capable of overwhelming the city.
Whatever their dreams of mass destruction and domination, they are dreams,
however lethal and destructive their actions.

Fortunately, Mr Blair was less excessive last week, but did resort to talking
about world domination and world war.

Didn't he realise the irony and hypocrisy when he claimed that they, the
terrorists, would not destroy our values? Which values, Mr Blair? Did he have in
mind honesty, openness and trustworthiness, as well as the best practices of our
democratic system; all of which he has undermined? What about humility? It is
remarkable that he and others cannot admit even the possibility that the
Afghanistan and Iraq invasions have intensified the anger, resentment and
determination of many dedicated extremists, turning what was perhaps a serious
risk of attack into a certainty. After all, Bin Laden promised to punish the
allies of the US.

As for Bin Laden, why did he believe the US, Britain, etc, would be "soft" in
their response to terrorism? Had it anything to do with the appeasement of the
IRA by Blair and Clinton.

Just how much of Blair's legacy will consist of dead and maimed bodies? Why
should British law and practice be concerned with the right of terrorists and
their supporters to move and live freely in this country? When will phone-tap
evidence be acceptable? Why cannot a murderous terrorist or would-be terrorist
be returned to his or her country, even if it means torture or death, rather
than death and maiming for our own people? The last might even be a deterrent.

S. P. JACKSON St Austell Drive, Wilford

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    © Copyright 2005 Nottingham Evening Post

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                      July 20, 2005 Wednesday 2:19 PM GMT

US embassy warns of possible terror attacks in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 157 words


RIYADH, (AFX) - The US embassy in Riyadh has warned in a statement that it has
indications of possible new terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia.

'The American embassy in Riyadh advises all American citizens living in Saudi
Arabia that it has received indications of operational planning for a terrorist
attack or attacks in the kingdom,' a warden message said.

However, it said the embassy 'has no specific information concerning timing,
target or method of any possible attack.'

Since May 2003, Saudi Arabia has been rocked by a spate of bloody attacks, many
targeting Westerners, by suspected Al-Qaeda militants.

lg/nay/txw/ec

COPYRIGHT


Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.

The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.


AFX News and the AFX Financial News logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            July 20, 2005, Wednesday

SPY BLUNDER;
 SPIES CLAIMED TERROR GROUPS DIDN'T HAVE ABILITY TO LAUNCH ATTACK IN UK

BYLINE: By Pippa Crerar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 392 words


A SECRET intelligence report claimed three weeks before the London bombings that
there was no group with the 'intent or ability' to attack Britain.

The leaked document allegedly led to the lowering of the official terrorist
threat level shortly before the atrocities.

It was the basis for British security services to downgrade their formal terror
alert one level from 'severe defined' to 'substantial'.

But the dossier - written by MI5, MI6, GCHQ and police experts - also warned
that events in Iraq were fuelling terrorism in the UK.

The news came as police in Pakistan arrested militants believed to be linked to
the London bombers. And there were fresh threats of violence from one of the
groups claiming responsibility for the atrocities.

In the report, intelligence officials admitted for the first time that the
conflict had acted as a 'motivation and a focus' for British terrorists.

The leak came at a tricky time for Tony Blair and his ministers who have refuted
claims that the Iraq war heightened the terror threat.

But the PM, who was yesterday meeting leading British Muslims with Afghan leader
Hamid Karzai, again rejected the idea that British involvement in Iraq and
Afghanistan had provoked the July 7 attacks, which killed 56 and injured more
than 700.

He admitted that terrorists were attempting to use Iraq as a recruiting tool and
a justification for their attacks.

But he insisted that was no more than an 'excuse' and that the true reasons for
their actions had deeper roots.

Blair said: 'Let's be clear. If it wasn't that, it would be something else, and
nothing - but nothing - justifies what they are doing.

'My view is they will use whatever is going on in foreign policy to justify what
they do, whether it is Iraq, Afghanistan or Palestine or just generally the fact
that Britain is an ally of America.'

Blair spoke as police in Lahore revealed they had arrested a number of Islamic
extremists.

Three of the London bombers are known to have travelled to Pakistan last year.

Meanwhile, countries with troops in Iraq were yesterday given one month to pull
them out or face a 'bloody war'.

The Abu Hafs al Masri Brigades group - one of two groups claiming responsibility
for the bombings - said: 'We assure to you that we are men who adore death as
much as you love life

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNITED: Blair and Afghan president Karzai

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Goole and Thorne Courier

                                 July 20, 2005

Train station alert after terror attack

LENGTH: 206 words


GOOLE train station was put on alert following the terrorist bombings in London
last Thursday.

Two police officers stood on duty as part of a high visible patrol after 52
people died and 700 people were injured at four blast sites in England's
capital.

Humberside Assistant Chief Officer Alan Leaver said last week: "Humberside
Police has been put on alert following the events in London and we are currently
looking at contingency plans to ensure that we can implement them at short
notice.

"There is no intelligence to suggest that Humberside is at risk, it should be
business as usual, however members of the public should of course remain
vigilant at all times."

All trains from the region heading to London last Thursday were terminated at
Peterborough but since the attack most buses and trains have resumed normal
service.

Reverend Geoff Hollingsworth, the vicar of Airmyn, Hook and Rawcliffe said:
"During the services at all three churches, we held a special prayer and all
thoughts are with those families of those killed and injured.

"The congregation were concerned about the incident and held them up in their
prayers, but something like this unites people in a way, regardless of
nationality."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 20, 2005, Wednesday

LONDON BOMBINGS: SECURITY SERVICES 'RULED OUT TERROR THREAT THREE WEEKS BEFORE
ATTACK'

BYLINE: BY COLIN BROWN AND STEPHEN CASTLE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 741 words

HIGHLIGHT:
The bomb-damaged train that was attacked by Shahzad Tanweer near Aldgate station
METROPOLITAN POLICE/AP


MPs on the parliamentary committee which oversees Britain's intelligence and
security services are to investigate MI5 failures over the London bombings.

The Independent has learnt that the Intelligence and Security Committee, chaired
by the former cabinet minister Paul Murphy, will check reports that MI5 failed
to track one of the four suicide bombers because he was judged not to be a
threat. It will also question intelligence chiefs about the lessons to be
learnt. The cross-party committee is expected to hear evidence from Eliza
Manningham-Buller, director general of MI5, and John Scarlett, head of MI6, the
Secret Intelligence Service.

They want to know whether the failure to track Mohammad Sidique Khan, who blew
himself up at Edgware Road Tube station, was due to a shortage of manpower or an
intelligence blunder.

Concerns that the intelligence services had failed were heightened yesterday by
new evidence that they had underestimated the threat from Muslim extremists. A
British intelligence report leaked to The New York Times revealed that the
security services in London had concluded three weeks before the bombings that
there was no group with the intent or capacity to attack the UK.

Tony Blair insisted in the aftermath of the bombings two weeks ago that it was
wrong to pursue the 'blame game' over failures in intelligence.

Tomorrow the Prime Minister will meet police and intelligence chiefs to decide
with Mr Scarlett and Ms Manningham-Buller whether they need more resources.
Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, announced in his 2004 Budget that the Government
was expanding the intelligence and security agencies by 1,000 staff and overall
security spending would rise from £950m in 2001 to £2.1bn by 2007-08, " an
average rise of 10 per cent a year in real terms.

In its investigation, the Intelligence and Security Committee will ask whether a
lack of resources allowed the terrorists to strike, even though some of the gang
were 'on the radar' of the intelligence services.

Khan, 30, was the subject of a threat assessment by MI5 officers after he was
found to be an associate of a suspect in an investigation in 2004 into an
alleged plot to build a lorry bomb in Britain. He was not considered to be a
terrorist risk. It has emerged that Khan and a second bomber, Shahzad Tanweer,
22, had visited Pakistan but MI5 failed to pick them up.

Khan, a well-respected teaching assistant who had visited the House of Commons,
is believed to have been a senior member of the terrorist gang. He used a
gymnasium in Beeston, Leeds, to recruit disaffected Muslim youths.

The assessment of the terror threat, by the Joint Intelligence Assessment Centre
in London, caused the intelligence alert in the capital to be lowered from
'severe defined' to 'substantial' in the UK.

The report also directly linked terrorist-related activity in Britain with the
continuing violence in Iraq.

There were immediate fears in Whitehall that the leak in the US was part of
long-running rivalries which have caused distrust between the CIA and MI6.

But although the leaked report said there was no sign of an imminent attack, it
outlined a two-pronged threat facing the country: from the international
al-Qa-ida network, and indigenous radicals.

It also concluded with a warning that lone extremists or small groups could
attempt lower-level attacks. One senior British official was quoted as saying
there was a sharp disagreement among officials about whether the intelligence
justified lowering the threat level. 'There was not an easy consensus,' he said.

Yesterday, the Home Secretary, Charles Clarke, discussed tougher EU measures
against terrorism with the European commissioner for justice and home affairs,
Franco Frattini, in London. They include tighter controls on access to
explosives and more effective surveillance and pursuit of suspects across
borders.

The Home Office said it will consider moves to allow police to pursue suspects
across territorial waters or airspace. Meanwhile Britain threw its weight behind
other ideas put forward by Mr Frattini who wants to toughen restrictions on the
sale of fertilisers which could be used for bombs and to create a network of EU
bomb disposal squads. His plans would mean comprehensive reporting of suspicious
transactions of commercial explosives, better security for transporting them and
a new system to trace their movements.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 20, 2005, Wednesday

Iraq 'link' to terror attacks

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 71 words


From Mr Brian Dean

Sir, Tony Blair's Government dismissed the Lancet report last October on Iraqi
civilian deaths. It also recently dismissed the London School of Economics
report on ID-card costs. It now dismisses the Chatham House report linking the
London bombings to the Iraq war.

Is it rational behaviour to simply dismiss everything that contradicts one's
world view?

BRIAN DEAN Chester, Cheshire


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                       July 21, 2005 Thursday 1:52 PM GMT

Pound falls amid fears of fresh terrorist attacks in London

LENGTH: 185 words


LONDON (AFX) - The pound fell back amid fears of terrorist attacks after three
underground stations were closed due to a security alert.

Three London underground stations have been evacuated following 'incidents'
which were not specified, police said.

The three tube stations evacuated are Warren St, Oval and Shepherds Bush, with
reports of a suspect package on a train on the Victoria line, Sky news reported.

News is sketchy but eyewitness are reported to have seen smoke. There are no
reports of casualties at this stage.

The incident comes exactly two weeks after terrorists attacked London, killing
56 people.

The news weighed on sterling. At 1332 GMT, the pound was at 1.7492 usd, down
from 1.7573 usd just before the news hit markets. The euro rose to 0.6971 stg
from 0.6944 stg.

ss/har

COPYRIGHT

Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.


The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.

AFX News and the AFX Financial News logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 21, 2005

LONDON ROCKED BY NEW BLASTS HORROR;
Terrfied passengersflee as explosions rock Tube;
Bus also hit two weeks to the day after terrorist attacks that killed 56

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1116 words



HIGHLIGHT: The driver of this No26 bus went upstairs after hearing an explosion
and discovered windows had been blown out Three Underground trains were
evacuated and services on the Victoria and Northern lines were suspended after
reports of incidents at the Oval, Warren Street and Shepherd s Bush


FOUR explosions or attempted explosions went off in London Underground trains
and a bus this afternoon.

Terrified passengers fled the Tube and armed police were seen entering a
hospital next to Warren Street Hospital - near one of the blast sites - just as
a man on a stretcher was carried in.

Police dressed in chemical suits were also seen entering the station.

The top deck of a bus was hit by a blast and terrified Underground passengers
were evacuated from trains as police dealt with what were believed to be
terrorist "incidents" at three different stations.

Passengers evacuated from Warren Street Underground station reported seeing
smoke in the carriages before the evacuation.

There were also reports of an explosion and British Transport Police said one
person there had been injured.

The incidents happened two weeks to the day since the bombings in the city, when
three suicide bombers detonated bombs on Tube trains and a fourth blew himself
up on a bus, killing another 52 people.

Metropolitan Police chief Sir Ian Blair said today's bombs appeared to be
smaller than those of two weeks ago.

Today's explosion on a Stagecoach bus blew out its windows, but there were no
reports of injuries, the bus operator said.

A police officer said: "The bus driver heard a bang at the back of the bus. He
thought it was probably a vehicle that had hit him. He stopped at a nearby bus
stop and saw a suspect package at the back of the bus."

The No 26 bus was travelling from Waterloo to Hackney in the east of city. The
blast happened in the Shoreditch area.

It was also reported there was an explosion outside Warren Street Underground
station.

Men dressed in chemical protection suits prepared to enter the station.

And police cordoned off University College Hospital - where some of the victims
from two weeks ago are still being treated - and three armed police entered the
building, just minutes before someone was carried from an ambulance into the
unit on a stretcher.

The hospital is so near Warren Street station it has been included in the area
cordoned off following the incident.

The armed cops moved in after reports someone had been seen "running away" from
Warren Street station following the incident there.

Witnesses said they had seen what could have been a would-be bomber running away
after dropping a rucksack on one of the trains.

"We all got off on the platform and the guy just ran and started running up the
escalator, " said one woman, who gave her name only as Andrea.

"Everyone was screaming for someone to stop him. He ran past me . . . and he ran
out of the station. In fact he left a bag on the train, " she said.

Victoria Line passenger Ivan McCracken claimed a traveller's rucksack had
exploded.

He said: "I was in a middle carriage and the train was not far short of Warren
Street station when suddenly the door between my carriage and the next one burst
open and dozens of people started rushing through.

Some were falling, there was mass panic.

"It was difficult to get the story from any of them what had happened, but when
I got to ground level there was an Italian young man comforting an Italian girl
who told me he had seen what had happened.

"He said a man was carrying a rucksack and the rucksack suddenly exploded. It
was a minor explosion, but enough to blow open the rucksack.

"The man then made an exclamation as if something had gone wrong. At that point
everyone rushed from the carriage."

Mr McCracken said he smelled smoke, but did not see any injured passengers.

Sosiane Mohellavi, 35, was travelling from Oxford Circus to Walthamstow when she
was evacuated from the train.

She said: "I was sitting in the carriage reading a book and I smelt something
burning, like wiring or tyres, and it just got more intense. Suddenly people
panicked and started screaming and were walking on each other's backs trying to
get the hell out of there.

"I couldn't move, I didn't know what to do, whether to run or not.

"People ran and left their shoes and belongings when they smelt the burning."

London fire brigade said there were reports of smoke coming from Oval station,
which crews were investigating.

There were reports of a man dumping a rucksack in a carriage then fleeing as the
doors closed.

A witness said he heard a sound "like champagne popping" then passengers
erupting in panic.

"A lady at the top of the escalator said someone came into the carriage, dumped
the bag and ran out. Some people tried to stop him but he ran out.

"I was in the carriage next to the one where the bag was. All of a sudden there
was a popping, it sounded like champagne popping. I didn't think anything of it
at the time but then I heard a lot of shouting from the next door carriage.

"People started saying 'Smoke, smoke'. One of the train guys came through and
said 'Get off the train, we're evacuating, everyone out'.

"As we were walking past the carriage we could see the bag sitting on the chair.
It was a big, black rucksack, like the backpack-type ones that you get.

"When they got upstairs, people were really distressed, one lady was crying."

Police in protective clothing were sent into Oval station, but they later said
they had found "no trace of chemical agents".

A British Transport Police spokeswoman said Warren Street, Shepherds Bush and
Oval stations had all been evacuated.

Underground services on four lines, the Hammersmith and City, Northern, Bakerloo
and Victoria, were suspended.

Prime Minister Tony Blair cancelled a visit to east London this afternoon as
events unfolded and also later postponed a planned photocall with Australian
Prime Minister John Howard, who is on an official visit to the capital.

The Government's civil contingencies committee - known as Cobra - will meet
later this afternoon in response to the latest incidents, Downing Street
officials confirmed.

After that, Mr Blair - who was informed about the incidents during a lunch in
Downing Street with Mr Howard - will decide whether to go ahead with the planned
meeting with intelligence and police chiefs that was originally scheduled to
discuss the aftermath of the July 7 attacks.

Police, meanwhile, cordoned off an area around Downing Street, as extra security
measures swung into place. .

London Mayor Ken Livingstone also cancelled a visit this afternoon to the Family
Assistance Centre set up to help victims of the July 7 blasts in light of the
current Tube incidents.

Other witnesses told of their terror as the bomb scares rocked the city.

Student Puy Kay Pang, 27, was travelling along the Northern Line towards
Kennington when his train stopped in a tunnel.

He said: "One of the Underground staff said apparently there had been several
packages found at several stations, but he said that was unconfirmed."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 21, 2005

G2: In the line of duty: When London was attacked by terrorists a fortnight ago,
the emergency services had to turn a complicated plan into immediate and
effective action. Oliver Burkeman tracked down those who responded to the
deadliest explosion - on the Piccadilly line - and hears how they dealt with a
day they had hoped would never come

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 3905 words


According to the Strategic Emergency Plan, a thick, calmly bureaucratic document
published by a government body called the London Resilience Partnership, the
capital's response to a major incident is a matter of strict hierarchy. Upon
being alerted to "an event or situation which threatens serious damage to human
welfare," senior figures in the emergency services, the NHS, the military, the
government and transport are summoned to New Scotland Yard, behind St James's
Park tube station. (They are then transferred to a secret location, which
becomes known as the Strategic Command Centre.) Once in place, they form the
Gold Coordinating Committee, which devises a response to the crisis, their
commands cascading down the levels of seniority to the police officers,
ambulance crews and firefighters on the ground. It is a clean, neatly diagrammed
system, seeking to address the fundamental paradox of emergency planning - which
is, of course, that if you truly knew what it was that you were going to be
facing, and could plan for it appropriately, it would not be an emergency.

All these things did eventually happen two weeks ago, after suicide bombers
detonated explosives on a London bus and three tube trains, killing 56 people.
But the minutes after the explosions had a different quality, characterised by
unplanned individual action, and strange moments of semi-confusion when what was
happening began to dawn - moments that would be remembered later, usually over
psychotherapeutic pints of beer, as distant and dreamlike.

Michael Collinson, an off-duty nurse, recalls stepping into the road near
Russell Square station, some minutes after the bombs went off, and commandeering
a passing delivery truck, telling the astonished driver it was needed for
ferrying medical supplies. A firefighter speeding past Tavistock Square half an
hour later, on his way to King's Cross, recalls seeing the destroyed No30 bus
and thinking it must have gone under a low bridge. And PC Tony Asquith,
stretchering commuters through the acrid smoke and heat of the Piccadilly line
tunnels, remembers an injured man so shocked that he couldn't stop talking about
his wedding ring, and how upset his wife would be that, in the chaos, it had
slipped off and vanished.

Asquith had always been expecting an odd day. The quietly spoken, fair-haired
34-year-old is based at South Norwood police station, in a leafy corner of
Croydon - the kind of place where an officer, if he arrests someone in
possession of a gun, is liable to face joking accusations in the canteen that he
planted it himself, to make his work seem more exciting. But on the day the
bombers struck, 1,500 central London officers were in Scotland, policing the G8.
So just before 9am, Asquith and six of his colleagues found themselves in a
police minibus, heading for the centre to help make up the difference. That was
when the call came through. The instruction was simple: get to King's Cross.

"At this point, we weren't aware that there had been any bombs whatsoever," says
Rob Spry, Asquith's sergeant that day. They arrived at the station to find
people streaming across the flagstones, blank-faced and blackened with soot.
Spry tried to get his officers to fan out and form a filter cordon, a standard
crowd-control tactic that he hoped to use to channel the injured towards the
ambulances that were starting to arrive. But the emerging passengers kept
approaching him and his men and women, gesturing back down the stairs. "There's
more people down there!" Spry remembers them saying, again and again. "There's
more people down there!"

The control centre

At the same time as Asquith was heading towards King's Cross, Tim O'Toole, the
managing director of London Underground, received a text message on his mobile
phone. O'Toole, who was in his sixth-floor office at St James's Park, gets a
text every time there's a signal failure, or almost any other problem on a tube
line. This means, he wryly concedes, that he receives a lot of messages - "but I
always want to know the rhythm of the network". On this occasion, the text
informed him of a power failure on the north side of the Circle line.

Already, that counted as an emergency: two years before, in August 2003, a
rush-hour power cut had left the capital in chaos. O'Toole hurried down the
corridor to the nerve-centre of the tube, the Network Control Centre, where
activity from every part of the system is transmitted on to banks of flat-panel
screens. He got there at 8.59 - eight minutes after the underground bombs, and
the same time, he insists, that the first call was made from LU to the fire
brigade.

"That's one of the reasons I'm so outraged by the suggestion that there was
delay on our part," the 49-year-old Pittsburgh native says now, referring to
allegations in the London Evening Standard that 20 minutes had elapsed before
the emergency services were properly informed. "The NCC response was cool,
professional and immediate. And, of course, the NCC isn't the whole story. We
were escorting people out of tunnels within the first two minutes."

Nevertheless, the situation was deeply confused. Electronic sensors on the
tracks seemed to be reporting two derailments, "but the Piccadilly line reports
were just about tunnel telephone wires" - used to cut out the power in an
emergency - "having been activated. There was still no information on train
involvement there".

O'Toole watched and waited as the duty officer struggled to make sense of the
incoming data. It is the managing director's responsibility, in an emergency, to
decide when to go to code red, which stops the network dead, leaving passengers
trapped on trains, or to code amber, allowing trains to reach the next station.
For 20 minutes, O'Toole did neither. "At this point, we had a problem on the
Circle, and a problem on the Pic. But the rest of the network is running fine.
To dump 200,000 people off is not something you can do quickly. You can't
gratuitously reach the decision to go to code amber."

Amber was finally invoked at 9.19. Crucially, O'Toole chose not to alter the
official LU line that the incidents were caused by a power surge - a claim that
would continue to be reported on television until after the Tavistock Square
bomb, which exploded at 9.47. "We had a huge job to do," O'Toole says, defending
the decision as a way of staving off mass panic. "We had to move 200,000 people
off the network. There was no upside in putting out a sensational report as to
what was happening, when we ourselves were still somewhat unclear." And
technically, he says, LU told no lies. "It was perfectly true that there was a
loss of traction current on the north side of the Circle line. So to continue to
say that, to move people off the network, was a sensible decision - especially
as we were relying on police to decide on the characterisation of what had
happened. For the underground to go out with some sensational 'we think there
might be terrorism' would not have been a responsible gesture."

Meanwhile, across the capital, the Gold emergency system was beginning to click
into place. At 9.09, Julie Dent, the head of the south-west London strategic
health authority - who was on the rota that week as "NHS Gold", on standby to
coordinate the health service's response to a crisis - was called out of a
routine meeting at the London Ambulance Service headquarters. Six minutes later,
Chief Superintendent Chris Allison, Gold commander for the Metropolitan Police,
arrived at Scotland Yard, having raced from his office on the Embankment in a
car with sirens blaring. "Those first few minutes were - well, my daughter lives
at Aldgate East," Dent remembers. "So there's that first 30 seconds when you
think - and it's an absolutely human response: are my family OK? I texted her.
Once I got a text back and knew she was safe . . . You just get on with it,
don't you? The adrenaline takes over."

For some reason he can't explain, Spry just assumed that the tube train would be
in the station when he got down to the plat form. "I thought, 'OK, no problem.
Get down there, whip 'em out, and away we go.'" What he and his officers
encountered instead were clouds of black smoke, a nauseating smell they
identified as burning flesh and plastic - and an empty platform. Spry was
baffled. He found a fireman. "Where's the train?" he asked. "About a quarter of
a mile down that tunnel," the fireman replied. It occurred briefly to Spry that
he suffers from claustrophobia.

Unlike more modern subway systems, the tunnels of the London underground are too
deep and narrow for the carriages or platforms to be easily air-conditioned -
there would be nowhere for the extracted air to go - and so it is the trains
themselves that ventilate the network, acting like pumps on all the heat they
discharge. When they all stop, it rapidly becomes overwhelmingly hot. Spry and
his colleagues, fearful of secondary devices, were still wearing their
protective MetVests, and within seconds they were dripping with sweat. (Later,
workers on the Channel Tunnel Rail Link started lending their own underground
ventilation equipment.) There were other hazards, too: the rescuers had received
no official notification that the electrified track was safe to walk on. But
they did not have much choice.

They had been walking south along the track for about five minutes when they saw
the torso of a man, with no legs or arms, lying on the track in front of the
mangled train. "If you hadn't looked hard," Asquith says, "you might not have
noticed it was a person at all." Climbing over the wreckage was an ambulance
service doctor in an orange vest, who pointed to a man whose leg was hanging off
at the hip, and told them to start loading him on to a stretcher. Spry was soon
far too busy to realise that his claustrophobia had vanished.

For others responding to the explosions, though, the confusion persisted much
longer. At Euston fire station, the call came through at the most awkward time
possible: 9.01, a minute after the nationwide shift change from Wednesday's
overnight Red Watch to Thursday's daytime Blue Watch. Euston station is only a
third of a mile down Euston Road from King's Cross, but the first call sent them
in exactly the wrong direction. Responding to a report of "smoke issuing at
Euston Square," two engines sped south-west, away from King's Cross, arriving at
Euston Square station to find underground staff closing it up. There was no
smoke. "We were in a bit of a blind spot," says one firefighter who was
involved. (The London Fire Brigade would not facilitate access to its frontline
staff for this article, and firefighters said they feared disciplinary action if
they were identified in the press.)

The crews returned to the fire station. Minutes later, they were summoned to
Euston Square again, this time to respond to "a fire". They arrived to discover
other engines parked up and awaiting further instructions. "A lot of people were
coming up the road, saying there'd been a big bang on the tube," the firefighter
recalls. "We'd heard of an incident at Aldgate, but we weren't sure whether this
was part of that." While they were waiting, the bus bomb went off. Finally, the
Euston crews were ordered to King's Cross, arriving shortly before 10 o'clock,
to find other firefighters already coordinating the rescue effort.

In the days following the bombs, it seemed as if everyone you met had a
coincidence they wanted to tell you about - how they had almost travelled on
that bus; how they usually took that tube route but had biked to work that day
instead. This was part of the collective process of digesting what had happened.
It was beside the point that these were mostly not coincidences at all, but just
the result of a very large number of people converging on a fairly small city
centre at about the same time in the morning.

Still, it's hard not to feel a little disbelief at some of the day's chance
occurrences: the bus bomb that exploded outside the British Medical Association,
for example, or the scene at the helipad on top of the Royal London Hospital in
Whitechapel, the headquarters of the air ambulance service, where large numbers
of current and former helicopter-trained doctors and paramedics happened to be
gathering for a study day.

And then there was Russell Square station: as injured passengers reached the
surface there, they found themselves on Bernard Street - a quiet Bloomsbury road
that consists, in large part, of housing for the doctors and nurses of Great
Ormond Street Children's Hospital.

Not on my shift

Michael Collinson, a Great Ormond Street nurse, had spent the night on a
colleague's sofa-bed, in a basement flat seven doors down from the tube. He got
up at 9.15, looking forward to going home to Bexhill-on-Sea. He was getting out
of the shower when he heard the helicopter. "I'd heard lots of sirens, but
that's nothing unusual on Bernard Street," he says. "And then the helicopter
came down low. That's when you know it's got to be a drop-off or a pick-up." He
threw on a T-shirt and jeans, opened the front door, and climbed the stairs to
find a paramedic standing beside an ambulance. "I'm a nurse," Collinson said.
"Do you need a hand?" The paramedic pointed at the tube station. "Get in there,
mate," was all he said.

There was an odd sense of calm in the ticket hall: paramedics were tending to
several passengers, and acrid smoke hung in the air, but nobody was screaming.
Someone shouted that they needed fluids and oxygen, so Collinson ran back down
Bernard Street to the hospital. He burst into the canteen to find several of his
colleagues gathered around a plasma screen, watching the breaking news on Sky.
"I think I was a little bit possessed by this point," Collinson says. "I think
they were just as much in shock as I was, but somehow you're divorced from it
when you're watching TV. I was pretty shocked to see them. I just shouted out:
'Anybody who's medical - you're needed. Get up to Russell Square.' I think it
was the look in my eyes: people started moving straight away." It was then that
Collinson commandeered the delivery truck, loading it with supplies from Great
Ormond Street's Peter Pan ward.

Back at the tube, he started treating a man whose leg had been blown apart in
the explosion. The man asked Collinson if he was going to die. "Not on my
shift," Collinson said.

Running between the station and the hospital, Collinson had been joined by Paul
Hegarty, a Great Ormond Street doctor, along with a passing Israeli plastic
surgeon visiting London on holiday. "As soon as you see your first casualty,
which in my case was a nasty limb injury, your persona changes," says Hegarty,
an Irishman with unruly hair and an intense manner. "You no longer register, at
a human level, the disgust of something. You switch into your professional
capacity, and everything you see after that doesn't affect you. Even if you see
worse things."

Staff at the Tesco opposite the station let the medics take what they needed,
which meant water, primarily, but also cling film for treating burns. Hegarty
remembers seeing one man's neck being stabilised, in the absence of a neck
brace, by two one-litre bottles of Vittel, either side of his head. He started
ferrying intravenous drips down to the platform via the lifts, assisted by a
Great Ormond Street pharmacist, Abdi Aden, but when they got there, they were
turned back. Nobody remained, they were informed, who could be helped by fluids.

Reflecting later, Hegarty realised something that might offer solace to those
bereaved by the Piccadilly line bomb. Only some of those he treated could even
remember hearing a bang - and those who died, he says, may well have had no
awareness of what happened. "They probably wouldn't even have had fear - the
thought that something was wrong. They might not even have heard a bang, because
you feel an explosion before you hear it. If it's any consolation to the
relatives, it was like flicking a switch, and the switch is flicked before
you're aware of it."

By the time Collinson returned to Great Ormond Street, it was transformed. The
hospital has no accident and emergency department, but the canteen had been
turned into a field hospital, complete with a triage site and 10 beds, each
staffed by a surgeon and a nurse. A minor injuries unit had been set up at the
inhouse branch of Costa Coffee.

Collinson threw himself into a chair and that, he remembers, was when he cried -
a basic part of nursing training that he recalls without apology or
self-indulgence. For several more hours, into the mid-afternoon, he helped staff
the minor injuries unit. Then, eventually, he borrowed the key to Hegarty's
Bernard Street flat, and closed the heavy curtains on the Sky News crew just
outside. He watched part of a nature documentary on feral dogs, and then he fell
asleep.

London's centrally organised response to the bombs had begun officially at
10.30am, when 40 people attached to the Gold Coordinating Committee met around a
table in a conference room at Scotland Yard. "You could hear pins drop,"
remembers Chris Allison, the Metropolitan Gold Commander. In a formality that
seems incongruous from the outside, the group agreed on a strategy statement,
had it typed up, and distributed photocopies to everyone present. The priorities
were obvious, but having them on paper brought them into sharp focus: first,
save lives and treat casualties; second, start the criminal investigation;
third, reassure the wider community; fourth, get London back to normal. Tasks
were distributed with no regard to seniority, Allison says. His superior, Deputy
Assistant Commissioner Brian Paddick, volunteered to work on what to say to the
press. "It was role, not rank," says Allison, who is at pains not to give the
impression that any one person was the linchpin. "And I wasn't dealing with
'someone from the Fire Brigade'. I was dealing with Ron - someone I know. A mate
of mine. We've gone on training weekends, we've done training exercises
together. We've drunk, probably to excess on occasion, together . . . We all
know each other and we trust each other." Julie Dent, for the NHS, instructed
all London hospitals to be on standby and cancel that day's elective surgery.
Concerned about the city's capacity for dealing with mass burns injuries, she
asked the Department of Health to put burns units on standby across the country.
"You start big," she explains, "and then you start reducing once you know what
it is you're facing."

The aftermath

Gradually, a coordinated structure was becoming discernible. At the incident
sites, improvised procedures were being replaced with chains of command. At
London Underground headquarters, O'Toole was considering how to "redesign the
network" to get trains up and running as soon as possible. By 12 noon, Tony
Blair was delivering his first televised statement on the bombings.

But for others, the drama was already drawing to an end. At King's Cross,
firefighters were handing over to police officers: the station was undergoing
the transition from a rescue scene to a crime scene. "There's always some
tension there," the firefighter says. "The crews had to be ordered out of the
incident (at King's Cross), because they wanted to be doing something - trying
to double, triple, quadruple-check that there's no live casualties." After
several journeys between the platform and the surface, Asquith and his
colleagues were stopped by an officer from the British Transport Police.
"Listen," the officer said. "Everyone else is dead." The South Norwood policemen
and women trooped back up to the mainline station and into the GNER first-class
lounge, where they flopped on to chairs and sofas.

Much would come to be said and written about the stoical response of Londoners
to the terrorist attacks, in such volume that it began to seem self-absorbed,
and not stoical at all. But in any case, "stoicism" - if it involves the
suppressing and tolerating of negative feelings - does not really describe the
emergency workers' approach on the day. It was more automatic than that. The
phrase "and that's when the training kicked in" kept recurring during interviews
for this article. The emotional response came later, a powerful mixture of
intense pride and horror, and everyone had different ways of getting it out of
their systems. Dent worked until the weekend with barely a break, then swam
about 40 lengths on Saturday. Hegarty worked the rest of Thursday and all of
Friday, then went, as planned, on a weekend break to Athens with his wife. ("I
took the Heathrow Express," he says, "and I'd have taken the Piccadilly line if
I could have done. Just out of defiance.")

Spry, Asquith and their fellow officers returned to their station, then piled
into the Wetherspoon's pub on South Norwood High Street. "I know that two of the
girls had a little cry after we got out (of the tunnel), which I thought was
good," Spry says. "But with the blokes, they don't do that, because it's a sign
of weakness, I suppose, if you let it all out. So I closely monitored them."
Professional counselling has been made available but, as with many of the first
responders, few seem to want it. "I worked seven days solid after that," says
Spry. "People say, 'Well, hold on a minute, you should have been given time off
. . .' But work ing seven till seven, your mind is occupied. As soon as your
mind's not occupied, that's when the problems start."

There are one or two things Asquith can't get out of his mind, though. "I tried
to explain it to the wife," he says. "And the wife's been pretty amazing - she
can understand some of what I've been through from seeing the news reports . . .
(But) you get better reactions from people like Rob who's been down there and
seen what you've seen. I can still picture that bloke's leg. I've been sat at
home, thinking about it, and the wife says: 'Are you all right? What are you
thinking about?' And you say: 'Nothing.' But obviously I'm thinking about that."

The wreckage of the train still lies in the tunnel between King's Cross and
Russell Square. The Circle line is expected to be running again within two
weeks. But the Piccadilly line is likely to remain suspended between Hyde Park
Corner and Arnos Grove for some time: the site is still being combed for
criminal evidence, and, grimly, for the last small pieces of what is formally
termed "human tissue residue". Above ground, on the corner of Euston Road and
York Way, part of the station forecourt has become a memorial site for those who
died in all four attacks. Flowers lie several inches deep, and annotated flags
hang from the railings.

Perversely, one of the greatest dangers of a largely successful response to a
major incident may be the internal voice that says: "We did it." The worst
happened, and the system coped, and this leads easily to two seductive
conclusions: first, that the system is flawless, and second, that the law of
averages will somehow spare it being tested again any time soon. Both, of
course, are erroneous. "We had this terrible incident, and we did extremely
well," says Dent. "I was very proud of the NHS in London. They stepped up to the
challenge. But actually, the risk today is no different than it was that
Thursday. We've got to keep rehearsing."


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Printing World

                                 July 21, 2005

Terror attacks put energy lobby on hold

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 303 words


By Tom Hawkins

Paper sector lobbyists delayed a challenge to government over soaring energy
prices following the London terrorist bomb attacks.

National officer for the paper sector Owen Coop was scheduled to meet Kathy
Bradley, head of the Confederation of Paper Industries, at Kings Street on July
7. The meeting, which was intended to outline the paper sector's lobbying
approach, is being rearranged and will take place in the next two weeks.

Meanwhile the BPIF has finalised details of its energy summit. The magazine
sector activity group is to meet at the St Bride's Institute on August 3.
Representatives from Polestar, Cooper Clegg, Wyndeham and Bgp are among the
printers which will discuss ways of tackling the problem.

Public affairs officer at the BPIF Lizzy Hawkins said: "We're looking to set out
the different options on how companies can mitigate the cost of energy prices."

The meeting is focused on four key elements: independent energy consultant
Cedric Rodriguez will outline strategies for energy procurement; senior policy
advisor on energy at the CBI Gillian Simmonds is expected to discuss energy
efficiency in manufacturing; Nick Mazur of the PPA will outline magazine supply
chain initiatives to reduce waste; and EnviroWise will discuss initiatives for
energy efficiency.

Ms Hawkins said the BPIF hopes to roll out the actions from the meeting to other
sectors of the industry hit by energy costs, citing packaging as an example.
Increases in energy costs have besieged the print and paper sector this year,
triggering mill closures and putting a further squeeze on printers' margins.

As the print sector gears up for a challenge, Britain's biggest energy users
slammed government's regulation of power markets. They criticised high levels of
tax too.




LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                       Copyright 2005 CMP Information Ltd

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                                 July 21, 2005

New signing condemns terror attacks

BYLINE: Paul Fraser & Catherine Jewitt (feedback@nne.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: The North East


NEWCASTLE United's new signing last night condemned terror attacks that claimed
the life of a North-East holidaymaker.

Emre Belezoglu spoke of his empathy with those mourning friends and family in
London and his home country of Turkey during a Press conference after his move
from Inter Milan.

The growing problem of terrorism in Turkey was highlighted on Saturday when
Helen Bennett from Spennymoor County Durham was one of five people who died
after a bomb exploded on a minibus in Kusadasi.

Belezoglu was unveiled at Newcastle's training base yesterday after signing a
five-year deal at St James' Park and completing a £3.8m move.

The 24-year-old said: "There are many terrorist attacks in Turkey. I share your
feelings because of the attacks. I condemn the terrorism and I would like to
offer my condolences to their loved ones."

Miss Bennett's brother Adam Megoran 16 was transferred from Newcastle General
Hospital to the city's Royal Victoria Infirmary yesterday. Her aunt Toni Punshon
41 and cousin Sam Punshon 14 from Sherburn near Durham were taken to the
hospital's burns unit.

Miss Bennett's fiance Stephen Stables 23 who was seriously injured in the blast
was too poorly to return to the region on Tuesday.

His condition was last night said to have improved although he is expected to be
kept in Ege University Hospital in Izmir for some time.

It is not known whether he will be able to attend Miss Bennett's funeral which
will be arranged after an inquest into her death is opened.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 July 21, 2005

Community unites to condemn terror attacks

BYLINE: Cara Lovell

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 804 words


United we stand. That was message coming out loud and clear when community
groups got together at Redhill Islamic Centre on Sunday.

In an unprecedented display of solidarity more than 100 people representing
organisations across the borough gathered at the Islamic Centre in Earlswood
Road in direct response to the London terrorist attacks on Thursday July 7.

The event aimed to bring the community together to condemn terrorism and improve
links between the Muslim community and other local groups. The mosque has
already been targeted by vandals following the London attacks who threw a brick
through the window. Police have confirmed CCTV cameras will be installed.

As a demonstration of unity those attending on Sunday signed a declaration which
will now be presented to the borough council for its endorsement.

Qamar Bhatti was the driving force behind the gathering. He said: "It achieved
more than we hoped.

"When we arranged it we hoped it would gain some unity. It has become something
much bigger. It has become a branch of hope for the future."

Representatives from the Islamic Centre were already beginning to meet with
community groups but the events of July 7 meant what they hoped to achieve in a
year would be achieved within a month.

Mr Bhatti said: "I was appalled by what happened. I felt what happened to me
watching TV that morning was the same as on 9/11 the horror unfolding in front
of you. Criminals did it and I felt angry they used the name of Islam as an
ideology when what they did does not represent anything that we believe.

"Suicide is illegal under Islamic law. Islam does not allow you to take your own
life or that of others."

He added: "At the start of the gathering when we made our statements about July
7 there was great sadness about the families and people who lost loved ones.

As the meeting moved on and we started to talk about the future and about the
declaration there was an air of confidence. It was very positive and people felt
they were going to move forward and feel they were never going to allow this to
happen in our community."

The gathering was addressed by the Imam of the Redhill mosque Maulana Hafiz
Habib who also said prayers with Reverend John Joseph from Redhill United
Reformed Church and John Capon chairman of Reigate and Redhill Churches
Together. Other speakers included borough inspector Bob Jenkin leader of the
council Joan Spiers Edwina Currie Jones and councillor Julian Ellacott. A letter
from Reigate MP Crispin Blunt was also read out.

Mr Capon said: "I hope that local Christians will exercise great care and
sensitivity to ensure that nothing is said or done which would damage relations
with the Muslim community."

Edwina Currie was moved by the response to the gathering and believes it offers
hope for the future. She said: "We talked about emotions the horror of what
happened and most of all that those bombers those killers come from ordinary
Muslim families who were distraught at what they had done and the question in
everyone's hearts is it could happen to any family.

"There were a lot of children and young people there and they may have
information and may be have been approached just as they would with any other
criminal approach and they must not keep it to themselves. The police must be
receptive to the information that comes."

Remembering the London attacks almost two weeks ago she said: "I was very
shocked but not surprised. London has always been a target.

"I felt very sad for all the families. It was extraordinary to see a Muslim girl
killed alongside a Christian girl an elderly professor killed alongside a
cleaner. It was almost as if we were being reminded of how rich our inheritance
is."

Redhill Islamic Centre is in the process of setting up its own website making it
even more accessible to the community. Organisers hope the unity gathering will
become an annual event.

The declaration read as follows:

"We members of the community of the borough of Reigate and Banstead
wholeheartedly condemn acts of terrorism in particular those which killed
innocent people in London on July 7 2005. We express our heartfelt sympathy to
the families and friends of all those who lost their lives and were injured by
these acts. We acknowledge the professional work and success of the police and
their partner agencies in this tragic case but in the awareness that such events
may happen again accept the responsibilities of all sections of the community to
play their part in the prevention of any further catastrophes.

"In order to carry out our stated intent we hereby resolve to continue the
network that has been established between all of us and constitute a body that
will continue to nurture and promote religious cultural and social harmony."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 July 22, 2005

Terrorism expert says he expected more attacks

BYLINE: Morag Lindsay

SECTION: News; 999; Riots/publicorder; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 740 words


One man who was not surprised by yesterday's bomb attacks in London is
international terrorism expert David Capitanchik. The Aberdeen academic said he
had been expecting a repeat of the bombings which killed 55 people in the
capital two weeks ago - and predicted this could be the beginning of a sustained
campaign of terror.

"My concern all along is that the four men who blew themselves up two weeks ago
are just the tip of the iceberg," he said.

"What the security services have to do is to get to the people who are
recruiting and funding terrorism in this country. Until we do that, there is
every possibility that we will see more incidents like this." Mr Capitanchik
said he did not go along with speculation that yesterday's incident was a
copycat attack, intended to cause disruption rather than mass casualties.

"It is much more likely that these were just badly made bombs," he said.
"Planting dummy bombs is not the sort of thing that al Qaida does. If they are
going to carry out a terrorist attack, then they carry it out in all
seriousness.

"In Israel, where they have much more experience of suicide bombings, they call
these industrial accidents. Quite frequently, bombs fail to go off or go off
prematurely.

"These are quite likely to have been made by the same person, or using the same
ingredients, or with the same mistake made in their construction." Mr
Capitanchik, of Aberdeen University, said the high level of planning that
appeared to have gone into yesterday's incidents also pointed away from a
copycat attack by a group of amateurs.

"The pattern suggests this was not just a random attack," he said. "It is too
soon after the last bombings to organise something on this level. Bombs have to
be made and prepared, people have to be recruited to carry them, someone has to
decide on targets.

"For those reasons, even if this is the same group who carried out the last
bombings, I believe they would have needed a lot longer to organise themselves
than the two weeks that have passed since then." He believes it is likely that
yesterday's culprits are associated with the people who orchestrated the
bombings a fortnight ago.

"I don't mean they are linked directly but I believe they may have been
recruited and put up to it by the same organisation," he said.

"British bombers have turned up in many places before now. One blew himself up
in 2003 in a cafe on the seafront in Tel Aviv. There have been others in
Pakistan, Afghanistan, Yemen. Someone has been recruiting and organising in this
country and, sooner or later, they were going to start targeting this country.

"On balance, I believe both of these incidents can be traced back to the same
group and that they are intending to carry on with this campaign of terrorism."
Mr Capitanchik said there were two positive outcomes from yesterday's incidents
- the lack of casualties and the amount of evidence that will have been left
behind for police and security services, both from the unexploded bombs
themselves and from CCTV images and witness statements.

"The reason they were able to get away with it is that we just have no idea who
we need to be looking out for," he said.

"They would have looked like ordinary people with rucksacks. We may have all
sorts of intelligence about radical clerics and al Qaida people, but we don't
know anything about the people they are speaking to and recruiting.

"With careful handling, these unexploded bombs may well provide important
clues." Another terrorism expert said the apparent failure to detonate some of
the devices would give police a huge forensic advantage.

Professor Paul Rogers, of Bradford University, also said the second wave of
attacks on London was an "ominous" development which could indicate there is
least one other terror cell in Britain with links to the July 7 killers.

"The level of forensic evidence will be much higher than last time.

"They will have the devices and much can be done to them in terms of
fingerprinting, DNA, the origin of the detonators and where the bags were
bought.

"If this was a series of dummies deliberately timed to cause mass panic, then it
puts the people responsible at considerable risk of being found." He added: "The
one ominous thing is that this appears to be a group of a similar nature to the
previous July 7 bombers.

"It implies there might be another cell primed and ready to attack."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                  © Copyright 2005 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             July 22, 2005, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: SINISTER SIMILARITIES IN LATEST ATTACK

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 311 words

HIGHLIGHT: Londoners make their way home down Marylebone Street after a day of
transport chaos with tube and road closures yesterday


The second wave of attacks on London bear striking similarities with the
devastating July 7 atrocities.

But there are also some crucial differences between the two bombing campaigns.

Uncanny resemblances between them include Yesterday's incidents came exactly two
weeks after the July 7 wave which killed 56 and injured more than 700 n Like
July 7, they targeted three Tube lines and one bus n The Tube lines hit - the
Victoria, Northern and Hammersmith and City - all pass through King's Cross,
where the July 7 bombers are known to have met

Both waves were coordi-nated - police said the three Tube bombs on July 7
detonated within 50 seconds while yesterday's were 'almost simultaneous'

The July 7 bomb on the number 30 bus targeted the top deck, and yesterday's
incident also appears to have been on the upper level of the vehicle
Eyewitnesses of yester-day's attacks spoke of the perpetrators carrying
rucksacks, and the July 7 bombers were caught on CCTV carrying their deadly
cargo in similar bags There was speculation that the July 7 bombers set off to
detonate their bombs at the north, south, east and west of the city, and if so,
yesterday's pattern reflects the same attack Warren Street is less than half a
mile from the scene of the number 30 bus bomb Some of the differences between
the two attacks may, fortunately, have contributed to yesterday's bombings
shedding far less blood.

The explosions were far smaller in scale and were timed in the middle of the day
rather than at morning rush hour, when the Tube network is most crowded.

One of yesterday's incidents at a Tube station, Shepherd's Bush, was at ground
level rather than deep below ground.

Crucially, at least some of the new attacks do not appear to have been carried
out by suicide bombers, with some reports of bomb-carriers running away from the
scene

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             July 22, 2005, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: LEADERS CONDEMN LATEST ATTACKS ON CAPITAL

SECTION: Post Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 320 words


The attack on London's transport system was condemned by leaders around the
world.

Irish Foreign Affairs Minister Dermot Ahern said: 'Coming so soon after the
appalling terrorist attacks of 7 July, they are utterly callous and unjustified.

'I want to offer my wholehearted support to the people of London in resisting
this further attack and to express my appreciation to the security and emergency
services there who are, once again, called on to protect the community.

'I have no doubt that the British Government will actively pursue those who
carried out these attacks and bring them to justice.

'I have instructed our Embassy in London to monitor the situation closely. For
the time being, I would urge all Irish citizens in London to contact their
families to assure them that they are safe and to follow the advice of the
security authorities.'

In a statement, the Bishops of Southwark said: 'While we are relieved that, at
present, the incidents that have taken place in London have not resulted in many
casualties they remain very disturbing.

'As Londoners continue to try to come to terms with the events of July 7,
further incidents taking place just two weeks later, are bound to make people
more concerned and uncertain.

'We urge Londoners to remain calm and resolute in the face of such difficulties
and to take any precautions necessary to ensure their own safety and the safety
of others.

'We must work together to avoid the temptation to be afraid of, or stigmatise,
neighbours of different faiths and be determined not to allow the terrorists
their victory.

'For our part, we will continue to join with the faith and civic leaders in the
Diocese to bring about a good and clear understanding of each other's needs and
of what we can offer each other.

'We encourage everyone to join us in praying for the people of London and those
caught up in these events today.'

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             July 22, 2005, Friday

LONDON: THE TERROR RETURNS: BOMBERS ON THE RUN;
 TERRORISTS FLEE AFTER FOUR NEW ATTACKS THEY CAME TO MURDER AND MAIM

BYLINE: By Mark Mcgivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2, 3

LENGTH: 1092 words


BOMBERS were on the run in London last night as a new terror alert paralysed the
city.

Three tube trains and a bus were targeted in a horrifying echo of the carnage of
July 7, in which 56 people died.

Small explosions rocked two of the trains and the bus but only one person was
injured.

Witnesses reported seeing suspects running away from trains at The Oval and
Warren Street stations as panic gripped the passengers.

And another man was seen on the line at Shepherd's Bush with a bag before
running off, sparking a police swoop.

At least two of the fugitives were chased by passers-by but they got away.

Last night, investigators were probing whether the attempted bombingswerea
follow-up to the atrocities of two weeks ago - or a copycat bid by a less
organised group.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Ian Blair said the devices yesterday went off
almost simultaneously - as all but one of the bombs on July 7 did.

He said they were keeping an open mind on whether the two series of attacks were
linked.

He said: 'Clearly the intention must have been to kill. You do not do this with
another intention.

'At each of the scenes, attempts have been made to set off explosive devices.

'These are smaller devices (than July 7). Some of them have not gone off
properly.

'I believe this could represent a significant breakthrough because there is
forensic evidence at each of these incidents.'

He would give no further details of the location of the bombs which had failed
to explode while forensic examinations were still going on.

The police chief said it was 'not clear' how many people had been involved in
yesterday's attacks.

After July 7, he said those attacks bore all the hallmarks of the al-Qaeda
terror network but he was not prepared to make a similar judgment about
yesterday's incidents He said: 'I think it is too early to say anything like
that.We can all see that the attacks have a similar pattern to the previous
one.'

Parts of the tube network were closed down for several hours as the scenes of
the incidents were checked for chemical, nuclear or biological agents.

Police last night reported that no such material had been found.

Passengers caught up in the attacks told last night how they had feared a repeat
of the horrors of July 7.

At Warren Street, Paris-born Sosiane Mohellavi, 35, was among those evacuated.

She said: 'I smelt something burning, like wiring or tyres and it just got more
intense.

'Suddenly, people panicked and started screaming and were walking on each
other's backs trying to get the hell out.'

Jimmy Connor, 32, from Sheffield, left his bag on the train at Warren Street as
passengers struggled to force their way out of the carriage.

He said: 'People were leaving their belongings. Everyone was just waiting for
the bomb to go off.'

Witnesses said they saw an Asian teenager's rucksack explode in the carriage and
heard him let out an exclamation.

He then fled, chased by a number of men,who failed to catch him.

Passengers at The Oval also saw a teenager of Asian appearance flee the scene.

One witness said the youth was standing next to a woman with a baby in the
carriage when there was 'a little explosion'.

Passengers then saw him throw his bag on the floor of the carriage as he fled.

The witness said: 'As soon as the door opened, the man ran away and people were
trying to run after him.

'There were three men struggling with him but he ran off and they couldn't catch
him.'

At Shepherd's Bush, where the Hammersmith & City tube line runs above ground,
the alarm was raised when a man was reported sitting on the tracks with a bag.

One resident whose flat overlooks the railway lines said: 'I believe that a man
was seen on the railway line, sitting on it with his hands in a bag.

'He was sitting right next to the line with his hands in the bag, fiddling. He
was spotted by someone and then got up and ran away.'

After the man ran away, armed police with sniffer dogs moved in to the area to
hunt for him.

Bomb disposal experts were still waiting to deal with a suspect device at the
station last night.

It was unclear whether the device was on the tracks or in a train stopped at the
station.

The area around the station was cleared for almost 1000 feet and residents were
evacuated from their homes.

At Hackney, passengers and the driver on the No26 bus heard a small explosion on
the top deck. Moments after the blast, the driver, who has not been named, said:
'I heard a small bang and I went upstairs and saw a bag and I told everyone to
get out.

'It didn't look like it had exploded properly so I evacuated everyone.'

Minutes after the alert at Warren Street, armed police rushed to nearby
University College Hospital amid reports that the fleeing bomber had headed
there.

Officers, many armed with sub-machineguns, searched the corridors of the
hospital, which treated many of the wounded on July 7.

Building contractor Robert Pollock, 56, said: 'We were just walking back into
the building from lunch and the next thing we knew police were everywhere with
guns, swarming into the building.

'We were told to get out. We kept getting moved back.

'They said someone had run from the tube into the hospital and they were not
letting anyone back in.'

Electrician Pete Evans, 52, said: 'We heard rumours that a guy ran into the
hospital with a back pack and wires sticking out.

'We heard they are trying to scan CCTV to see if he went in to the hospital and
where he went - it's like a maze in there.'

Last night, the Met confirmed the hospital alert was unconnected to the bombs.

Security experts were last night weighing up the evidence to determine who might
be behind the attacks One theory is that the incidents were botched bombings by
a gang less sophisticated than the cell behind the July 7 attacks.

Prime Minister Tony Blair cancelled a planned visit to a school to promote the
2012 London Olympics after being told of the new alert at a meeting with
Australian PM John Howard in Downing Street.

The two continued their discussions over lunch before Blair broke off at 2.30pm
to chair a meeting of the emergency Cobra committee.

He then returned to his normal schedule and called on Londoners to do the same.

Blair said: 'I think that everyone is canny enough to know what these people are
trying to do ... to intimidate people and to scare them and to frighten them to
stop them going about their normal business

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRABBED: Police; search a man near Warren Street tube station
yesterday. He was later released; TAKING NO CHANCES: Armed cops at Downing; St
during yesterday's alert

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             July 22, 2005, Friday

RECORD BUSINESS INSIDER: SHARES BOUNCE BACK AFTER NEW WAVE OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 393 words


THE Stock Market held its nerve despite the series of explosions in London.

In the hour after the incidents were reported, the FTSE 100 index of leading
shares surrendered a 40-point gain to stand 35 points lower.

But the market soon recovered its poise to stand 6.4 points higher at 5221.6 at
the close of trading.

Experts said the market appeared resilient, with the losses far smaller than the
200-point drop seen in the aftermath of the July 7 bombings.

Simon Buckingham, an analyst at stockbroker Gerrard, said the Footsie had been
'amazingly robust'.

He added: 'There is always going to be uncertainty in the first few minutes but
the market has proved resilient.'

Richard Hunter, head of UK equities at Hargreaves Lansdown, said: 'I have to say
there is a stoical reaction at the moment to what's gone on.

'Coming so soon after what happened two weeks ago, until something fairly major
happens it is a question of the market taking it in its stride.'

British Airways and cruise operator Carnival were among the fallers amid fears
over the possible impact on the tourism industry.

Hotel groups Hilton and InterContinental Hotels were also in negative territory.

Retail shares proved robust despite the prospect of the latest incidents causing
shoppers to shun the high street.

They were boosted by figures released yesterday showing growth in high street
sales last month rising to the highest level for more than a year.A pick-up in
fashion sales by clothing stores and strong sales by sports retailers pushed up
the volume of retail sales in June, according to the Office for National
Statistics.

It rose 1.3 per cent from a revised growth level of zero in May.

That represented the highest growth in monthly sales volumes since the 1.4 per
cent recorded in December 2003, the ONS said.

The volume of retail sales in the three months to June was 0.7 per cent higher
than in the previous three months, the highest such growth since November 2004.

But growth in retail sales volumes between April and June compared with a year
ago remained at its lowest level for six years, rising by 1.6 per cent.

And the value of retail sales in the three months to June was 0.4 per cent
higher than in the same period a year earlier, the lowest growth since
comparable records began after World War II.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORRIES: But despite the fears, the market ended on the up

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 22, 2005, Friday

TERRORISTS FOILED IN NEW LONDON ATTACK AS BOMBS FAIL TO EXPLODE

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 28 words


The public are evacuated from Shepherds Bush Tube Station, as London, was again
targeted by bombers yesterday. Four bombs were detonated but failed to explode

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 22, 2005, Friday

THEY MEANT TO KILL... BUT THEY FAILED;
 SECOND WAVE OF BOMB ATTACKS BRINGS TERROR BACK TO LONDON TWO WEEKS ON

BYLINE: BY ROLAND HUGHES, HYWEL TREWYN, NEVILLE DEAN AND HELEN WILLIAM

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 1069 words


POLICE were last night hunting would-be bombers who launched a 'failed' horror
attack on London.

Four devices went off at midday, but just one person was thought to be injured.

The city's underground and bus services were halted after reports of explosions
and smoke.

Terrified passengers fled, fearing a repeat of blasts earlier this month, which
left more than 50 dead and hundreds injured.

Last night Metropolitan Police commissioner Sir Ian Blair said the intention of
those who tried to set off the explosive devices 'must have been to kill'. But
they failed, he said.

Sir Ian said some devices remained unexploded but refused to confirm suggestions
one was a nail bomb, or if the attacks were linked to the July 7 killings.

The explosions came as it emerged Home Office workers went white water rafting
in North Wales alongside two of those thought responsible for the earlier
blasts.

Yesterday, 26 Liverpool-based immigration staff were studying home video footage
to see if they captured Mohammed Sidique Khan and Shehzad Tanweer on film at the
National Whitewater Rafting Centre at Frongoch, near Bala on June 4.

Last night Sir Ian insisted an arrest at Downing Street and an incident at a
hospital yesterday were 'entirely unconnected events' to the terrorist attacks.

However three rooms at University College Hospital were still cordoned off last
night.

He confirmed there were four scenes - at Oval, Warren Street and Shepherd's Bush
Underground stations and on a bus in east London - where 'attempts have been
made to set off explosive devices'.

He said: 'Clearly the intention must have been to kill. You do not do this with
any other intention. 'I think the important thing is that the intentions of the
terrorists have not been successful.'

Sir Ian said it was unclear if the attacks were connected to the July 7 bombings
which claimed the lives of 56 people.

'I think that will take a little time,' he said.

But he added: '

There is a resonance here - there were four attacks and there were four attacks
before.'

Sir Ian added it was too early to say if yesterday's attacks were the work of
the same terror network responsible for the blasts two weeks ago.

However, he said the events could provide a significant breakthrough.

London mayor Ken Livingstone said: 'It is not surprising that we have had
another attempt to take life rapidly after the first attacks.' He made a plea to
anyone who saw anything over the last few days that could help the authorities
to identify the attackers to come forward.

Andy Trotter, deputy chief constable of British Transport Police, said
anti-terrorist officers were at all four scenes working to recover as much
forensic evidence as possible.

He said witness centres were set up at each site and that 100 detectives would
work through the night gathering evidence from people at the scenes of the
attacks.

Mr Trotter said no trace of chemical or biological agents was found.

However, he confirmed explosive experts were 'at all four scenes looking at
material there'.

Sir Ian said it was 'not clear how many people had taken part' in yesterday's
attacks. After July 7, he said those attacks bore all the hallmarks of the al
Qaida terror network, but he was not prepared to make a similar judgment about
yesterday's attacks.

Some spoke of seeing rucksacks which had detonated but it quickly became clear
the explosions were not on the scale of July 7 - exactly two weeks ago - when 56
people died in major blasts, also on three Tube trains and a bus.

Tony Blair, who was informed of the incidents as he met Australian prime
minister John Howard in Downing Street, urged people to remain calm.

Mr Blair, who went ahead with lunch with Mr Howard, said: 'We can't minimise
incidents such as these. All I would like to say is this - we know why these
things are done, to frighten people and make them anxious and worried.

'Fortunately in this instance there appears to have been no casualties. We have
just got to react calmly.'

Independent experts suggested the blasts were caused by detonators, not bombs.

Eyewitnesses also reported seeing suspects fleeing at least two of the scenes -
at Warren Street and Shepherd's Bush.

But police sources said last night there were no arrests in connection with the
attacks.

Police officers were deployed in full protective equipment in order to carry out
examinations of the scenes.

Sosiane Mohellavi, 35, was travelling from Oxford Circus to Walthamstow when he
was evacuated from a train at Warren Street.

'I was sitting in the carriage reading a book and I smelt something burning,
like wiring or tyres, and it just got more intense.

'Suddenly people panicked and started screaming and were walking on each other's
backs trying to get the hell out of there.

'I couldn't move, I didn't know what to do, whether to run or not.

'People ran and left their shoes and belongings when they smelt the burning,' Mr
Mohellavi said.

Victoria Line passenger Ivan McCracken said: 'I was in a middle carriage and the
train was not far short of Warren Street station when suddenly the door between
my carriage and the next one burst open and dozens of people started rushing
through. Some were falling, there was mass panic.

'It was difficult to get the story from any of them what had happened but when I
got to ground level there was an Italian young man comforting an Italian girl
who told me he had seen what had happened.

'He said that a man was carrying a rucksack and the rucksack suddenly exploded.
It was a minor explosion but enough to blow open the rucksack.

'The man then made an exclamation as if something had gone wrong. At that point
everyone rushed from the carriage."

Mr McCracken said he smelled smoke but did not see any injured passengers.

At Oval station there were also reports of a man dumping a rucksack in a
carriage then fleeing as the doors closed.

Stagecoach, which owns the number 26 bus involved, said the driver reported
hearing a bang.

The bus left Waterloo and was in Shoreditch when the incident happened.

'The driver heard a bang which appeared to come from the upper deck. When he
went upstairs to investigate, the windows on the upper deck were blown out.

'The bus is structurally intact and we don't have any reports of injuries,' said
a spokesman

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A bus stands empty in Hackney, east London, after windows were blown
out of the upper deck by an explosion; A police officer and sniffer dog search
the area around Shepherds Bush station yesterday after bombers launched a second
co-ordinated attack on London

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 22, 2005, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS SPUR DEBATE ON PHONE-TAPPING

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 93 words


THE debate on allowing information from telephone tapping to be used in court
must be reopened in the wake of the terror attacks on London, chief police
officers told ministers yes-terday. The Association of Chief Police Officers
(Acpo) also made radical proposals to allow terror suspects to be held for
questioning for up to 3 months.

Police are currently all-owed a maximum of just 14 days for questioning. The top
police officers also said the Government should 'review its position' on
refusing to consider a single border agency for Britain

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 22, 2005, Friday

LIVERPOOL WOMAN CAUGHT UP IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 387 words


A LIVERPOOL woman, injured when she was caught up in the failed London terrorist
attack, last night told of her experience.

Great-grandmother Betty Kay, 76, of Manor Way, Woolton, found Euston's
underground station closed and walked to Warren Street, where she was confronted
by people running out of the station.

As people were evacuated from the station and nearby buses, Mrs Kay fell to the
ground and smashed her head open.

She was rushed by paramedics to University College Hospital where she received
four stitches to her head.

Mrs Kay said: 'I was caught up in the general milieu of people when I fell and
ended up in hospital.

'I had no sense of fear because I just wasn't aware what was going on - everyone
seemed to be running in the wrong direction. I was just trying to get to where I
needed to be.'

She added: 'I feel fine at the moment but I suspect it hasn't hit me yet.'

While Mrs Kay was receiving treatment, the hospital was sealed off as police
suspected one of the bombers was inside.

She said: 'Nobody was allowed to arrive or leave but the nursing staff were all
very calm.

Mrs Kay, a great-grandmother-of-two, who works in Marie Curie charity shop in
Woolton Village, had left Liverpool yesterday to travel down to visit her son
and daughter, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren who live in Chatham, Kent.

Her daughter Irene Mitton, a primary schoolteacher, and her son Richard Kay both
live in Kent.

After arriving at Euston, she made her way to the underground station to make
her connection at Victoria Station.

Mrs Kay, who moved to Liverpool from Northern Ireland in 1946, said: 'When it
happened, all the mobile phones were down and I couldn't get through to my son.
The first he knew of me being in the hospital was when I managed to get through
to him much later.'

Last night, Mrs Kay praised the emergency services.

She said: 'Apart from the initial rush, everybody was more or less calm. The
ambulance paramedics were kindness itself and the police were trying to organise
the crowds as best they could, as they didn't want a repetition of the attacks
two weeks ago.'

The fatal blasts which hit the capital happened two weeks to the day since the
July 7 bombings which killed 56, including the bombers, during the London rush
hour

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The scene at Warren Street where Mrs Kay, above, fell

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 22, 2005

Guardian Weekly: Ministers warned of Iraq link to terrorist attacks in Britain:
Blair says London bombers driven by 'evil ideology', not his foreign policy

BYLINE: Guardian Reporters

SECTION: Guardian Weekly, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 638 words


Fresh evidence emerged this week that the British government was privately
warned by the intelligence agencies that the conflict in Iraq could provoke
terrorist acts in Britain and compound anger among young British Muslims.

A month before the July 7 London bombings, security and intelligence officials
warned that "events in Iraq are continuing to act as motivation and a focus of a
range of terrorist-related activity in the UK".

The warning was issued by the Joint Terrorist Analysis Centre (Jtac), British
officials confirmed on Tuesday. Sections of the report were published by the New
York Times.

A link between the government's foreign policy and disillusion among young
Muslims - strenuously denied by ministers - was also made in a paper prepared
for Tony Blair on the orders of the home and foreign secretaries last year.

The paper, Young Muslims and Extremism, which included input from the security
services, said British foreign policy "seems a particularly strong cause of
disillusionment amongst Muslims, including young Muslims".

Although the government strenuously denies the link, Britain's involvement in
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan is blamed for contributing to the terrorist
attacks in London by the Chatham House organisation, a respected independent
thinktank on foreign affairs.

According to its report, the key problem in the UK for preventing terrorism is
that the country is "riding as a pillion passenger with the United States in the
war against terror". It says Britain's ability to carry out counter-terrorism
measures has also been hampered because the US is always in the driving seat in
deciding policy.

The report says that the security services, diverted by fighting the IRA over
Northern Ireland and the rise of animal activists, failed to give priority in
the early 1990s to monitoring Islamist terror activists setting up in Britain,
so "the British authorities did not fully appreciate the threat from al-Qaida".

In the most politically sensitive finding, Chatham House, which used to be known
as the Royal Institute of International Affairs, concludes that there is "no
doubt" the invasion of Iraq has "given a boost to the al-Qaida network" in
"propaganda, recruitment and fundraising", while providing an ideal targeting
and training area for terrorists. "Riding pillion with a powerful ally has
proved costly in terms of British and US military lives, Iraqi lives, military
expenditure and the damage caused to the counter-terrorism campaign."

This finding runs counter to the line from Downing Street, which has sought to
detach Iraq from the London attacks.

Last weekend Mr Blair said the fanatics who struck in London and launched other
attacks around the world were driven by an "evil ideology" rather than
opposition to any policy, and that it would be a "misunderstanding of a
catastrophic order" to think that if we changed our behaviour they would change
theirs.

On Tuesday British Muslim leaders met the prime minister in Downing Street. They
agreed to develop a network to counter extremism within their own communities.

Meanwhile, as it became clear that two of the four London bombers - Mohammad
Sidique Khan, 30, the suspected leader of the cell, and Shehzad Tanweer, 22 -
had spent three months in Pakistan last year, relations between Britain and
Pakistan were put to the test.

On Tuesday Pakistan launched a series of sweeping arrests against Islamist
militants across the country. Security officers detained at least 25 people in
raids in several cities including Faisalabad, Multan and Dera Ghazi Khan. "The
suspects are being questioned for links with any of the bombers," an official in
Punjab's provincial government said.

Leader comment, page 3

Analysis, pages 5 and 6

Attack on London, page 11


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            July 23, 2005, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: TERROR ATTACKS SET TO WIPE £300M FROM BRITAIN'S TOURIST TRADE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 454 words


The July 7 London bombings are set to wipe £300 million off Britain's turnover
from foreign tourism this year and Thursday's attempted attacks will make it
even worse, the industry has warned.

The Tourism Industry Emergency Response Group released research indicating that
spending by overseas visitors may be two per cent below expectations for 2005.

As half of foreign travellers come to London that would represent a fall of £150
million for the capital.

The group met to discuss the impact of terrorism on the industry, and said
yesterday's attempted bombings would also have 'serious implications' for
tourism in London and the rest of the UK.

Elliott Frisby, spokesman for the Tourism Industry Emergency Response group,
said: 'What we saw immediately after the attacks was a small level of
cancellations and postponement of trips to the UK.

'Most of the inquiries were about the logistics of travelling and people wanting
to know if the airports were still open, if the flights were running, how the
tube network was operating and were hotels still open.'

Mr Frisby said the industry was also receiving more queries than usual about
cancellation policies. However, he said the attempted attacks yesterday and the
shooting of a man in Stockwell today would have a further impact.

He said: 'Yesterday's events are going to have a serious impact on tourism.

'We are going to carry on our research for five weeks and I think it's going to
become a lot more serious for the industry.'

He said London accounted for 50 per cent of foreign tourism but other areas in
Britain were also being affected because the main points of entry to the country
were in or around London.

Tier represents several tourism groups including the Association of British
Travel Agents, the Airport Operators Association, the British Hospitality
Association, British Airways and the Association of Leading Visitor Attractions.

It was set up in 2001 during the foot and mouth crisis and last met in 2003
following the war in Iraq.

Tourism in the UK was worth £13 billion last year and industry experts had
predicted a rise of four per cent to seven per cent for 2005. However, the
two-week survey following the July 7 terror attacks is already predicting a drop
of two per cent.

Mr Frisby said: 'There would still have been an increase on 2004, but we have
yet to take this week's events into account.'

Tier has broken down the response of the international community into three
groups. Visitors from Australia, Canada and the United States are the most
likely to continue visiting Britain.

Mr Frisby said: 'The US has shown a strong sense of solidarity having
experienced attacks themselves

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                                 July 23, 2005

Villager's fear of terror attack

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 571 words


A shocked villager has told how she feared a terrorist attack when she was among
people evacuated from their homes by police during the early hours of yesterday
morning. Officers started knocking on doors of homes in Lympstone, near Exmouth,
just before 6am after a workman cut through a gas pipe.

People living in three houses near the Royal Marines Commando Training Centre on
the Exmouth road were told to leave as quickly as possible.

The centre was alerted and Marines prepared to evacuate, but were spared winds
blew the gas in another direction.

As the Echo reported during later editions yesterday, a two-mile section of the
A376 between Exmouth and Exeter - one of the main commuter roads into the city -
was closed until just before 10am, causing massive queues and delays for people
heading for work.

The evacuated residents were allowed back home just before 9am.

Zena Woodley, who lives opposite the Nutwell Cottages by the A376, said at first
she thought they were the victims of a terrorist attack.

"At about 5.45am a policeman knocked on the door," she said.

"I opened the door and wondered what was going on. Then I heard a hissing sound
coming from the grass verge by the roadside.

"The officer told me that I had to evacuate my house immediately because there
had been a big gas leak. I went upstairs, grabbed my 10 year-old son, Oliver,
who was sleeping and drove off as quickly as possible." Ms Woodley, who lives
near the Marines centre, added: "I first feared it was a terrorist attack or
something until I heard the sound of the gas leaking." John Thatcher, 57, of
Nutwell Cottages said: "My wife Rosemary and I were woken up at 5.50am by a
policeman knocking on the door. He told us that we should evacuate our house
quickly, so we drove to see some friends in Exmouth. The police called us at
about 8.30am to tell us that it was safe to go back home." Frank Authers, 85,
who lives with wife Bette, 86, next door to Ms Woodley, said: "A police sergeant
came to the door early in the morning and said that there had been a massive gas
leak.

"He suggested that my wife and I get in our car and take a drive to Exmouth for
a couple of hours while they dealt with the leak." Mr Authers, who served in the
war as an RAF flight sergeant, added: "We kept calm - I've been through worse."
The gas leak happened when a contractor working for Devon County Council severed
a pipe as he was cutting a grass verge at 5.20am. Police were called and closed
the road between Clyst St George roundabout and Pink House corner, near to the
Marines camp, and traffic was diverted via Woodbury.

A spokeswoman for gas distrib utor Wales and West Utilities said: "A regulator
pressure valve was accidently severed by a man cut ting the grass verges and the
top was cut off the device and a small amount of gas was released. Three
households were affected close to the Marines camp and the road was closed as a
safety measure." A spokesman for the Marines base said the leak had not brought
any danger to the camp.

"Early this morning we were re quested to prepare to evacuate the site because
of the wind direction but we didn't have to. The Ministry of Defence Police
assisted Devon police diverting traffic." A police spokesman said: "We were
alerted to the leak at 5.20am and we immediately called the gas board and
evacuated three people from their homes on the board's advice."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    © Copyright 2005 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 July 23, 2005

Britain - Senior British Muslims warn on foreign policy link to terror attacks;

LENGTH: 218 words


Senior Muslims warned the government that it needs to revise British foreign
policy if it wants to put an end to terrorist violence.

Dr Azzam Tamimi from the Muslim Association of Britain said that the country is
in real danger, insisting that this will continue so long as British forces
remained in Iraq.

He described the July 7 bombings and the attempted attacks in the capital on
Thursday as "horrifying," but he stressed that it is not enough simply to unite
in condemnation.

"The latest developments show that this is a very big thing. It's not just a few
individuals from Leeds," he said.

"It's time that everybody got serious and engaged in an attempt to prevent it.
Part of that would be to understand what's going on.

He noted: "7/7, 21/7, and God knows what will happen afterwards. Our lives are
in real danger and, it would seem, so long as we are in Iraq and so long as we
are contributing to injustices around the world, we will continue to be in real
danger.

"Tony Blair has to come out of his state of denial and listen to what the
experts are saying - our involvement in Iraq is stupid."

Islamic Human Rights Commission chairman Massoud Shadjareh also urged the
government to take responsibility for a "political environment" for terrorist
attacks.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005

               Copyright 2005 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 July 23, 2005

Terror attacks put brakes on retail growth

SECTION: News; Business; Others; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 337 words


The second wave of bomb attacks reduced the number of shoppers in central London
by more than a quarter compared with this time a year ago, it emerged yesterday.
And some tourism chiefs believe the capital could lose £300million in revenue
from overseas visitors put off by fear of more attacks.

Tourist group VisitBritain added that the figure did not take account of the
incidents this week, which could have "serious implications".

VisitBritain had hoped spending by foreign visitors would increase by between
four and seven per cent this year.

But other organisations said they had seen no effect so far.

The Association of British Travel Agents said the the July 7 incidents had
brought "no noticeable reduction in visitors to London or in forward bookings".

British Airways also said it had seen "no significant dip" in bookings.

But the bombings have had a clear effect on the capital's shops. High street
sales within the congestion charge zone had recovered to stand just 10.1 per
cent down after the first explosions on July 7, according to retail data agency
SPSL.

But after the new blasts 26.9 per cent fewer shoppers entered central London on
Thursday compared with a year ago.

Dr Tim Denison, a director of SPSL, said: "The most fundamental question we must
now ask is whether shoppers will no longer consider the July 7 attacks as a
one-off event but as part of an ongoing threat. If they do, then it is likely
that the consumer recovery will be very much slower as a result." Shopper
numbers slumped 74.1 per cent on the day of the first explosions a fortnight ago
so this week's decline was not as bad, SPSL data showed.

But Mr Denison said visitors might beworried by the fact that the latest attacks
were not at rush hour and not at prime shopping locations.

"They may have persuaded themselves that if they travel at such a time or in
such an area they'll be safe. This might not now be possible, which is not good
news for London or its retailers, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             July 24, 2005, Sunday

THE ATTACKS ON SHARM EL SHEIKH: CAR BOMBERS BRING CARNAGE; AND PANIC TO SEASIDE
RESORT;
 EGYPT'S DEADLIEST TERROR ATTACK 88 ARE KILLED AND UP TO 200 HURT AS

BYLINE: BY DONALD MACINTYRE IN SHARM EL SHEIKH AND DAVID RANDALL AND ANDY
MCSMITH IN LONDON

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 930 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Clockwise from above: an Egyptian victim in hospital; an ambulance crew treats a
casualty; tourists view the destruction of Sharm el Sheikh; a wounded British
tourist; wreckage in the resort's old market JEROME DELAY/AP; EITAN
ABRAMOVICH/AFP; KHALED EL-FIQI/EPA


Eighty-eight people, believed to include at least two Britons, were killed and
up to 200 injured when car bombs ripped through tourist areas in Egypt's Red Sea
resort of Sharm el Sheikh yesterday.

Shaken European holiday-makers spoke of mass panic and hysteria as three blasts
in different parts of the resort caused carnage in the immediate vicinity and
frightened confusion elsewhere.

The attack, Egypt's deadliest terror hit, appeared well co-ordinated. Two car
bombs, possibly triggered by suicide attackers, went off simultaneously at
1.15am, about two miles apart. A third bomb detonated at around the same time
near a beachside walkway where tourists often stroll at night.

One blast tore the front off the Ghazala Gardens hotel in Na'ama Bay, the site
of most of the resort's luxury hotels. People were feared trapped in the rubble
of the lobby. Witnesses said a car broke into the hotel compound and exploded in
front of the building. 'There was a huge ball of smoke that mushroomed up. It
was mass hysteria,' Charlie Ives, a London policeman on holiday, told BBC World
television.

Among the 23 people critically injured were two British tourists " a 14-year-old
girl and a 30-year-old man. They were taken by helicopter to the Maadi military
hospital in Cairo. The girl's 20-year-old sister was among three people being
treated in Sharm el Sheikh International Hospital. The man had been on holiday
with his girlfriend.

Most of the victims were Egyptians, but seven non-Egyptians died, including a
Czech and an Italian. The injured foreigners included nine Italians, five
Saudis, three Britons, a Russian, a Ukrainian and an Israeli Arab.

The death toll could rise, rescue workers said. The lobby of the 176- room
Ghazala Gardens hotel collapsed into a pile of concrete. After hours of clearing
through rubble and metal, emergency workers called off rescue efforts. They did
not expect the death toll to rise significantly.

On the other side of Sharm, in the Old Market, a second car bomb sent a ball of
flaming wreckage shooting over a nearby beach and into the sea, littering the
sand with body parts. Overturned chairs, broken waterpipes and pools of blood
lay around a ravaged coffee shop nearby.

Officials said a car had exploded there but an eyewitness said a man had walked
into a crowd with a large travel bag and announced in Egyptian Arabic: 'I have a
bomb.' Some people moved away but others thought he was joking, said the
witness, who asked not to be named. Two minutes later an explosion took place.

'I saw a car flying up in the air, people running,' Yehya Mohammed, a restaurant
owner, said. 'I do not think I will ever forget this in my life.'

An emergency services official said many wounded were Egyptian workers gathered
at a cafe in the Old Market. Seventeen of the dead were burnt beyond
recognition.

A group claiming links to the al-Qa'ida organisation said it carried out the
bombings in retaliation for 'crimes committed against Muslims', according to a
posting on the internet. The statement, which was not carried on major al-Qa'ida
websites, was signed by the Abdullah al-Azzam Brigades of the al-Qa'ida
Organisation in the Levant and Egypt. It was not possible to authenticate the
claim.

The town has long been dedicated to scuba diving at the famed coral reefs. Sharm
el Sheik has expanded at a furious pace in recent years, drawing Europeans,
Israelis and Arabs from the oil-producing Gulf nations. The Prime Minister, Tony
Blair, has holidayed there, and the town has been the host to multiple summits
for the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.

Last night, some British airlines started sending extra planes to Sharm to bring
home some of the 9,000 Britons in the resort who want to cut short their stays.

The Egyptian President, Hosni Mubarak, cut short a holiday on the Mediterranean
coast and flew to Sharm el Sheikh. Heavily-armed security forces guarded him as
he walked past the bomb-ravaged complex and spoke to officials. 'This cowardly,
criminal act is aimed at undermining Egypt's security and stability and harming
its people and its guests,' Mr Mubarak said during a televised broadcast. 'This
will only increase our determination in chasing terrorism, cornering it and
uprooting it.'

The bombings will add to pressure on Mr Blair from across the Muslim world to
close off Britain as a sanctuary for political refugees who are regarded in
their home countries as extremists. President Mubarak has complained personally
to Mr Blair in the past about Egyptian dissidents who have been allowed to live
in the UK even though they are alleged to be active Muslim fundamentalists.

The same complaints were heard last week from Pakistan's President, Pervez
Musharraf, when he addressed his nation in a rallying call for a war on
terrorism. Three of the four men responsible for the 7 July London bombs were of
Pakistani origin, and two had recently visited the country. But Mr Musharraf
suggested that Britain's problem with terrorism was at least partly home grown.
He said: 'There are extremist organisations in the United Kingdom who operate
with full impunity in that area. They had the audacity of passing an edict
against my life and yet they operate with impunity.'

The Saudi government has also criticised Britain for allowing some of its
nationals to operate in the UK. But the Foreign Office insists that, under
international law, citizens of countries such as Egypt and Saudi Arabia cannot
be deported to their home countries if they are likely to be tortured.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             July 24, 2005, Sunday

THE ATTACKS ON LONDON: THE 7/7 TERROR CELL: REVEALED: LONDON BOMBER'S LINKS TO
BRITON IN SUICIDE ATTACK ON TEL AVIV;
 LEEDS MAN WHO BLEW UP TRAIN AT EDGWARE ROAD WAS ASSOCIATE OF

BYLINE: BY SEVERIN CARRELL AND PAUL LASHMAR

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 926 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Omar Sharif and Asif Hanif, left, and the bar in Tel Aviv they attacked in 2003
AP;GETTY IMAGES; Mohammed Sidique Khan: appears to have been a link to Omar
Sharif JOAN RUSSELL/GUZELIAN


One of the London suicide bombers in the attack on 7 July had links to a British
man who planned a suicide attack on Tel Aviv two years ago, raising fears that
the network of Islamist hardliners is wider than first thought.

The Independent on Sunday has learnt that Mohammed Sidique Khan, 30, who carried
out the Edgware Road bombing, was friendly with Omar Sharif, one of two Britons
who plotted a joint suicide attack in Israel in April 2003.

The disclosure comes as police continued their investigation yesterday into
possible links between the four suicide bomb attacks on 7 July and the devices
used in the botched attacks last Thursday. One theory is that the explosives
used last week were either part of the same batch as those used on 7 July or
made to the same formula " using commonly available chemicals to create the
home-made explosive acetone peroxide.

Security experts believe Thursday's devices may have failed to explode because
the explosives had degraded. Acetone peroxide is known to deteriorate quickly.
Police now have samples from last Thursday's attacks to compare to unused
explosives found in Leeds 12 days ago.

Police attempts to uncover the 7 July bombers' network of terrorist contacts are
focusing on Khan's relationship with Sharif. Despite pre-recording a 'suicide
bombers' video in advance, Sharif failed to detonate his device; but his
co-conspirator Asif Hanif carried out his attack, claiming three lives at Mike's
Place in Tel Aviv. Sharif ran off, but his body was later washed up on a nearby
coast.

It is now thought that Sharif's family lived in Leeds before they moved to Derby
and that he went to the same mosque in Beeston as Khan, who was brought up in
the area before moving to Dewsbury.

A possible link emerged last week after it was disclosed that Khan had visited
Israel for a day in February 2003, raising suspicions that he had been on a
reconnaissance trip for Sharif and Hanif, both of Pakistani descent.

As this paper disclosed last week, Khan is also believed to be linked to
al-Qa'ida. He was identified by a Pakistani-American computer expert, Mohammed
Junaid Babar, 29, who was arrested after attending al-Qa'ida summit meetings in
Pakistan. These links strengthen suspicions that Khan was the dominant influence
on the other two bombers from Leeds, Hasib Hussain, 18, who carried out the No
30 bus bombing, and Shahzad Tanweer, 22, who carried out the Aldgate Tube
attack.

As the investigation into the London bombings continued abroad, police inquiries
in Leeds were winding down. On Friday, the Metropolitan Police released without
charge a 29-year-old man arrested on 12 July in Beeston under terrorism
legislation. It is believed the man is Navid Fiaz, who held keys for the Hamara
youth centre and Iqra Islamic bookshop, where the bombers are said to have
congregated.

Locals believe Mr Fiaz may have been able to help anti-terrorism officers piece
together key elements of the plot, and links between the bombers, because he is
one of the area's most trusted youth and community activists.

While police carried out a controlled fire on Thursday to destroy explosive
traces at the plotters' 'bomb factory' several miles away in Alexandra Grove,
the scaffolding and white plastic sheeting covering the bombers' houses and a
local Islamic bookshop in Beeston was being taken down. Police guards on the
properties have also gone.

The Iqra bookshop, the only Islamic bookshop in Leeds, was alleged to be a focus
of radical activity in the area and to have had links to Saudi Arabian Islamist
groups. Police raided it nine days ago. Muslim activists have denied any
hardline ties and one of the bookshop's workers, who refused to give his name,
insisted that the most radical material it had was from the Stop the War
Coalition protesting about the Iraq war. 'There was nothing there inciting
terrorism, any more than people would be incited to terrorism by watching the
bombings on TV,' he said. Only the lower-storey windows on Tanweer's family home
remained boarded up; his family is still living under police protection
elsewhere. Fears that the bombers' homes would be targeted in retaliation
escalated after an attempted arson attack on Thursday on the home of Jermaine
Lindsay, who carried out the King's Cross attack.

Petrol and diesel was allegedly found near the house on North Road, Aylesbury,
Buckinghamshire, on Friday morning. Yesterday, a teenager was charged with
arson. Beeston locals said yesterday that life was returning to normal. 'It's
all calmed down,' said one. 'I'm surprised how quickly that's happened.'

Councillor Khizar Iqbal said Dewsbury was also far less unsettled than people
had feared. Both Leeds and Dewsbury have a history of far-right and neo-Nazi
activity. But one Beeston resident, Asif, said there were still fears that
far-right groups could attack now that most of the police had left.

Meanwhile, several hundred anti-war activists and Muslim activists staged three
'Walk for Peace' marches into Leeds city centre yesterday afternoon. Protesters
denounced the terrorists who planned the 7 July attacks, and insisted they had
no claim to be acting for other Muslims.

t A leader of the Stop the War Coalition, Lindsey German, may the satellite
channel Sky News because she believes it implied that she might have been the
fourth London suicide bomber. Sky appears to have mistaken the name of the
Jamaican-born bomber, Jermaine Lindsay, with hers when there was initial
confusion over his identity.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             July 24, 2005, Sunday

ISLAM, BLOOD AND GRIEVANCE;
 THE TERRORIST ATTACKS HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH RELIGIOUS FAITH AND

BYLINE: IMRAN KHAN

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1148 words

HIGHLIGHT:
The 7/7 bombers enter Luton station on their journey to the capital. Research
suggests that 30,000 Britons support what they did


As a Pakistani, it has been a bad week to be in London. Not only could one's
relations or friends have been blown up, but those who committed those hideous
crimes justified them in the name of Islam. Even worse for me was the news that
three of the four terrorists had been to Pakistan. But neither Islam nor
Pakistan has anything to do with these atrocities. Nowhere does the Koran
justify attacks on innocent people. Pakistan is being blamed for fostering
terrorists, yet Pakistan has been a victim for the past 15 years.

Some history is in order. After the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, the
US used Islam to counter the occupation. It sponsored an international jihad in
the Muslim world and encouraged volunteers from Muslim countries to join in it.
Thousands, including Osama bin Laden, flocked to Pakistan, where US-funded
training camps were set up under CIA supervision. These plucky mujahedin were
glorified in the West. But once the Soviets were defeated, both Afghanistan and
the mujahedin were abandoned by the US. Afghanistan descended into chaos, from
which the Taliban emerged.

Pakistan paid a heavy price, being left with sectarian militant groups trained
in terrorism and four million Afghan refugees. We were swamped with drugs and
Kalashnikovs. Meanwhile, those Muslims glorified as heroes for dislodging the
Soviets now turned their attention to other countries where Muslims were being
oppressed. As this brought them up against the US, they went from being heroic
jihadis to 'Islamic terrorists'. The culmination of this was 9/11.

But rather than trying to understand why 9/11 had happened, Bush and his
colleagues took refuge in such inane expressions as 'they hate our freedom, our
way of life, our democracy' and, even more ridiculously, 'they love killing'.
The main stakeholders used 9/11 to pursue their own agendas for which it was
convenient to conflate Islam and terrorism. Hence wherever Muslims were involved
in a freedom struggle, they would become 'Islamic terrorists'. This is no mere
semantic point. Ariel Sharon used the excuse of terrorism to use his formidable
military might against the civilian Palestinian population. Similarly Russia
would use the magic word al-Qa'ida to squash all accusations of genocide and
human rights abuse in Chechnya. But the chief grievances were political, not
religious.

Then India claimed that 'Islamic terrorists' were operating in Kashmir when that
freedom struggle dated back almost 150 years. George Bush would use the term to
attack Afghanistan weeks after 9/11, making war a first option rather than a
last resort. And later he would use the same pretext to invade Iraq.

Yet the perception in the West remained that somehow Islam was connected to
militarism and terrorism, that all Muslims believe that all suicide bombers go
straight to heaven. No one mentioned that before 9/11 70 per cent of suicide
bombings in the world were committed by the Tamil Tigers in Sri Lanka, who were
Hindus. No one blames Hinduism, nor do they blame Shintoism for the Japanese
Kamikaze pilots. Where religion is particularly strong, political martyrdom gets
cloaked in religious terminology.

Thus Islam was put on the defensive. Heads of all Muslim countries went hoarse
giving statements that suicide bombings were not allowed in Islam. General
Musharraf went further, making Pakistan a frontline state against Islamic
extremism and terrorism. He invented the term 'enlightened moderation' in the
hope of encouraging Muslims to avoid militancy. Now there is deafening clamour
for him to close madrassas (religious schools) given that it has emerged that
three of the four 7/7 bombers had visited one. But there are almost a million
madrassa students in Pakistan. Are they all terrorists? Of course not. And why
did the madrassas not produce any militants before the Afghan jihad when they
have existed in the subcontinent for centuries?

The state school structure in Pakistan is in a mess. Madrassas are the only
means through which poor families can educate their children. In my constituency
in Mianwali, 70 per cent of the state schools are closed, mainly because there
are no teachers. What are the people supposed to do there if they do not send
their children to the charity-run religious schools? Certainly some madrassas do
preach hate against other sects, and they should have been closed a long time
ago, And there needs to be modernisation of the syllabus of Pakistan's entire
education system, madrassas included. Unfortunately, General Musharraf's hands
are tied. He is seen as a stooge of the anti-Islamic Americans. He lacks the
moral authority to reform the madrassas or take on the sectarian militants.
Sadly, he is more likely to exacerbate both militancy in our society and
anti-American feelings.

In Muslim countries where the government is perceived to be a US puppet, there
is a rise in both anti-Americanism and terrorism (eg Pakistan, Saudi Arabia,
Egypt and Afghanistan). Suicide bombings in Pakistan started only after the Iraq
invasion when both the Prime Minster and President were targeted. And where the
government is thought to derive its power from its own people (and not from the
US), like Iran and Malaysia, there is no terrorism. Mahatir Mohammad was able to
clamp down on extremism in Malaysia with great success because he had popular
backing.

The war on terror will never be won as long as we do not address the root causes
" as long, for example, as the leadership in the US and UK denies that the
horrific London bombing had anything at all to do with Iraq. The great danger is
that sooner or later some suicide attacker will get hold of chemical or
biological weapons and cause far greater damage in the US or UK than we have
seen to date. When episodes such as Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib are broadcast
widely, the Muslim perception grows that it is not a war against terror but a
war against Islam. The risk is then that the terrorists become 'defenders of the
faith'. For that cause they will have no shortage of recruits.

By not addressing the issues that give a perception in the world of unjust US
policies (like Palestine, Iraq, Kashmir) and by using the pretext of democracy
to invade Iraq, while backing a military dictator in Pakistan or a tyrant in
Uzbekistan, the US double standards cause further Muslim alienation. The US and
Israel are leaning on Mahmoud Abbas to curb Palestinian militancy, but this will
achieve nothing unless the root cause is addressed. Similarly, they can lean on
Musharraf as much as they like to close the madrassas which preach militancy and
stop infiltration of insurgents in Afghanistan, but he will be equally
ineffective. In short, the Americans are impotent in this war on terror.

Imran Khan is Pakistan's former cricket captain, an MP and chairman of the
country's Movement for Justice

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 24, 2005, Sunday

Terror attacks pile more pressure on economy as growth rate falters

BYLINE: BY ROBERT WATTS AND JAMES HALL

SECTION: City; Pg. 001

LENGTH: 309 words

BRITAIN'S economy is experiencing a sharp summer slump, according to a report to
be published tomorrow by the Ernst & Young Item Club, the only forecasters to
use the Treasury model of the economy.

Item has slashed its growth forecast for 2005 from a robust 2.7 per cent to a
gloomy 2.1 per cent. It warns that the economic outlook for the rest of the year
now looks "dismal".

Professor Peter Spencer said that over the past three months consumer spending
and exports have deteriorated, raising the prospect that Gordon Brown, the
chancellor, will have to increase taxes next year.

"This slowdown will hit the public finances for six," Spencer said. "The new
data suggests that the only part of the economy making a significant
contribution to growth in recent months has been the public sector."

Economists now fear that the recent terrorist attacks in London will accelerate
the consumer-led slowdown.

Mark Pragnell, an economist at the Centre for Economic and Business Research,
the think tank, said: "There will definitely be a knock on to the economic data
of the third quarter." Pragnell cited figures from John Lewis, the retailer,
which reported an 8.4 per cent year-on-year fall in sales for the week to July
16.

Retailers spoke of their fears of further terrorist attacks. "We are treading a
fairly nasty tightrope and if we have any more of this it is going to kill
confidence in big cities," said the chief executive of one of the UK's largest
store groups.

"All we need is a bit of this in Manchester, a bit in Birmingham, a bit in
Bristol and something nasty again in London and people will stop wanting to
shop," he said.

SPSL, a company that measures shopper numbers, estimates that customers visiting
stores in London's congestion charge zone area fell by 27 per cent year-on-year
after the attempted bombings last Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 July 24, 2005

Shot man not connected to terror attacks

BYLINE: Local London Reporter

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 192 words


A BRAZILIAN man shot dead by armed police on Friday was innocent police have
said.

The Brazilian government has now demanded an explanation of why Jean Charles De
Menezes was killed on a Tube train at Stockwell station.

British diplomats are expected to meet with officials of the South American
country today.

Police called the death of the 27-year-old electrician a "tragedy" and offered
their condolences to the man's family.

At least two investigations one by the independent Police Complaints Commission
into the circumstances surrounding the shooting have been launched.

The investigation will focus on why Mr Menezes who reportedly spoke good English
ran from police officers into the south London Tube station.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "For somebody to lose their life in such
circumstances is a tragedy and one that the Metropolitan Police Service
regrets."

It is thought the officer who shot Mr Menezes has not been suspended but removed
from "front-line" duties.

Meanwhile the hunt for the four would-be suicide bombers who failed to launch a
second wave of terror attacks in the capital continues.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                       July 25, 2005 Monday 10:42 AM GMT

STOCKWATCH TUI, Lufthansa slide as terror attacks in Egypt hurt sentiment

LENGTH: 244 words


FRANKFURT (AFX) - Shares in TUI AG and Deutsche Lufthansa AG slid in mid-morning
trade as this weekend's terrorist attacks in Sharm El-Sheik in Egypt put
pressure on travel stocks, dealers said.

At 11.19 am, shares in TUI and Lufthansa were down 0.33 eur or 1.53 pct to 21.20
and down 0.11 eur or 1.04 pct to 10.45, respectively, while the DAX30 index was
down 7.50 points or 0.16 pct to 4,829.51.

As TUI has cancelled some trips to the Sinai peninsula after the worst ever
terrorist attack in Egypt, the shares will naturally come under pressure today,
Alpha Wertpapierhandel said in its morning note.

Furthermore, Thomas Cook, the 50-50 joint venture of Lufthansa and
KarstadtQuelle AG, said yesterday that it was suspending all flights to Sharm
el-Sheikh after the bombings in the Egyptian Red Sea resort.

Thomas Cook said all journeys to Egypt this summer may be changed at no cost
until Aug 6 and that clients may choose another destination or postpone their
trip.

On the MDAX, KarstadtQuelle shares were down 0.03 eur or 0.27 pct to 10.92,
while the MDAX index was down 15.39 point or 0.23 pct to 6,586.05.

ragnhild.kjetland@afxnews.com

rkj/jsa

COPYRIGHT

Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.


The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.

AFX News and the AFX Financial News logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                    AFX.COM

                        July 25, 2005 Monday 9:00 AM GMT

Indian parliament condemns 'ruthless' terrorist attacks in London, Egypt

LENGTH: 281 words


NEW DELHI (AFX) - India's parliament has condemned the 'ruthless' terrorist
attacks in London and Egypt at the opening of its latest session.

'The entire country was shocked and deeply saddened by the bomb blasts in London
on 7th and 21st of July,' lower house Speaker Somnath Chatterjee said.

'We are also deeply shocked and grieved by the horrendous terrorist acts on
civilians on Sharm el-Sheikh. We strongly condemn these ruthless attacks on
civilians by terrorists and offer our sincere condolences.'

Fifty-two people were killed in four suicide bombings at three subway

stations and a bus in London on July 7.

On Saturday, multiple bomb blasts killed 88 people in the Red Sea resort of
Sharm el-Sheikh.

Parliament then adjourned for the day to mourn the recent deaths of three
members.

The month-long monsoon session is expected to see fierce debate, led by the the
main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and communist allies of the
Congress-led coalition government, about a nuclear accord reached by Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh during his trip to the United States last week.

Singh agreed to separate India's civilian and military nuclear programs, open
its facilities to outside scrutiny and work to prevent nuclear proliferation.

President George Bush in return decided to allow civilian nuclear sales to
India.

India had been denied access to large nuclear reactors and fuel as a result of
sanctions imposed after it conducted nuclear tests in 1974 and later in 1998.

However, the agreement has come in for mounting domestic criticism.

The BJP says the accord puts a ceiling on India's nuclear arsenal and it will
lose flexibility in deciding its weapons strategy.

    pc/ejl/sm/swp


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        July 25, 2005, Monday Edition 1

Outspoken cleric condemns terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 225 words


   An Islamic scholar accused of justifying suicide attacks has condemned
terrorists and called on British Muslims to help police fight extremists.

Professor Tariq Ramadan also said police should not be blamed for the shooting
of an innocent man at Stockwell Tube station.

In the aftermath of the July 7 bombings, the Swiss academic was accused of
justifying suicide attacks in Iraq and Palestine.

Yesterday, amid tight police security, he spoke at a conference held in London's
Regent's Park Mosque.

Prof Tariq told an audience of several hundred: "What happens sometimes in the
name of Islam has nothing to do with our religion and we have to say it and we
have to condemn it.

"We condemn terrorists. But I really think we have to do something more to
promote the right education and to say where this is wrong."

He called for an independent inquiry into the shooting of a Brazilian man at
Stockwell Tube, but urged a measured response.

"We need all together to understand ... don't blame the police, they are trying
their best.

"Our response is to say clearly we are all together fighting the same enemy, we
are all in the same boat now."

Speaking for half an hour about a balance between faith and critical thinking on
religion, he warned against young Muslims being "seduced" by those selectively
quoting the Holy Koran.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             July 25, 2005, Monday

UNITE AGAINST TERRORIST ATTACKS, MOSQUE PREACHER URGES

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 515 words


An islamic scholar accused of justifying suicide attacks has condemned
terrorists and called on British Muslims to help police fight extremists.
Professor Tariq Ramadan also said police should not be blamed for the tragic
shooting of an innocent man at Stockwell Tube station.

In the aftermath of the July 7 bombings, the Swiss academic was accused of
justifying suicide attacks in Iraq and Palestine.

Yesterday he spoke amid tight police security at a conference held in Regent's
Park Mosque.

Police ringed the mosque, while nearby a small British National Party
demonstration of around 25 people waved flags.

Prof Tariq told an audience of several hundred, 'What happens sometimes in the
name of Islam has nothing to do with our religion and we have to say it and we
have to condemn it.

'We condemn terrorists, but I really think we have to do something more to
promote the right education and to say where this is wrong.'

He called for an independent inquiry into the mistaken police shooting of a
Brazilian man at Stockwell Tube, but urged a measured response.

He said, 'We need all together to understand ... don't blame the police, they
are trying their best.

'Our response is to say clearly we are all together fighting the same enemy, we
are all in the same boat now.'

Speaking for half an hour about a balance between faith and critical thinking on
religion, he warned against young Muslims being 'seduced' by those selectively
quoting the Koran.

And he said Muslims should integrate more into Britain.

He said, 'We live in Britain. We really need to understand that the Islamic
education, it's not based only on the Koran, it should also be the education
about the environment.

'Not everything which is coming from the Arab culture is good and not everything
coming from British culture is bad.'

His attendance at yesterday's conference was partially funded by the
Metropolitan Police and Association of Chief Police Officers.: Welsh college
linked to controversial cleric:An islamic college in Ceredigion has been linked
with a Muslim cleric the Home Office is currently deciding whether to ban from
Britain. According to newspaper reports, Egyptian Yusuf al-Qaradawi is behind
the curriculum at the European Institute of Human Sciences at Llanybydder.

Mr al-Qaradawi, 79, is banned from entering the US and Home Secretary Charles
Clarke is considering using his powers to ban him from the UK, where he is due
to appear at a conference in Manchester next month.

He has previously been linked with controversial statements supporting
Palestinian suicide bombers.

However, the institute's principal, Kadhem al-Rawi, defended his colleague,
saying, 'There's no scholar in the Middle East more moderate than al-Qaradawi.'

And Wales' representative on the Muslim Council of Britain, Raja Gul Raiz, was
equally supportive, saying he was not an extremist and that he had condemned the
London bombings.

The institute, which opened in 1999, offers course in Arabic and Islamic
studies. It caters for 80 full-time students.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Airline Industry Information

                                 July 26, 2005

Albania increases security after UK, Egypt terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 133 words


AIRLINE INDUSTRY INFORMATION-©1997-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Albanian authorities have increased security at Mother Teresa International
Airport after the terrorist attacks in the United Kingdom and Egypt.

According to the Albanian police, measures have been taken to strengthen the
border crossings by checking foreign nationals, especially those from Islamic
countries. The country has also increased security around government and public
buildings, The Associated Press reported.

At the airport, Albanian police officers have checked all travellers who pass
through the airport and dogs have been used to check for explosives. The country
is reportedly one of the most vocal supporters of the Iraq war and fears
becoming a terrorist target.

(Comments on this story may be sent to aii.feedback@m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright  2005 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 26, 2005, Tuesday

FEAR TERROR ATTACKS MAY HIT HIGH STREET

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 104 words


FASHION chain Monsoon yesterday voiced concern about the possible impact of the
London terror attacks on business as it posted a 34% hike in annual profits to
£59.1m.

The group said it was concerned about the incidents and the 'general prediction
of the lack of consumer confidence on the high street'.

Like-for-like sales, stripping out the impact of store openings and closures,
were 16% higher in seven weeks to July 16.

Monsoon has 241 international stores in 29 countries including Australia,
Brazil, Denmark, France, Greece, Gibraltar, Iceland, Italy, Lebanon, Singapore,
Spain, Sweden and Switzerland

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 26, 2005

CAN THE UK ECONOMY EMERGE EVEN STRONGER AFTER TERROR ATTACKS?; LEADER

BYLINE: Stephen Kahn

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 843 words


DESPITE the absence of casualties in last week's failed bombings, the attacks
did more damage to UK economic confidence than did the horror in London on July
7. This is because the second attempt on the lives of Londoners, and their
transport system, raised the spectre of a sustained terror campaign.

Until that point, the hope had been that London had faced its own 9/11 and that
with the death of the bombers, something like normal commercial life could
resume. This was not to be and we have now to take stock of the ongoing
financial threat to this country as well as that to the life and limb of its
citizens.

The British economy was already sagging before the outrages. Growth is at its
slowest for 12 years and manufacturing is in recession. Gordon Brown has been
forced to move the goalposts of his golden rule - that income and expenditure
must be balanced across the economic cycle - because his growth forecasts have
gone awry. If disruption continues in the capital, where 75 per cent of the
population uses public transport, serious economic consequences are inevitable.
The attacks could switch to other cities but London is the focus of economic
attention for the time being.

The clearest immediate threat is to shops, restaurants, theatres and clubs, plus
the extent to which foreign tourists can make last-minute changes to holiday
plans. More difficult to calculate is the damage wrought to commercial life in
the capital. All these factors are subject to the degree to which activity can
be switched out of London and not lost to the UK economy altogether.

IT IS the longer-term reaction, however, which could prove the most damaging.

Regular terrorist incidents could see London's reputation as a centre of the
world's financial services industry damaged, with foreign investment diverted to
other money capitals. Watching news about events in London from thousands of
miles away, it is easy for even sophisticated money men and women to think the
whole capital is ablaze. On several occasions, sterling has taken a knock
because of the way London's drama has been portrayed on TV news stations around
the world.

"You can't tell which way the American institutions in the Square Mile are going
to jump, " one British-born banker told me yesterday. "So far, they haven't got
'excited' by the bombs but they are subject to mood swings and could freeze
further investment, if not go home."

Personal tragedies abounded but history shows that three decades of IRA bombings
did no permanent damage to the UK's economic life. The new threat is of a
different order. Suicide bombers are something London has not faced since the
Blitz.

Hopefully, we will prove to be made of the same heroic stuff as our parents and
grandparents.

The latest analysis from the high street, however, makes depressing reading.
SPSL, Europe's largest specialist monitor of shopping activity, yesterday
published its retail traffic index, revealing the attempted bombings last
Thursday have reinforced the fall in stayaways.

Shopper numbers inside the congestion zone which circles central London were
down 19.1 per cent on a year ago last Friday and down nearly 21.9 per cent the
following day.

SPSL's Dr Tim Denison says:

"What is becoming clear now is that shoppers cannot so easily justify shopping
if there is the danger of further attacks."

What could be bad news for Oxford Street might mean better news for Brent Cross
or Lakeside shopping centres but money brought into the UK by foreign tourists
could be lost for ever.

The July 7 attacks are estimated to have cost £300million in tourist spending
across Britain, with about half in the capital. There are suggestions that as
much as £4billion could be lost in tourist expenditure this summer.

Douglas McWilliams, chief executive of the Centre for Economic and Business
Research, estimates that UK growth could suffer a 0.2 per cent setback this year
due to the disruption to business in the capital and the damage done to consumer
confidence. This leaves growth for the year at barely above two per cent and a
mile away from Brown's Budget forecasts of three to 3.5 per cent.

McWilliams puts the hit to the economy at around £2billion.

It may seem tasteless to say so but there are economic plusses that could spring
from a sustained bombing campaign. As we saw with the US response to 9/11, there
was a determination by the authorities to reinforce their economy with a low
interest rate policy. The same tactic could well be adopted here.

AS IT is, the Monetary Policy Committee is expected to cut UK interest rates by
a quarter point to 4.5 per cent at the monthly meeting on August 4. A sustained
bombing campaign could help accelerate further rate cuts.

The wonderful irony of 9/11 is that out of the horror of the Twin Towers,
Western democracies and capitalism emerged all the stronger.

It would be better still if the bombers and their masters are speedily put out
of business so this experience does not have to be tested again.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                                 July 26, 2005

CCTV check urged after terror attacks

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 451 words


Police are urging commercial businesses across South Devon to make sure their
CCTV systems are up to scratch. The advice comes in the wake of two terrorist
attacks in London in as many weeks.

A spokesman said: "We do not want to unduly alarm people, but it is worthwhile
to check CCTV systems are in good working order." The camera network
criss-crossing London has been invaluable in helping police piece together the
movements and identities of suspects.

A spokeswoman said: "CCTV is an excellent tool in fighting crime and helping us
tackle incidents of anti-social behaviour." She said it was vital that camera
equipment and tapes were properly maintained and checked over so they were in
good working order.

Torbay boasts one of the most comprehensive CCTV systems in the UK with 234
cameras.

Tractor trap man is 'improving' AN elderly man who was trapped under a trailer
on July 18 has been transferred from Torbay Hospital to Royal Devon and Exeter
Hospital.

Colin Chudley, believed to be in his 70s, was trapped underneath the trailer on
Orley Road, Ipplepen.

It's believed he suffered head and leg injuries.

He had been transporting a trailer containing six bullocks when the incident
happened.

A spokeswoman from Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital said Mr Chudley was
"improving".

Driver dies at wheel A MAN in his 70s was declared dead at the scene when his
car crashed in Denbury yesterday.

The accident happened at about 9.40am at the junction of Denbury Road with
Rectory Road in the village.

The motorist, who lived locally, was driving his Alfa Romeo car towards Newton
Abbot when he failed to negotiate a junction and ploughed into a hedge.

It's understood he may have been taken unwell at the wheel of the car.

The coroner has been informed.

Market update approved THE refurbishment of the tired Newton Abbot pannier
market has been unanimously approved by planners.

The Teignbridge development control committee voted 20-0 for the project, which
includes a new roof, flooring, additional open arches, a new self-contained shop
unit, a replacement shop front, the relocation of the public toilets and a new
disabled toilet.

The approval, on behalf of Teignbridge Council, is subject to several conditions
because it is a Grade II listed building.

Cllr Ann Fry declared: "It is long overdue, and we are delighted to see it."
Moped ride injured A MOPED rider suffered a suspected back injury following a
collision with a car in Paignton yesterday.

The accident happened at the junction of Church Street and Winner Street just
after 5pm.

An ambulance was called to the scene and the moped rider was taken to Torbay
Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                   © Copyright 2005 Herald Express (Torquay)

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 26, 2005, Tuesday

MONKEY ATTACKS GIRL, 5;
 CIRCUS TERROR AS LITTLE SAOIRSE LEFT COVERED IN BLOOD

BYLINE: BY ANN MOONEY

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 126 words

HIGHLIGHT: INJURED: Saoirse and, right, the monkey


A GIRL of five was recovering last night after being attacked by a vicious
monkey at a family circus.

The primate - a Colobus - leapt on Saoirse Sexton's back, scratched her face,
arms and legs before sinking its teeth into her hand.

Parents and a circus worker armed with a stick raced to beat the crazed animal
off little Saoirse as she screamed in terror.

Her mum said: "I was horrified to see her covered in blood and I feared the
worst."

The attack happened at Circus New York's performance in Tralee, Co Kerry.

Circus manager Rickey Courtney said there were signs warning people not to go
beyond a barrier to the animal.

He added: "The monkey is very quiet and will only react if people pull at him."

FULL STORY: PAGE 7

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 26, 2005, Tuesday

Terrorist Attacks

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 166 words


1985

April 12

MADRID: 18 killed in restaurant bomb attack

December 27

ROME and VIENNA: suicide grenade attacks at airports

1986

September 5

FRANKFURT: 22 killed in hijacking of flight 73

September 17

PARIS: bomb kills 5

December 21

LOCKERBIE: 270 killed in bombing of Flight 103

1994

July 26

LONDON: Israeli Embassy in London car-bombed, wounding 20

July 25

PARIS: bomb in Metro kills 7

1996

December 3

PARIS: bomb on train kills 4

2000

HAMBURG: Mohammed Atta and others plot September 11, 2001, attacks on New York

2001

December 22

PARIS to MIAMI: Shoe bomber" Richard Reid tri to blow up Flight 63 across the
Atlantic

2004 March 11

MADRID: ten simultaneous train bombs kill 202 and injure 1,400

November 2

AMSTERDAM: Theo van Gogh ritually slaughtered by Mohammed Bouyeri

2005

July 7

LONDON: four bombs on public transport kill 52 July 21

LONDON: four bombs fail ignite, injuring one person


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                       July 26, 2005 Tuesday 3:24 AM GMT

EGG ATTACK PROMPTS KUTCHER TO TERRORISE McKENZIE

SECTION: MOVIE

LENGTH: 209 words


JUST MARRIED star ASHTON KUTCHER decided to play a prank on THE OC star BENJAMIN
McKENZIE after his car was splattered with eggs as he drove away from "cult
events" at a Kabbalah centre.

McKenzie's pal's rental car was attacked by a young boy wielding eggs on
Kutcher's hit show PUNK'D recently.

When the actor got out of the car to confront the young offender and inform the
young boy's father of the incident, he was stunned when the man smash an egg
into his boy's head, before asking McKenzie and his pal to do the same thing "as
a favour to a father".

And Kutcher explains the prank was dreamed up when he suffered a very similar
attack.

He says, "When I was a kid all we did was vandalise stuff and go to school.
Whether it was a snowball or throwing eggs, that's how we entertained ourselves.

"The idea for this bit was inspired by a real-life scenario that I experienced.
I was heading back from one of my cult events at the Kabbalah Centre. I just got
a brand new red string tied on my wrist when suddenly an egg is fired off the
side of my car. Therein lied the beautiful idea: Benjamin McKenzie being egged
while driving in a car with his friend."

Kutcher, his girlfriend DEMI MOORE and MADONNA are among a host of celebrities
who follow the Kabbalah.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2005 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             July 26, 2005, Tuesday

POLL SHOWS MOST BRITONS BELIEVE TERROR ATTACKS LINKED TO IRAQ WAR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 186 words


The overwhelming majority of the public believe that the London bombings were,
at least in part, due to Britain's involvement in the Iraq war, according to an
opinion poll published yesterday. A YouGov survey found that 23% thought the war
was the main cause of the attacks, while another 62% thought it was a
contributory factor. Only 12% said they thought that it was not a significant
cause.

The Government has consistently rejected the argument that the bombings were the
result of the conflict, insisting that extremist Islamic terror attacks began
long before the invasion.

The poll found that 42% believed the authorities had not been open and honest
about the terrorist threat, as against only 37% who believed they had, while 33%
said that they would be less likely to travel to London.

Nevertheless, the majority - 58% - said that they did not believe the security
forces could have done any more to prevent the attacks - rising to 71% when
applied to the police.

Despite the killing of an innocent man by armed officers, 71% supported a
shoot-to-kill policy for suspected terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             July 26, 2005, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACKS SEE DROP IN NUMBERS OF CENTRAL LONDON SHOPPERS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 312 words


Retailers in central London saw shopper numbers drop by a fifth over the weekend
as the latest bomb attacks damaged confidence, figures revealed yesterday.
According to retail tracking agency SPSL, the number of shoppers on the streets
within the capital's congestion zone on Friday was 19.1% lower than a year ago
and down by 21.9% on Saturday.

Day-trippers and tourists were currently more wary about travelling to London,
while the agency said seasoned shoppers now accepted that the blasts on July 7
were not a one-off attack.

Hopes of a rebound could be scuppered as the school holidays are due to begin
and parents may consider travelling with children to London to be too risky,
SPSL said.

Dr Tim Denison, a director with the agency, said shopper numbers had recovered
following the first blasts to stand just 10% down on a year ago when the second
attacks took place.

He said, 'What is becoming clear now is that shoppers cannot so easily justify
shopping if there is the danger of further attacks.

'As the school holidays start we expect to see fewer parents prepared to take
risks with their children by shopping with them in the capital, however slight
the risk.

'Tourists and day-trippers may well be joined in their avoidance of central
London shopping by residents who will seek out-of-town and non-central locations
for their non-essential retail therapy or curtail it altogether.'

Dr Denison said the figures would put more pressure on the Monetary Policy
Committee (MPC) of the Bank of England to lower interest rates next month.

SPSL has already released figures showing that 26.9% fewer shoppers entered
central London on Thursday compared with a year ago.

John Lewis said the sales decline at its Oxford Street branch was almost twice
the 8.3% fall across all its 26 department stores during the week to July 16.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 July 27, 2005

Blair attacked on terror comments

BYLINE: Noel McAdam

LENGTH: 217 words


Tony Blair has come under fire from unionists after appearing to suggest IRA
terrorism could not be compared with al-Qaida inspired attacks.

The DUP and Ulster Unionists both condemned Mr Blair's remarks, which came as
expectations heightened over the IRA's long-anticipated statement on its future.

Mr Blair was asked at his monthly Downing Street Press conference if there were
comparisons between the IRA bombing campaign and the current al-Qaida style
attacks in London.

Mr Blair said he condemned IRA terrorism over the past decades and urged that
his remarks should not be misrepresented because "all terrorism is wrong".

And he added: "But I don't think you can compare the political demands of
republicanism with the political demands of this terrorist ideology we're facing
now."

Al-Qaida would have preferred to kill 500 people rather than 50 in London and
30,000 rather than 3,000 in the September 11 attacks in New York and Washington,
Mr Blair said.

But DUP MP Sammy Wilson said Mr Blair's remarks were an "insult" and asked how
the Prime Minister could presume to know the IRA's intentions.

And UUP leader Sir Reg Empey said: "There is no point in using the numbers
killed to distinguish between terror groups as the Prime Minister seems to be
implying."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Newspaper

               © Copyright 2005 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 July 27, 2005

Four held over terror attacks

BYLINE: H. ERALD REPORTER

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 470 words


Four men were arrested at two addresses in Birmingham today by police
investigating the failed bomb attacks in London on July 21. It is believed one
of the suspects in last week's failed bombings is among those arrested.

West Midlands Police said all four men had been arrested under the Terrorism Act
2000 and that a suspect package was found during one of the raids in the east of
the city.

A West Midlands Police spokesman confirmed that one suspect had been shot with a
Taser stun gun during one of the raids, although no firearms were discharged.

In a seperate incident two men travelling by train to London were arrested last
night under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

Lincolnshire Police officers arrested the men, who had been travelling on the
GNER Newcastle to London King's Cross service, at Grantham railway station at
around 11pm.

The train was stopped at Grantham following information given by two off-duty
Metropolitan Police officers, who were travelling on the same service.

The arrested men were taken to a Lincolnshire police station, where they were
being held under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, and will be questioned this
morning.

The train and passengers continued on the journey and arrived in London at
around 3.15am, said Lincolnshire Police.

It comes as police reveal they have dealt with 250 suicide bomb scares since the
July 7 atrocities.

And it has been revealed one of the would-be suicide bombers who tried to bring
more chaos to London last week was given a British passport less than a year
ago.

Muktar Said-Ibrahim, 27, arrived as a refugee with other asylum seekers from
Eritrea in east Africa at the age of 14.

In November 2003 he applied to become a British citizen and he was given his
passport last September.

Another bomber Yasin Hassan Omar, 24, had also been in the UK for more than 10
years. He arrived from his native Somalia at the age of 12 and in May 2000 was
granted indefinite leave to remain.

Both men are thought to have been living in a one-bedroom flat on the ninth
floor of a 12-storey tower block in New Southgate, north London where the bombs
for last Thursday's attempted attacks are believed to have been made.

Ibrahim tried to blow himself up on a number 26 bus and Omar attempted to
detonate his device on the Tube near Warren Street.

Residents in one of the Birmingham streets where today's dawn raids took place
spoke of their shock that the hunt for the London bombers appeared to have moved
to the West Midlands.

Heybarnes Road resident Nadia Riasat said she was 'gobsmacked' at the
anti-terror operation and the presence of Army ordnance disposal experts.

She said: "It's family people living here. We do not expect trouble. There are a
lot of kids around here, a lot of kids playing out."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                   © Copyright 2005 Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                 July 27, 2005

Criticall Limited: Terrorist attacks put pressure on companies to be better
prepared for emergencies; Criticall launches latest state of the art version of
event notification system that is fast, accurate and robust

LENGTH: 1136 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-JULY 27, 2005-Criticall Limited: Terrorist attacks put pressure on
companies to be better prepared for emergencies; Criticall launches latest state
of the art version of event notification system that is fast, accurate and
robust ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The latest atrocities have put the spotlight back on the effectiveness of
companies' crisis management plans. A key element of these is a fast, accurate
two-way event notification system. The events of Thursday, 7th July, demonstrate
how vital it is to contact employees immediately and give them specific
instructions based on a crisis situation: whether mobilising appropriate
incident response teams or directing employees to return or stay home, go to a
different location, or just report in.

Criticall Limited (www.criticall.co.uk), the leading notifications solutions
provider, has just launched Version 2 of its EmergencyCall service to provide
companies and organisations with the latest state of the art global emergency
alert system that is fast, reliable, easy to use and value for money.

It is fast. EmergencyCall can send out 50,000 SMS, pager and landline text and
voice messages an hour, to over 170 countries in a choice of languages. Reaching
all of even the world's largest enterprise will soon be achievable in half an
hour. Compare that to the cumbersome, manual 'call-trees' still used by many
companies. The system is two-way, allowing acknowledgements and data responses
by return, and can be delivered via any appropriate device: telephone, mobile,
pager, SMS, fax, computer messaging, email and, most recently, BlackBerry and MS
Pocket PC. Alerts can be initiated in a matter of seconds and remotely or on the
move, via a phone, BlackBerry or PDA.

Criticall's new EmergencyCall is extremely easy to use. It features an intuitive
'WebWindows' interface that creates several windows on a single web page, making
training virtually unnecessary. All of this is well demonstrated on the animated
product tour on the company's website. There is no limit to system access for
admin and monitoring, allowing real ownership throughout the organisation and
personal records are always accurate as they are updated via restricted
authorised individual access. Finally, EmergencyCall is an easily integrated
hosted ASP service, meaning that all of the supporting infrastructure and data
is totally outsourced, simply accessed via a secure web browser.

As befits an emergency communication system, EmergencyCall is extremely reliable
and secure with 99.995% guaranteed reliability. The system uses multiple voice
and SMS/pager gateway providers, with hot switchover between them in case of
failure of any one. In line with USA SEC directives, Criticall has primary and
back-up Tier 1 data centres 250 kms apart, in London and Cardiff.

Ian Hammond, CEO of Criticall, commented:

"Through our pure ASP model, we have made enterprise notification affordable for
all, allowing immediate, effective and secure communication with employees. The
costs of a notification system, like EmergencyCall, are a fraction of the
equivalent people costs associated with manual systems. At an entry-level price
of £4000 pa, even medium/small companies can afford it.

Moreover, EmergencyCall has enormously beneficial business applications. It can
be used for quick reaction to IT problems and is invaluable in business areas
like enterprise resource planning, CRM, supply chain management and permission
marketing.

Via GPS and LBS, EmergencyCall now even has the ability to track and trace any
registered mobile phone in the UK, or suitable GPS devices globally, just by
sending them a text message."

EmergencyCall has opened up the way to a broader type of enterprise message
broadcasting capability, one that will surely transform productivity. Whatever
the message, it can now be delivered to the right people fast - globally.

About Criticall Limited

Established in 1994 and with many famous FTSE 100 customers from retail,
pharmaceutical, petrochemical and financial services industries, Criticall
specialises in multi-channel notification and response solutions. Hosted ASP
applications include: automatically alerting technical people to computer and
network problems, mobilisation of Incident Response Teams, rapid communication
to an organisation's staff for business continuity, informing the public about
incidents in their community, delivery of key information from business process
applications and true "Permission Marketing" of time critical products to
individuals who "subscribe" for services. All of Criticall's solutions are based
on a powerful notification toolset, which automatically delivers voice or text
messages to the right people via any appropriate device - telephone, mobile,
pager, SMS, fax, computer messaging, email and BlackBerry/PDAs, based on
individual contact profiles for each person - how, where, when and in what
language they can be contacted.

Criticall's products include:

EmergencyCall - an automated emergency alert service for individuals,
organisations and communities involved in mission critical, life critical or
disaster recovery situations. Call-outs are initiated via a customised interface
where incidents are defined and the individuals and groups to be called are
selected, via the most appropriate device.

RollCall - a two-way text only communication, similar to EmergencyCall in
functionality, and aimed at lone workers, sales teams, operational teams,
technical support staff and executives (share price, operational issues, meeting
changes).

COMAHCall - the COMAH (Control of Major Accident Hazards) regulations state that
every Local Government area in the UK has a duty to ensure any hazardous site
with its boundaries has adequate measures to alert the public to dangers arising
from certain incidents. COMAHCall comprises a package of services which include:
inter-site communications with a secure messaging system; EmergencyCall set up
to Police, Ambulance, Fire and Local Emergency Planning Officer; on-site
communication to Incident Response Teams; hazardous warning service to the
public.

Business Partners

Criticall has BT and Level 3 as technology partners and has business alliances
with the GEOS Alliance and BlackBerry. It is a member of Survive, BAPCO, The UK
Emergency Planning Society, Intellect and SIESO.

CONTACT: Stewart Ross, Ross Media Relations Tel: +44 (0)796 654 0787 e-mail:
stewart@rossmediarelations.co.uk Ian Hammond, Criticall Limited Tel: +44 (0)777
623 2135 e-mail: ianh@criticall.co.uk WWW: http://www.criticall.co.uk

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                 July 27, 2005

TERROR ATTACK: Parents' grief for son missing in Egypt

LENGTH: 757 words


THE PARENTS of a young couple who are missing in the Egyptian resort which was
bombed by terrorists have spoken of their grief.

Jeremy Lakin and his partner Annalie Vickers failed to return to the Hyatt
Regency Hotel after going out in the Naama Bay area of Sharm El Sheikh on the
last night of their week-long diving holiday.

Jeremy grew up in Thurlby, near Bourne, and was a pupil at Robert Manning School
in Edinburgh Crescent, Bourne.

The 28-year-old's parents, Trevor and Jillian, travelled to Egypt from the
family home in Crown Lane on Sunday night in a desperate bid to find their son.

They were joined in their search by Annalie's parents and together they combed
the area clutching pictures of the pair.

But now the families of the two young sweethearts accept they were probably
killed in the bomb blasts, which have so far claimed the lives of 88 people.

Speaking on national television, Mr Lakin said: "Jeremy loved life, his job and
Annalie. Whatever happens in the future, they can never be parted from each
other.

"The reality is that they are no longer with us, but they will always be with us
in our hearts.

"This is every parent's nightmare. It is something that you see happening to
other people and you don't believe it will happen to you, but it has, and we
have to come to terms with that."

Today, Geoff Greatwood, Principal of Robert Manning School, said: "Jeremy was a
pleasant, quiet, likeable young man. He was conscientious in his studies and was
never any bother. This is a sad loss to everyone who knew him and loved him."

Today Jeremy's brothers Matthew (26) and Daniel (21) were waiting for news at
the family's stone cottage in Crown Lane, Thurlby.

Jeremy (28), who works for a business information company. He and Annalie shared
a home in London.

On the Friends Reunited website, Jeremy had left a message to his old
schoolmates saying: "Graduated 1999 then lived in Sydney, Australia, last year
while working for Microsoft, then travelled Oz and Thailand. Now living in
London working in the city in sales. . . working sometimes, playing more. . .
having a ball!" Christine, who is also carer centre co-ordinator for
Peterborough Carers Centre, and has had asthma since she was a child, added:
"Even those people who have a long-term illness but think they are managing it
well could benefit from this course. It can teach them how to get the best out
of good days and give advice on how to cope with bad days."

Mother-of-two Chris Rowell is another of the programme tutors who also has
long-term conditions.

She took part in the programme to help her cope better with anxiety and
depression, epilepsy, and asthma.

She said: "I found the goal setting and action planning that we did each week on
the course helped me to focus on small, achievable things like planning an
exercise programme and eating more healthily.

"I also found the skills they taught us to help cope with pain and anxiety very
helpful.

"The other people in the group were really friendly and we all supported each
other with ideas and suggestions to help with day-to-day living.

"It also really helped me to get my confidence back.

"I am now a volunteer tutor and thoroughly enjoy seeing other people progress
while they are on the course.

"Having a long-term condition can be very hard to cope with, and some people
find it difficult to come to terms with having to take medication for the rest
of their life.

"It can lead into a spiral of depression and anxiety, and being tense can make
symptoms worse and increase pain.

"The course teaches relaxation skills and looks at nutrition and exercise and
how to come up with an action plan to make your life better."

The EPP is one among a range of new policies and initiatives which are included
in the vision to create a new patient-centred NHS.

Experts say the changes are needed because in the second half of the 20th
century and the beginning of this century far more

people suffer from chronic rather than acute diseases.

Diseases such as cancer, heart disease, stroke and arthritis can and do kill -
but more often they are a burden that people carry from the middle years of
their lives into old age.

Initiatives like the EPP aim to empower patients and recognise that patients and
professionals each have their own area of knowledge and expertise and need to
work together.

? For more information about the Expert Patient Programme, call 01733 758 415,
or visit www.peterborough.nhs.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Skegness News

                                 July 27, 2005

Family missing after Egypt terror attacks

LENGTH: 313 words


A SKEGNESS woman's mother and grandmother are missing following Saturday's Egypt
terror attacks.

Elizabeth Thein, 25, of Barnes Road, has been unable to contact her mother
Lesley Ayres or grandmother Valerie Bracci since the triple bomb attack at Sharm
El Sheikh - and said she was prepared for the worst.

"I do believe if they were okay they would have been in touch by now," she said.

"We are just up and down, not knowing what to do for the best."

Mrs Ayres and Mrs Bracci, of Essex, were staying at the Ghazala Gardens Hotel -
one of the three targets chosen by the bombers.

They did not turn up for their flight home on Sunday, prompting Mrs Ayres'
brothers Chris and Peter to fly to Egypt to join the search.

Mrs Thein has called her mother's mobile number, but each time been greeted by
her voicemail.

She said the family were worried about the pair and 'just need to know what has
happened to them'.

"We're just prepared for the worst," she said.

Mrs Thein described her mother and grandmother as 'full of fun', and said it was
their first time in Sharm El Sheikh but not their first trip away together.

Even though the bombs happened after 1am, they were likely to still be up -
probably enjoying a drink in a bar, she said.

At least 80 people are feared dead after the attacks, including up to 11 from
Britain.

Security measures at Sharm El Sheikh are under review.

There's lots more on this website, just click on the links below

LINK:Have fun and be safe with our Seasafe campaign, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK:What's on in and around town this week, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK:Lincs Nostalgia, lots of great old pictures, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK:This week's tide times, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK:News from the Villages, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK:Transport Information, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK:Look at Lincoln, JUST CLICK HERE

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    Time Out

                                 July 27, 2005

Fear not;
 REPORTER How to stay calm after the terror attacks

SECTION:  Pg. 12

LENGTH: 193 words


Psychologists are warning that even if Londoners have not been directly caught
up in the attacks they could expect to feel some stress-related symptoms.
Headaches, difficulty breathing and insomnia are all associated with the stress
felt following such incidents. 'Stress related to traumatic incidents is really
no different in quality from that related to living in London in the
twentyfirstcentury, ' said James Alvarez, the chief executive of Clarity
Advisors Group Ltd, a company that specialises in the psychological effects of
terrorism on thepublic. 'The difference is the quantity. What we are now
experiencing is it all happening at once, which is taking its toll.' We asked
Alvarez what advice he could give Londoners who are feeling panicky?

1If you are travelling on the tube listen to calming music, read a book and
avoid reading newspapers.

2Exercise to help cope with excessive stress.

3Eat well-balanced meals and get plenty of rest.

4Avoid major life decisions and stress, such as late night car trips.

5For children, keep regular schedules for meal and bed times to help restore a
sense of security and normality.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nervous on the tube?

                         Copyright 2005 Time Out Group

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 28, 2005, Thursday

ATTACKS IN LONDON: HOW BIG WAS THE TERROR PLOT?;
 POLICE ARREST SUSPECTED BOMBER AS EVIDENCE EMERGES OF WIDER CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: BY JASON BENNETTO, KIM SENGUPTA AND TERRY KIRBY

SECTION: First Edition; TITLE PAGE

LENGTH: 869 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Bomb suspect: Yasin Hassan Omar; An X-ray of a nail bomb, one of up to 16
devices found in a car left by the 7 July bombers at Luton railway station. The
21 July terrorists had at least two nail bombs with them, and the devices could
be an important link between the two cells. The discovery " on 12 July " also
indicates the bombers may consider a change of tactics and targets.


The terrorist cell that killed 52 people in London may have been planning to
throw nail bombs into a nightclub or a football crowd. A cache of 16 bombs was
left by the 7 July suicide attackers in a car in Luton, raising the possibility
that yet another terror unit may be at large.

The discovery provides another link with the men behind the 21 July attacks on
London, two of whom used similar devices. Yesterday, police arrested one of the
four suspected failed suicide bombers.

Officers used a Taser stun gun to knock down Yasin Hassan Omar during a raid at
4.30am on a house in Birmingham. Unconfirmed reports suggested that Omar had a
rucksack, but police sources discounted this. Three suspected failed bombers are
still being hunted and officers mounted several raids in London and made several
arrests around the country.

The 16 homemade nail bombs in a rented Nissan Micra at Luton railway station
were discovered by police five days after the 7 July attack. The type and number
of bombs is far more alarming than police had previously disclosed.

They include Molotov cocktail-style bottle bombs, packed with explosive and
studded with nails. The devices are used by Palestinian bombers in Israel.
Security agencies warned after the 7 July attacks on three Tube trains and a bus
that future attacks could be against nightclubs, sports stadiums or large public
gatherings. The warning could have related to the bombs in the car used by the
Leeds-based terrorists.

The confidential Metropolitan Police photographs were shown yesterday on the
American television network ABC News. Pictures of the carnage caused by the
suicide bomber at King's Cross, in which 27 died, were also broadcast. It is the
latest leak to come from the United States and has caused anger among British
police and intelligence agencies.

The disclosure of a large cache of different types of ready-to-go bombs raises
disturbing questions. Was the car a bomb store for another team of bombers who,
for whatever reason, failed to collect them? Security sources have said there is

no evidence yet of a 'missing' second team. The nail bombs pose the question of
whether terrorists were planning a different form of attack, and if there are
other similar devices. It may be that the four suicide bombers " Mohammed
Sidique Khan, 30, Shahzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain, 18, and Germaine Lindsay,
19 " merely brought with them a choice of devices and dumped the ones they did
not need, in the belief they were going to die.

The Nissan was hired by Tanweer and is believed to have been used to bring the
other two Leeds-based terrorist, Hussain and Khan. It is unclear whether
explosives were found in the Fiat left at the station by Lindsay.

Weapons experts agreed the Luton discoveries suggested the terrorists may have
been planning to throw the deadly nail bombs into crowded places, although it is
unclear what kind of detonator or fuse would be used.

Andy Oppenheimer, an explosives expert for Janes Information Group, said the
photographs showed 'simple and deadly' bombs. 'These are easy to make and are of
a type which has been used by Ulster gangs and Palestinian terrorists in Israel
to deadly effect,' he said.

The nail bombs appear to be milk bottles packed with explosives, possibly
acetone peroxide made from household chemicals, mixed with what might be
military plastic explosive to stabilise it and increase its power, There are
sharp, short nails or tacks stuck on the outside and the whole thing covered in
plastic wrap. 'The nails are simply there to increase the destructive power of
the bomb,' he said. 'They can be very deadly in a confined space. We don't know
where they planned to set them off; it could have been the Underground or any
other crowded place.'

The second type of bomb appears to be film-wrapped packages of explosives of the
type almost certainly used in the rucksack bombs carried by the 7 July suicide
bombers. They would just need a detonator wired in.

In Birmingham, Omar, a 24-year-old Somalian, was felled with the Taser when
officers raided a house in Heybarnes Road, Hay Mills. About 100 homes were then
evacuated as bomb squad officers moved in. One report suggested he had a
rucksack which an officer threw through a window. Omar, suspected of trying to
blow up a Tube train near Warren Street last Thursday, was taken to Paddington
Green high-security police station in London.

In Heybarnes Road, people said men fitting the description of Omar and another
suspected failed bomber, Muktar Said Ibrahim, had been seen in the area on
Saturday. Shortly after the arrest, three other men were arrested two miles away
in Bankdale Road, Washwood Heath, Birmingham. They are being held in Birmingham.
Neighbours said three Somalian men had been staying in the semi-detached
property.

Police also raided houses in Finchley and Enfield, north London, but there were
no arrests. Another police raid was mounted last night at an address in
Stockwell, south London. There were no immediate reports of arrests. At least
three suspected would-be suicide bombers from the failed July 21 attacks are
still on the run. They include 27-year-old Ibrahim.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 July 28, 2005

Frightened sisters fly home from terror-attack resort

SECTION: News; People; Issues; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 343 words


Two sisters today described the moment a huge explosion rocked their hotel in
Egypt. Pamela Siddons and Susan Southerington were holidaying in Sharm el Sheikh
when a series of car bombs exploded in the town's main tourist area on Saturday.

The first blast was in the Old Market area and was followed by two more in Naama
Bay, where a hotel was badly hit.

Pamela, 50, of Braunstone Town, and her sister were staying in the Cleopatra
Hotel, near the market area.

She said: "I was in bed and then there was this huge bang. Our hotel shook. I
thought the roof was falling in.

"I went outside and there was another bang and a flash of light and then I saw
all this smoke. It was terrifying. We didn't know what was going on." Susan, 45,
of Leicester Forest East, said: "A load of teenagers from our hotel had gone out
to the area because it was where the main nightlife was.

"They managed to find their way back and I was giving them brandy and sweet tea
because they were in shock.

"They had seen bodies and limbs all over the place." Pamela, Susan and their
husbands had planned a dream two-week holiday in Egypt before the bombers struck
in the early hours of Saturday.

They were due to return in three days' time, but had to cut their trip short and
returned to Leicester on Monday. They had to pay £170 each for flights home.

Pamela said: "It was horrible. We couldn't leave the hotel after the explosions.
None of us ate or slept. Our stomachs were churning with fear." Sean Tipton, of
the Association of British Travel Agents, said some tour operators had offered
to fly customers home free of charge, but there was no legal requirement.

He said: "If people were not on package holidays, they can't really do anything
to get their money back." At least 64 people were killed in the Sharm el Sheikh
blasts, but officials say the final figure could be as high as 88.

Up to 11 Britons are believed to have died in the bombings.

So far only one death has been officially confirmed, but 10 more are missing,
feared dead.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                       © Copyright 2005 Leicester Mercury

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                 July 28, 2005

UN: Security Council unequivocally condemns deadly sharm el-Sheikh terrorist
bomb attacks in presidential statement

LENGTH: 466 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-JULY 28, 2005-UN: Security Council unequivocally condemns deadly
sharm el-Sheikh terrorist bomb attacks in presidential statement ©1994-2005 M2
COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Following last Saturday's deadly terror attacks in the Red Sea resort of Sharm
el-Sheikh, the Security Council this afternoon unequivocally condemned those
acts and expressed its deepest sympathy and condolences to the victims and their
families, the people and Government of Egypt and all other countries whose
citizens were killed or injured in the attacks.

In a statement read out by Adamantios Th. Vassilakis (Greece), its President for
July, the Council emphasized that there could be no justification for such
terrorist acts and underlined the need to bring the perpetrators, organizers,
financiers and sponsors to justice. It urged all States to cooperate actively
with the Egyptian authorities in that regard and reiterated its determination to
combat all forms of terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the
United Nations Charter.

The meeting began at 5:04 p.m. and ended at 5:07 p.m.

Presidential Statement

The full text of presidential statement S/PRST/2005/36 reads as follows:

"The Security Council unequivocally condemns the terrorist attacks that took
place in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt on July 23rd2005, and expresses its deepest
sympathy and condolences to the victims of these attacks and their families, and
to the people and Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, as well as to all
other countries whose citizens have been killed or injured in these attacks.

"The Security Council underlines the need to bring the perpetrators, organizers,
financiersand sponsors of this horrendous act to justice and urges all States,
in accordance with their obligations under international law andresolution 1373
(2001), to cooperate actively with the Egyptian authorities in this regard.

"The Security Council reaffirms that terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to internationalpeace
and security and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable,
regardless of their motivation, whenever and by whomsoever committed.

"The Security Council further reaffirms the need to combat by all means, in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, threats to international
peace and security caused by terrorist acts.

"The Security Council reiterates its determination to combat all forms of
terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of the
United Nations."

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Rugby Advertiser

                                 July 28, 2005

Shop staff in terror ordeal as robbers attack

LENGTH: 137 words


TERRIFIED staff at a Binley Woods shop are recovering after being attacked by
crowbar-wielding robbers.

Cigarettes and cash were also taken in the raid at the One Stop convenience
store in Rugby Road on Monday evening.

The three masked robbers are believed to have entered the store at around 11pm,
just as staff were preparing to close for the night.

The two female shop workers, both aged 20, were threatened by the men before
being locked in a storeroom.

The robbers, who were all wearing dark clothing and balaclavas, drove off in a
car, possibly a Vauxhall Signum, which had been parked outside.

A passing motorist spotted the shop's front door wide open and items strewn
across the floor.

They alerted police, who found the staff members, who were shocked but unhurt,
locked in the room.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 July 28, 2005

Mum tells of terror when yobs attacked family car

BYLINE: Leon Watson

SECTION: News; 999; Autocrime; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 351 words


A Swansea mum-of-three has told how her two young children were left terrified
when boozed-up yobs targeted her family's car. Sarah and Adrian Diamond had
stopped at lights in Dyfatty when their car was set upon by two drunken thugs.

As Mr Diamond waited for the lights to change the men suddenly started yelling
abuse at his wife, who was 20 weeks pregnant at the time.

One of the men, Andy Carmichael, yanked open the driver side door and threw a
punch at Mr Diamond which the father-of-two managed to block.

Then the other man, Michael Richards, of Heol Frank, Penlan, started kicking and
punching the car, causing £1,000 of damage.

In the back of the car while the terrifying attack took place were the couple's
two children, aged three-and-a-half years and 12 months.

Mrs Diamond, aged 27, of Cwmbrwla, today described the attack as frightening for
the whole family but particularly her daughter Ffion, now aged four.

"We have had to change our car because after what happened she was too scared to
get in it," she added.

"Ffion is still very upset. Every time we use the car now we have to make sure
all the doors are locked and we are still very much aware of the attack. But we
are very glad they have gone to prison." After the police were alerted a passing
taxi driver restrained Richards after following him to some flats. Carmichael
then gave himself up.

Richards, aged 19, was jailed for 20 months for the December 21 incident after
pleading guilty to affray at Swansea Crown Court earlier this week.

Carmichael, aged 20, formerly of Oystermouth Road, was jailed for two years
earlier this year after pleading guilty to affray and other offences.

Sentencing Richards, Judge Malcolm Bishop QC said the attack had caused acute
distress to a family who had done nothing to deserve what had happened to them.

Victim Support Wales senior manager Sheila Stevens said: "Unfortunately, we seem
to be getting more and more cases like this.

"I would advise people to keep vigilant in their car and keep all doors locked
at all time and valuables out of sight."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                   © Copyright 2005 South Wales Evening Post

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                 July 28, 2005

Community meeting may look at terror attacks

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 200 words


THE terrorist attacks in London could be discussed at a meeting tonight in
Rotherham between the local Asian and black community and the Home Office.




The meeting was organised by Rotherham's Asian and Black Community Forum well
before the bomb attacks as part of its ongoing campaign to bring the local
community closer together.


A Home Office civil servant is expected to outline details of the Government's
ongoing community cohesion programme and talk about funding for initiatives to
improve community relations.


Forum spokesman Mahroof Rashid said the recent terrorist bombings could well be
raised by members.


"This meeting has been organised a long time, well before the London bombings,"
said Mr Rashid.


"The idea is to find out more about the Government's community cohesion
programme which sets out to bring people of different faiths together.


"This is something we have been involved in for some time in Rotherham.


"One of our aims has been to get young people more involved in their local
community.One initiative involved sending a party of young people over to the
European Parliament to see what happens there.


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Oxfordshire

                                 July 28, 2005

Wait to see impact of terror attacks

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 341 words


Oxford experts see this week as all important in their efforts to asses the
impact of the terrorist attacks in London on tourism in Oxfordshire.

The Tourist Industry Emergency Response group set up by Government agency Visit
Britain has employed analysts at Oxford Economic Forecasting to monitor the
aftermath of the attacks.

Keith Edmonds of Oxford Economic Forecasting said spending by overseas visitors
would be down by two per cent or £300 000 compared with its initial forecast for
2005 as a result of the July 7 bombings and last week's failed attacks.

He added: "The situation is ongoing and we have not yet worked out the effect of
the July 21 incident. We may have to revise predictions downwards again."

Managers at Oxfordshire hotels language schools and tourist attractions say that
after the July 7 attacks visitor numbers held up well. Now fingers are crossed
as they wait to see what effect last week's attempted bombings have.

Oxford City Council tourism officer Suzanne Lockhart said that some tourists had
booked hotels in Oxford in order to avoid staying in London after July 7. She
said: "Things are positive and visitors are still coming to Oxford but we're
watching the situation carefully."

The Saturday after the July 7 attacks inquiries at the Oxford Tourist
Information Centre were up 50 per cent on the previous week.

Jo Currie of the College of International Education an Oxford school for
overseas students said: "There were some worried calls but no cancellations."

Sally Everton of Macdonald Hotels owner of The Randolph and The Eastgate in
Oxford and The Bear in Woodstock said: "Bookings held up after July 7. This week
will be telling."

Visitor spending in UK rose 13 per cent in the first five months of 2005 to
£4.8bn.

The uncertainty comes as the UK's first group of Chinese package tourists got a
red carpet welcome to Oxfordshire yesterday. They visited Christ Church in
Oxford Blenheim Palace at Woodstock and the Bicester Village shopping centre.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 July 28, 2005

Terrorist attack suspect held after stun-gun raid

BYLINE: Neville Dean

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 578 words


The identity of the suspected would-be suicide bomber who was captured in a
dramatic armed raid early yesterday was confirmed by police last night. THE
identity of the suspected would-be suicide bomber who was captured in a dramatic
armed raid early yesterday was confirmed by police last night.

Peter Clarke, head of the Met's Anti-Terrorist Branch, confirmed that the man
arrested in Birmingham was Yasin Hassan Omar. Omar, a 24-year-old Somalian, was
felled with a Taser stun gun when officers stormed the safehouse where he was
hiding.

Mr Clarke said police were still looking for the other three suspects wanted in
connection with the attempted bombings of Thursday last week.

He released a new image of the man who is suspected of trying to detonate a
device at Shepherd's Bush Tube station. The image showed the man on a bus after
he fled the scene.

Omar was being held at high security Paddington Green police station in central
London last night, where he will be questioned. He is the first of the July 21
would-be suicide squad suspects to be caught. He was arrested at a house in
Heybarnes Road, Birmingham at about 4.30am, which had been under surveillance
before the raid. He was alone at the time, Mr Clarke said.

"During the course of that arrest, officers did find it necessary to use a Taser
weapon to control him," he added.

Mr Clarke said there was no intelligence to suggest there were explosives in the
house. Local residents were evacuated "as a precaution".

The only other one of the three suspects to be identified so far is Muktar
Said-Ibrahim, 27, who is suspected of trying to detonate a device on a
double-decker bus in east London.

Mr Clarke said last night that detectives were still trying to confirm the
identities of the other two suspects.

He said it was vital that anyone with information about them contact police
immediately. "I must emphasise that until these men are arrested they remain a
threat," he said.

Mr Clarke described Omar's arrest as an "important development" in the
investigation, but urged the public to remain "watchful and alert".

"As I have said before, we need to find Muktar Said-Ibrahim, also known as
Muktar Mohammed-Said who we believe was responsible for trying to set off a bomb
on the number 26 bus in Hackney Road," he said.

"We are still trying to confirm the identities of the other two bombers. The
public response to our appeals has been superb, and we have been given vital
clues in our hunt for these men.

"I would ask for that help to continue. We still need to identify and track them
down." Mr Clarke said that anyone who knew where the men were now should
immediately call 999. He then released new details about the movements of the
suspected Shepherd's Bush bomber.

The first image of the suspect released last week showed him at Westbourne Park
Tube in a short-sleeved, dark blue England football shirt.

Mr Clarke said police now believed that he threw away the shirt after fleeing
the scene. He said it may have been turned inside out and stained with mud. It
was probably left in Macfarlane Road, near Wood Lane, he added. The suspect was
later seen wearing a white vest. The new image of him released last night showed
him on a Number 22 bus.

Mr Clarke said: "We need to know where he went after he got off the bus. Did you
see this man in Wandsworth last Thursday afternoon? "Have you seen him before or
since last Thursday?"

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                     © Copyright 2005 Western Morning News

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             July 29, 2005, Friday

TERROR IN UK: NEW ATTACK ALERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 84 words


TERROR cells could still be at large and ready to launch more attacks, Met chief
Sir Ian Blair warned yesterday.

Blair spoke out after his police authority had its first meeting since the
shooting of Brazilian electrician Jean Charles de Menezes, 27. He said Scotland
Yard's anti-terror operation - at pounds 500,000 a day - was its biggest ever.

It emerged yesterday Jean Charles's visa to stay in Britain had expired more
than two years ago - a possible reason why he did not stop for police

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MEETING: Blair

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 29, 2005

Rolls-Royce pays out first dividend increase since 9/11 terror attacks

BYLINE: Mark Milner

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 383 words


Aero-engine maker Rolls-Royce yesterday pleased the City with a strong
operational performance and its first dividend increase since the 9/11 terror
attacks unsettled the commercial aircraft market.

The group revealed a strong increase in the order book to almost £22bn, a 54%
rise in underlying pre-tax profits to £260m, sharply lower net debt and a 5%
boost for the dividend.

Coupled with a confident statement from chief executive Sir John Rose on the
outlook for the second half of the year, the news saw the shares rise more than
8% to 338p, making the stock the day's biggest gainer in the FTSE 100 share
index.

Rolls-Royce said that the civil aerospace business, which provides engines for
both the big civil aircraft makers, Airbus and Boeing, had lifted underlying
profit before financing costs to £200m - more than double the previous year's
performance. After market sales, which include replacement parts for engines
already in service, accounting for 59% of the division's sales.

The defence business, where the US Department of Defense is the largest
customer, saw profits up from £12m to £94m. Marine profits rose £4m to £39m
though the energy sector remained little above break even as the group spends
the profits earned in the oil and gas sector building up its presence in power
generation.

Sir John said the decision to increase the dividend had not been taken under
pressure from investors disappointed that the move had not come earlier.

"We were keen to find an opportunity to raise the dividend and also that the
company kept a strong balance sheet. We . . . thought this was the right time to
do it."

Sir John said Rolls-Royce was expecting further progress. "We remain on target
to generate continued growth in profits and reduction of average net debt in
2005."

The results were well received in the City. "We expect to increase our 2005 and
long-term estimates to take into account stronger than expected growth in global
air traffic and a sus tained upturn in aircraft deliveries," Morgan Stanley
analyst Scott Babka said in a report after the results.

CSFB analyst Steve East said: "The commercial aerospace cycle upturn is now
coming through and we believe this should drive a strong earnings recovery
through to 2007."


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 29, 2005

Armed police swamp London as Met chief warns attacks just start of terror
campaign

BYLINE: MICHAEL SETTLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 535 words



HIGHLIGHT: SIR IAN: "It is not a one-off"


BRITAIN was given a stark warning yesterday that the London attacks were only
the beginning of a campaign of terror, not the end.

Sir Ian Blair, Metropolitan Police commissioner, delivered his uncompromising
assessment of the terrorist threat facing the nation as the UK capital became
"Fortress London".

There were about 3000 armed police officers on patrol as Scotland Yard made more
arrests in its hunt for the July 21 would-be bombers, with nine held in Tooting,
including three Turks.

Sir Ian told a meeting of the Met Police Authority that the three would-be
bombers were not just the "B-team", were still at large, and could strike again
and not necessarily on the transport system. "We are in a sombre moment . . . it
does also remain possible there are other cells that are capable and intent on
striking again. This is a campaign we are facing. It is not a one-off event."

Detectives were continuing last night to question Yasin Hassan Omar, a
24-year-old Somali arrested in Birmingham. He is the prime suspect for the
attempted July 21 bombing at Warren Street.

The commissioner stressed people should not be fooled by the fact that the
suspected July 21terrorists failed in their mission to emulate the July 7
suicide bombers, who murdered 52 commuters. "This is not the B team. These
weren't the amateurs. They made a mistake, they made one mistake. We are very,
very lucky, " said the commissioner.

"The carnage that would have occurred had those bombs gone off would have at
least been equivalent to those on July 7." Sir Ian  later insisted the hunt for
the three was "a race against time", but stressed his officers would find them.

"The Met is absolutely resolute and we will prevail." Officers believe the net
is closing on the one who tried to blow himself up on a Tube train near
Shepherd's Bush. Police raided a f lat in Stockwell, south London on Wednesday
night where he was believed to have lived. Three women were arrested on
suspicion of harbouring an offender.

Scotland Yard, meanwhile, played down reports that a British al Qaeda suspect
wanted in connection with the bombings had been captured in Zambia. Haroon
Rashid Aswat, 30, who grew up in West Yorkshire, was being held for his alleged
role in setting up a terror camp in Oregon, according to the Los Angeles Times.

Police refused to comment on claims he was the possible mastermind of the July 7
attacks. The Foreign Office, however, confirmed it was seeking consular access
to a British national reported to be in custody in Zambia.

Across London there was unprecedented police visibility as every British
Transport Police officer was placed on duty in a major deterrence and
reassurance operation, Thursday being the day of the previous successful and
unsuccessful terrorist attacks.

At rail and Tube stations, some 4000 yellow-jacketed police officers were
deployed.

Commuters' journeys were delayed while  trains were halted and officers, some
armed, undertook carriage by carriage searches.

The scale of Britain's biggest manhunt was underlined by the inquiry's
statistics so far:

15,000 CCTV tapes seized, 1800 witness statements given, and 5000 calls to the
anti-terrorist hotline. The investigation is costing pounds-500,000 a day.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                        July 29, 2005 Friday 3:04 AM GMT

SILVER TAKING EXTRA CARE WITH LONDON TERRORIST ATTACK SCENES

SECTION: MOVIE

LENGTH: 109 words


Movie-maker JOEL SILVER is treading carefully as he oversees the editing of
NATALIE PORTMAN's new movie V FOR VENDETTA because he doesn't want to upset
Londoners still reeling from terrorist attacks when the film comes out.

THE MATRIX producer was given special permission to use London tourist
attractions to film futuristic terrorist attacks in the film, and he had no idea
fiction would become fact when bombers brought the city to a standstill earlier
this month (07JUL05).

He says, "When you make a movie that directly relates to something like that
you've got to be very very careful.

"But this is a fictional story. It's smart and the good guys win."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2005 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 30, 2005

Attack on London: Briton on terror charge

BYLINE: Ian Cobain and Ewen MacAskill

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 233 words


A British Muslim man being held by police in Zambia has been charged by the
American authorities with being an al-Qaida terrorist, it emerged yesterday.

Haroon Rashid Aswat, 30, from Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, was charged over his
alleged role in a plot to set up a terrorist training camp in Oregon more than
five years ago.

Despite widespread media reports, however, he is not suspected of involvement in
the London attacks of July 7 that claimed 56 lives, although British police and
counter-terrorism officials may question him about possible links with one of
the suicide bombers.

Aswat has been held in Lusaka, the Zambian capital, since crossing into the
country more than a week ago.

A dispute has arisen between British diplomats, who have no objection to him
being extradited to stand trial, and American authorities, who are understood to
wish to see him subjected to a process known as rendition, which could see him
taken to a country other than the US, where he may be at risk of being tortured.

A hunt was launched for Aswat in the aftermath of the suicide bomb attacks as
Scotland Yard attempted to investigate possible links with Mohammad Sidique
Khan, 30, the eldest of the four suicide bombers.

Both men lived in the Dewsbury area of West Yorkshire, and there had been
unconfirmed reports that they had been in telephone contact before the bombings.


LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 July 30, 2005

Terror: Racist attack figures double

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 554 words


Racist incidents have more than doubled in Nottingham since the July 7 terror
attack, Victim Support says. It dealt with 41 race-related incidents in the city
between July 8 and 26 this year - compared with 17 over the same period last
year.

It was told of 70 incidents across the whole of the county, against 40 the year
before.

There was a slight year-on-year rise in offences in earlier months, but no more
than five per cent.

The London terrorist bombings took the lives of 56 people, including the
bombers, and brought chaos to the capital.

Victim Support's Ian Firth said: "The figures we have are based on referrals to
us, mostly from police.

"It represents a very disturbing trend, but we have also noticed that more
people are now actively seeking our help.

"Since July 7, we have spoken to an Asian woman who had her head scarf pulled
down over her face which was very insulting and humiliating for her.

"Another referral was an Asian man who was assaulted on a tram." Insp Tony
Dennis, Notts Police communities, youth and race relations officer, said police
figures showed a 20% rise in reported race related offences in Notts.

He added: "I am not sure how Victim Support collated their figures, but there
has been a rise in reported race-related attacks in the county.

"We are also aware from attending community meetings since July 7 that there are
incidents not being reported to us.

"The usual sort of incidents are racist name calling, harassment and criminal
damage, such as graffiti being sprayed on mosques, but there have also been
several assaults.

"We saw a similar rise after the 9/11 attacks in America. I would urge people to
report incidents to us as quickly as they can after they take place.

"We have increased foot patrols since the London bombings in certain areas, but
the police presence is reviewed constantly in discussion with community leaders.

"I want to make it clear to anyone who engages in race-related attacks that we
take them extremely seriously indeed and they will be punished by the courts."
The ages of the offenders and victims varied widely, Insp Dennis said.

Issan Ghazni, former Home Office advisor on race and diversity, said: "There has
been a change in the atmosphere but it has not been as profound as in other
cities in the north or maybe London.

"Certainly in Nottingham I feel that some changes have taken place but I still
feel comfortable as a Muslim at this stage.

"The various communities and the faith leaders still have a sense of community
and that will continue as long as police play their role in terms of protecting
people.

"We have had a rise in incidents but it may very well be that people are
reporting more incidents.

"There needs to be a little bit more analysis." Mr Ghazni is also a member of
the Nottingham Muslim Action group, formed to support Muslims after the July 7
bombings.

"Once someone has been abused, it can take away their dignity. It strips away
your sense of self-esteem and your respect for yourself.

"People begin to suffer because you don't feel as if you have any human rights
because people could come into your life and abuse you." If you have information
on a racist incident, call Notts Police on 08000 858 511 or Crimestoppers
anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    © Copyright 2005 Nottingham Evening Post

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 31, 2005, Sunday

Police investigate Saudi link to London attacks Terror suspect made mobile phone
call to Middle East kingdom hours before his arrest in Italy

BYLINE: BY ANDREW ALDERSON , DAVID HARRISON AND BRUCE JOHNSTON i n Rome

SECTION: News; Pg. 001

LENGTH: 676 words

SCOTLAND YARD is investigating evidence that the two waves of terrorist attacks
on London this month may have been masterminded from Saudi Arabia.

The Metropolitan Police anti-terrorist squad has learnt that Hussain Osman, 27,
one of the suspects for the second failed attacks, called a number in Saudi
Arabia hours before his arrest in Rome on Friday. He was believed to be making
only the most vital calls because he feared his mobile phone was being tracked
by investigators.

In an unconfirmed development, the Saudi Arabian authorities are understood to
be investigating the possibility that the attacks were planned by extremists
there.

Senior officials at Scotland Yard believe there are no links in Britain between
the two cells responsible for the July 7 bombings which killed 56 people and the
failed suicide attacks two weeks later. But one senior source said that the
anti-terrorist squad is investigating links between the two cells and "foreign
camps" of terrorists. They are also inquiring into claims that, like the July 7
bombers, some of the July 21 attackers travelled extensively abroad shortly
before the attacks. Police believe that although the July 21 terrorists expected
to die, they made plans in case the bombs failed or their mission was aborted.

One security official said: "Most of the suspects did not use mobile phones
registered to them and neither did they use land lines. Therefore they must have
had some sort of contingency plan and probably had help from sympathisers. This
tells us that they must have had some training, so the question now is by whom
and where did they receive that training."

Scotland Yard began proceedings in Rome yesterday to extradite Osman, who is
suspected of being the failed Shepherd's Bush suicide bomber of July 21. Italian
newspapers, quoting police and security sources, claimed that he at first said
that he only carried a backpack on to the Tube but admitted on Friday night that
he had been involved in the attacks. But Osman allegedly insisted he had no
links to al-Qaeda, the terrorist network led by Saudi-born Osama bin Laden.

Scotland Yard is sceptical of many of the alleged claims - sometimes confused
and contradictory - made by Osman, a British citizen born in Ethiopia. He
allegedly said that he had intended to spread fear not to kill members of the
public. "We wanted to make an attack but only as a demonstration." One Italian
newspaper said that he told investigators: "We were supposed to blow ourselves
up."

The father of two from south London is the first person held under regulations
which took effect on Thursday after Italy signed the UK's Extradition Act of
2003. He is fighting enforced return to Britain.

Eleven men are being questioned in London over their alleged involvement in
failed attacks. They include the three suspected of failing to explode bombs at
Shepherd's Bush, the Oval and Warren Street Tube stations and a bus in Hackney.
Another man is being questioned over an abandoned bomb found in west London last
Saturday.

Osman, whose real name is believed to be Hamdi Isaac, and three London suspects
were arrested on Friday and a fifth suspect was held on Wednesday in Birmingham.

Osman apparently travelled to Rome five days after the July 21 attacks, when
police were on full alert. He was arrested, without resistance, at his brother's
home.

Scotland Yard traced him to Italy because he occasionally used a mobile phone.
He is believed to have taken the Eurostar from Waterloo to Paris, then a train
through Italy. Security sources in Italy said he made four calls on Friday - the
most interesting one to a mobile phone in Saudi Arabia. Scotland Yard is trying
to find who received it.

Saudi Arabia, which has good relations with the West, has been embarrassed by
its links to terrorism. Not only is it bin Laden's home country but 15 of the
September 11 terrorists were from there.

Amid reports of a possible third terrorist cell, a senior Met official said:
"The chilling truth is that we don't know who else is out there."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             August 1, 2005, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK NOT HARMLESS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 155 words


A weapons expert has cast doubt that the type of home-made bombs used in the
second attack on London could have been designed to be harmless.

He was responding to a report that Hussain Osman, the suspected Shepherd's Bush
bomber, told Italian interrogators that the devices were not intended to kill.

Andy Oppenheimer, of Jane's Information Group, said that the bombs of July 21
were thought to be similar to those in the July 7 attacks and they simply failed
to go off.

These bombs were thought to have been nail bombs with acetone peroxide, he said.
Mr Oppenheimer said: 'When the news came through on that second wave of
attempted attacks, there was maybe a split second when people thought they may
have been to cause chaos because they failed to go off at the same time. This
was a split second preliminary thought that this was a copycat group with the
same ideas about their place in causing terrorism

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 August 1, 2005

Terror bombs spark racist attack

SECTION: News; 999; Policing; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 316 words


A Pakistani taxi driver has been attacked in Llanelli by a white man angry at
the London bombings. The man referred to the terrorist outrage before carrying
out his assault at Island House near the bus station.

His victim was not badly injured but the assault is part of a worrying rise in
racial incidents this month across the Dyfed-Powys force area.

Despite the rise, police have said they do not believe the vast majority of
attacks are linked to the London bombings.

Figures released by police show the number of racial incidents went up from 12
last July to 17 last month.

But Llanelli Chief Inspector Ian John was keen to play down fears that the rise
was due to the attacks on London.

He said relations with the ethnic community in Llanelli were good.

"We have got an ethnic community in Llanelli and work with them," he said.

Police have issued a description of the man who attacked the taxi driver.

He is aged between 20 and 35, 5ft 6ins tall and of medium build. He wore a
short-sleeved top and black trousers.

The chairman of Llanelli Mosque, Ishtiag Sheikh - nicknamed Fred - said he had
been treated with nothing but respect since the London outrage.

Mr Sheikh, who is from Pakistan but has lived in Llanelli for 30 years,
condemned the actions of the bombers.

He said the Muslim faith did not allow people to kill under any circumstances.

Mr Skeikh, who runs a newsagent's in Llanelli, said: "We are very lucky in
Llanelli as we haven't had any hassle.

"I speak on behalf of the Muslim community in the town, who are against what has
happened in London.

"We do not support the bombers' actions and we will not tolerate anything that
involves innocent people being killed. That is not our faith." Anyone with
information on the taxi driver attack should contact Llanelli police on 0845 330
2000 or Crimestoppers free on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                   © Copyright 2005 South Wales Evening Post

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 August 1, 2005

Keep mum on terrorist attacks

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 189 words


Sir - The London bombings of July 7 has been compared to the blitz of 1940/41 in
the reaction of the people to "press on regardless". There is some truth in
this. But in the reaction of the media, no. Ten days of blanket press coverage
is excessive and, by 1940's stands, totally over the top.

London suffered a raid nearly every night from September 1940 to May 1941, along
with many major towns and cities, the full list being too long for this letter.

The papers and wireless news would have (typically) been London and some West
Country towns have been attacked by the Luftwaffe.

Damage was reported as "light".

It translated as London, Bristol, Bath, Exeter, Portsmouth and Plymouth were
blown to bits with hundreds of dead or injured last night. Tonight, we expect
the same again, and the night after.

Anything else was regarded as "Helping Hitler".

Please report the news but stop the "this is how we caught the terrorists on
camera". It only gives their groups the knowledge they need to avoid security
systems.

Please remember: "Be like dad, keep mum".

Greg Heathcliffe Swindon Wiltshire

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            August 2, 2005, Tuesday

PAIR QUIZZED OVER TERROR ATTACK BIDS;
 NATIONAL & INTERNATIONAL NEWS ROUND-UP

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 422 words


TWO men were being questioned today by detectives investigating the failed July
21 bomb attacks following raids in south London.

Armed police made the arrests after they entered an address in Clapham and two
homes in Stockwell last night.

The suspects were being held at a central London police station on suspicion of
the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism, Scotland Yard
said.

A total of 20 people are now being held by UK police in connection with the
inquiry.

A neighbour said a man who was arrested at a downstairs flat in Crossford
Street, Stockwell, was Asian, in his late twenties, and lived with his
girlfriend and her two children. Ahmet Tokmak, aged 41, said police arrived at
the block of flats at 5.30pm yesterday. He said: "I came upstairs and my
daughter started shouting that there were some people with guns outside.

"I went out because my six-year-old daughter was playing downstairs but the
people started shouting at me to go inside. They were banging on the door
downstairs and shouting and pushed the door down once it was opened."

Meanwhile, one of the July 21 suspected would-be suicide bombers was charged
with terrorism offences in Italy yesterday.

Hussain Osman, also known as Hamdi Isaac, was charged with "association with the
aim of international terrorism" and possessing false documents.

British authorities were trying to get him back under a European Arrest Warrant.

Osman was tracked across Europe by hi-tech surveillance of his mobile after he
slipped out of Britain on a Eurostar from Waterloo on July 26.

He was tracked through France to Italy but replaced his British phone SIM card
with an Italian one. Italian police homed in on him.

He was recorded speaking in an obscure Ethiopian dialect. UK anti-terrorist
police were able to confirm it was Osman and he was arrested at his brother's
house in the Rome suburb of Tor Pignatarra.

Italian police were also able to confirm his identity by a wound to his leg
sustained during his alleged botched suicide mission.

Osman told interrogators his real name was Hamdi Isaac and he was Ethiopian. He
had claimed to be Hussain Osman from wartorn Somalia so that he could stay in
Britain.

In London, thousands of officers were on the streets guarding Tube and rail
stations amid fears that a third terrorist cell could be plotting another strike
on the capital.

British Transport Police have been targeting specific ethnic groups for
"intelligence-led" stop-and-searches.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 2, 2005

Emergency response to terror attack studied

SECTION: SOCIETY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 196 words


Terrorist attacks and how emergency services can best respond are to be the
focus of researchers from St Andrews University.

Scientists from the universities of St Andrews, Sussex and Nottingham have been
studying how people behave in disaster situations, such as bombings and fires,
to develop a simulation programme for emergency services training.

They will now look at the experiences of people caught in the recent London
bombings. At the time of the attacks, the team of psychologists and computer
scientists were at the Royal Society Summer Science Fair in the city, exhibiting
their interactive virtual reality simulation of an evacuation from a London
Underground station. Their research showed that, while individuals may become
distressed and fearful, crowd "panic" is rare.

St Andrews University academics involved in the study were unavailable for
comment. University of Sussex psychologist Dr Chris Cocking said: "A disaster
such as a terrorist attack may encourage a sense of common humanity among people
who might otherwise have no connection, so total strangers will help each other
out to escape a shared danger, even at great risk to themselves as individuals."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 August 2, 2005

Terror attack forces sports club to change name

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 336 words


Basket Ball club the Bristol Bombers has been forced to change its name
following last month's terrorist attacks, it emerged yesterday. Although it is
fiercely proud of its links with the World War II fighter planes built at
Filton, club officials said they had no option but to ditch the "Bombers" title
as a mark of respect to those affected by last month's atrocities.

The club applied to basketball's governing body for permission to change its
name to Bristol Academy Basketball Club ahead of the new season which starts on
September 10.

Although such a move would normally take up to a year to implement, the
officials fast-tracked the ch a nge because of the circumstances.

Danny James, the head coach of the club's senior side, said yesterday: "Due to
the current climate and recent events, a conscious decision was made as a mark
of respect to all those affected by the awful events in London to change the
name, as it could be perceived as being negative and very insensitive.

"We had three possible logos drawn up but we chose not to go with that one (the
one that has a character with his head as a bomb).

"We'll now be looking for a new logo at our AGM in September to go with the name
change." The new name also coincides with the club's forthcoming move to the
state-of-the-art £17.5million West of England Institute of Specialist Education
centre being built on playing fields at Filton High School.

The centre, developed in a partnership between Filton College, Filton High
School and Bristol Rovers Football Club, is due to open in the autumn.

Mr James said: "We were considering changing the name when we moved to the
Academy but we've had to do it sooner because of what happened in London.

"It would have been too insensitive to carry on as the Bombers." Mr James said
that it was likely now the club would be known as the Bristol Academy Basketball
Club for this season only, before looking for a more permanent new name that was
"synonymous with Bristol".

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 August 3, 2005

LABOUR SNUBS FIREMEN OVER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 192 words


MINISTERS were last night accused of "shameful" behaviour after refusing to give
firefighters extra insurance to cover terror attacks.

The 999 heroes have been told to take out their own personal cover in the event
that they are injured or killed while responding to a terror incident.

The controversial decision was attacked by furious opposition MPs and fire union
chiefs.

Union leaders are even threatening to strike unless the Government does more to
protect the emergency services - who are in the front line of the war against
terror.

The Conservatives pointed out that many insurance companies insert clauses to
exclude terror incidents on personal policies or impose hefty premiums.

Shadow local government secretary Caroline Spelman blamed Deputy Prime Minister
John Prescott, who refused to extend insurance cover for British firefighters in
the wake of the September 11 attacks in New York. She said: "John Prescott's
refusal to extend insurance cover is shameful."

Critics say the payout of up to seven times pensionable pay in the event of a
firefighter's death would not be enough to support a family for life.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 August 3, 2005

LABOUR SNUBS FIREMEN OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 630 words


MINISTERS were last night accused of "shameful" behaviour after refusing to give
firefighters extra insurance to cover terror attacks.

Firemen and women have been told to take out their own personal cover in the
event that they are injured or killed while responding to a terror incident.

The controversial decision was attacked by furious opposition MPs and fire union
chiefs.

Union leaders are even threatening to call a strike unless the Government does
more to protect the emergency services - who are in the frontline of the war
against terror.

The Conservatives warned that many firemen and women are struggling to obtain
personal insurance against terror attacks.

Many insurance companies insert clauses to exclude terror incidents on personal
policies or impose hefty premiums on the cover.

Shadow local government secretary Caroline Spelman said it was "vital" to
provide the emergency services with financial protection. She said: "Many
firefighters are concerned that the growing terror threat will make it more
difficult or expensive to obtain personal insurance.

"Given Britain faces a clear and present danger from more terrorist attacks,
including the possibility of chemical, biological or radiological incidents, it
is vital that our frontline emergency services receive the protection and
support they deserve."

Ms Spelman blamed Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott who refused to extend
insurance cover for British firefighters in the wake of the September 11 attacks
in New York. She said: "John Prescott's refusal to extend insurance cover is
shameful given firefighters put their lives on the line to protect the public."

The Fire Brigades Union has warned that the battle against terrorism was "new
ground" for the fire service.

Members of the FBU in Somerset were yesterday in talks with employers to avert
strike action in a row about cover.

FBU official Adrian Woollaston said: "These are brutal and devastating terrorist
incidents that we are expected to respond to.

"We can be sent to any part of the UK mainland to assist in dealing with what
may be a biological, nuclear or chemical attack."

Firefighters have warned they could refuse to train on specialist equipment
designed for use in major terrorist incidents in protest. Mr Woollaston added:
"We want to know that our families will be properly protected if anything
happens to any of us while responding to such an incident.

"Over 300 New York firefighters died on 9/11. This is not some theoretical risk
we face as a new part of our job, but a very real risk."

A spokeswoman for the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister said:

"The decision to take out a personal insurance policy is a matter of personal
choice for individuals.

"Any firefighter who has concerns about their policy should consult their policy
document and then their insurer for any clarifications. Firefighter pay, pension
and injury arrangements reflect the nature of the job and the risks that may be
incurred."

She added: "The lump sum benefits payable for death on duty are more generous
than those available to any other public service worker, including members of
the Armed Forces."

Under their conditions of service, firefighters can be provided with
compensation if they die or are injured on duty. This can be up to 85 per cent
of their salary or up to seven times pensionable pay in the event of their
death.

But critics argue that this would not be enough to support the family of a
deceased firefighter for life.

The Government has specifically ruled out plans to extend insurance cover to
indemnify those who attend chemical, biological or nuclear incidents.
Firefighters are instead forced to take out their own separate insurance
policies.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 August 3, 2005

LABOUR SNUBS FIREMEN OVER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 192 words


MINISTERS were last night accused of "shameful" behaviour after refusing to give
firefighters extra insurance to cover terror attacks.

The 999 heroes have been told to take out their own personal cover in the event
that they are injured or killed while responding to a terror incident.

The controversial decision was attacked by furious opposition MPs and fire union
chiefs.

Union leaders are even threatening to strike unless the Government does more to
protect the emergency services - who are in the front line of the war against
terror.

The Conservatives pointed out that many insurance companies insert clauses to
exclude terror incidents on personal policies or impose hefty premiums.

Shadow local government secretary Caroline Spelman blamed Deputy Prime Minister
John Prescott, who refused to extend insurance cover for British firefighters in
the wake of the September 11 attacks in New York. She said: "John Prescott's
refusal to extend insurance cover is shameful."

Critics say the payout of up to seven times pensionable pay in the event of a
firefighter's death would not be enough to support a family for life.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 August 3, 2005

LABOUR SNUBS FIREMEN OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 630 words


MINISTERS were last night accused of "shameful" behaviour after refusing to give
firefighters extra insurance to cover terror attacks.

Firemen and women have been told to take out their own personal cover in the
event that they are injured or killed while responding to a terror incident.

The controversial decision was attacked by furious opposition MPs and fire union
chiefs.

Union leaders are even threatening to call a strike unless the Government does
more to protect the emergency services - who are in the frontline of the war
against terror.

The Conservatives warned that many firemen and women are struggling to obtain
personal insurance against terror attacks.

Many insurance companies insert clauses to exclude terror incidents on personal
policies or impose hefty premiums on the cover.

Shadow local government secretary Caroline Spelman said it was "vital" to
provide the emergency services with financial protection. She said: "Many
firefighters are concerned that the growing terror threat will make it more
difficult or expensive to obtain personal insurance.

"Given Britain faces a clear and present danger from more terrorist attacks,
including the possibility of chemical, biological or radiological incidents, it
is vital that our frontline emergency services receive the protection and
support they deserve."

Ms Spelman blamed Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott who refused to extend
insurance cover for British firefighters in the wake of the September 11 attacks
in New York. She said: "John Prescott's refusal to extend insurance cover is
shameful given firefighters put their lives on the line to protect the public."

The Fire Brigades Union has warned that the battle against terrorism was "new
ground" for the fire service.

Members of the FBU in Somerset were yesterday in talks with employers to avert
strike action in a row about cover.

FBU official Adrian Woollaston said: "These are brutal and devastating terrorist
incidents that we are expected to respond to.

"We can be sent to any part of the UK mainland to assist in dealing with what
may be a biological, nuclear or chemical attack."

Firefighters have warned they could refuse to train on specialist equipment
designed for use in major terrorist incidents in protest. Mr Woollaston added:
"We want to know that our families will be properly protected if anything
happens to any of us while responding to such an incident.

"Over 300 New York firefighters died on 9/11. This is not some theoretical risk
we face as a new part of our job, but a very real risk."

A spokeswoman for the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister said:

"The decision to take out a personal insurance policy is a matter of personal
choice for individuals.

"Any firefighter who has concerns about their policy should consult their policy
document and then their insurer for any clarifications. Firefighter pay, pension
and injury arrangements reflect the nature of the job and the risks that may be
incurred."

She added: "The lump sum benefits payable for death on duty are more generous
than those available to any other public service worker, including members of
the Armed Forces."

Under their conditions of service, firefighters can be provided with
compensation if they die or are injured on duty. This can be up to 85 per cent
of their salary or up to seven times pensionable pay in the event of their
death.

But critics argue that this would not be enough to support the family of a
deceased firefighter for life.

The Government has specifically ruled out plans to extend insurance cover to
indemnify those who attend chemical, biological or nuclear incidents.
Firefighters are instead forced to take out their own separate insurance
policies.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                August 03, 2005

Sport - Basketball - 'Bombers' change name after London terror attacks;

LENGTH: 161 words


National League 3 side the Bristol Bombers confirmed yesterday that they have
changed their name following the terror attacks in London.

The club, named in honour of the World War II planes produced by the Bristol
Aeroplane Company, decided to change the name to avoid being seen as
insensitive.

The side often have to travel to London for games and coach Danny James
explained that they did not want to offend anyone.

"Obviously, after July 7 the name seemed to be pretty negative, especially as we
are a very positive club," he explained.

"Even though the name was a link to the second world war planes, we have to
spend a lot of time playing teams in London and it could be deemed very
insensitive."

The team will be known as the Bristol Academy Basketball Club when the new
season starts in September.

The Bristol Aeroplane Company built planes including the Beaufighter, Blenheim
and Buckingham during the Second World War.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2005

               Copyright 2005 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                                 August 3, 2005

Commuters still resolute after new terror attack

BYLINE: Anna Bailey (neilshallcross@yahoo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: Hampshire; Basingstoke


COMMUTERS who travel to London from Basingstoke have remained determined to
carry on with their daily lives - despite another terrorism scare in the
capital.

In a chillingly similar incident to the terror attacks of two weeks ago an
attempt to set off four explosions on three underground trains and a bus was
made last Thursday.

The incident happened exactly two weeks after more than 50 people were killed
and about 700 people were injured during four blasts on July 7.

South West Trains' services at Basingstoke train station remained unaffected
following the latest incident and commuters returning home vowed that - despite
the day's events - they would continue to travel to London.

David Davies 36 of Cherry Tree Walk Oakridge works near Warren Street station
where one of the explosions went off and was told to stay inside while sniffer
dogs combed the pavement outside.

He said: "Euston Road was cordoned off and we were asked not to leave. These
things don't worry me you've got to carry on. We were more concerned about
getting home."

Dave Scott 54 of Cedar Way Winklebury works just a couple of hundred yards from
the bus blast near Bethnal Green.

He said: "I'm not worried. It's just part of working in London.

"It won't stop me using the bus or tube. I'll just carry on as normal."

Jonathan Thain 35 who lives in Pamber Green near Tadley works for London
Underground and used to be a tube driver.

"The atmosphere in the office is so quiet " he said. "Everybody is frightened
and it's a difficult time for everyone down there.

"They are at the frontline but they are determined not to let it stop them doing
their jobs - that's all the drivers ticket staff everyone.

"People have a lot more respect for the underground staff now as last time they
were pulling bodies out of trains."

Since the first incident security at key transport centres has been stepped up.

Hampshire police Chief Constable Paul Kernaghan said: "Two weeks ago we put in
place a deterrent strategy which included high-visibility armed patrols in key
locations including Basingstoke train station.

"This has remained in place since then.

"We have no information to suggest that there is going to be an incident in
Hampshire or the Isle of Wight but we continue to remain on standby to deal with
any eventuality."

He added: "Like everyone in the country our eyes are carefully watching the
situation in London and we will support our colleagues in the city where
necessary but at the same time we have to ensure that we are prepared to deal
with anything that may occur in the two counties."

* First published: Monday July 25 2005

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FROM LEFT: David Davies Dave Scott and Jonathan Thain;

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 August 4, 2005

London put on highest alert as first man is charged over terror attacks

BYLINE: Terry Kirby

LENGTH: 858 words


The first person to be charged in connection with the July 21 attacks will

appear in court this morning as London prepares to go on high alert again,

with a massive armed police presence on the streets.

There will be more officers on patrol in the capital than ever before,

including more than 3,000 marksman. Armed officers will be on duty on the

bus, rail and Tube networks and outside key locations. Specialist firearms

officers and the SAS will be on standby.

Senior officers have repeatedly warned that, despite the arrests of the four

July 21 suspects, the threat of a further attack remains "very real"

. Last night Scotland Yard said Ismael Abdurahman, of Kennington, south-east

London, had been charged with possessing information in relation to

terrorist activities. He will appear before Bow Street magistrates' court

this morning.

Mr Abdurahman was first arrested on 28 July on suspicion of harbouring an

offender. The following day, he was rearrested under the Terrorism Act. The

charge, under Section 38 of the Act, alleges that: "Between 23 July and

28 July he had information he knew or believed may be of material assistance

in securing the apprehension, prosecution or conviction of another person in

the UK for an offence involving the commission, preparation or instigation

of an act of terrorism."

Fourteen other people are still being questioned in London and Sussex about

the failed July 21 attacks, which mirrored the July 7 bombings. One other

person arrested in Brighton at the weekend has been released without charge.

Those being questioned include the three suspects for the July 21 bombings,

Muktar Said Ibrahim and Ramzi Mohammed, detained in west London last Friday

and Yasin Hassan Omar, arrested in Birmingham last Wednesday. Hussain Osman,

the fourth suspect, has been arrested in Italy; he is awaiting extradition.

As Londoners prepared for another Thursday of high security, Glen Smyth,

chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said that officers had

endured an "exhausting regime" since the bombings and now needed "

rest and recuperation". His warning echoed those from senior officers who

have spoken of the force being "stretched" and of murder inquiries

being scaled down.

Mr Smyth said: "Many [officers] are working 12-hour shifts, day in, day

out. Allowing for the additional time they spend travelling to and from

work, this represents an exhausting regime. Leave has been routinely

cancelled and rest days scrubbed. If the prevailing situation is allowed to

continue, the Metropolitan Police will become worn down to the point where

its ability to protect London not only from terrorists but also from

everyday robberies, burglaries, drunken disorder and other crime will be

fatally compromised."

Meanwhile, the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority (Cica) yesterday

defended itself against criticism that the level of compensation for the

next of kin of the 52 people who died in the July 7 bombings was

unacceptably low compared to that given by the United States to the families

of the September 11 victims.

The Cica said payments to the bereaved would depend on age, earning

potential and number of dependants, but stressed it was wrong to say the

figure was limited to the basic sum of £11,000 or £5,500 if there is more

than one applicant. The total could reach £500,000 to any individual or

family, if the benefits were added together.

This included £2,000 a year to dependent children until they reach 18. The

figure is capped. The injured could also claim compensation.

Mark Oaten, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, called for the

Government to inject extra cash into the separate charity fund which had

raised money for the victims.

He said: "The families and friends of victims will be dismayed by this

level of compensation. This tiny sum is in stark contrast to the London

Bombing Relief Charity Fund which has raised £6.5m for victims.

"The Government showed itself to be out of touch when it came to giving

money to victims of the tsunami last Christmas. To avoid being so again it

should at the very least match the total raised by the London Charity Fund."

Howard Webber, the authority's chief executive, said the £11,000 payment was

only a small part of the package. "These amounts are set by Parliament

and this bereavement payment, small though it is, is actually higher than

would be awarded by the courts for the death of a loved one."

Fears of another attack have prompted Jason Gillespie, one of the Australian

cricket team's bowlers, to say that he may consider pulling out of the Ashes

tour. "I'd certainly consider it if another bomb went off," he

told 3AW radio in Melbourne. "I can't speak for anyone else, but if

something did happen here in England I would certainly think about it."

As Londoners head into work this morning, the Piccadilly line will be

returning to normal service for the first time since 7 July.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Newspaper

               © Copyright 2005 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            August 4, 2005, Thursday

FIRST SUSPECT CHARGED OVER LONDON TERROR ATTACKS;
 CAPITAL BRACED FOR MORE BOMBINGS

BYLINE: BY NEVILLE DEAN AND TIM MOYNIHAN

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 730 words


A 23-YEAR-old man yesterday became the first person to be charged in connection
with the terror attacks on London.

Ismael Abdurahman, who was arrested in connection with the July 21 attempted
bombings, was charged under Section 38 of the Terrorism Act 2000.

Abdurahman, of Kennington, south London, will appear before Bow Street
Magistrates' Court in central London today.

He was first arrested on July 28 on suspicion of harbouring an offender.

The charge alleges that 'having information that he knew or believed might be of
material assistance in securing the apprehension, prosecution or conviction of
another person in the UK for an offence involving the commission, preparation or
instigation of an act of terrorism' he failed to disclose that information 'as
soon as reasonably practicable to a constable'.

Scotland Yard also confirmed that one of the men arrested in Brighton at the
weekend was released with no further action.

There are still 14 other people in custody in the UK in connection with the
investigation into the July 21 attempted attacks, and one in Rome, Italy.

That man is Hussain Osman, the alleged Shepherd's Bush bomber, who yesterday
claimed the devices used were harmless and packed with flour.

Osman said he and his accomplices had not sought to kill anyone. He claimed the
'bombs' were only supposed to make a bang and were intended to sow terror.

Osman, an Ethiopian whose real name is Hamdi Isaac, claimed it was a
'demonstrative action' to protest against the treatment of Muslims in Iraq and
the UK.

His claim, made inside Rome's high-security Regina Coeli jail, is refuted
outright by British detectives who say the July 21 bombs were designed to maim
and kill.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair and his senior aides believe the
devices, had they detonated properly, would have caused death and destruction on
a level comparable to the July 7 attacks in which 52 innocent people and four
suicide bombers died.

Osman's Italian lawyer, Antonietta Sonnessa, repeated his story, in his own
words, to a newspaper.

He reportedly said: 'I swear it - in that bag there was a detonator but the rest
was flour.

'It was supposed to make a bang, frighten people. Only this, I haven't done
anything else.'

Ms Sonnessa also told how Osman was 'scared' of being extradited because he
feared being beaten up in a British jail.

Osman said: 'I am afraid of going back to England, I am afraid of what might
happen to me in prison.

'I am afraid of spending the rest of my life in a cell. I beg of you, do
everything you can to keep me here (in Italy). "I would never have killed anyone
and I would never dream of carrying out a suicide attack.

'I love life, I've never thought about dying. The very idea terrifies me. It was
a demonstrative action.'

As detectives continue to question the rest of the suspected would-be suicide
bombers at Paddington Green police station in London a huge policing operation
was set to be mounted on the capital's transport network.

Today is exactly two weeks on from the July 21 attempted attacks which were
themselves mounted exactly two weeks after the July 7 bombings.

Although there is no specific intelligence of a third attack, London will be
turned into a fortress with police leave cancelled and detectives drafted into
uniform.

More than 6,000 officers, many of them armed, will be on duty in two shifts
through the course of the day. Undercover officers will be posted on trains and
buses, mingling with commuters and trying to spot suicide bombers. SAS soldiers
will be on standby to assist if any violent confrontation with terrorists
escalates.

But as the police launched one of their biggest operations since World War II,
there were further warnings about the toll the terror inquiry is taking on them.

Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said that many
officers had endured an 'exhausting regime' since the bombings.

He warned that, unless they were given time to rest and recuperate, their
ability to protect the capital could be fatally compromised. In another
development, a British al-Qaida suspect arrested in the wake of the July 7
bombings is to be deported from Zambia to Britain. Haroon Rashid Aswat, 30, will
be returned to the UK despite the FBI being keen to take him to the US

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Two armed police officers at Liverpool Street underground station

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 August 4, 2005

Attack on London: Victim of terror crackdown blames bombers for robbing him of
freedom: Ordeal Ethiopian refugee beaten and humiliated by police during London
raid

BYLINE: Sandra Laville

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 757 words


Girma Belay was in the wrong place at the wrong time. As he sat in a flat in
Stockwell, south London, waiting for a friend to bake Ethiopian bread, he was
seized at gunpoint by anti-terror police with laser-sighted weapons, forced to
strip naked, punched, beaten and humiliated. With the red laser beam blinding
him, he heard someone shout, "Take him out."

Held for six days at Paddington Green police station, Mr Belay is a shattered
man. Tortured by flashbacks and gripped by fear, he clenches his fists and weeps
when he describes what happened. He repeats to himself the words of one
detective on his release: "Sorry mate - wrong place, wrong time." But it does
not seem to help.

Since the July 7 suicide bombs, anti-terrorist officers have arrested 44 people,
16 of whom remain in police custody. Little is heard of those innocent people
caught up in the biggest anti-terrorist operation carried out in Britain.

Mr Belay, 52, an Ethiopian refugee who has lived in London for 12 years,
believes he is lucky to be alive. Hours before his arrest at a friend's flat,
armed police had mistakenly shot dead Jean Charles de Menezes, less than a mile
away at Stockwell tube station. It was the day after the July 21 attacks and
tensions were high.

"I was just sitting at the table," Mr Belay told the Guardian. "I heard this
shouting, a lot of shouting and the words, 'Get in, get out, get in.'

"There were lots of them. They shouted at me to stand up, then lie on the floor
face down. The laser was on me, then I am in the corridor and they tell me to
take off my trousers. I said, 'Yes sir, yes sir.'

"Then they told me to take off my jacket and my shoes and then my underpants. I
was standing there stripped naked. They told me to walk towards them, then one
of them pointed at my genitals - I don't know if it's a crime in England to
shave your pubic hair - but they mocked me and humiliated me and said: 'Look
he's shaved it clean, look at that'.

"I was completely naked, and then one guy, I will never forget him, he was not
in uniform, he started punching me. I was held against the wall; I was naked, I
kept asking, 'Why is he hitting me?' and he said 'shut up' and punched me again.
He punched and kicked me like he was a boxer training on his bag. Then someone
intervened and the punching stopped.

"They asked my name, they asked my religion. I told them I was a Christian but I
have stopped believing. They put my hands and feet in plastic bags and put me in
a white suit. They put me in the back of a car. I was angry and that's when the
tears started."

At Paddington Green he was fingerprinted, DNA samples were taken from under his
fingernails and he was given a prison suit - navy blue tracksuit bottoms, a
white sweatshirt and a pair of black pumps, before being led to one of the 16
cells.

Each day at breakfast he was taken out for exercise. "I walked into this yard,
and I felt like a bear or a lion. It was frightening; I was surrounded by dogs
and guns."

Interrogated at least twice, he had his picture taken, was questioned about his
life and asked which newspaper he read. After six days in custody Mr Belay was
released. Two days ago police returned his bank card. They still have his mobile
phone.

Mr Belay understands police are doing a difficult job, but he wants a personal
apology from the officer who beat him.

A qualified marine engineer, he has demonstrated many times outside Downing
Street against Tony Blair's association with the Ethiopian prime minister, Meles
Zenawi. When the July 7 bombs went off he was on his way to Gleneagles to
protest against the invitation of Mr Zenawi one month after his security forces
shot dead 36 people in Addis Ababa.

"Now that is no more, I am in fear; I don't want to go out," he said. "I hate
those bastard terrorists as much as anyone in this country. They have ruined it
for me here.

"I was tasting the sweetness of freedom in this country but those bastards acted
in such a way all that sweetness and freedom was destroyed for people like me."

Alone in his flat four days ago, struggling to cope with flashbacks, Mr Belay
tied a noose in a length of nylon rope and contemplated suicide.

"It keeps coming back to me suddenly in waves; it's a nightmare," he said. "I
used to love this country as much as you English do. I would have given my life
for it because it has done a lot for me but now that is tainted.

"I have nothing left in my life now, I have no one to turn to, there is no one
helping me."


LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 4, 2005, Thursday

ATTACKS IN LONDON: LONDON PUT ON HIGHEST ALERT AS FIRST MAN IS CHARGED OVER
TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY TERRY KIRBY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS

LENGTH: 840 words


The first person to be charged in connection with the 21 July attacks will
appear in court this morning as London prepares to go on high alert again, with
a massive armed police presence on the streets.

Scotland Yard said last night that Ismael Abdurahman, of Newport Street,
Kennington, south-east London, had been charged with possessing information in
relation to terrorist activities. He will appear before Bow Street magistrates'
court this morning.

Abdurahman was first arrested on 28 July on suspicion of harbouring an offender.
The following day, he was rearrested under the Terrorism Act. The charge, under
Section 38 of the Act, alleges that: 'Between July 23 and July 28 he had
information he knew or believed may be of material assistance in securing the
apprehension, prosecution or conviction of another person in the UK for an
offence involving the commission, preparation or instigation of an act of
terrorism.'

Meanwhile, the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority (CICA) yesterday
defended itself against criticism that the level of compensation for the next of
kin of the 52 people who died in the 7 July bombings was unacceptably low
compared to that given by the United States to the families of 11 September
victims.

Fourteen other people are still being questioned in London and Sussex about the
failed 21 July attacks, which mirrored the 7 July bombings. One other person
arrested in Brighton at the weekend has been released without charge.

Those being questioned include the three suspects for the 21 July bombings,
Muktar Said-Ibrahim and Ramzi Mohammed, detained in west London last Friday and
Yasin Omar, arrested in Birmingham last Wednesday. Hussain Osman, the fourth
suspect, has been arrested in Italy; he is awaiting extradition.

Amid warnings that Metropolitan Police officers needed time to 'rest and
recuperate' after the events of the past month, Scotland Yard made it clear last
night that this morning would see another massive operation designed to deter a
third terrorist strike and re-assure the public. Armed officers will be on duty
on the bus, rail and Tube networks and outside key locations. Specialist
fire-arms officers and the SAS will also be on standby.

Senior officers have repeatedly said that, despite the arrests of the four 21
July suspects, the threat of a further attack remains 'very real'. But Glen
Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said officers had endured
an 'exhausting regime' since the bombings and now needed 'rest and
recuperation'. His warning echoed those from senior officers who have spoken of
the force being 'stretched' and of major murder inquiries being scaled down
because of manpower resources.

Mr Smyth said: 'Many [officers] are working 12-hour shifts, day in, day out.
Allowing for the additional time they spend travelling to and from work, this
represents an exhausting regime. Leave has been routinely cancelled and rest
days scrubbed. If the prevailing situation is allowed to continue, the
Metropolitan Police will become worn down to the point where its ability to
protect London not only from terrorists but also from everyday robberies,
burglaries, drunken disorder and other crime will be fatally compromised.'

The CICA said payments to the bereaved would depend on such factors as their
age, earnings potential and number of dependants, but stressed it was wrong to
say the figure was limited to the basic sum of £11,000 or £5,500 if there were
more than one applicant. The total could reach £500,000 to any individual or
family, if the benefits are added together. This includes £2,000 a year to
dependent children until they reach 18. The figure is capped. People injured in
the attacks could also claim compensation.

Mark Oaten, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman called for the
Government to inject extra cash into the separate charity fund which had raised
money for the victims: 'The families and friends of victims will be dismayed by
this level of compensation. This tiny sum is in stark contrast to the London
Bombing Relief Charity Fund which has raised £6.5m for victims.

'The Government showed itself to be out of touch when it came to giving money to
victims of the tsunami last Christmas. To avoid being so again it should at the
very least match the total raised by the London Charity Fund.'

Howard Webber, the Authority's chief executive said the £11,000 payment was only
a small part of the package. 'These amounts are set by Parliament and this
bereavement payment, small though it is, is actually higher than would be
awarded by the courts for the death of a loved one.'

As nervous Londoners head into work this morning, the Piccadilly Line will be
returning to normal service for the first time since 7 July. Services will begin
again on two suspended sections of the Piccadilly line " from Uxbridge to
Rayners Lane and from Hyde Park Corner to Arnos Groves. The Circle Line remains
suspended, but its stations are served by other lines.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 August 4, 2005

Terror attacks to be marked

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 437 words


The one-month anniversary of the July 7 terror attacks is expected to be marked
today with patrols of armed police at key railway stations across the
Westcountry. The patrols are aimed at providing a heightened profile to deter
potential terrorists from using the stations to board trains to London. But a
similar display of force last week left some passengers uneasy with the presence
of police with guns.Bombings latest - Page 56 Samurai sword case A FATHER
appeared in court yesterday accused of aiding and abetting his son to commit
murder with a samurai sword. Eamon Moran, 43, was alleged to have committed the
offence in Sidmouth, East Devon, in the early hours of July 23. Moran, of
Jacob's Close, Dagenham, Essex, was also accused of impeding the apprehension of
his son, 23-year-old Bradley Moran. Eamon Moran appeared before Exeter
magistrates, who remanded him in custody until August 12. On Tuesday, Bradley
Moran, of Vale Cottage, Newtown, Sidmouth, appeared at Exeter Crown Court
accused of murdering 33-year-old Matthew Stiling on July 23. He was remanded in
custody.

Bomb stores plan FORMER RAF bomb stores on a Second World War airfield in the
Westcountry could be turned into holiday cottages and stables for horses. A
planning application for that change of use and the formation of a riding sand
school at St Eval, North Cornwall, has been submitted by John O'Shea, of St
Eval, to Restormel Borough Council.

Man injured in fight A 32-YEAR-OLD Polish man is still critically ill in
hospital with head injuries after a fight in Tiverton. The man was injured
during a fracas at about 11.15pm on Saturday, July 23 in Fore Street, at its
junction with Phoenix Lane. Police are still trying to trace two women who were
walking along Fore Street beside Briggs shoe shop and Barclays bank at the time
of the incident. They have been asked to contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

Bogus claim bogus A WOMAN who alleged she had been sexually assaulted and raped
in a Cornish town is not to be charged with wasting police time after it was
found that no such assault took place. Police launched an inquiry at Penryn on
July 21 when the woman, 23, complained that she had been raped in the town's
Permarin car park as she walked home from a friend's house party.

Open house AN ANNUAL "open house" in Saltash has raised £1,850 for children's
charity NCH. Kitty Govett and her helpers laid on refreshments all day, with
other attractions at the event including sales tables and a quiz corner. First
prize in the raffle - an original watercolour by Alan Armstrong - was won by
Fred Hodge.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                     © Copyright 2005 Western Morning News

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 August 4, 2005

First suspect charged over terror attacks

BYLINE: Neville Dean

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 431 words


A 23-year-old man yesterday became the first person to be charged in connection
with the terror attacks on London. Ismael Abdurahman, who was arrested in
connection with the July 21 attempted bombings, was charged under Section 38 the
Terrorism Act 2000.

Abdurahman, of Newport Street, Kennington, south London, will appear at Bow
Street Magistrates' Court in central London today.

He was first arrested on July 28 on suspicion of harbouring an offender, before
being re-arrested under the Terrorism Act the next day.

The charge alleges that "having information that he knew or believed might be of
material assistance in securing the apprehension, prosecution or conviction of
another person in the UK for an offence involving the commission, preparation or
instigation of an act of terrorism" he failed to disclose that information "as
soon as reasonably practicable to a constable".

Scotland Yard last night also confirmed that one of the men arrested in Brighton
at the weekend was released with no further action. There are still 14 other
people in custody in the UK in connection with the investigation into the July
21 attempted attacks, and one in Rome, Italy.

That man is Hussain Osman, the alleged Shepherd's Bush would-be bomber, who
yesterday claimed the devices used were harmless and packed with flour. Osman
said that he and his accomplices had not sought to kill anyone, not even
themselves.

He claimed the "bombs" were only supposed to make a "bang" and were intended to
sow terror.

Osman, an Ethiopian whose real name is Hamdi Isaac, claimed it was a
"demonstrative action" to protest against the treatment of Muslims in Iraq and
the UK. His claim, made to Italian interrogators inside Rome's high security
Regina Coeli jail, is refuted outright by British detectives who say the July 21
bombs were designed to maim and kill.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair and his senior aides believe the
devices, had they detonated properly, would have caused death and destruction on
a level comparable to the July 7 attacks in which 52 innocent people and four
suicide bombers died.

The July 7 London bombers devised their deadly explosives using everyday items
such as hair bleach, it was revealed last night in New York. The bombs were
probably set off by mobile phones according to New York Police Commissioner Ray
Kelly. The NYPD said investigators believe the bombs used a peroxide-based
explosive HMDT hexamethylene triperoxide diamine which can be made from
ingredients like hair bleach, citric acid and heat tablets.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                     © Copyright 2005 Western Morning News

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             August 5, 2005, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: BRITONS SHUN CAPITAL AFTER ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 219 words


Almost a third of adult Britons have put off visiting or travelling in London
since the July bombings, a survey out today shows.

The figure of 31 per cent of Britons deterred from visiting the UK capital
compares with 32 per cent of French adults not keen to come to London.

But only 20 per cent of Germans have been put off by the July 7 and July 21
attacks, the survey for news company CNN and Time magazine found.

The poll was carried out by market information company TNS, the survey showed
Forty per cent of women, compared with 21 per cent of men, were deterred from
visiting London; n Twenty one per cent of Britons, and 33 per cent of those
living in Greater London, said security fears had put them off using public
transport Only 14 per cent of French and eight per cent of Germans were put off
using public transport in their own countries Seventy one per cent of Britons,
68 per cent of Germans and 49 per cent of French would be prepared to accept
delays and longer journey times or higher costs if it meant tighter security on
trains and buses.

A spokesman for TNS commented: 'It is not surprising that a significant
proportion of people have been deterred from visiting London.

'At the same time, the bombings have made many people wary about travelling on
public transport

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             August 5, 2005, Friday

FOOTBALL: I'M A VETERAN OF TERROR ATTACKS, FLAG-BURNING & HATE-FILLED FANS
...BUT I'VE ONLY PLAYED IN ONE EUROPEAN CLASH SAYS IAN MURRAY;
 RANGERS EURO COUNTDOWN...

BYLINE: By Hugh Keevins

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 7, 71

LENGTH: 884 words


IAN MURRAY'S knowledge of playing in Europe is confined to one tie for Hibs
against AEK Athens three years ago. But the experience probably enabled him to
broaden his horizons quicker than others with a lifetime in the game.

The defender who made his competitive debut for Rangers against Livingston at
the weekend is unlikely to be fazed by anything that happens when he goes to
Cyprus next week for the Champions League qualifier against Anorthosis
Famagusta.

Not when he thinks back to the events that led up to his European baptism of
fire with Hibs.

The game with the Greeks had to be postponed for a week as a mark of respect
because the scheduled date was September 11 - the day of the terrorist bombing
of the Twin Towers in New York.When the match finally went ahead after the
atrocity, rowdy supporters on the home terracings were burning American flags
and the atmosphere was not only hostile but sinister into the bargain.

Not exactly the environment to settle a European rookie, but one in which Murray
grew up quickly.

He said: 'The supporters were inside the ground, jumping up and down and singing
at the top of their voices two hours before kick-off.

'It was an extremely volatile setting for a football match and the Anorthosis
fans are expected to be equally fanatical when Rangers go there.

'But some of my new team-mates have been saying if we can't beat the Cypriots we
don't deserve to be in the Champions League and I go along with that line of
thinking.'

The side from Cyprus who removed Trabzonspor in the second qualifying round are
managed by former Dundee player Temuri Ketsbaia, someone well known to Murray.

The young Scot said: 'I actually played against him when he made his debut for
Dundee. I thought he wasa terrific performer but it's a lot of responsibility
for one man to shoulder when he's the player- manager of a club two games away
from the financial windfall available from the Champions League.

'But there's no danger of us falling into the trap of complacency and assuming
that a team from Cyprus can't possibly eliminate a team from Scotland.

'There are no more pushovers in Europe and no more hammerings for teams caught
hopelessly out of their depth.

'My original thought was that Trabzonspor would turn round their 3-1 deficit
when they got Anorthosis back to Turkey. But they didn't and that speaks volumes
for the team we'll face.'

There might be Celtic fans who think that their club could have contradicted
those beliefs about standards in Europe if they had approached their tie with
Artmedia Bratislava in a more aggrssive frame of mind.

But Murray has sympathy for the Champions League's most spectacular fallers to
date this season.

He said: 'I think you could see from Celtic's performance and result against
Artmedia on Tuesday night that the additional week to prepare themselves was a
big help.

'If they had played the home leg first, Celtic certainly wouldn't have lost 5 -0
and they would still be in Europe today.

'The draw was unlucky for them but I'm sure our coaching staff have done a
thorough job in summing up Anorthosis for our benefit.'

Alex McLeish has bemoaned the fact that, logistically speaking, he feels hard
done by concerning the games before and after Rangers's first European tie of
the season - away trips to Inverness and Aberdeen.

Murray said: 'We fly to Inverness and fly back immediately after the game. The
following day we fly to Cyprus and then it's back on to another plane after the
match to arrive back in Glasgow in the early hours of the morning.

'Our air miles are then completed when the squad flies to Aberdeen after that.
It's a hectic schedule but I'm still too caught up in the excitement of being at
Rangers to feel tired.

'I enjoyed my Ibrox debut against Livingston and I was happy with the way I
played' You know when you've done well and I even enjoyed the ceremony to unfurl
the league flag, even though I wasn't part of the side who won the
championship.'

But even his debut for Rangers and the demands of a crucial Champions League tie
in a tinderbox atmosphere are likely to be nothing as taxing on the mind as the
games that follow the three matches in eight days.

That's because Murray will then need to negotiate his first Old Firm derby and a
return to Easter Road for the first time since leaving Hibs.

He said: 'I've never seen a Rangers-Celtic match in the flesh, only on
television. I know they don't like each other much but I'll be delighted if I'm
involved.

'I expect it's quite a bit different from the Edinburgh derby.

'I think I know what the Rangers fans expect of me by now.There was a moment
during the pre-season friendly against Borussia Moenchengladbach when I had a
crunching tackle on one of the German players and the crowd rose to me.

'The supporters like a player who's not afraid to mix it but it's not as simple
as that when it comes to keeping your place with a squad as deep as the one we
have at Ibrox.

'I'm in the side at the moment because Michael Ball is injured but even in
training I find I have to maintain a very high concentration level just to keep
up with the players round about me.

'I've moved up to a different level and I have to fight to stay there

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EUROSTAR QUALITY: Murray is up for Cyprus tie; HATRED: AEK Athens fans
burn US flag; GREECE IS THE WORD: Murray; left, gets advice from then; Hibs boss
Alex McLeish in the Athens tie

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 August 5, 2005

Attack on London: Al-Qaida is now an idea, not an organisation: Analysis Bin
Laden may not be capable of organising terror attacks directly, but then he does
not need to: Extracts from the statement

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 212 words


"Blair's policies will bring more destruction to Britons after the London
explosions.

"As for you, the Americans, what you have seen in New York and Washington, what
losses you see in Afghanistan and Iraq . . . is merely the losses of the
initial. If you go on with the same policy of aggression against Muslims, you
will see, with God's will, what will make you forget the horrible things in
Vietnam and Afghanistan.

"The truth that has been kept from you by Bush, Rice and Rumsfeld is that there
is no way out of Iraq without immediate withdrawal, and any delay on this means
only more dead, more losses.

"To the people of the crusader coalition . . . our blessed Sheikh Osama has
offered you a truce so that you leave Muslim land. Hasn't Sheikh Osama bin Laden
told you that you will not dream of security before there is security in
Palestine and before all the infidel armies withdraw from the land of Muhammad.

"Instead (of accepting the truce), you spilled blood like rivers in our
countries and we exploded the volcanos of wrath in your countries.

"Our message to you is clear, strong, and final: there will be no salvation
until you withdraw from our land, stop stealing our oil and resources, and end
support for infidel (Arab) rulers."


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 August 5, 2005

Attack on London: Sisters face Terrorism Act charges

BYLINE: Rosie Cowan Crime correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 342 words


Two women arrested under anti-terror laws in the wake of the failed London
suicide bombings are expected to appear in court today, Scotland Yard said last
night.

Sisters Yeshshiembet Girma, 29, and Muluemebet Girma, 21, both from Stockwell,
south London, are due at Bow Street magistrates accused of failing to disclose
information. They were arrested on July 27, and were last night charged under
Section 38 of the Terrorism Act 2000.

They are accused of "having information that they knew or believed might be of
material assistance in securing the apprehension, prosecution or conviction of
another person in the UK for an offence in volving the commission, preparation
or instigation of an act of terrorism, failed to disclose that information as
soon as reasonably practicable to a constable" between July 21 and July 28.

Earlier Ismael Abdurahman, 23, appeared in court charged with failing to give
police information which could have led to the arrest of one of the men
suspected of trying to bomb London on July 21.

He is accused of withholding information about Hussein Osman, who detectives
believe attempted to trigger a device on board a tube train at Shepherd's Bush.

The UK has applied to have Ethiopian-born Osman, also known as Hamdi Issac,
extradited from Rome, where the Italian authorities arrested him last Friday.

Yesterday, Abdurahman, who was arrested in south London on July 28 and is the
first person to be charged in connection with the botched bombs, appeared at Bow
Street magistrates court in central London.

Deborah Walsh, prosecuting, asked for the charge to be amended to include
Osman's name. She said the maximum penalty for the offence was five years in
jail.

Abdurahman did not enter a formal plea but Ann Faul, defending, said: "I am
instructed to tell the court he is, and will be, vigorously contesting this
charge and that he had no involvement in terrorism whatsoever."

There was no application for bail and the judge remanded Abdurahman in custody
until next Thursday.


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 5, 2005

Al Qaeda threatens more terror attacks in Britain;
Scottish police join London security operation

BYLINE: MICHAEL SETTLE CHIEF UK POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 550 words



HIGHLIGHT: WARNING TO WEST: Zawahri, Kalashnikov by his side, delivers his
chilling message on the video shown by al Jazeera. There is a [pounds]14m bounty
on his head. Picture: Reuters


OSAMA bin Laden's secondin-command blamed Tony Blair yesterday for the July 7
bombings in London and threatened more destruction in Britain.

The video message by Ayman al Zawahri was timed for maximum propaganda, four
weeks to the day after the atrocity that claimed 52 lives and as the UK capital
was once again placed on full alert.

Scottish police officers had been dispatched to bolster the Metropolitan force's
6000strong presence. Security was also stepped up across Scotland with
armed-response units on standby for deployment to all main rail hubs, air and
sea ports.

In the video, al Qaeda's deputy leader claimed the prime minister's policies in
Iraq and Afghanistan were the reasons for the attacks, which have still not been
officially confirmed as being linked to the terror group.

"Blair has brought to you destruction in central London and he will bring more
of that, God willing, " said Zawahri, a 54-year-old Egyptian physician shown
seated with a Kalashnikov rif le. He has a [pounds]14m US bounty on his head.

He promised America would suffer even worse casualties in Iraq in the future.
"There is no way out of Iraq without immediate withdrawal and any delay on this
means only more dead, more losses. If you don't leave today, certainly you will
leave tomorrow and after tens of thousands of dead, " said Zawahri, who founded
the Egyptian Islamic Jihad movement before allying with bin Laden in the late
1990s.

The tape was broadcast by Arab television network, al Jazeera, which received it
"through the usual channels".

In it, he threatened further attacks on any western nation with troops in Iraq,
saying they had ignored a three-month truce offered by bin Laden last year to
give them time to withdraw. "Instead you spilled blood like rivers in our
countries and we exploded the volcanoes of wrath in your countries . . . you
will not be safe until you withdraw from our land, stop stealing our oil and
wealth and stop supporting the corrupt rulers."

He said there would be no security in the west until there was security in
Palestine and "all the infidel armies withdraw from the land of Mohammed".

No 10 declined to comment but David Davis, shadow home secretary, said Britons
would treat the video "with the contempt it deserves". Sir Menzies Campbell,
LibDem foreign affairs spokesman, said terrorists' rhetoric should not be a
distraction from the primary task of the police investigations.

George W Bush said the videotaped threats would not drive coalition forces out
of Iraq or the broader Middle East. "We will stay on the offence against these
people."

Two sisters have been charged under anti-terror laws in the wake of the failed
July 21 attacks. Yeshshiembet Girma, 29, and Muluemebet Girma, 21, both of
Stockwell, London will appear in court today accused of failing to disclose
information.

The first man to be charged in connection with the failed attacks earlier
appeared in court in London. Ismael Abdurahman, 23, is accused of failing to
disclose information to police about Hussain Osman, the suspected Shepherd's
Bush bomber.

He winked and blew kisses from the dock to two veiled women in the public
gallery.

He denied any connection with terrorism and was remanded in custody.

Osman will face a hearing on August 17 to decide whether he can be extradited
from Italy.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                August 05, 2005

Terror attacks - one month on - London on high alert;
 Transport is back on track as tribute to bomb victims

SECTION:  Pg. 17

LENGTH: 429 words


Trains ran on all London Underground lines yesterday for the first time since
the July 7 terror attacks which claimed 52 innocent lives.

Transport for London (TfL) said services resumed across the entire network as
part of a "symbolic" tribute to those who died one month ago.

Maintenance staff and repair crews have worked round the clock to restore the
network following the blasts and painstaking forensic work. Underground service
director Howard Collins, who led the operation to restore Tube services, said a
team of around 60 staff braved almost unbearable conditions to retrieve the dead
and to later carry out repairs on the Piccadilly line.

Two suspended sections of the Piccadilly line - from Uxbridge to Rayners Lane
and from Hyde Park Corner to Arnos Grove - were reopened this morning and
services on the Circle line temporarily resumed.

A number of passengers were seen being led away from trains in tears this
morning and an underground spokesman said some customers were helped by trained
counsellors after they became overwhelmed.

The counselling staff have been available to traumatised workers and the service
has since been extended to include distressed commuters.

As the Piccadilly line opened this morning, Mayor of London Ken Livingstone
said: "Today marks a major milestone in London's recovery ... This determination
to keep our city moving is mirrored by the efforts of all Londoners who continue
to go about their daily lives and stand united in the face of the terror attacks
which have sought to divide us."

The first Piccadilly line service yesterday, which arrived at King's Cross at
5.37am, and at Russell Square 60 seconds later, was held on the platform for one
minute, as staff and the few early morning customers on board held a silent
tribute.

London Underground (LU) managing director Tim O'Toole rode in the driver's cab
as the train passed through last month's scene of devastation.

Photographs of the aftermath showed the horrific damage caused when Germaine
Lindsay (19) detonated his bomb between King's Cross and Russell Square, killing
26 people and himself.

At 8.50am, the time the three co-ordinated blasts rocked the Tube network, a
steady stream of commuters continued to pass through the forecourt at Russell
Square.

Though a few stopped to look at flowers left in tribute to the dead, the moment
passed without any special recognition.

"That's the most significant tribute there could be," said a Transport for
London spokesman. "Life is carrying on as normal."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                August 05, 2005

Terror attacks - one month on - London on high alert;
 First man in court over failed suicide bombings

SECTION:  Pg. 17

LENGTH: 514 words


The first man charged in connection with the failed July 21 suicide bombing
attacks in London was remanded in custody yesterday.

Ismael Abdurahman (23) appeared at Bow Street Magistrates Court in Central
London charged with failing to disclose information to police about the
suspected Shepherd's Bush bomber Hussain Osman.

In a brief hearing lasting under 10 minutes Abdurahman spoke only to give his
name.

District judge Timothy Workman remanded him in custody until a further hearing
on August 11.

As he entered the courtroom Abdurahman blew a kiss to two women in Islamic dress
who were sitting in the public gallery.

During the hearing he turned and waved to them and smiled.

He mouthed the words: "I'm okay, I'm okay."

Abdurahman, who was wearing a bulky black hooded coat, light blue open necked
shirt and dark trousers, sat between two guards in the dock.

Two uniformed police officers stood nearby.

The charge against Abdurahman was amended to include the name of Hussain Osman,
who is currently detained in Rome.

Abdurahman did not enter a formal plea but his solicitor Ann Faul said he denied
any connections to terrorism. He was arrested on July 28 in south London. He
faces a maximum jail term of five years if convicted.

Al Qaida pledge more violence

Al Qaida deputy leader Ayman al-Zawahri threatened more destruction in London,
and warned that the US would suffer tens of thousands of military dead if it did
not withdraw its troops from Iraq immediately.

"Blair has brought to you destruction in central London, and he will bring more
of that, God willing," al-Zawahri said in a videotape, which was broadcast on
the pan-Arab satellite channel Al-Jazeera. He was blaming Tony Blair for the
bombings on three London underground trains and a bus on July 7 that killed 56
people including four bombers.

In London, Blair's Downing Street office declined to comment on the broadcast.

Wagging his finger at the audience, al-Zawahri spoke with a Kalashnikov rifle
propped up against a plain background. He wore a white robe with a black turban.

Al-Zawahri is an Egyptian doctor and Islamic militant who merged his faction
with that of al Qaida leader Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan in the late 1990s.

Turning to the US, he warned that it could expect vastly greater casualties from
its military campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan.

"As for you, the Americans, what you have seen in New York and Washington, what
losses that you see in Afghanistan and Iraq, despite the media blackout, is
merely the losses of the initial clashes," he said.

"If you go on with the same policy of aggression against Muslims, you will see,
with God's will, what will make you forget the horrible things in Vietnam and
Afghanistan."

Referring to the western nations who have contributed troops to the US-led
forces in Iraq he went on to say: "Our message is clear: you will not be safe
until you withdraw from our land, stop stealing our oil and wealth and stop
supporting the corrupt rulers," al-Zawahri said.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                 August 5, 2005

UN: Security Council condemns in 'Strongest Terms and Without Reservation'
terrorist attacks in Iraq , unanimously adopting Resolution 1618 (2005); Affirms
terrorism must not be allowed to disrupt transition, urges member states to
prevent transit of terrorists to and from Iraq

LENGTH: 3108 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-AUGUST 5, 2005-UN: Security Council condemns in 'Strongest Terms
and Without Reservation' terrorist attacks in Iraq , unanimously adopting
Resolution 1618 (2005); Affirms terrorism must not be allowed to disrupt
transition, urges member states to prevent transit of terrorists to and from
Iraq ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Regarding any act of terrorism as a threat to peace and security, the Council
today condemned "without reservation and in the strongest terms" the terrorist
attacks that had taken place in Iraq and expressed its "utmost" determination to
combat terrorism.

Through the unanimous adoption of resolution 1618 (2005), submitted by the
United Kingdom and the Unites States, the Council took particular note of the
"shameless and horrific attacks" in recent days that had resulted in over 100
deaths, including 32 children, employees of the Independent Electoral Commission
of Iraq, and a member and an expert advisor of the commission charged with
drafting a permanent constitution for a new, democratic Iraq. The Council
further noted, with great concern, that attacks on foreign diplomats in Iraq had
increased in number and had resulted in murder or kidnapping.

The Council affirmed that acts of terrorism must not be allowed to disrupt
Iraq's political and economic transition currently taking place, including the
constitutional drafting process and its referendum.

The Council strongly urged Member States to prevent the transit of terrorists to
and from Iraq, as well as the arming and financing that would support
terrorists. It re-emphasized the importance of strengthening the cooperation in
that regard, of the countries in the region, particularly neighbours of Iraq.

The Council urged all States to cooperate actively in efforts to find and bring
to justice the perpetrators, organizers and sponsors of those "barbaric" acts,
in accordance with their obligation under Council resolution 1373 (2001).

After adoption, the representative of the United States said he was pleased that
his first participation in the Council had coincided with a demonstration of the
international community's support for the Government of Iraq, only days after
the fifteenth anniversary of Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait. Now, there was
now a new Government in Iraq, which deserved the support of the international
community. The next months would be critical, as Iraq approached, in its present
period of transition, the unveiling of a new constitution. It was important that
the process be transparent, participatory and inclusive. He called upon Syria
and Iran to honour all relevant United Nations resolutions and to implement
their pledges to support the Iraqi people.

Iraq's representative said the "inverted logic" that suggested terrorism had
been unleashed because of the occupation of Iraq and that it would have been
better not to take military action to remove Saddam Hussein was nonsense. It was
the logic that blamed the doctor for the disease and the victim for the assault.
The new Iraq was wide open to all its citizens, their opinions and attitudes.

It was not enough to condemn terrorism, he said. The relevant questions now were
to determine the nature of terrorism; what lay behind it; what the terrorists
wanted; whether they offered an alternative that could be considered; and
whether anything could be done or undone to assuage their vindictiveness and
violence. A comprehensive definition of terrorism had eluded the United Nations
so far. Some tended to confuse the struggle for self-determination with
terrorism and blurred the borders between them. Yet, no struggle for
independence and self-determination targeted its own people.

It should not be so hard to define the core segment of terrorism and a
determined effort to agree on such a definition should be made.

At the outset of the meeting, Council President Kenzo Oshima ( Japan) welcomed
John Bolton, the new representative of the United States. He said Council
members looked forward to working closely with him and to benefiting from his
long and rich experience.

The representatives of Algeria, France, Argentina, United Kingdom, Russian
Federation, Brazil, China, Romania and Japan also spoke.

The meeting started at 11:06 a.m. and was adjourned at 11:51 a.m.

The full text of resolution 1618 (2005) reads, as follows:

"The Security Council,

"Reaffirming all its previous relevant resolutions on Iraq, in particular
resolution 1546 (2004) of 8 June 2004,

"Reaffirming its unwavering support for the Iraqi people in their political
transition, as outlined in resolution 1546 (2004), further reaffirming Iraq's
independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity and calling upon the
international community to stand by the Iraqi people in their pursuit of peace,
stability and democracy,

"Reaffirming also the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations and its relevant resolutions, in particular its resolutions 1373 (2001)
of 28 September 2001, 1566 (2004) of 8 October 2004, and 1267 (1999) of 25
October 1999 and subsequent resolutions,

"Reaffirming the need to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of
the United Nations, threats to international peace and security caused by
terrorist acts,

"Commending the courage of the Iraqi people who are working bravely in support
of the political and economic transition currently taking place in spite of the
grave threat of terrorism,

"Welcoming the active steps undertaken by the Government of Iraq towards
achieving national dialogue and unity and encouraging continuation of these
efforts,

"1. Condemns without reservation and in the strongest terms the terrorist
attacks that have taken place in Iraq, and regards any act of terrorism as a
threat to peace and security;

"2. Takes note particularly of the shameless and horrific attacks in recent
weeks which have resulted in over 100 deaths, including 32 children, employees
of the Independent Electoral Commission of Iraq, and a member and an expert
adviser of the Commission charged with drafting a permanent constitution for a
new, democratic Iraq, Mijbil Sheikh Isa and Dhamin Hussin Ubaidi;

"3. Further notes with great concern that attacks on foreign diplomats in Iraq
have increased in number, and have resulted in the murder or kidnapping of such
diplomats;

"4. Expresses its deepest sympathy and condolences to the victims of these
terrorist attacks and their families, and to the people and Government of Iraq;

"5. Affirms that acts of terrorism must not be allowed to disrupt Iraq's
political and economic transition currently taking place, including the
constitutional drafting process and its referendum, outlined in resolution 1546
(2004);

"6. Reaffirms the obligations of Member States under resolutions 1373 (2001) of
28 September 2001, 1267 (1999) of 15 October 1999, 1333 (2000) of 19 December
2000, 1390 (2002) of 16 January 2002, 1455 (2003) of 17 January 2003, 1526
(2004) of 30 January 2004, and 1617 (2005) of 29 July 2005 and other relevant
international obligations with respect, inter alia, to terrorist activities in
and from Iraq or against its citizens, and specifically strongly urges Member
States to prevent the transit of terrorists to and from Iraq, arms for
terrorists, and financing that would support terrorists, and re-emphasizes the
importance of strengthening the cooperation of the countries in the region,
particularly neighbours of Iraq, in this regard;

"7. Urges all States, in accordance with their obligations under resolution 1373
(2001), to cooperate actively in efforts to find and bring to justice the
perpetrators, organizers and sponsors of these barbaric acts;

"8. Expresses its utmost determination to combat terrorism, in accordance with
its responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations;

"9. Calls on the international community to support fully the Government of Iraq
in exercising its responsibilities to provide protection to the diplomatic
community, United Nations staff and other foreign civilian personnel working in
Iraq;

"10. Decides to remain seized of the matter."

Statements

JOHN BOLTON ( United States) said he was pleased that his first participation in
the Council had coincided with a demonstration of the international community's
support for the Government of Iraq. The meeting was being held only days after
the anniversary of Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait.

Over the ensuing 15 years, the Council had attempted to compel positive
behaviour from his Government, but there was now a new Government in Iraq, which
deserved the support of the international community. The next months would be
critical as Iraq approached, in its present period of transition, the unveiling
of a new constitution. It was important that the process be transparent,
participatory and inclusive.

He said that the resolution just adopted was important, because it highlighted
the need for the participation of all Member States to halt all financial and
other avenues of support for terrorism. He called upon Syria and Iran to honour
all relevant United Nations resolutions and to implement their pledges to
support the Iraqi people. All Member States, especially those in the Arab world,
were also encouraged to come forward and support the Iraqi people in their
struggle against terrorism.

ABDALLAH BAALI ( Algeria) said his country had voted in favour of the resolution
as a timely response to the violence in Iraq and around the world. In
particular, his country could only vigorously condemn the daily attacks, killing
numerous people, including children, diplomats and journalists. The Council was
mandated to combat all forms of terrorism until terrorism was eradicated,
including by addressing its underlying causes.

He said Member States were bound to cooperate effectively in combating
terrorism. Combating terrorism needed to go hand in hand in Iraq with efforts in
the political processes to restore the country with full sovereignty. It was, in
that regard, vital for the Constitution to be finalized within the deadline. His
country had lost two courageous sons in Iraq and would continue to support the
country in the current, difficult stage.

MICHEL DUCLOS ( France) said his country lent its full support to the
resolution, which correctly condemned the terrorist attacks that had been
occurring on an almost daily basis in Iraq. The Council was playing its proper
role by reacting to those unjustified and unjustifiable attacks, which
threatened peace and security. The struggle against terrorism must be carried
out with the most absolute determination.

He stressed the importance of a political solution based on national
reconciliation and the rejection of exclusion and discrimination, as well as on
the involvement of all Iraqis.

It was essential that the draft constitution be the subject of consensus among
all segments of Iraqi society. France reaffirmed its full support for the
political process and its determination to help the Iraqi people in their
difficult transition period.

CESAR MAYORAL ( Argentina) said his country had repeatedly condemned
unequivocally any act of terrorism or violence in Iraq. Those acts had caused
the death of a large number of civilians, including children. He reaffirmed the
condemnation of the attacks on the diplomatic community in Iraq, including
diplomats from Algeria and Egypt. There was absolutely no justification for
terrorist acts, and those responsible for them must be brought to justice.

He said the international community was duty-bound to cooperate in efforts to
combat terrorism. It was essential for the Iraqi political process to be as
inclusive as possible and for all sectors involved to join in a genuine dialogue
that would help to achieve national reconciliation. "As we combat terrorism, we
cannot loose sight of the need to have respect for the civilian population", he
said. He appealed to all forces active in Iraq to take all precautions to
protect civilians and to protect human rights and international humanitarian
law.

EMYR JONES PARRY ( United Kingdom) welcomed the resolution, saying that the
recent terrorist attacks and those that had gone before truly had been shameless
and horrific. The United Kingdom called on Iraq's neighbours, particularly Syria
and Iran, to do their part in the struggle against terrorism in Iraq. They could
and should do more. Despite the terrorist attacks, courageous Iraqis had
continued to take forward the drafting of a new constitution and the
international community would stand by them in that effort. The Council must do
everything possible to support that process.

ALEXANDER V. KONUZIN ( Russian Federation) said any violence against the
civilian population was a crime. He was pleased that the resolution included a
condemnation of the murder of diplomats. Those who were responsible for those
misdeeds must be punished severely. He drew attention to the inadmissibility of
giving a podium in the mass media for the spread of terrorist views. The right
to freedom of speech and dissemination of information was not without
limitations. It was "ignoble" to yield to the "commercial temptation" to
popularize bandits that caused so much death and pain.

He said the crimes committed today by terrorists in Iraq were only part of the
problem, for the solution of which national reconciliation was the most
important key. It was necessary, in that regard, to find a just political
solution for participation of all political forces in the country. One must
agree on the basic principles that would underlie the Constitution. A new Basic
Law must be acceptable to all Iraqis and exclude all discrimination. Also, the
function of national security structures must be brought back to life.

RONALDO MOTA SARDENBERG ( Brazil) condemned in the strongest terms the terrorist
acts taking place throughout Iraq. He expressed deep condolences to the families
of the victims, the people and the Government of Iraq, saying Brazil shared
their pain, as it had lost Sergio Vieira de Mello in a brutal attack against the
United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, almost two years ago. He reaffirmed his
country's commitment to an independent, sovereign and democratic Iraq. Energies
should be focused on enabling the vital political processes, including the
referendum on a permanent constitution and the election of a new government, to
prosper. All parties in Iraq had a responsibility in preventing a stalemate at
the current stage, which would only mean the perpetuation of present
instability, carnage and suffering.

He said the responsibility for that relied on ensuring that the political
process was inclusive, transparent and representative. It was a task for both
those who were taking part in the process, who must be responsive to the broader
interests of society and grant participation in the decision-making, and for
those who had decided not to engage, who were asked to lay down their arms or to
overcome their indifference and step in.

CHENG JINGYE ( China) strongly condemned the series of attacks that had taken
place in Iraq and expressed his country's deepest sympathy and condolences to
the families of the victims, as well as to the Government and people of Iraq. It
was to be hoped that there would be a redoubling of efforts to reinforce the
security situation on the ground. It was also China's hope that that there would
be a strengthening of unity among Iraqis in order to finalize the Constitution.

GHEORGHE DUMITRU ( Romania) said his country was determined to continue its
strong cooperation with the United States in Romania's last five months on the
Security Council. Romania had been witnessing the terrorist attacks in Iraq and
felt it was important for the Council to send a strong message of condemnation.
It was for that reason that Romania had decided to co-sponsor the resolution,
which was the appropriate answer to the request of the legitimate Government of
Iraq for international cooperation in its struggle against terrorism.

Speaking in his national capacity, the Council's President KENZO OSHIMA (Japan)
welcomed the unanimous adoption of the resolution, which demonstrated the
Council's strong determination to prevent acts of terrorism in Iraq and other
places. He hoped that the political processes could move forward, in order to
achieve the goal of a peaceful and sovereign Iraq as early as possible.

SAMIR SHAKIR MAHMOOD SUMAIDA'IE (Iraq) said that there were those who said that
terrorism had been unleashed because of the occupation of Iraq and that it would
have been better not to take military action to remove Saddam Hussein. That was
nonsense, the kind of inverted logic that appealed to the feeble-minded. It was
the logic that blamed the doctor for the disease and the victim for the assault.
The new Iraq was wide open to all its citizens, their opinions and attitudes.

It was not enough to condemn terrorism, though that was an essential first step,
he said. The relevant questions now were to determine the nature of terrorism;
what lay behind it; what the terrorists wanted; whether they offered an
alternative that could be considered; and whether anything could be done or
undone to assuage their vindictiveness and violence.

A comprehensive definition of terrorism had eluded the United Nations so far, he
said. Some tended to confuse the struggle for self-determination with terrorism
and blurred the borders between them. Yet no struggle for independence and
self-determination targeted its own people, its own water and electricity supply
systems, its own hospitals, its own oil pipelines, humanitarian and aid workers
risking their lives to help their people, neutral United Nations personnel,
foreign diplomats, children, barbers for shaving beards, women for not covering
their heads, contractors and engineers repairing schools and bridges and
restaurant goers for simply being out with their families for a meal.

It should not be so hard to define the core segment of terrorism, he said. A
determined effort to agree on such a definition should be made. At a fundamental
level, terrorists wanted to change the world and believed that violence against
civilians was the most effective way to do so. Any notions that legitimized such
violence must be resolutely and collectively rejected, no matter in what
direction they sought to change the world. If such notions were accepted, there
could be no peace or security anywhere.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             August 5, 2005, Friday

WAR ON BRITAIN : VOLCANOES OF WRATH;
 BIN LADEN'S NO2 THREATENS MORE TERRORIST ATTACKS ON BRITAIN IN VIDEO

BYLINE: BY CHRIS HUGHES

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1070 words

HIGHLIGHT: MESSAGE: Bin Laden; RANT: Al-Zawahri on video next to Kalashnikov
rifle


OSAMA bin Laden's top henchman warned Britain in a video yesterday more terror
was on the way.

Ayman al-Zawahri, al-Qaeda's No2, ranted: "Blair has brought you destruction in
Central London, and God willing, will bring more destruction."

Bragging of exploding "volcanoes of wrath", the hate-filled fanatic with a
£14million bounty on his head said the terrorist bloodshed would continue until
the West quit the "land of Muhammad".

Warning the US it faced horrors that would drown those of Vietnam, he added:
"What you have seen in New York, Washington and Afghanistan, are only the
initial losses."

But last night the defiant message to Osama's deputy - believed to be holed up
in the badlands bordering Pakistan and Afghanistan - was "get back to your
cave".

Shrugging off the rant, Downing Street said Tony Blair will say there is no
"specific threat" of a new atrocity at a special press conference on terror
security today.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair said: "The situation in London is
not going to be changed by a video. What matters is making Londoners as safe as
possible."

Labour MP Peter Kilfoyle, a fierce anti-Iraq war critic, added: "The idea that
the British people would accede to threats of this sort is very wide of the
mark. Murderous groups like al-Qaeda are not in any position to make threats
against this country."

President Bush said at his ranch in Texas: "People like Zawahri have an ideology
that is dark, dim and backward. They're terrorists and killers. We'll stay the
course."

Al-Zawahri delivered his message of hate in a calm voice in a five-minute video
aired by Arab channel al-Jazeera.

It is the first official al-Qaeda comment since the 7/7 London bombings which
killed 52 innocents and came on the day the capital was turned into a fortress
as 4,000 uniformed officers formed a ring of steel around bus, train and tube
stations.

Pictured next to a Kalashnikov rifle, and wearing a white robe and black turban,
Egyptian-born al-Zawahri said: "Sheikh Osama offered you a truce to leave the
house of Islam. You, however, shed rivers of blood in our land so we exploded
volcanoes of anger in your land.

"You will not dream of security before all the infidel armies withdraw from the
land of Muhammad. There is no escape unless you stop stealing our oil and
supporting corrupt rulers." Repeatedly jabbing his finger al-Zawahri, believed
to be the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, promised that America would suffer
even worse casualties in Iraq.

He said: "If you continue the same hostile policies you will see horror to make
you forget the horrors you saw in Vietnam. There is no way out for Washington
except by immediate withdrawal.

"Any delay means more killing and losses. If you don't withdraw today you will
inevitably withdraw tomorrow, but only after scores of thousands of fatalities
and double that number of wounded."

Last night the tape was being studied by intelligence chiefs to see if it
yielded any clues to al-Zawahri's whereabouts.

It is at least the sixth video or audiotape he has released since 9/11. In the
last , in June, he called for an armed struggle to expel "crusaders and Jews"
from Muslim states and said peaceful change was impossible.

No 10 said today's press conference by Mr Blair would provide a chance for an
"update" on the latest terror situation.

It also emerged that the PM is expected to call an emergency cabinet meeting in
September to discuss new anti-terror laws.

It was expected the Cabinet would not meet again until October. There is now
speculation that Parliament could be recalled earlier to introduce new measures
against extremists.

Lib Dem foreign affairs spokesman Menzies Campbell said Downing Street was right
not to react to the al-Qaeda video.

He said: "We must not allow rhetoric to distract us from reality. No one should
be surprised that al-Qaeda would try to exploit the attacks on London."

Sir Ian Blair warned Londoners to continue to be alert, but not to be alarmed.
He said: "This is a huge city. We can take this. The fact we've had two attacks
makes a third more likely. We're going to do absolutely everything we possibly
can to combat these atrocities and find out who is responsible for them.

"The people we've got at the moment are broadly the foot soldiers. What we have
to find is who the organisers were. That's what we are working flat out to do."

Born into a wealthy Egyptian family, and later an accomplished eye surgeon,
al-Zawahri was arrested at 15 for being a member of Egypt's outlawed Muslim
Brotherhood.

By 1979 he was a recruiter and organiser for the radical Islamic Jihad
organisation. Two years later he was jailed after the the 1981 assassination of
President Anwar Sadat.

Al-Zawahri met bin Laden in 1985. Both fought the Soviet occupation in
Afghanistan. In 1999 he was tried in absentia for terrorist offences by an
Egyptian court and sentenced to death.

British and American intelligence chiefs believe a group of senior al-Qaeda
terror chiefs is holed up in southern Afghanistan.

Bin Laden's continued absence has prompted speculation he might already be dead.
He is believed to have a kidney illness.

The terror boss has not appeared on video since October 29 last year when he
taunted President Bush during his election campaign over 9/11. In the video he
admitted for the first time al-Qaeda was behind the massacre.

The New York Police Department has admitted making a mistake by releasing
details of the 7/7 London bombs. An official said it was believed the
information was cleared.

According to the police the bombers cooked up their explosives using mundane
items like hydrogen peroxide and citric acid.

Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said: "Initially it was thought the materials
were high-end military explosives. But it's likely these terrorists went to a
hardware store or some beauty supply store."

Respect MP George Galloway was yesterday accused of putting the lives of British
troops in Iraq at risk after described insurgents in the country as "martyrs".

Speaking on Syrian TV, Mr Galloway said: "Two of your beautiful daughters are in
the hands of foreigners - Jerusalem and Baghdad. The daughters are crying for
help."

Labour MP Eric Joyce, a former Army major, said: "Passing comments like this
devalues the lives of British soldiers."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             August 5, 2005, Friday

WAR ON BRITAIN: VOLCANOES OF WRATH;
 BIN LADEN'S NO2 THREATENS MORE TERRORIST ATTACKS ON BRITAIN IN VIDEO

BYLINE: BY CHRIS HUGHES

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1103 words

HIGHLIGHT: RANT: Al-Zawahri on video next to Kalashnikov rifle; MESSAGE: Bin
Laden


OSAMA bin Laden's top henchman warned Britain in a video yesterday more carnage
was on the way.

Slamming the West's war on terror Ayman al-Zawahri, al-Qaeda's No2, ranted: "As
for the English people, I tell them that Blair has brought you destruction in
Central London and, God willing, will bring more destruction."

Bragging of exploding "volcanoes of wrath", the hate-filled fanatic with a
£14million bounty on his head said the terrorist bloodshed would continue until
the West quit the "land of Muhammad".

He warned the US it faced horrors that would drown those of Vietnam, and added:
"What you have seen in New York, Washington and Afghanistan are only initial
losses."

But last night the defiant message to Osama's deputy - believed to be holed up
in badlands bordering Pakistan and Afghanistan - was "get back to your cave".

Shrugging off the rant, Downing Street said Tony Blair will say at a special
press conference on terror security today that there is no "specific threat" of
a new atrocity .

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair said: "The situation in London is
not going to be changed by a video. What matters is making Londoners safe as
possible."

Labour MP Peter Kilfoyle, a fierce Iraq war critic, added: "The idea that the
British people would accede to threats of this sort is very wide of the mark.
Murderous groups like al-Qaeda are not in any position to make threats against
this country."

President Bush said at his ranch in Texas: "People like Zawahri have an ideology
that is dark, dim and backward. They're terrorists and killers. We'll stay the
course."

Al-Zawahri delivered his message of hate in a calm voice in a five-minute video
aired by Arab channel al-Jazeera.

It is the first official al-Qaeda comment since the 7/7 London bombings which
killed 52 innocents and came on the day the capital was turned into a fortress.
Four thousand officers formed a ring of steel around bus, train and tube
stations.

Pictured next to a Kalashnikov rifle, and wearing a white robe and black turban,
Egyptian-born al-Zawahri referred to a truce offer made by bin Laden in April
next year.

He said: "Sheikh Osama offered you a truce to leave the house of Islam. You,
however, shed rivers of blood in our land. So we exploded volcanoes of wrath in
your land. You will not dream of security before all the infidel armies withdraw
from the land of Muhammad. There is no escape unless you stop stealing our oil
and wealth and stop supporting corrupt (Arab) rulers."

Repeatedly jabbing his finger al-Zawahri, believed to be the mastermind of the
9/11 attacks, promised that America would suffer even worse casualties in Iraq.

He said: "If you continue the same hostile policies you will see, God willing,
horror to make you forget the horrors you saw in Vietnam. There is no way out
for Washington except by immediate withdrawal.

"Any delay means more killing and losses. If you don't withdraw today you will
inevitably withdraw tomorrow - but only after scores of thousands of fatalities
and double that number of wounded."

Al-Zawahri stopped short of claiming responsibility for the London attacks. Last
night his tape was being studied to see if it yielded any clues to his
whereabouts. A US official said: "The clear assumption is that it is indeed him.
There's never been a fake tape."

It is at least the sixth video or audiotape al-Zawahri has released since 9/11.
In the last, in June, he called for an armed struggle to expel "crusaders and
Jews" from Muslim states and said peaceful change was impossible.

No 10 said today's press conference by Mr Blair would provide a chance for an
"update" on the latest terror situation.

The Prime Minister is expected to call an emergency Cabinet meeting in September
to discuss new anti-terror laws.

As it was expected the Cabinet would not meet again until October there is now
speculation that Parliament could be recalled early to introduce tough new
measures.

Lib Dem foreign affairs spokesman Menzies Campbell said Downing Street was right
not to react to the al-Qaeda video.

He said: "We must not allow rhetoric to distract us from reality. No one should
be surprised that al-Qaeda would try to exploit the attacks on London." Sir Ian
Blair warned Londoners to be alert, but not to be alarmed. He said: "This is a
huge city. We can take this.

"The fact we've had two attacks makes a third more likely. We're going to do
everything we can to combat these atrocities and find out who's responsible for
them.

"The people we've got at the moment are broadly foot soldiers. What we have to
find is who the organisers were. That's what we're working flat out to do."

Born into a wealthy Egyptian family, and later an accomplished eye surgeon,
al-Zawahri was arrested at 15 for being a member of Egypt's outlawed Muslim
Brotherhood.

By 1979 he was a recruiter and organiser for the radical Islamic Jihad
organisation. Two years later he was jailed after the 1981 assassination of
President Anwar Sadat.

He met Bin Laden in 1985 and both fought the Soviet occupation in Afghanistan.
In 1999 he was sentenced to death by an Egyptian court in his absence for
terrorist offences.

Intelligence chiefs believe al-Qaeda terror chiefs are holed up in southern
Afghanistan.

Some believe Bin Laden may already be dead. He is believed to have a kidney
illness.

The terror boss has not appeared on video since October last year when he
taunted Bush over 9/11 during the US election campaign. In the video he admitted
for the first time that al-Qaeda was behind the massacre.

New York's Police Department "regrets" making a mistake by releasing details of
the 7/7 London bombs. An official said it was believed the information was
cleared.

According to the police the bombers cooked up their explosives using everyday
items like hydrogen peroxide and citric acid.

Police chief Raymond Kelly said: "At first it was thought the materials were
high-end military explosives. But it's likely the terrorists went to a hardware
or beauty store."

Respect MP George Galloway was yesterday accused of putting the lives of British
troops in Iraq at risk after he described insurgents in the country as
"martyrs".

Speaking on Syrian TV, Mr Galloway said: "Two of your beautiful daughters are in
the hands of foreigners - Jerusalem and Baghdad. The daughters are crying for
help."

Labour MP Eric Joyce, a former Army major, said: "Passing comments like this
devalues the lives of British soldiers."

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

c.hughes@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             August 5, 2005, Friday

AS AL-QAEDA WARNS OF MORE TERROR ATTACKS IN BRITAIN..OUR MESSAGE FOR BIN LADEN'S
DEPUTY: WHY DON'T YOU CRAWL BACK INTO YOUR CAVE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 30 words

EVIL: Al-Qaeda No2 Ayman al-Zawahri threatens more terrorist outrages in Britain
in a video released yesterday

VOLCANOES OF WRATH: PAGES 4 & 5 FORTRESS BRITAIN: PAGES 6 & 7

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 August 5, 2005

Terror rise in race attacks

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 242 words


Race-related offences have increased dramatically in Derbyshire since the
terrorist attack on London on July 7 this year. Between July 8 and 31 there were
52 racially aggravated offences recorded in the county, compared with 32 during
the same period last year.

That contrasts sharply with annual figures, which show a total of 474 reported
racially aggravated offences between April 1, 2004, and March 31, 2005, down
from 600 last year.

Derbyshire Assistant Chief Constable Mick Creedon said: "It's fair to say that
since the events in London there has been a rise in tension across the UK
between our different communities. These are very difficult times.

"But thankfully in Derbyshire we have seen a lot of understanding and
cooperation.

"Although the July figures do show a rise compared with the monthly average for
last year, this must be seen in the context of the relatively low numbers of
offences." "I am pleased our communities have the confidence to report to us
when they have been victimised on the basis of race although I abhor such
attacks.

He added: "We've not suffered any serious assaults or damage incidents and many
of the crimes we've recorded relate to verbal abuse or low level criminal
damage.

"As a force we've been very clear that incidents of victimisation of any
community will not be tolerated and any incidents of racial or religious crime
reported to the police will be responded to swiftly."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    © Copyright 2005 Nottingham Evening Post

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Retail Week

                             August 5, 2005 Friday

Waitrose bounces back after terror attacks

SECTION: ARTICLE; Sectors - Food; Sectors - General Merchandise; News

LENGTH: 175  words



HIGHLIGHT: Department stores faring less well


John Lewis Partnership has said year-on-year sales for the week ending July 23
rose by 9.6 per cent, largely thanks to Waitrose gains. However, the department
store division reported rise of just 0.9 per cent. The group racked up sales of
£104.5 million for the week, with Waitrose growing 16.2 per cent year on year,
largely on increased selling space. Cumulative half-year figures to date paint a
less positive picture, with department store sales down year on year by 1.6 per
cent. Waitrose's cumulative half-year sales are up 16.7 per cent, bringing group
gains to 9.5 per cent for the same period.The retailer said the department store
business enjoyed a lift in footfall, boosted by the cooler weather. Waitrose
benefited from sales of seasonal products such as skin care and barbecues.
However, it said sales suffered as a result of the ongoing terrorist incidents
in central London. The retailer said: 'The further terrorist incidents on
Thursday [July 21] caused further disruption to transport, to which partners
once again responded admirably.'

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Retail Week


                            Copyright 2005 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             August 7, 2005, Sunday

THE ATTACKS ON LONDON: THE COST OF TERROR

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 253 words


£320

Whitewater rafting course in North Wales where the alleged terrorists 'bonded'
before 7 July bombings.

£401.45

Transport costs for four alleged bombers on 7 July including hire car, parking,
return train tickets from Luton and four travelcards.

£1,236

The cost of four medical cool-boxes and four large rucksacks to store explosives
on 7 July.

£1,700

Cost of the raw materials for around 50kg of explosive, the amount used on 7
July.

£2,025

Cost of a commercial fridge to keep the explosives stable before the first
bombing.

£11,000

Government compensation to families for each dead victim.

£25,000

Housing benefits claimed by Stockwell 21 July bombing suspect Yasin Hassan Omar.

£100,000

Amount donated to London Bombings Relief Charitable Fund by Stagecoach,
operators of the No 30 bus.

£560,000

Compensation allegedly offered to the parents of Brazilian Jean Charles de
Menezes, shot eight times by police on 22 July.

£8m

Amount raised so far by the London Bombings Relief Charitable Fund.

£10m

Money lost in hotel bookings in comparison with last year.

£11m

Lost ticket sales on the London Underground.

£40m

Losses reported by London restaurants.

£43m

The amount spent on extra policing for the capital.

£150m

Money lost from London tourism.

£300m

Money lost from UK tourism in the three-week period after the bombings.

£1.6bn

Lost revenue recorded from central London retailers.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             August 7, 2005, Sunday

THE ATTACKS ON LONDON: LATEST JULY TERROR SUSPECT TO FACE CHARGES

BYLINE: BY SEVERIN CARRELL AND LAUREN VEEVERS

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 616 words


One of the suspects in the failed London bombings was charged last night with
conspiracy to murder and possessing explosives.

Yassin Omar is accused of attempting to detonate a bomb on the Tube at Warren
Street station on 21 July before escaping.

The 24-year-old Somalian was arrested in a dramatic raid in Birmingham on 27
July when police felled him using a Taser stun gun.

The charges against him accuse Omar of conspiring with others to 'murder
passengers on the Transport for London system' and that he 'unlawfully or
maliciously made or had in his possession or under his control an explosive
substance with intent by means thereof to endanger life or cause serious injury
to property'.

He is due to appear at Bow Street Magistrates Court, London, tomorrow.

All four of the would-be suicide bomb suspects are held by police. Muktar
Said-Ibrahim, 27, accused of the failed Hackney bus bombing, and Ramzi Mohammed,
suspected of attempting the Oval Tube bombing, were captured in raids in west
London on July 29.

Italian police arrested Hussain Osman, alleged to be the would-be bomber of a
train at Shepherd's Bush, west London, in Rome. The police expect him to be
extradited within days.

The charges followed the disclosure that three militant Islamists, including the
founder of al-Muhajirioun, Omar Bakri Mohammed, face prosecution under existing
laws for allegedly inciting attacks on Britain and on British troops in Iraq
last week.

The Attorney General, Lord Goldsmith, and Director of Public Prosecutions, Ken
Macdonald, are scrutinising their remarks in television interviews. The law
officers are considering common law offences of treason, incitement to treason
and solicitation to murder, as well as offences of witholding information about
terrorism and soliciting people to withhold information under the 2000 and 2001
Terrorism Acts.

Two of the men, Abu Izzaden and Abu Uzair, appeared on a BBC Newsnight
programme.

Omar Bakri Mohammed, a Jordanian closely linked to several of Britain's most
militant Islamist groups, suggested in one Channel Four interview that it was
acceptable for Muslims to attack British and American troops in Iraq.

He also appeared to condone acts of terror in Britain by foreign Muslims on the
grounds they believed they were under attack in their home countries.

Tony Blair has already disclosed that he is seeking sweeping new powers to crack
down on Islamist hardliners and al-Qa'ida supporters in Britain. After the 7
July and 21 July bombings, he said, 'the rules have changed'.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair has confirmed the police expect
to seize up to 20 alleged terror suspects, both foreign-born and British, if
Tony Blair's proposed new powers come into force.

Three men appeared in court yesterday charged under the Terrorism Act 2000 with
failing to disclose information about the botched London suicide bombings.

Shadi Sami Abdel Gadir, 22, and Omar Nagmeloin Almagboul, 20, both of Fairways
Dyke Road, Brighton, and Mohamed Kabashi, 23, of no fixed abode, were arrested
last Wednesday.

Eleven people remain in police custody as part of the investigation into the 21
July attacks, including three of the alleged bombers.

On Friday, Mr Osman's wife and sister-in-law were in court and denied
allegations that they failed to disclose information about his activities.

With the Metropolitan Police suffering fatigue after four weeks of anti- terror
operations, Sir Ian has said he wants to recruit up to 400 extra armed officers.
These would be spread across the force's armed units. Scotland Yard is now
preparing itself for a long anti-terrorist campaign.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 August 7, 2005

Saudis warned UK of attacks: *Calls link terror group to Leeds cell * Bomb plans
'sent to MI5 and MI6'

BYLINE: by Martin Bright, Antony Barnett and Mohammed Alkhereiji

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 533 words


SAUDI ARABIA officially warned Britain of an imminent terrorist attack on London
just weeks ahead of the 7 July bombings after calls from one of al-Qaeda's most
wanted operatives were traced to an active cell in the United Kingdom.

Senior Saudi security sources have confirmed they are investigating whether
calls from Kareem al-Majati, last year named as one of al-Qaeda's chiefs in the
Gulf kingdom, were made directly to the British ringleader of the 7 July bomb
plotters.

One senior Saudi security official told The Observer that calls to Britain
intercepted from a mobile phone belonging to Majati earlier this year revealed
that an active terror group was at work in the UK and planning an attack.

He also said that calls from Majati's lieutenant and al-Qaeda's logistics
expert, Younes al-Hayari, who was killed in a separate shoot-out just four days
before the 7 July bombings, have also been traced to Britain.

The Saudi official said: 'It was clear there was a terror group planning an
attack in the UK. We passed this information to MI5 and MI6 at the time. We are
investigating whether these calls were directly to the London bombers. It is our
conclusion that either these were linked or that a different terror network is
at large in Britain.'

Majati, a Moroccan based in Saudi Arabia, was killed in a shoot-out with Saudi
police in April. He is believed to have masterminded the May 2003 attacks on
Casablanca and has also been named in connection with the March 2004 Madrid
bombings.

Saudi Arabia's ambassador to the UK, Prince Turki al-Faisal, last night issued a
statement confirming that discussions had taken place between British and Saudi
officials earlier this year.

A statement from his office said: 'There was certainly close liaison between the
Saudi Arabian intelligence authorities and the British intelligence authorities
some months ago when information was passed to Britain about a heightened
terrorist threat to London.'

It is not believed that any specific information was given, but that details
were passed on of calls, emails and text messages between an al-Qaeda cell
operating in Saudi Arabia and a group in the UK.

Italian investigators into the failed London bomb attack on 21 July revealed
last week they had traced a call from Hussain Osman, a suspect held in Rome, to
Saudi Arabia.

The statements from the Saudi regime are likely to shift the focus of the
investigation into the London bombings from Pakistan to Saudi Arabia, the
birthplace of Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda.

If it emerges that a top international Islamic terrorist was in direct contact
with 30-year-old Mohammed Siddiqui Khan, the leader of the Leeds cell which
killed 56 people, it will also suggest that the bombings were more closely
connected to the international terror organisation than previously thought.

However, if information passed to Britain from Saudi Arabia turns out to lead to
the Leeds ringleader, then British security services will have to explain why
they failed to act.

British security sources last night denied they received any warnings of a
specific attack on London that could have averted the July tragedy.


LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             August 7, 2005, Sunday

HUGE SECURITY NET AT BALMORAL AFTER TERROR ATTACK ALERT

BYLINE: BY DEAN ROUSEWELL ROYAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 360 words

HIGHLIGHT: HIGH ALERT: Troops guarding Balmoral yesterday as part of massive
security boost; AT RISK: Queen yesterday


A MASSIVE security net has been thrown round the Queen and other royals amid
fears of a possible terror attack during their summer break at Balmoral.

The level of protection at the remote and exposed 55,000 acre estate is
"unprecedented", a senior aide told The People.

More than 100 SOLDIERS are being put on patrols - double the usual number.

Crack ANTI-TERROR COPS have joined Royal Protection officers.

RAF TORNADO JETS will be on notice at Scottish airbases throughout the Queen's
eight-week stay.

And security will be stepped up even further when Prince William joins his grand
parents after returning from Africa with girlfriend Kate Middleton.

Prince Harry is also expected to visit during his break from Sandhurst. A source
revealed: "Balmoral is normally a low-key break, but after the terror attacks on
London it is entirely different this time.

"The amount of protection, both from the military and the police, is
unprecedented.

"There will be more than 100 soldiers involved in patrols - double the usual
number - and that reflects the level of concern about security."

The troops will be specially selected from two Scottish regiments - Black Watch
and the Royal Scots. Normally only one regiment is involved.

The source added: "There is an armed guard at the gates of the Castle and the
entire estate will be under round-the-clock surveillance.

"Balmoral is very open and could be seen as an easier target than somewhere like
Buckingham Palace. Absolutely nothing is being left to chance."

The Queen has been made aware of the heightened alert and "fully understands"
the reasons for it.

She has spent the past week at nearby Craigowan Lodge but is due to arrive at
Balmoral this weekend.

Last month she cancelled her traditional stay at the Palace of Holyroodhouse in
Edinburgh because of security worries over the G8 summit.

The bill for guarding the Queen at Balmoral last year was £1.2million, with
Grampian police spending £23,000 a week providing 40 officers for royal
security.

Our source revealed: "The figure will be much higher this year. The manpower
involved is huge."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             August 7, 2005, Sunday

Blair's extremism proposals attacked as the hunt continues for terror's new
breed

BYLINE: David Leppard and Robert Winnett

SECTION: Features; News; 12

LENGTH: 1990 words


Behind Tony Blair's crackdown on Muslim extremism there is a realisation that
Britain faces an elusive new enemy with no overall command, report David Leppard
and Robert Winnett

Last Friday, before leaving for his annual summer holiday, Tony Blair unveiled
an unexpectedly radical set of measures designed to stamp out Muslim extremism.

He announced that new laws would be introduced to deport extremist Muslim
clerics without appeal, close down mosques preaching hate, ban certain Muslim
groups and create a new offence of glorifying terrorism in Britain or abroad.

Terrorist control orders, which limit the movements and meetings of suspected
terrorists, would also be extended to cover British nationals.

As he did so, senior police and counter-terrorism sources revealed some of the
thinking that lay behind this clampdown.

They said they had found no evidence linking the four July 7 London bombers to
Al-Qaeda or any other known terrorist organisation. Instead, investigators
involved in the painstaking reconstruction of the lives of the men have
provisionally concluded they were "unaffiliated terrorists" who were most likely
inspired rather than directed by Al-Qaeda.

A Special Branch report circulated to senior police commanders last week is also
said to have concluded there was "no control" over the two groups of men from
any known terrorist commander.

In stark contrast to initial views that the attacks were centrally organised by
the Al-Qaeda leadership under Osama Bin Laden, it now appears that both cells
may have been "self-starters"; do-it-yourself groups of radicalised young men
who decided to express their faith by plotting to blow themselves up, killing
dozens of others in the process.

The conclusion is that the two plots were not linked, but appear to have
surfaced almost entirely independently.

As one of the country's most senior police officers put it last week: "It would
seem that these men just appear to have got together by themselves and gone out
there to do evil."

While surprising and still provisional, this assessment of the July attacks is
the latest manifestation of an emerging consensus about the new Al-Qaeda threat
to Britain.

This has far-reaching implications for the ability of the security services to
win the war on terror. In the campaign against the IRA, a key strategy was
infiltration of the republican command structure.

If the new terrorist enemy has no such structure, where does the fight begin?
Indeed, who and where is the enemy? It is so atomised it is invisible.

The new breed of unaffiliated terrorist is potentially far more dangerous than
the IRA or even Al-Qaeda because he is almost impossible to identify.

It also explains why the July 7 and July 21 attacks caught MI5 off guard, with
none of the attackers on the intelligence radar. The gap -between what the
security services know and what they need to know in order to prevent the next
atrocity -has dramatically widened.

Out of this dilemma has arisen the political decision to curtail Britain's
traditions of free speech and to stamp down hard on people accused of inspiring
the unaffiliated terrorists.

The prime minister said he was prepared to amend the Human Rights Act, if
necessary, so that judges would be unable to overrule the plan to deport
extremists. This may involve lengthy wranglings in Europe, which has established
a pan-European system of rights.

At a press conference in Downing Street, Blair said: "If people want to come
here, either fleeing persecution or seeking a better life, they play by our
rules and our way of life. If they don't, they are going to have to go because
they are threatening our people and way of life. Coming to Britain is not a
right. And even when people come here, staying here carries with it a duty."

The proposals sparked predictable condemnation from opposition politicians,
Muslim and human rights groups. The consensus between these groups on the
response to the July terror attacks is now at risk. Liberty, the human rights
group, said that the "fundamental rights of a democracy cannot be changed
because we are provoked by terrorists".

Charles Kennedy, the leader of the Liberal Democrats, said yesterday that "the
prime minister talks about how the mood has changed. I think undoubtedly he is
correct.

"But you can't just legislate by mood. Britain is an international signatory to
human rights and anti-torture conventions, and its legal system has a good
international reputation. Are we going to send people back to countries where
they will face torture, imprisonment, death and so on?"

The Conservatives said they broadly supported the thrust of the proposals and
would consider their response when the measures were put before parliament in
the autumn.

Kennedy's concerns were echoed by Muslim leaders and groups. Dr Mohammed Naseem,
chairman of Birmingham's central mosque, was the most outspoken, comparing Blair
to Adolf Hitler.

"He (Hitler) was democratically elected and gradually created a bogey identity -
that is, the Jewish people -and posed to the Germans that they were a threat to
the country," Naseem said.

"On that basis, he started a process of the elimination of Jewish people. I see
the similarities. Everything moves step by step. I am saying these are dangerous
times and we must take note of this."

Even moderate Muslim groups that had been liaising closely with the government
protested. Inayat Bunglawala, spokesman for the Muslim Council of Britain,
described the measures as a "mixed bag, some of which will cause concern and
heighten anxiety across the Muslim community. There has been no recognition that
his policies have contributed to a radicalisation of the Muslim community; the
Iraq war has caused immense damage".

Tahir Butt, spokesman for the Muslim Safety Forum which liaises with the police,
said: "This is where the government has been heading all along: Al-Qaeda claims
responsibility for the attacks and Blair targets British Muslims."

Legal experts have also questioned the viability of the proposals.

Alex Bailin, a barrister specialising in human rights law at Matrix Chambers,
which has represented suspected foreign terrorists, said: "It is not possible to
derogate from it (the Human Rights Act), even in a public emergency threatening
the life of the nation. The only legal option, theoretically, would be for the
UK to deratify the whole convention. That would involve us legally withdrawing
from Europe, as respect for the convention is a condition of membership of the
Council of Europe."

He added that the courts would be unlikely to accept assurances that deportees
would not be tortured.

As the lawyers and politicians argue, the hunt for the scattered terrorist cells
goes on. In the operations room at Thames House, the MI5 headquarters, more than
500 intelligence officers have spent the past month working round the clock to
unpick the clues that led to July 7.

They are poring over the minutiae of the lives of Mohammad Sidique Khan, Shehzad
Tanweer, Hasib Mir Hussain and Germaine Lindsay, who blew themselves up on three
Tube trains and a bus in London, murdering 52 people and injuring 700 others.

By far the biggest intelligence inquiry of its kind, its job has been to draw up
"concentric circles" around their lives to try to reconstruct the nexus of
associations they built up before the attack.

Their inquiries are hampered by the discovery that the men and their associates
lived in a milieu of multiple aliases and addresses, false asylum claims and
benefit frauds. One report yesterday said police were investigating claims that
the suspected July 21 attackers allegedly collected more than £500,000 in
benefits.

In Rome, investigators looking into the role of Hamdi Isaac, also known as
Hussain Osman, one of the key suspects in the July 21 attacks who was arrested
after he fled, have reached the conclusion that these attacks were probably
unconnected to any larger terrorism network.

Their findings appear to confirm a new analysis of the threat from Al-Qaeda that
has emerged in the past two years. On this view the senior leadership group
around Osama Bin Laden has been isolated and disrupted by successes in the
West's war on terror. This has undermined its ability to have operational
control over individuals and attack planning.

Instead Bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri, his so-called "deputy", have become
propagandists rather than operational leaders for the proliferating Islamist
terror cells now emerging in the West.

Officials and experts say their analysis is supported by the release last
Thursday of a chilling video in which al- Zawahiri warned that Blair's
involvement in the war in Iraq "brought you destruction in central London and
will bring you more destruction".

Commentators note that al-Zawahiri did not claim direct credit for ordering the
attacks. "I tend to think that it's not Al-Qaeda linked but Al-Qaeda inspired,"
said Rime Allaf, a Middle East expert at Chatham House, the foreign affairs
think tank.

Explaining the shift to a new type of Al-Qaeda threat, officials refer to the
way MI5 has reclassified Al-Qaeda- related terrorism into three categories. The
first is the "Al-Qaeda core": Bin Laden and his chiefs who directly commanded
attacks such as the September 11, 2001, bombings in America.

The second tier involves "Al-Qaeda affiliates": locally run groups such as those
led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi in Iraq or the Moroccan Combat Group, which was
behind the Casablanca suicide attacks in 2003.

These are structured terrorist organisations that work as local "franchises" -
sub- contractors -to Al-Qaeda.

Beneath them is a third tier of Al-Qaeda "followers" who are not affiliated to
any group. These can be loners or they could be larger groups that appear to
have goaded themselves into action.

The provisional assessment now circulating in Whitehall is that the two alleged
cells behind the July 7 and 21 attacks appear to belong to this third level.

"The killer evidence that points to a known Al-Qaeda operative or any
operational command from Al-Qaeda is just not there," a senior intelligence
official said. "We want to keep an open mind, but at this stage it looks like
they may have been unaffiliated."

Not all analysts agree that the July 7 bombers were unaffiliated.

M J Gohel, a leading expert on Islamist terrorism, believes that while
individuals can be inspired by the message of the global jihad -or holy war
-cells of four, five or six individuals do not spontaneously come together
without any kind of "guiding hand".

He believes the two cells must have been drawn together by an Al-Qaeda
recruiting agent.

Nonetheless, he is clear that a defining characteristic of the new threat, the
growth of potentially dozens of home-grown cells throughout the West, presents a
real escalation in the nature of the terrorist threat. "Al-Qaeda and its global
jihadi friends have been one step ahead of us ... While we are watching and
sealing our borders, Al-Qaeda and the global jihadi movement has penetrated into
western society ... We are into a new dimension," he said.

BLAIR'S TERROR CRACKDOWN.

* New powers to deport suspected terrorists or those involved with extremist
groups.

* Powers to close places of worship.

* Anyone with links to terrorism automatically refused asylum.

* New international database of people whose views represent a threat to
Britain, who will be banned.

* Wider grounds for banning extremist groups including Hizbut-Tahrir and Al
Muhajiroun.

* Strip citizenship from naturalised Britons engaged in extremism.

* New offence of glorifying terrorism in Britain or abroad.

* Extend use of terrorist control orders to British nationals.

* New commission to examine the future of the policy of multiculturalism.


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Focus

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   AFX - Asia

                       August 8, 2005 Monday 1:01 PM GMT

Singapore PM says citizens must be prepared for terror attack

LENGTH: 164 words


SINGAPORE (AFX) - Singaporeans must be psychologically prepared for a terrorist
attack following the recent bombings in London and the Egyptian resort of Sharm
el-Sheikh, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said.

In a televised address on the eve of Singapore's 40th anniversary of
independence, the former brigadier-general said 'despite many years of peace, we
must remain vigilant against threats to our security.'

'The bombings in London and in Egypt remind us that the war on terror continues,
and despite the tightest precautions, the terrorists sometimes get through,' he
said.

'We must be psychologically prepared for this, so that if they ever strike here
we will be resolute and indomitable, refusing to be cowed by the terrorists and
staying one united people,' he added without going into details.

Local security officials say Singapore, a staunch US ally, is high on the list
of targets of Islamic extremists belonging to the Jemaah Islamiyah, said to have
links with Al-Qaeda.

rc/sm/zr

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                       August 8, 2005 Monday 2:51 AM GMT

All alleged bombers charged over London terror attacks

LENGTH: 311 words


LONDON (AFX) - The prime suspects behind the failed July 21 bomb attacks on
London are due to appear in court today, as a key suspect in the more deadly
blasts two weeks earlier was deported to Britain from Zambia.

Scotland Yard said late yesterday it had charged three men, including two of the
suspected July 21 bombers, with attempted murder, conspiracy to murder and
possession of explosives, after charging a first suspect on Saturday.

The new charges mean that all the key suspects in the failed attacks have now
been charged: three in Britain plus Hamdi Issac, also known as Hussain Osman,
who has been indicted in Italy and is awaiting extradition proceedings.

All are to appear before a judge in a high security prison over the bombings
which gave the British capital its first taste of violent Islamist extremism,
blamed by many on Britain's military presence in Iraq.

A total of 39 arrests have been carried out in Britain in connection with the
London attacks.

Meanwhile, Haroon Aswat, a Briton apprehended in Zambia two weeks ago reportedly
wanted in connection with the deadly July 7 bomb attacks in London, was arrested
on his arrival in Britain on Sunday after being deported from Lusaka, Scotland
Yard announced.

He has been named in US and British media reports as the alleged mastermind
behind the July 7 blasts that killed 56 people including the four suicide
bombers, but this has not been confirmed by British police.

US media said on July 22, the day after four abortive attacks on London's
transport system, that US police and intelligence agencies were taking part in
the hunt for Aswat.

They said that the four suicide bombers behind the July 7 attacks had made about
20 calls to him on his mobile telephone.

British newspapers have reported that Aswat had told his captors he was once a
bodyguard for Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.

paj-dlm/jmy/mt/gf/dk

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             August 8, 2005, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: SAUDIS 'WARNED UK ABOUT ATTACK PLAN

SECTION: First Edition; SPORT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 363 words

HIGHLIGHT: Prince Turki al-Faisal


Saudi Arabian officials claimed they warned Britain that a terror attack on the
UK was being planned weeks ahead of the July 7 bombs, according to reports.

One security official in Riyadh was quoted as saying that information was passed
to MI5 and MI6, the secret security and intelligence services.

And the Sunday Telegraph quoted the Saudi ambassador to the UK, Prince Turki
al-Faisal, as saying that details of a possible plot to attack London - believed
to have been obtained from terror suspects under interrogation in the desert
kingdom - had been given to British intelligence.

However, security sources played down the reports. The Observer quoted one
source as 'categorically' denying that any specific information had been
received that could have averted the July 7 attacks.

The source said they 'did not recognise' the details of the Saudi claims.

Saudi security sources are said to be investigating whether two al-Qaida
operatives were in phone contact with a British ringleader of the July 7 bomb
plotters.

Money transfers are believed to have been made from Saudi Arabia to the UK in
the first six months of the year through businesses in the two countries, it was
reported.

The papers reported that the investigations revolve around Moroccans Kareem
al-Majati and Younes al-Hayari, both alleged to be senior figures in al-Qaida
and both killed in separate shoot-outs in Saudi Arabia.

A Saudi official was quoted as saying: 'It was clear to us that there was a
terror group planning an attack'.

The official said that investigations were under way into whether calls made by
the two Moroccans to the UK were directly to the London bombers.

'It is our conclusion that either these were linked or that a completely
different terror network is still at large in Britain,' he added.

Prince Turki was quoted as saying in a statement: 'There was certainly close
liaison between the Saudi Arabian intelligence authorities and the British
intelligence authorities when information was passed to Britain about a
heightened terrorist threat to London.'

Neither the Foreign Office nor the Home Office would comment on the reports

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             August 8, 2005, Monday

ATTACKS IN LONDON: TERROR BACKERS FACE TREASON CHARGES

BYLINE: BY GENEVIEVE ROBERTS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 287 words


Islamic extremists who have voiced support for terror could be charged with
treason, the Crown Prosecution Service has said.

The CPS's head of anti-terrorism will meet senior officers at Scotland Yard this
week, the attorney general's office confirmed.

They will discuss possible charges against Omar Bakri Mohammed, who has said he
would not inform police if he knew Muslims were plotting a bomb attack, Abu
Izzadeen, who told Newsnight the 7 July bombs will make people 'wake up and
smell the coffee' and Abu Uzair, who called 11 September 'magnificent'.

Prosecutors may also seek access to tapes made by the undercover Sunday Times
reporter who recorded members of the radical Saviour Sect praising the 7 July
bombers as 'the fantastic four'. Possible charges which will be considered
include the common-law offences of treason, incitement to treason, solicitation
of murder and incitement to withhold information known to be of use to police.

Muslim representatives responded angrily. Shaykh Muhammad Umar, the chairman of
the Ramadhan Foundation, which addresses the educational needs of Muslims in the
UK, said: 'The solution is not to ban these organisations, it is to engage with
them. We need to have dialogue with these groups, not alienate them. If you
start banning them and putting them in prison we're not going to get anywhere.'

Criticising the ban on two radical Islamist groups, Hizb-ut-Tahrir and
al-Muhajiroun, Ramadhan Foundation spokesman Mohammed Shafiq said: 'Banning the
more radical views from this country will simply send those groups underground;
it won't get rid of them'.

He was speaking at the Muslim Unity Convention 2005, held at Manchester's
Bridgewater Hall.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             August 8, 2005, Monday

MARKED MAN;
 GUN ATTACK VICTIM WAS ON TERROR GANG'S DEATH LIST

BYLINE: BY KEVIN MCDONNELL

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 466 words

HIGHLIGHT: CRIME SCENE: Police and soldiers patrol area around Glenside Park;
LOYALIST: Ulster flag defines the local territory


THE man shot in Belfast yesterday was an alleged LVF gangster.

Loyalist sources revealed that Lawrence Kincaid was the No1 target on the UVF's
death list as the feud between the groups spirals out of control.

One theory is that Kincaid, 32, was on his way to confront another man after a
row exploded in a club earlier.

His would-be assassin ambushed him with a shotgun before he could meet the man
he had had the row with.

Kincaid - also known as "Duffer" - was shot a number of times in the chest in
Glenside Park, North Belfast, after disturbances in the Crumlin road area at
around 6.00am yesterday.

A woman was taken to hospital suffering from severe shock.

Two men were later arrested under the Terrorism Act and another two for
attempted murder.

One was later released without charge.

The loyalist, who has a three-week-old daughter, was on bail on charges of
possessing 16,000 ecstasy tablets after police uncovered drugs at his parents'
house in November.

A firm friend of ousted UDA terror chief Johnny Adair, Kincaid was also
reportedly a close associate of Jameson Lockhart, who was murdered by the UVF in
July.

Kincaid was last night under guard at the Royal Victoria Hospital after a
loyalist mob had earlier gathered at the Mater Hospital in North Belfast as
doctors battled to save his life.

The UVF thugs, faces covered with scarves, tried to force their way into the
hospital but were held back by police.

One witness said: "They had baseball caps and scarves on. They were determined
to get into the Mater.

"People were screaming and running down Crumlin Road. Thank God the police held
these men back."

To date Kincaid has been the most senior loyalist targeted in the turf war
between the two loyalist factions. He was the intended target of a UVF murder
bid at the end of July. A number of shots were fired through the windows of a
house at Ypres Park, Newtownabbey.

The UVF leadership has vowed to "wipe out" its rival paramilitary group for
good.

Yesterday's shooting follows the murder of Stephen Paul last week. He was
blasted by a UVF death squad as he sat in a van on Wheatfield Crescent, in North
Belfast.

He was the third man to be murdered since the feud began.

It is believed that LVF drug dealers continue to operate in loyalist areas
controlled by the UVF despite the deadly war.

One UVF source said he could see no end to the killing spree until the LVF
"leaves the stage".

He added: "The choice for them is a simple. They either go or get wiped out.

"The UVF has pulled back from the edge in the past but not now. Mediation won't
work."

Meanwhile, Army bomb experts were called to examine a viable explosive device at
Brookfield Mill, which was taken away for forensic examination.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 August 9, 2005

Oil hits $ 64 a barrel and sends petrol prices soaring: US shuts all its
missions in Saudi Arabia * Retailers hit as terror attacks and bad weather keep
shoppers away

BYLINE: Ashley Seager

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 606 words


Oil prices set new records on both sides of the Atlantic yesterday after the
United States shut its embassy in Saudi Arabia in response to fears of an
attack.

The kingdom is crucial to oil supplies since it is the world's largest exporter,
pumping 10m barrels a day of crude, or one in every seven barrels consumed
globally.

The effect of high prices also pushed petrol to a record high. Last week the AA
said the price of a litre of unleaded was more than the £1 mark in some areas
and warned there was little chance of prices coming down. The average is now
near 90p.

Washington said it had shut its diplomatic missions in Riyadh and elsewhere in
the country for two days because of a security threat, while Britain and
Australia warned of possible attacks by militants in the country.

"There are credible reports that terrorists are in the final stages of planning
attacks," the British embassy said in Riyadh. The Australian government warned
its nationals to avoid travel to the kingdom which last week buried King Fahd.

US light crude futures jumped a dollar and a half on the New York Mercantile
Exchange to a new all-time high of $ 64 a barrel. It settled back only slightly
down at $ 63.94. In London, Brent crude hit $ 62.76 for the first time and
settled at $ 62.70. Oil prices have more than doubled since last spring, driven
in part by demand from the US and China and in part by worries that global
supply could not keep up.

Prices rose last week on US refinery problems that took place in the middle of
the key summer motoring season. Stocks figures during the week showed petrol was
starting to run short as a result.

Reports yesterday that Iran, Opec's second largest oil exporter, had restarted
work on its nuclear programme, also added to the market's jitters.

While oil prices are at a record, they are still below the $ 80 a barrel in real
terms that they hit in 1979 after the second oil shock of the decade. After both
of those spikes the world economy went into recession, but it has not happened
this time, so far at least.

Economists say that the world's advanced economies are less dependent on oil
than in the past, while the current price spike has been driven by strong
demand, rather than a sudden interruption in supply, as happened in 1974 and
1979.

Big economies such as the US, China and other parts of Asia have carried on
growing in spite of the oil price rise. The eurozone, however, has been much
more sluggish and economists say oil is partly to blame. In Britain growth has
slowed, but it is not clear to what extent oil is responsible.

Data out yesterday revealed where some pain is being felt as the Office for
National Statistics said input costs - the price of the raw materials - had
risen at their fastest annual pace since records began, nearly 20 years ago.

Input prices rose 1.8% on the month in July giving an annual rate of 13.4%.
Although intense price competition has generally forced firms to take the higher
cost on their margins, yesterday's figures also showed an unexpectedly large
rise in so-called factory gate prices, up 0.7% on the month and 3% higher than a
year ago.

The stronger data pushed sterling to a one-month high against the dollar of $
1.7879 as markets began to wonder if the Bank of England would now leave
interest rates steady for the rest of the year after it cut them to 4.5% last
week.

"Today's data serve as a timely reminder that inflationary pressures persist
despite the monetary policy committee's recent cut in interest rates," said
Robyn Barnett, an economist at UBS.

guardian.co.uk/oil


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 August 9, 2005

Tourist ad campaign falls victim to terror attacks

LENGTH: 359 words



HIGHLIGHT: 8am: A campaign to promote London as a tourist destination to the
rest of the UK has been cancelled in the wake of the terrorist bombings in July.
By Julia Day.


A campaign to promote London as a tourist destination to the rest of the UK has
been cancelled in the wake of the terrorist bombings in July.

Due to failing confidence about visiting the capital among Britons living
outside London, a marketing campaign promoting it as an ideal place to visit in
September will run no further afield than the capital itself and the south east.

The decision by tourism body Visit London comes after research it conducted into
Britons' attitudes towards travelling to and within the city post-July 7
revealed that many outside the capital were hesitant about visiting.

"We're not going to waste public money targeting people who are not ready to be
targeted. When there are still suspected terrorists on the loose, it's not the
right time to launch a campaign," said the Visit London marketing director,
Martine Ainsworth-Wells.

"It's a natural process for people to go through when they are not in the city
and can't see that everything is just working as usual... We need to rally the
domestic audience when they're ready to be rallied."

She said that the planned September campaign due to run across the UK, flagging
up free events and festivals throughout the month, would now only run within
London and the south east.

Instead the organisation will team up with train operators to offer cheap deals
on travel to London in October as the run-up to Christmas begins.

However, Ms Ainsworth-Wells said research abroad has found less reticence among
Europeans and Americans about visiting the capital and campaigns to promote the
city abroad will go ahead as planned.

In its bid to gauge the best way to market London after the terrorist attacks,
Visit Britain took advice from its counterparts in New York and Madrid, both
cities having suffered from terrorism.

"Both New York and Madrid tourism said .to. do nothing at first, let people come
to terms with what's happened before going into the marketplace and saying,
'Right, London's ready to get on'."

To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone
020 7239 9857

If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for
publication".

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                                 August 9, 2005

Firms not prepared for terror attacks

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 280 words


MORE than half of businesses in Preston have no contingency plan for a possible
terrorist attack, according to new research.


Business advisers Alexander and Co have conducted a study into firms'
preparation for unexpected attacks, fires or computer failures and revealed that
many firms are not prepared for the worst.


The research also showed that 63% lack any contingency plan in the event of such
an incident and 48% are not insured against the risks they perceive to be the
most damaging.


Alexander and Co partner Frank Atkinson said: "A business is at grave risk if
continuity procedures are not discussed and implemented before a disaster
strikes and, in the modern world, the huge potential for an interruption in the
normal business process is very real.


"It is important to prepare, but also to create an awareness of the continuity
processes, reinforcing individual roles and responsibilities, otherwise they
will not be worth having.


"What is equally concerning is that many businesses think that once a plan is in
place, the business is prepared for the unexpected - but this is not the case.


''It is imperative to regularly review the plan in order to minimise damage or
disruption caused by an incident.


"In addition to large-scale planning, simple yet effective measures should be
put into place, for example keeping a tidy desk and placing items in cupboards
will ensure that extra physical damage is prevented during a fire.


"Although threats come from a number of man-made or natural causes, other
disruptions can occur which do not always destroy a business's physical
surroundings.


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 August 9, 2005

TERROR ATTACK ON WESTERNERS

LENGTH: 23 words


BRITONS have been urged to steer clear of Saudi Arabia after "credible"
intelligence warnings of a terror attack on Westerners.


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 9, 2005, Tuesday

Saudi terror attacks fear sends oil prices soaring

BYLINE: Gary Duncan, Economics Editor

SECTION: Business; 39

LENGTH: 464 words


OIL prices leapt to new highs on both sides of the Atlantic yesterday after
British government warnings of threatened terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia
stoked fears over the security of crude supplies.

Crude prices surged upwards in London and New York after the British Embassy in
Riyadh said that militants could mount attacks in the Kingdom.

"There are credible reports that terrorists are in the final stages of planning
attacks," an advisory notice posted on the embassy's website said.

The notice, which was echoed by similar warnings from the Australian Government,
which told its nationals to avoid travel to Saudi Arabia, increased markets'
worries over the security of the Kingdom's vast network of oil installations.

In New York, benchmark prices for US light crude rose by 2.5 per cent to an
intraday high of $ 63.80, setting a new record, before edging lower.

In London, benchmark Brent crude also set records, with prices on the
International Petroleum Exchange at one point rising by $ 1.73 a barrel, or 2.8
per cent, to $ 62.80.

Although there was no indication that the Saudi security threats were directed
at the Kingdom's oil industry, fears over the implications were raised by the
political aftermath of the death of King Fahd and the succession of King
Abdullah.

The warnings came just a day after Washington had closed the US Embassy in
Riyadh and consulates in Dhahran and Jeddah yesterday and today "in response to
a threat against US Government buildings".

The steep increases in the cost of oil were despite further efforts by the Opec
oil cartel to rein-in prices. Opec said on Friday that it had increased its oil
production by 300,000 barrels a day over the past two weeks.

Oil markets appeared largely to have disregarded the move, as the security fears
in Saudi Arabia were compounded by concerns over a persistent world shortage of
refinery capacity, which has been made worse by the closure of several refining
facilities. ConocoPhillips was the latest oil group to suffer such a shutdown,
with parts of its operations at Borger, Texas, closed by operational problems.

Estimates from Barclays Capital suggest that as much as 3 per cent of refinery
capacity in the United States has been hit by similar shutdowns, helping to send
American petrol prices to record levels.

In Britain, the latest jump in oil prices also spells further misery for
motorists. Average petrol prices already stand at about 90p per litre and the AA
Motoring Trust said last week that prices in some areas had broken the £1 a
litre barrier.

Luke Bosdet, a spokesman for the trust, said that British motorists were now
spending an extra £7.5 million a day on their fuel, compared with the cost to
their pocket in January.


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           August 10, 2005, Wednesday

EGYPT CLEARS CHEMIST OF TERROR ATTACK SUSPICION

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 97 words


AUTHORITIES yesterday released an Egyptian chemist detained for questioning
following the July 7 bombings in London, saying he had been cleared of
suspicion, an Interior Ministry official said.

Magdy el-Nashar had been sought by Britain in connection with the attacks in
London, which killed at least 56 people in explosions on London&s Underground
and on a bus.

El-Nashar, 33, was studying at Leeds University, and the British Government
suspected him of links to some of the four bombers.

El-Nashar had returned to Egypt on holiday a week before the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Century Newspapers Limited

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 10, 2005, Wednesday

Howard attacks courts on terrorism

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin John Steele and Duncan Gardham

SECTION: News Pg. 001

LENGTH: 851 words

MICHAEL HOWARD urges the judiciary today to stop thwarting the will of MPs and
play a full part in the fight against terrorism.

In the face of the threat from suicide bombers, the Conservative leader calls
for a return to the primacy of Parliament in law-making to combat unprecedented
levels of "judicial activism".

He blames Labour's adoption of human rights provisions into British law for
giving judges the power to frustrate Parliament - a power used by the law lords
last December to condemn as illegal the detention of suspected foreign
terrorists without trial.

In an article in The Daily Telegraph, he reaffirms Tory calls for the Human
Rights Act to be reviewed and, if necessary, repealed.

After Tony Blair's warning last week of "lots of battles" to come over
tightening anti-terror rules, Mr Howard's comments will be welcomed by Mr Blair
even though the Tory leader attacks Labour's record of producing ill-thought-out
proposals. Mr Howard, who was home secretary in the last Tory government, made
his intervention as the Government admitted that it could not prevent Omar Bakri
Mohammed, the controversial radical Islamist cleric, from returning to Britain.

Bakri left for Lebanon at the weekend after declaring that he would never tell
police if he was aware of a potential terrorist attack by Muslims but has
indicated that he may return in four weeks.

John Prescott, who is deputising for Tony Blair while he is on holiday,
responded by urging Bakri to stay away as long as possible.

"Enjoy your holiday," he said. "Make it a long one."

But the Deputy Prime Minister said that, as the law stood, Syrian-born Bakri,
who was granted asylum in the 1980s, was free to "come in and out". He had
committed no offence.

Mr Prescott appeared to reflect the view of Home Office officials that, although
Bakri's public pronounce- ments were unpalatable to many, it would be difficult
to prevent him from returning.

"That's the circumstances as at present and we have to change situations in this
country by law," said Mr Prescott, referring to Mr Blair's announcement last
week of far-reaching plans to tighten anti-terrorist laws.

"It's a democracy, not a dictatorship, for God's sake." However, Government
sources said last night that immigration rules could be tightened to bar
extremists such as Bakri from entering. A review of the Home Secretary's powers
could be complete by the time the preacher headed home.

Hazel Blears, the Home Office minister deputising for Charles Clarke, the Home
Secretary, will meet faith leaders and Muslim MPs today to discuss tightening
deportation orders.

Mr Howard says in his article that the Conservatives asked for Bakri to be
deported seven years ago.

It has been suggested that the cleric might be subject to treason charges,
although the Government continued to play down that possibility, which has been
much derided by legal experts.

Bakri, 47, a father-of-seven, told Radio Five Live that he had travelled to
Lebanon to visit his family and planned to return in a month.

His wife, who would not give her name, said at their home that he had gone to
visit his mother. "She is very ill," she said.

Bakri, the spiritual leader of the disbanded al-Muha- jiroun ("The Emigrants")
group, said: "I left by my own passport. I do not think I will have any problem
returning to the UK but I do not want the Government to use the presence of Omar
Bakri to change the rules." He denied that he had called the July 7 suicide
bombers the "fantastic four" and said he condemned the atrocity. "I never, ever
spoke about the bombings in London. Fantastic Four is a film - nothing to do
with the bombings. I never, ever talked about the bombings except to condemn the
killing of innocent people."

Bakri told Radio 4's Today programme that he would be prepared to stand trial on
charges of treason or any other charge.

"I am sure people would see that there is no crime that I committed. There is no
treason. I am not a British subject and I never committed any crime whatsoever."

One of his students said that Mr Blair had no one to blame but himself for
"Muslim retaliation".

Anjem Choudary, the former British head of al-Muhajiroun, said: "If the life and
wealth of Muslims is not treated with sanctity, they can defend themselves.
Muslims are not the type to turn the other cheek."

In response to Mr Howard's article, Lord Falconer, the Lord Chancellor,
indicated there would be no battle in the courts if new anti-terror rules were
well drafted.

"The clearer it is, the less will be the discretion in relation to the judges,"
he said.

Lord Falconer said that Mr Howard's article was saying "broadly that he supports
what the Government is doing".

Earlier, he said the idea that radical clerics could be charged with treason was
"extraordinarily unlikely". Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrats' president,
described the anti-terrorism campaign as "Government by press release". He said:
"The Prime Minister has appeared to have left a series of Post-It notes on his
desk instructing people to float one half-baked plan after another."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      August 10, 2005, Wednesday Edition 1

Living nightmare of terror attack

BYLINE: By Adam Jupp, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 386 words


   London terror blast survivor Paul Mitchell told today how the outrage still
haunts him.

The former Durham University student, 27, was on board the King's Cross tube
train targeted in the July 7 strike.

He watched as the package detonated, killing and wounding dozens of his fellow
commuters.

Paul, originally from Plains Farm, Sunderland, had his leg torn open by the
explosion and needed a series of skin grafts to repair the damage.

Speaking exclusively to the Chronicle from his London home, he today admits he
still struggles to leave the house and may be forced to move home to his native
North East.

Paul, who moved to London in 2002 after studying music industry management at
New College Durham, said: "It's strange being in London at the moment and I feel
a little nervous.

"I haven't been out very much and I couldn't really go on public transport but
I'm sure I'll get over it eventually.

"It's very surreal that I've been involved in this. I've seen pictures on the
internet of people who died and it doesn't seem real.

"It's particularly harrowing seeing pictures of people who died on the same
train as me."

The only time Paul has ventured out of his home has been to re-visit the site of
the blast as part of his rehabilitation.

He said: "I haven't been to any of the memorials but I have been to the tube
station with the police.

"It was strange but it helped me a bit being back there."

Paul grew up in Sunderland and went to Plains Farm Primary School, Sandhill View
School, in Thorney Close, and then the City of Sunderland College.

Seven months ago he tied the knot with wife Janine, 27, originally from Northern
Ireland.

Paul's parents Jean, 55, and Billy, 52, still live in the North East and he
makes regular trips back home to visit them.

And he says the attacks have made him think seriously about moving permanently.
He said: "I haven't been back to the North East because with my injuries I can't
really get around.

"And I don't know whether we will decide to move back. It's something we will be
talking about because I don't know if I can keep on living in London."

And Paul is keen to assure well-wishers he is on the road to recovery. He said:
"I'm progressing slowly but surely.

"I'm just lucky to be alive and that's all I've got to think about."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                August 10, 2005

Terror attack on City 'a matter of time'

LENGTH: 285 words



HIGHLIGHT: A terrorist attack on the City, London's financial district, is "a
matter of when, rather than if", the area's police commissioner said today.


A terrorist attack on the City, London's financial district, is "a matter of
when, rather than if", the area's police commissioner said today.

James Hart told the Financial Times that potential targets had been staked out
several times since the September 11 2001 attacks on New York and Washington. He
said "hostile reconnaissance" had been disrupted, but no suspects had so far
been arrested.

The City - a small area to the east of the capital - contains hundreds of banks,
insurance companies and law firms, as well as the London Stock Exchange and the
Bank of England.

Aldgate tube station, one of the targets of the July 7 suicide attacks on the
capital in which 52 people were murdered, is on the eastern edge of the area.

"Every successful terrorist group pre-surveys its target. There's no doubt we've
been subject to that surveillance, and that sort of thing has been successfully
disrupted," Mr Hart told the FT.

He also revealed that only 50% of firms had contingency plans in place in the
event of a terror strike, blaming chief executives for inadequate preparation.

"If you want to hurt the government, hurt people at the same time and cause
maximum disruption, where better to hit than at the financial centre?" Mr Hart
said.

He pointed out that the City had been a terrorist target for 30 years,
highlighting the number of times it had been hit by the IRA.

Potential targets include prominent sites and businesses - "anywhere where the
maximum damage can be inflicted on the financial systems", Mr Hart said. "I
think it is a matter of when, rather than if."

The perpetrators of the September 11 attacks singled out the twin towers of the
World Trade Centre because they were a symbol of US financial power.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 10, 2005

Strategy to combat terror is 'confused and botched';
Opposition on attack as consensus is shattered

BYLINE: DEBORAH SUMMERS and LUCY ADAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 484 words


THE political consensus over new anti-terrorism laws drawn up in the wake of the
London bombings was shattered yesterday amid claims that the proposals were
"confused" and "botched".

As Lord Falconer admitted it was "extraordinarily unlikely" that radical clerics
would be charged with treason, politicians from the two main opposition parties
criticised the way ministers had set out the next steps to combat terrorism.

The lord chancellor said it was "not really necessary or appropriate" to use
treason and insisted it had never been a serious option. He also denied the
government had plans for "secret trials"or internment, as it was confirmed the
Home Office is considering pre-trial hearings behind closed doors.

Lord Falconer said the special courts - using securitycleared judges - would
assess whether sensitive security material justified prosecution, and find ways
of using the information in a normal trial.

Due to Scotland's separate legal system the proposals may only be implemented in
England and Wales, with the possibility of terrorist suspects caught in Scotland
being held and tried south of the border.

The Scottish Executive said it had no plans to introduce non-jury trials, but
that public pre-trial hearings were already in use at the High Court.

David Davis, shadow home secretary, said: "The government must make up its mind
about what it intends before it publishes what appear to be random ideas. We all
agree that the government should take the necessary action to protect us all,
but I am concerned that instead of a clear strategy there is too much
confusion."

Simon Hughes, Liberal Democrat president, said the court proposals were another
example of "government by press release", adding: "This is no way to run an
anti-terrorism campaign."

Lord Falconer told BBC Radio 4's The World At One special courts could be used
to give police powers to hold suspects for longerwithout trial.

"We need to debate the three months and we need to try to build a consensus
around what the right period of time is, " he said. "But what is being suggested
is not any form of internment, just a sensible period to detain suspects while
sensible investigation is going on."

Shami Chakrabarti, director of civil rights group Liberty, said the idea of
secret hearings "fills me with dread".

"In common with the other proposals announced on Friday the details of this
scheme remain unclear, " she said.

Ian Macdonald QC, who quit the Special Immigration Appeals Commission, said the
plans were "a bit botched".

"We haven't a clue whether it is, in fact, a move towards an entirely new system
orwhether, in fact, it is just dressing up the existing system and allowing
further detention of suspects."

An executive spokesman said of the Home Office plans:

"As their thinking develops the executive will be kept involved and we will
examine how any proposals which might finally emerge could affect Scotland."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                August 10, 2005

Family in gang attack terror

BYLINE: Saima Mir (saima.mir@bradford.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 582 words


A family have been left terrified after their home was attacked by a baseball
bat-wielding mob.

A gang of men smashed the ground floor windows and tried to get into the house
as the family cowered inside.

Mum Helen Dawson 39 broke down in tears as she described the late-night attack
which she believes was a case of mistaken identity.

She was standing with her two daughters outside their house on Woodhall Road
Thornbury saying goodbye to a friend when a car pulled up and a man inside asked
for someone called Tracey.

Mrs Dawson told the men in the silver car that there was no one by that name in
the house. She said: "I called my husband out and the next thing I knew another
car with men packed together like sardines pulled up."

A third car drew up and men armed with golf clubs and baseball bats got out and
ran towards the terrified mother and her daughters.

They fled into the house and dad Graham Dawson 40 managed to lock the door
behind them.

He said: "They smashed all the windows on my porch and I was just calling the
police when the windows in my living room came through."

His daughter Becky 16 said: "If my dad had not closed the door they would have
got in and smashed the house and smashed us too."

The couple's terrified 13-year-old daughter Emma spent the night at a friend's
house and her parents said they were unable to sleep for fear of the men
returning.

Mr Dawson was at home yesterday clearing up the mess left by the gang.

The windows have been boarded up but shards of glass were still embedded in the
living room wall.

He said: "I want the police to catch these men.

"It is obvious to me that they got the wrong house but what would have happened
if they had actually got into the house?"

Mrs Dawson claimed police had taken 15 minutes to arrive and did not contact
them again for hours after the attack. She said: "We are absolutely terrified."

The family have lived in the area for 19 years and never had any problems.

Mrs Dawson said neighbours had been shocked by the events.

Peter Chapman 46 who lives across the road with his 17-year-old daughter saw the
attack.

He said: "I saw the men running across the road. They were really fast. By the
time I got outside of my house they had left.

"I am really worried about my daughter because she was outside at the time."

Mr Chapman said the neighbourhood had been a peaceful area up until a year ago
when home-owners began renting out their homes.

He said: "There are too many rented houses down the street. The people who live
there have no pride in the area and just move on."

Councillor Riaz Ahmed (Bradford Moor Lib Dem) said: "Three cars full of men
pulled up outside Mr Dawson's house and smashed his windows and his car.

"I have spoken with him and he sounded very frightened."

Coun Riaz said there had been six shootings in the ward last year and said: "The
unwanted element must be rooted out by the police.

"If it is not we will have bigger problems here."

A police spokesman said: "The victim called to report the incident at 10.52pm on
Monday.

"Officers were dispatched at 10.54pm and arrived at 11.03pm.

"We realise this incident must have been very frightening and we would assure
the complainants that active investigations are on-going to trace those
responsible."

Anyone with information about the attack should contact Eccleshill Police
Station on (01274) 376059.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           August 11, 2005, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR : ATTACK ON CITY IS JUST A MATTER OF TIME

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 110 words


It is only a matter of time before terrorists attack London's financial
heartland, the police officer responsible for the district has said.

James Hart, commissioner of the City of London Police, told reporters yesterday
there had been 'hostile reconnaissance' of the City on several occasions since
the September 11 attacks in 2001.

He pointed out that the area had been a terrorist target for three decades,
saying: 'Look at the number of time we were hit by the IRA. I think (another
attack) is a question of when rather than if.'

Mr Hart estimated that only 50 per cent of businesses had contingency plans in
place in case of an attack

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      August 11, 2005, Thursday Edition 1

Terror attack court hearings

BYLINE: By Neville Dean, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 425 words


   Ten charged over failed suicide bombings

Ten people were appearing in court today charged in connection with the failed
July 21 suicide attacks in London.

Eight of them were due to appear before Bow Street magistrates in central London
via videolink, with another expected to appear in person.

A tenth man charged last night is also due to appear today.

All are charged with failing to disclose information about a terrorism suspect.
Three are also charged with assisting a person in evading arrest.

The first of the 10 to be charged last week was 23-year-old Ismael Abdurahman of
South East London.

He will appear via videolink charged with failing to disclose information about
Hussain Osman, who is alleged to have tried to blow up a Tube train near
Shepherd's Bush station.

Osman's wife, Yeshiemebet Girma, 29, and her sister Mulumebet, 21, both of
Stockwell, South London, will also appear via videolink charged with the same
offence.

Three men arrested in Brighton on July 31 Shadi Abdel Gadir, 22, Omar Nagmeloin
Almagboul, 20, and Mohamed Kabashi, 23 face the same charge and will also appear
before the court via videolink.

Asias Girma, 20, of Stockwell, South London, is the only one of the nine
scheduled to appear before the court in person.

He is charged with failing to disclose information about Osman and with
assisting him in evading arrest.

Last night Abdul Sharif, 28, was charged with failing to disclose information
about Osman.

Osman, 27, is currently being held under a European Arrest Warrant in Rome.

Two other men charged in connection with the attempted bombings on July 21 will
appear via videolink.

Siraj Yassin Abdullah Ali, 30, of New Southgate, North London, is charged with
failing to disclose information about Ibrahim Muktar Said who is alleged to have
tried to blow up a bus in Hackney Road and Yasin Omar, who is accused of trying
to detonate a device on a Tube train near Warren Street.

Ali is also charged with assisting Said in evading arrest.

Wharbi Mohammed, 22, of Notting Hill, West London, faces charges of failing to
disclose information about Ramzi Mohamed who is alleged to have tried to blow up
a Tube train near Oval station and with assisting him in evading arrest.

A committal hearing in each case is provisionally scheduled for September 1.

The four alleged bombers Said, Omar, Mohamed and Manfo Kwaku Asiedu were all
remanded in custody earlier this week.

They will appear before the Old Bailey on November 14 charged with a number of
offences.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 12, 2005, Friday

ISLAMIC SCHOLARS PUT FOCUS ON TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 222 words


SUICIDE bombing, terrorism and religious extremism will be scrutinised by city
Islamic scholars this weekend.

More than 2,500 people are expected to attend the Islam's War on Terror
conference at the Masjid Salafi, in Wright Street, Small Heath.

The discussions, beginning at midday on Saturday, aim to clarify the correct
Islamic position on religious terrorism. Other lectures will discuss the roots
of extremism and possible Islamic solutions.

The conference has been organised by Salafi Publications, the Salafi Institute
and the Islamic Centre in Birmingham.

The organisations will talk about well-known extremist groups such as Al
Qa'edah, Al-Muhajiroun and Islamic Jihad as well as individuals like Omar Bakri
Mohamad and Abu Hamza. They will also look at the new anti-terror legislation,
which may call for a ban on certain extremist groups and the extradition or
deportation of people involved in terrorist acts.

Lecturer in Islamic Affairs at Salafi Publications and the Salafi Institute, Abu
Khadeejah, said: 'The Salafis have been and continue to be the most vocal
against extremist organisations and their figureheads. If we do not do something
and these groups are not stopped in the UK and in the west, then I fear there
will be an increase in activities similar to what occurred on July 7

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 12, 2005, Friday

HELP FOR INSURERS IN TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 43 words


The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act that helps the industry cover losses from
terrorist attacks should be extended and the US government should play a
long-term role, a report by the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of
Business argued yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           August 13, 2005, Saturday

BOY, 10 IN DOG ATTACK TERROR;
 BRAVE TYRONE WILL BE SCARRED FOR LIFE

BYLINE: BY JAMES CARTLEDGE

SECTION: C2 Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 316 words

HIGHLIGHT: TERRIBLE INJURIES: Tyrone Salmon faces more surgery


A TEN-year-old Birmingham boy has been savaged by a dog while playing near his
home, leaving him scarred for life.

Tyrone Salmon underwent an emergency operation after the animal, thought to be a
Japanese fighting dog, ripped a three-inch chunk of flesh from his left arm and
also attacked his legs and buttocks.

He bravely tried to fight off the dog but was today facing his second round of
surgery at Birmingham Children's Hospital.

His mother, Janet, aged 49, said: 'Tyrone tried to get the dog in a headlock to
stop it attacking him.

'But he suffered bad injuries to his left arm and right leg as well as a
puncture wound on his buttocks and scratches all over his body.

'He will be scarred for life on his arms and legs. There were tears in my eyes
when I saw him bandaged up because his injuries are very severe.

'He is so small but now he is having to go through such a big ordeal.'

Tyrone, of Attenborough Close, Newtown, attends William Cowper Primary School
and was mauled in nearby Alma Street just after 6pm on Wednesday.

Ms Salmon said he was thought to have been attacked by a Japanese fighting dog,
although West Midlands Police could not confirm the breed. Officers have
identified the owner and are investigating whether the dog was allowed to be out
of control in a public place.

Witnesses Shazia and Raja Daniyal, of New Croft, Newtown, claimed a young girl
was with the dog and no adult was in sight.

Mrs Daniyal, a mother-of-two, rushed to give Tyrone emergency first aid while
one of the boy's friends dialled 999. 'I thought he was play-fighting with the
dog but then I realised it was far more serious,' she said.

'I heard him cry out for help. I rushed outside and I could see he had very
nasty injuries.

'He was shouting 'call an ambulance'. I got some bandages while someone else
called 999. It was all I could do for him

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           August 13, 2005, Saturday

BOY, 10, IN DOG ATTACK TERROR;
 BRAVE TYRONE SCARRED FOR LIFE

BYLINE: BY JAMES CARTLEDGE

SECTION: BC1 Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 315 words

HIGHLIGHT: TERRIBLE INJURIES: Tyrone Salmon faces more surgery


A TEN-year-old Birmingham boy has been savaged by a dog while playing near his
home, leaving him scarred for life.

Tyrone Salmon underwent an emergency operation after the animal, thought to be a
Japanese fighting dog, ripped a three-inch chunk of flesh from his left arm and
also attacked his legs and buttocks. He bravely tried to fight off the dog but
was today facing his second round of surgery at Birmingham Children's Hospital.

His mother, Janet, aged 49, said: 'Tyrone tried to get the dog in a headlock to
stop it attacking him.

'But he suffered bad injuries to his left arm and right leg as well as a
puncture wound on his buttocks and scratches all over his body.

'He will be scarred for life on his arms and legs. There were tears in my eyes
when I saw him bandaged up because his injuries are very severe.

'He is so small but now he is having to go through such a big ordeal.'

Tyrone, of Attenborough Close, Newtown, attends William Cowper Primary School
and was mauled in nearby Alma Street just after 6pm on Wednesday.

Ms Salmon said he was thought to have been attacked by a Japanese fighting dog,
although West Midlands Police could not confirm the breed. Officers have
identified the owner and are investigating whether the dog was allowed to be out
of control in a public place.

Witnesses Shazia and Raja Daniyal, of New Croft, Newtown, claimed a young girl
was with the dog and no adult was in sight.

Mrs Daniyal, a mother-of-two, rushed to give Tyrone emergency first aid while
one of the boy's friends dialled 999. 'I thought he was play-fighting with the
dog but then I realised it was far more serious,' she said.

'I heard him cry out for help. I rushed outside and I could see he had very
nasty injuries. 'He was shouting 'Call an ambulance'. I got some bandages while
someone else called 999. It was all I could do for him

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 13, 2005

Terrorist attacks boost paper sales

BYLINE: Cosima Marriner

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 359 words


Sales of the Evening Standard soared 12% last month as readers turned to
London's only afternoon paper for the latest news on the terrorist attacks.

Associated Newspapers sold an average of 373,000 copies a day in July, up from
333,000 in June, according to the monthly figures from the Audit Bureau of
Circulation released yesterday. The Standard's circulation was up 4% from a year
ago.

"There has been a huge appetite for news over the last month and all our
editions have been flying from the newsstands," said managing director Mike
Anderson.

But Associated's free commuter paper, Metro, was a casualty of the 15% drop in
the number of people travelling on the Tube in the wake of the bombings on July
7. Metro's daily distribution in London fell by 9,000 copies to 488,000. This
fall was offset by higher distribution in other areas of the UK, leaving Metro's
total distribution down less than 1% for the month at 1m copies.

Rupert Murdoch's Times and the Barclay brothers' Daily Telegraph were the only
two quality newspapers to increase their circulation in July, aided by the
strong news agenda and DVD giveaways.

The Times sold an average of 14,500 more copies a day compared to June, pushing
its circulation to 698,000. It is now selling 50,000 more copies than it did a
year ago.

The Telegraph sold an extra 8,500 copies last month. Its average circulation
reached 912,319, up 1% on a year ago.

The Independent fell for the first time in 15 months, dropping 2.5% from June to
255,600 in July. Industry insiders suggested it had reduced the number of papers
it was giving away.

Reader appetite for news on the bombings helped the Guardian buck the
traditional summer circulation slowdown. Sales fell less than 1% over the month
to 358,345.

Meanwhile, all the tabloids increased their sales month on month, benefiting
from news of the bombings, Big Brother and giveaways. The Sun was up 3.5% on
June to 3.34m, and the Mirror rose 0.61% to 1.75m. The Daily Mail rose 3% to
2.42m.

The Financial Times, which usually suffers the most from the summer slowdown,
slid 4% over the month to 410,300 copies.


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 13, 2005, Saturday

LONDON BOMBINGS: THE TRUTH EMERGES;
 NO LINKS BETWEEN JULY 7 AND JULY 21 ATTACKS NO EVIDENCE OF TERROR

BYLINE: BY JASON BENNETTO AND IAN HERBERT

SECTION: First Edition; TITLE PAGE

LENGTH: 874 words


The suicide cell that killed 52 people on 7 July is not linked to those alleged
to be behind the second London attacks on 21 July, according to the initial
findings of the biggest anti-terrorist investigation held in Britain.

An investigation into the four suicide bombers from the first attacks and the
people alleged to be behind the July 21 plot has found no evidence of any
al-Qa'ida 'mastermind' or senior organiser. The inquiry involved MI5, MI6, the
listening centre at GCHQ, and the police.

The disclosure that the July 7 team were working in isolation " and were
radicalised by Mohammad Sidique Khan, the oldest man " has caused concern among
anti-terrorist officers.

Police and MI5 fear it increases the chance that more 'self-sufficient' units
similar to the 7 July suicide cell are hiding in Britain. Anti-terrorist
officers are worried by the evidence that previously unknown 'clean skin' terror
cells are forming in Britain with little or no help from abroad.

The alleged plotters behind the July 21 bomb incidents in London are thought to
have been 'copycats', targeting Tube trains and a bus.

The intelligence assessment was made in the past few days. 'The key point is
that the events are not connected,' said one counter-terrorist source. 'It
appears they were self-contained, rather than being organised by some kind of
mastermind.

'It is concerning that none were on the intelligence radar. There are quite
probably others we do not know about out there. Over the past 10 years, we have
been successfully

disrupting a number of groups of people who could have carried out bombing
attacks similar to those we have seen in the past few weeks.'

'We can't disrupt them all. They only have to be lucky once " and they have
been. At some point there will be another suicide or bombing group.'

The intelligence agencies and the police have been trawling through telephone
and computer records, e-mails, forensic evidence, and investigating friends and
associates to build up a picture of the suicide bombers.

They have found that the July 7 cell, three of whom were of Pakistani background
and came from the Leeds area, while the fourth was living in Buckinghamshire,
did not conform to previous al-Qa'ida units.

A police source commented: 'All the talk about 'Mr Bigs' and al-Qa'ida
masterminds looks like something from a film script at the moment. Of course,
things could change if new intelligence comes through, but it looks increasingly
as if these people were largely working on their own. It is not something we
expected.'

Meanwhile, an Egyptian chemist from Leeds who admits knowing two of the four-man
suicide team " and left Britain a week before the attack " is still being
investigated as a possible bomb-maker. The police are waiting for the results of
forensic tests to discover whether his fingerprints or DNA was among the
explosives and equipment found in a Leeds bomb making factory and in a hire car
used by one of the terrorists.

Magdi Mahmoud el-Nashar, the chemist, was released from custody in Egypt earlier
this month, after three weeks of questioning by the police. Egyptian authorities
said they found no evidence to link the former Leeds University student to the
attack.

Intelligence officers now believe the four British born suicide bombers "
Shahzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain, 18. Mohammed Sidique Khan, 30, and Germaine
Lindsay, 19 " were probably organised and radicalised by the eldest bomber,
Khan. The 30-year-old teaching assistant who, like Tanweer, spent three months
in Pakistan before returning to Britain in February this year, may have been
instructed in bomb-making techniques at a foreign camp. Alternatively it is
thought that he could have been assisted in Britain or obtained information from
the internet.

Senior police sources in West Yorkshire suggest that gyms and boxing clubs in
Leeds " rather than mosques " were the key to the development of the young men
into bombers.

It was at a gymnasium in Beeston's Lodge Lane, that Khan is thought to have
begun radicalising the two younger Leeds-based men " Hussain and Tanweer.

Already an accomplished youth worker of 10 years' experience, he appears to have
brought both Hussain and Tanweer to a gym established in the basement of the
Hardy Street mosque in Beeston. He was eventually forced to leave the gym at the
Hardy Street mosque.

Khan set up another gym at the former Hamara youth centre in Lodge Lane, where
he was noted for not allowing adults in while the boys were training.

One of the remaining mysteries of the July 7 bombings is the link between
Lindsay and the other three attackers. Lindsay hailed from Huddersfield, 20
miles away and, unlike, Tanweer and Khan, he was not known to Hussain's family.
Yet Lindsay's telephone number was stored in Hussain's mobile.

Evidence of a recent link between Lindsay and Hussain is provided by Mr
Nashar,who described how he and Lindsay met last October at the Leeds Grand
Mosque, five miles from Beeston, where Lindsay asked him to find him somewhere
to live

n A memorial service for all of the victims of the July 7 bombings in the
capital will be held at St Paul's Cathedral in London on 1 November.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            August 14, 2005, Sunday

TERROR IN BRITAIN: SPECIAL INVESTIGATION - THE 'MUSLIM BOYS' HAVE SWORN TO WAGE
CRIMINAL JIHAD IN THE UK. IS THIS STREET GANG ALSO USING THE PROFITS OF CRIME TO
FUND TERRORIST ATTACKS?;
 THE MUSLIM BOYS HAVE A FEARSOME REPUTATION FOR KILLING IN THE NAME OF

BYLINE: SHIV MALIK

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1209 words

HIGHLIGHT:
The Brixton Mosque and the Metropolitan police are working to defeat the gangs,
and the Met says that in the boroughs where they operate gun crime is down


On the desolate streets of south London, reputation is all. And among the gangs
that roam them, no name has a more fearful resonance than the Muslim Boys.

They are, according to Lee Jasper, the Mayor of London's senior adviser on
policing, 'the biggest criminal phenomenon' he has ever witnessed. Sworn to
bring a criminal jihad to Britain, they don't just do law-breaking, they do it,
apparently, with a militant Islamic vengeance. If their advance publicity is to
be believed, they make the Yardies look like the Women's Institute.

Can all this be true? Is there really a gang at large in the capital dedicated
to combining organised crime and religious mania, and funnelling the proceeds to
terrorists overseas? Or is this another mob of urban hoodlums who have merely
adopted jihad as a blood-soaked flag of convenience and intimidation? These are
not the kind of questions that can be answered in the reading room of the
British Library. The streets are the place.

When you go looking for the Muslim Boys, you have a hunch that the nervous wait
for them to turn up may not be the worst bit. And you're right.

Myatt's Field North Estate, Brixton, is not, for the uninitiated, exactly
Henley-on-Thames. We've been told that they meet here at around 4.30pm before
they go off to do what they do best, committing serious organised crime.

A black, two-door P-reg hatchback slips into one of the parking bays. Sitting in
the back are three young lads. A few minutes later a teenager in a red-and-grey
hoodie emerges from one of the back passages and greets the three. Then, using a
brick, he smashes the car's back windscreen. The car is slammed into reverse and
driven off. When the car brakes, the glass catapults on to the back seat.

The rest of the group takes this as a signal to come out, and about 20
Afro-Caribbean youths aged 15-25 gather by the communal bin area. I go up to the
group and ask them why the gang has adopted the name the Muslim Boys.

'Na, na, Islam is peace so how can there be a gang called the Muslim Boys?' says
a 16-year-old teenager with a large scar on his chin, who doesn't want to give
me his name. 'Go and look at the Koran and you'll see what Islam's about. It's
not about some gang,' he says.

He admits they are part of a gang but says that they just happen to be Muslim.

'If some white guy came here shooting, then would you go and say he was a
Catholic shooter, would yer?' he explains.

I ask him if wants to talk further. 'Na mate, to be honest we're only talking to
you 'cause you caught us at the right time. We're about to leave.' They tell me
that I should do the same.

The Muslim Boys have been linked to dozens of murders, shootings and other
serious offences in south London in the past 15 months. By some estimates, they
are said to number 200-250. The Metropolitan police say that there is a hardcore
group made up of only 20-25 members, but recognise that other gangs have taken
the name of the Muslim Boys 'in order to gain street credibility'.

During recent weeks, the Metropolitan police say they have arrested around 20
members of the gang, including 'one of the lead individuals'. And last week,
19-year-old Zirtash Khan, a suspected member of the group, was given a 22-year
prison sentence for the attempted murder of a police officer in Bromley last
December. During the arrests the police also seized Mach 10 submachine guns,
something considered to be heavy weaponry for any London gang.

But what makes them unique from other London gangs is their discipline and
strong sense of identity developed from their own version of Islam. Mr Jasper
says that as soon as the group formed around January 2004, he kept receiving
consistent reports from members of the black community in Brixton that the gang
was not just very well organised but that they would also go around and forcibly
convert the biggest and brightest of the south-east London criminal fraternity
to take up what he terms as a 'criminal jihad'.

'Since January 2004, the Metropolitan police have been aware of consistent
reports coming from the black community that there was the development of a
group of boys who converted to Islam in prison and then taken up a criminal
jihad,' he says.

The most infamous case of forcible conversion was that of Adrian Marriot, who
was bullied and hounded into converting and then killed by several shots to the
head when he refused.

Mr Jasper says that these 'devout criminals' make their money from robbing other
gangs and pimps, but that when the police raid hideouts they find only a
'mattress and the Koran'.

He says that the Muslim Boys have been making thousands of pounds every day and
he has been worried for some time about where the money is going. His fears have
only been heightened since the lead suspects of the 21 July came from Stockwell,
just a few minutes away from the Myatt's Field Estate. 'They're making
thousands, but where's it going?' he asks.

Max, a resident on the Myatt's Field Estate and a Muslim himself, has grown up
alongside a number of the Muslim Boys. When I ask him what he does with the
money, he replies: 'Footlocker [the sportswear shop]'.

He says that after press reports about the gang last year, and what he says has
been the 'demonisation' of Islam by the media, the gang's image was hyped and
other youths started to call themselves the Muslim Boys. This, he says, has also
led to more conversions to this strange brand of gangster Islam.

'When boys convert to join the gang the girls see this and say, 'Oh he's cute
but now he's a Muslim so I better be a Muslim too if I want to get with him'.'

Max, who studies film production in Vauxhall, says that most of the original
group converted while in prison, specifically in Feltham Young Offenders'
Institute. He says that for the Muslim Boys, Islam is just another form of
shaping a sense of identity and that forced conversions should not be that
surprising.

'It's just like any other form of bullying. If you give a kid something that can
inflict some serious harm, like a gun, then what do you expect?'

He also says that despite being told not to attend by the management of the
Brixton Mosque, they still pray at a number of other mosques around the estate
and in Stockwell.

This linking of Islam with serious crime is something that the Brixton Mosque
has worked to defeat. The police, too, insist they are making headway.

The Met's Operation Trident is committed to tackling gun crime within London's
black communities, and closely monitors the activities of a number of gangs
involved in this type of crime.

Its head, DCS John Coles, says: 'Trident has had considerable success in
targeting these people. We have arrested most of the hardcore of this gang.

'In the boroughs where the so-called Muslim Boys operate, gun crime is actually
down. In Lambeth, for example, gun crime is down by 24 per cent, and the
detection rate in the borough is currently at 29 per cent.

'Overall in London gun crime is down by 10 per cent. This downturn has been
sustained over two years. We hope to drive it down further by working closely
with the community, and mounting proactive operations.'

John Rentoul, page 24

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                August 14, 2005

NUCLEAR TERROR ATTACK WARNING

BYLINE: VIC RODRICK

SECTION: HI_04; Pg. 1; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 862 words


SCOTLAND'S nuclear plants are prime targets for terrorist strikes, according to
a secret Government dossier.

Ministers have been warned about 'serious security problems' at nuclear
installations throughout the country.

Experts who compiled three secret reports for Downing Street identified the
biggest threats as sabotage, theft of material to make nuclear bombs and theft
of radioactive sources to develop 'dirty bombs'. They found the security at
nuclear stations including Dounreay in Caithness, Torness in East Lothian and
Hunterston in Ayrshire was 'questionable'.

The spectre of attacks on nuclear plants by land, air or sea was raised by
security advisers working for the UK Committee on Radioactive Waste Management
(CoRWM), an official Government agency.

One CoRWM report warns: 'All nuclear facilities in the UK have security
arrangements in place to protect against the possibility of terrorist attack.

However, the resilience of these arrangements is not universally accepted.

'Several non-governmental organisations with experience in security matters
suggested that the effectiveness of security installations is questionable and
that in their view the installations would be much more vulnerable to land-based
attack rather than air attack.

'Because of the exceptional hazards which would follow successful nuclear
terrorism, high standards of protection are required, even when the threat is
assessed as low, to deter potential terrorism.' The study stated that 'many
concerns' had been expressed about existing levels of security against terrorist
attacks and stressed the need for strict vigilance at all times.

The CoRWM has also now warned nuclear plants to guard against unconventional
attacks by Al Qaeda fanatics inspired by Osama Bin Laden, extremist pressure
groups or 'the disaffected insider'.

Critics have claimed the Government has done little to address the dangers,
despite the London bombings, and highlighted a string of recent security
breaches and delays of up to ten months in vetting nuclear workers.

A second report by the CoRWM, written by Matthew White, admitted nuclear power
plants were more likely to be attacked because they were 'symbolic' targets.

He said: 'Although terrorist attacks may not have significant physical
consequences, there could be severe adverse psychological effects from such an
attack that could have considerable economic consequences.' Dr White said an
easier and potentially more likely mode of radiological attack was the
detonation of 'dirty bombs' in major population centres. He added: 'One dramatic
way would be if a sealed radioactive source was used to spike conventional
explosives in radiation dispersal devices, commonly referred to as "dirty
bombs".

'Such violent dispersal of radioactivity would certainly cause panic and
economic damage in addition to exposing the target population to radiation, the
result of which would have both immediate and long-term effects.' A third report
into security by Roger Brunt, director of the Office of Civil Nuclear Security
(OCNS), which is responsible for security at Britain's nuclear plants, is
concerned that coastal facilities such as Dounreay, Torness and Hunterstonare
vulnerable to attack by sea.

His report also identified the risk of terrorists sabotaging coolant systems of
nuclear facilities, or hijacking and exploding a large gas tanker nearby.

The OCNS also fears an attack on nuclear shipments carried by road or rail with
antitank weapons and high explosives, using perhaps a truck bomb or a truck
carrying hydrocarbon fuel.

The most extreme scenario considered was a 9/11-style attack by terrorists
deliberately crashing a light aircraft loaded with explosives into shipping
containers carrying highly radioactive spent fuel.

Any fire or explosion which released radioactivity into the atmosphere could
lead to significant numbers of long-term cancers.

The OCNS warned that groundbased attacks on nuclear power stations could be
carried out by suicide bombers or terrorists using vehicles loaded with
explosives.

Intelligence suggested that terrorists were now well armed, willing to kill,
risk death or commit suicide, and capable of attacking without warning.

Mr Brunt revealed that nuclear sites had been reclassified into new risk
categories last year.

In addition, body searches, supervision of staff working alone with sensitive
material and CCTV monitoring were introduced at Dounreay and in other UK plants
last year, but Mr Brunt admitted that his staff were not on full alert all the
time.

He said: 'Security threats are seldom constant and it is neither effective nor
efficient to maintain all available security measures at a constantly high state
of vigilance.' Yesterday Frank Barnaby, of the Oxford Research Group nuclear
security think tank, said he believed the greatest threat was from terrorists
trying to occupy a reactor building.

He said: 'I believe the most likely threat is an inside job by someone who could
shut down the cooling system to the reactor. This could cause a meltdown which
would cause a Chernobyl-type incident.'

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: AT LARGE: TERROR MASTERMIND OSAMA BIN LADEN

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:32:36

