



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:54:39
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 1, 2010 Friday

Pakistan TV show discusses Karachi attack, "sacrifices" fighting war on terror

LENGTH: 1403 words


PTV News in Urdu at 0515 GMT on 29 December broadcasts the regularly scheduled
current affairs program titled "Good Morning Pakistan" hosted by anchor Ali
Mumtaz. This program, airing 6 days a week from Monday to Saturday, reviews
domestic and international issues which make the daily headlines; Words and
passage within double slant lines rendered in English.

Reception: Good

Duration 60 minutes

Guests: 1. Dr Tariq Fazal Chaudhry, member of the National Assembly [MNA] from
the Pakistan Muslim League - Nawaz [PML-N]; 2. Ghulam Murtaza Satti, a leader of
the Pakistan People's Party [PPP]; 3. Mufti Munibur Rehman, chairman,
Ruet-e-Hilal Committee [for sighting of Eid festival moon]

Mumtaz opens the program by referring to the suicide attack on a mourning
procession in Karachi on 10 Muharram [first month of Islamic calendar]. He says
"a ranger, Abdur Razzaq, managed to stop the suicide bomber from entering the
procession, which minimized the losses. So who burned shops, buses and banks, if
it wasn't those who were attending the procession? The people and ulema
[religious scholars] have condemned the incident and termed it a conspiracy to
ignite sectarian violence." He also refers to President Asif Ali Zardari's
speech on the eve of the anniversary of the death of former Prime Minister
Benazir Bhutto, on 27 December.

Mumtaz asks Chaudhry: "What do you have to say about yesterday's incident?"
Chaudhry condemns the Karachi attack and says: "This is a sacred month, which
demands sacrifice and devotion from all people. However, after the blast we
should not consider violence against any particular party. It is the same
terrorism which is targeting other cities. The //agencies and security forces//
of Pakistan are also performing well and making sacrifices. The Pakistani nation
has the passion and commitment to fight terrorism. The people and political
parties of the country have learned that unless we have unity, we cannot face
the threat of terrorism."

Mumtaz asks Satti: "What are your views regarding the terrorist incidents in
Karachi and Muzaffarabad?" Satti says: "This is //activity// against the
country. We are stuck in a quagmire which we need to face with extreme patience
and perseverance. These terrorists martyred Benazir. It is a tragedy for the
entire nation and, as such, we should not protest by burning our properties."
Mumtaz interrupts and says that the people who were attending the mourning
procession have denied burning shops and other properties. "It appears these
terrorists have used the name of a particular party or group to ignite sectarian
violence. What are your comments regarding this?" Satti says: "Whenever such
//programs// are held, Pakistan faces problems on the law and order front. This
year we were managing well until the 7 or 8 Muharram. However, when these
terrorists do not succeed in any part of the country, they become desperate and
claim the lives of innocent people in Karachi."

Mumtaz turns to Chaudhry and asks him: "Do you think we need to adopt a new
strategy, as the current strategy has failed?" Chaudhry replies: "The political
parties have clarified that they consider this terrorism to be against the
integrity of the country. However, the religious parties have shown a reluctance
to clarify their position in this regard. The different religious parties were
talking of negotiations with these elements. Now, they have clarified that it is
religiously forbidden to claim any innocent life. Though the entire nation is
aware of this, there was a need to clarify this from an important religious
forum, for those fanatics who take the lives of innocent people under the
pretext of religion." Mumtaz interrupts and says "this might be an achievement
on the part of the ulema, but have we achieved the desired results from that?"
Chaudhry says: "Now, we have to see if only fanatical Muslims are involved in
this //unrest and other activities//, or if there are other forces involved. I
believe that most of the people who are carrying out these attacks are not
Muslims, and they are working for a foreign agenda. There have been official
statements regarding the involvement of India and other countries which are
against the integrity of Pakistan. There are certain people who are paid by
elements who have ulterior motives in derailing the democratic process." Mumtaz
interrupts and says "local people are being used for the //execution of these
policies//." Chaudhry says: "It is very //unfortunate// that we adopted the
policy of //dialogue// and //deterrence//, but completely ignored
//development//. The lack of development gave rise to //frustration// in the
affected //communities and areas//, which in turn gave rise to terrorism."

Mumtaz asks Satti: "Are they the same people whom President Asif Ali Zardari
termed as //non-state actors// and who have been responsible for many incidents
of terrorism in the past?" Satti responds: "You are absolutely right. However,
it has many aspects, and the terrorists are using all those factors which can be
employed to //destabilize the state// of Pakistan."

At this point, Mumtaz interrupts to go to live coverage of a press conference of
the head of the PML-N and former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in Lahore.

Mumtaz turns back to Satti and asks him if foreign elements are involved in all
these incidents. Satti says: "It started when the former President Pervez
Musharraf established a mullah-military alliance. I do not want to blame the
religious political factions, as the issue of religion is quite //touchy//.
However, these incidents could have been stopped if the decrees that are being
issued today had been issued at that time. We raised the issue of foreign
intervention even at the United Nations, and asked what is the purpose of India
having 14 consulates in Afghanistan, where it does not even have any //trade
routes//? We have issues with Russia, and then Pakistan is a nuclear power." At
this point, Mumtaz says that the issue of Pakistan being a nuclear power is
disturbing for the United States and not for India. Satti observes "Benazir
Bhutto also raised objections against the //double standards// of the United
States" and refers to the case of Iraq and Afghanistan.

Mumtaz establishes a telephone link with Rehman and asks him: "What are your
comments regarding the tragedy in Karachi?" Rehman says "it is cruelty. It is
inhuman and against the established norms of Islam. It is an organized
conspiracy to destabilize Pakistan. It is absolutely forbidden in Islam." He
says: "What happened as a //follow-up// of the blast is not a reaction, but a
criminal act against the state of Pakistan. It is also a negation of the
government's claims of //tight and foolproof// security. The estimates of the
losses are now reaching into the billions." Mumtaz interjects to asks Rehman:
"What will be the ulema's strategy, as this incident has happened after they
issued the decree?" Rehman says: "The role of the ulema is to adopt an
independent position, irrespective of the government. Rather, I would say that
the time has come for the government to do away with the policy which an
absolute dictator adopted in 2002. All political parties should evaluate their
policies again. I believe that Pakistan should adopt a policy which has the
primary objective of ensuring domestic and external security of the country.
Some international powers want to //destabilize// Pakistan to prove that it is a
//failed state//."

Mumtaz addresses Chaudhry: "Should there be any //major shift in the policies//
so that we can stop these incidents?" Chaudhry says: "The policy has been
changing gradually with the passage of time. This is not our war. Neither is it
in the interests of Pakistan, nor has it anything to do with Pakistan. It is
being fought under an international agenda. However, the people of Pakistan are
making the biggest sacrifices in this war against terror. The people and
political parties of Pakistan are committed to fighting the war together, which
is a big change."

Mumtaz asks Satti if the situation will improve "if we //cut off// from the
United States?" Satti responds: "It should not remain limited to the United
States and Russia, but foreign policy should be formulated according to the
//national interests//, irrespective of any other country."

Mumtaz thanks the participants and concludes the program.

Source: PTV News, Islamabad, in Urdu 0515gmt 29 Dec 09

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             January 1, 2010 Friday

Terror Threat: US security: Republicans attack Obama over terrorism

BYLINE: Chris McGreal Washington

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 351 words


Republicans broke with the tradition of publicly backing a president during a
national security crisis when they accused Barack Obama of endangering Americans
and being soft on terror over al-Qaida's attempt to bomb a transatlantic flight.

Democratic party leaders hit back by saying the president's opponents were
seeking to make political gain out of the failed attack above Detroit by Umar
Farouk Abdulmutallab.

Some of the strongest criticism has come from the former vice-president Dick
Cheney, who accused Obama of weakening US security.

"President Obama is trying to pretend we are not at war," Cheney said. "He seems
to think if he has a low-key response to an attempt to blow up an airliner and
kill hundreds of people we won't be at war."

Pete Hoekstra, the senior Republican on the House of Representatives
intelligence committee, shocked even some in his own party by sending out a
fundraising email denouncing Obama and his officials over the failed bombing.

"Since President Obama took office he and his leftwing cronies have taken steps
to undermine the work of our brave men and women who work tirelessly to keep us
safe," he wrote.

The attacks have infuriated Democrats because they breach the convention of
political solidarity - or at least silence - in times of security crisis.

The White House said the president had regularly described the US as being at
war with terrorists.

The chairman of the Democratic congressional campaign committee, Chris Van
Hollen, said: "It just goes to show how extreme and out of touch House
Republicans have become that their members would try to score political points
and even raise money off the terror plot to blow up a plane and kill innocent
Americans at Christmas."

Other Republicans have criticised the president for taking three days to make a
public statement on the attempted bombing. However, Democrats have noted that
George Bush took six days to speak publicly about a failed attack by the shoe
bomber Richard Reid in December 2001.

Republicans have accused Obama of being soft on terror in the aftermath of
al-Qaida's attempt to bomb a US-bound plane

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             January 1, 2010 Friday
                                  Eire Edition

BALI TERRORIST ATTACK FEARS;
AROUND THE WORLD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 51 words


THE US yesterday warned of a possible New Year's Eve terrorist attack on
Indonesia's Bali island.

The US embassy emailed its citizens quoting the island's governor as saying:
"There is an indication of an attack to Bali tonight."

However, no additional details have been released by the Indonesian authorities.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             January 1, 2010 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

TERROR ATTACK ALERT BY PM;
'BE VIGILANT' SAYS PM IN NEW TERROR ATTACK ALERT

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,11

LENGTH: 354 words


GORDON Brown last night warned the plot to blow up a passenger plane on
Christmas Day was a wake-up call to be alert in the face of the terrorist
menace.

In a message from No10 he said the attempt, by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, left,
was part of an "evolving terrorist threat". Al-Qaeda is still hellbent on
inflicting mass casualties, the PM wanted to remind the nation. His words
underline security experts' fear that al-Qaeda want to hit back quickly after
the failure of the Christmas Day syringe bomb plot to prove its strength.

And New Year will be seen as a vulnerable time as more people travel, crowds are
gathered and emergency services are stretched.

Mr Brown said: "In the past week we have been exposed to an evolving terrorist
threat.

"These enemies of democracy and freedom are concealing explosives in ways which
are more difficult to detect.

"The failed attack on Christmas Day reminds us international terrorism is still
a real threat.

"The Detroit plot thankfully failed. But it has been another wake-up call for
the battles we must wage, not just for security against terror but for the
hearts and minds of a generation."

No10 is not believed to have received specific intelligence which would justify
raising the official threat level from "substantial" to "severe".

But Mr Brown said: "We must never be complacent and remain always vigilant."

He added the Government was looking at "advancing our use of explosive trace
technology, full body scanners and advanced X-ray technology" at airports.

Watchlists that ban people from flying or entering the country will be tightened
and extended.

Mr Brown also pledged "support" would be given to Yemen's intelligence services
and counter-terror units.

He said: "Al-Qaeda's affiliates and allies in ungoverned or under-governed areas
like parts of Yemen, the Sahel and Somalia have raised their profile."

Meanwhile the US embassy in Bali said there was an "indication" of an attack
there last night .

The message said security systems should be on "full alert".

A spokesman for the Bali government denied there was an official warning. But he
added Bali had to remain "on alert".

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TROUBLED Sahel, Yemen, Somalia DETERMINED PM Gordon Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             January 1, 2010 Friday
                                 Ulster Edition

'BE VIGILANT' SAYS PM IN NEW TERROR ATTACK ALERT

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 300 words


GORDON Brown last night warned the plot to blow up a passenger plane on
Christmas Day was a wake-up call to be alert in the face of the terrorist
menace.

In a message from No10 he said the attempt by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab was part
of an "evolving terrorist threat".

Al-Qaeda is still hellbent on inflicting mass casualties, the PM wanted to
remind the nation.

His words underline security experts' fear that al-Qaeda want to hit back
quickly after the failure of the Christmas Day syringe bomb plot to prove its
strength.

And New Year will be seen as a vulnerable time as more people travel, crowds are
gathered and emergency services are stretched.

Mr Brown said: "In the past week we have been exposed to an evolving terrorist
threat.

"These enemies of democracy and freedom are concealing explosives in ways which
are more difficult to detect.

"The failed attack on Christmas Day reminds us international terrorism is still
a real threat.

"The Detroit plot thankfully failed. But it has been another wake-up call for
the battles we must wage, not just for security against terror but for the
hearts and minds of a generation."

No10 is not believed to have received specific intelligence which would justify
raising the official threat level from "substantial" to "severe".

But Mr Brown said: "We must never be complacent and remain always vigilant."

He added the Government was looking at "advancing our use of explosive trace
technology, full body scanners and advanced X-ray technology" at airports.

Watchlists that ban people from flying or entering the country will be tightened
and extended.

Meanwhile the US embassy in Bali said there was an "indication" of an attack
there last night.

A spokesman for the Bali government denied there was an official warning. But he
added Bali had to remain "on alert".

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TROUBLED Sahel, Yemen, Somalia DETERMINED PM Gordon Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             January 1, 2010 Friday

Confusion in Bali as US warning of terror attack threat confounds security
officials

LENGTH: 179 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE security situation in  Bali was mired in confusion last night
after the US Embassy warned of a possible New Year's Eve terrorist attack on the
Indonesian island,   but security officials said they were unaware of a threat.


An embassy e-mail to US citizens quoted the popular resort's governor as saying,
"There is an indication of an attack to Bali tonight."

Indonesian police spokesman Colonel Gde Sugianyar said the department had no
information about a specific threat on Bali and that security was in place to
ensure festivities would be safe.

The embassy said US citizens should monitor local media and be aware of possible
threats in the world's most populous Muslim-majority nation.

"While Indonesia's counterterrorism efforts have been ongoing and partly
successful, violent elements have demonstrated a willingness and ability to
carry out deadly attacks with little or no warning," the  e-mail said.

Embassy spokeswoman Corina Sanders said the warning had been widely distributed
to restaurants and cafés by the Bali Tourism Board.

But Bali Tourism Board head Ida Bagus Ngurah Wijaya said he "never issued such a
statement or letter regarding the threat of terrorist attacks".

"Our understanding is that it was sent by the governor of Bali, whom we consider
an official source," Ms Sanders said.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 2, 2010 Saturday

Indian minister says Pakistan should take Mumbai attack terrorists' bodies

LENGTH: 230 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 1 January: The Maharashtra government in western India on Friday [1
January] asked Pakistan to take the bodies of nine LeT [Lashkar-i-Toiba]
terrorists killed during the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, lying in the J J Hospital
morgue for over a year now.

"As the bodies have been identified as those of Pakistani nationals, the
neighbouring country should accept them," Home Minister of Maharashtra R. R.
Patil told reporters here.

Stating that the state government had already sought Centre's permission to
dispose off the bodies and a reply was awaited, Patil said.

"The Centre's [federal government] approval for disposing off the bodies is
necessary considering involvement of foreign agencies in the investigation," the
minister said, adding that the DNA samples, required for probe and trial of the
case, have already been collected.

Muslim organisations in Mumbai had announced that community cemeteries where
unclaimed bodies are usually buried will not open their doors for performing the
last rites of the slain terrorists.

The terrorists have been identified as Nazir, Babar Imran alias Abu Akasa, Abu
Ali, Abu Soheb, Bada Abdul Rehman, Abu Umar, Fahadullah, Abdul Rehman Chota and
Ismail Khan. The lone surviving 26/11 terrorist, Ajmal Kasab, is currently
facing trial.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1654gmt 01 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 2, 2010 Saturday

Iraqi PM calls for combined efforts against "the terrorist attack"; roundup

LENGTH: 502 words


Iraqi government-controlled Al-Iraqiyah TV reports within its 0900 gmt newscast
on 2 January on a speech by the Iraqi premier at the Baghdad Operations Command;
popular and parliamentary reactions to the decision on dismissing charges
against members of the Blackwater Company; statements by an Iraqi deputy, noting
that the calls for enacting the electoral conduct law and making the government
a "caretaking" government are unconstitutional; statements by an Iraqi deputy on
the competition in the forthcoming parliamentary elections; and a visit by the
National Reconciliation parliamentary delegation to Syria.

- "During his meeting with commanders, commanding officers, and officers at the
Baghdad Operations Command, Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and commander in chief
of the armed forces has underscored the importance of combining the efforts of
the politicians and security men to face the terrorist attack that is
threatening the country and also face certain sides' attempts to impede the
elections and confuse the political process."

- "Al-Maliki called on the security men to be fully aware of the political
process and not interfere in its affairs. He pointed out that success cannot be
made in all domains unless we restore security across Iraq."

- "The decision to dismiss charges against members of the Blackwater Security
Company was not welcomed by parliamentarians and citizens in Iraq. The citizens
called for imposing the severest punishment against the criminals."

- "Deputy Abbas al-Bayyati has said that calls by certain political blocs for
enacting the electoral conduct law and making the government a caretaker
government aims at applying political pressure on the government. Al-Bayyati
pointed out that making the government a caretaker government during the
election period is unconstitutional and illegal. He explained that the
Constitution stipulates the mandate [of the government] and that the
Constitution should not be overstepped."

- "Deputy Abd-al-Karim al-Samarra'i has expected that the competition in the
forthcoming parliamentary elections will be between the Iraqi List and the Iraqi
National Alliance. Al-Samarra'i said that it is unlikely to have a parliamentary
majority from those two blocs, adding that the number of voters for both blocs
will be close. Al-Samarra'i believes that the chances of the Iraqi list that is
headed by Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki to become a big competitor in the
forthcoming parliamentary elections are not that big as he said."

- "A delegation of the National Reconciliation Parliamentary Committee headed to
Damascus today. A parliamentary source noted that the delegation is headed by
the chief of the committee, Wathab Shakir, and also includes Deputies Firyad
Rawanduzi, Hanin al-Qaddu, Shadha al-Abbusi, and Zakiyah Isma'il. The source
added that the members of the delegation will meet a number of Iraqis residing
in Syria so as to bring viewpoints closer among all parties."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 0900 gmt 2 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wiltshire Times

                            January 2, 2010 Saturday

Reveller tells of terror in Trowbridge pub attack

BYLINE: Will Frampton

SECTION: TROWBRIDGE NEWS (TROWBRIDGE NEWS)

LENGTH: 293 words


CHRISTMAS revellers were shocked when glass rained down on drinkers and staff in
the Albany Palace pub in Trowbridge.

David Hindle, 24, of Westbury, was on of those at the pub celebrating Christmas
Eve with friends when it is believed someone climbed onto the pub roof and
smashed the skylights, sending glass showering onto the dance floor.

He said: "We were stood just on the edge of the dance floor when we heard a
noise, though with the music playing it was difficult to make out what it was.

"We saw something falling on the bouncer stood on the stairs, who looked up
looking confused. Then the other two windows over the dance floor were smashed.
There was glass everywhere.

"It was a shock and happened very fast. At first we thought it was some kind of
special effect, since it was Christmas Eve, but then I picked a big bit of glass
out of my drink."

Staff closed the dance area while they cleaned up, but the pub stayed open.

Mr Hindle said: "It was all very confused. The people who worked there didn't
seem to know what was going on either."

It is believed an altercation outside the pub, part of the Wetherspoons chain,
at about 9pm sparked the incident.

A man was stopped from entering the pub in Park Road by door staff in doubt
about his ID. That incident led to a scuffle in which a door window was smashed.

Later in the evening it is believed the same man climbed on the pub roof and
broke the three skylight windows. Police arrested three people, two of which
were released without charge.

A 21-year-old man from Bournemouth has been released on police bail until
January 11.

A spokesman for Wetherspoons said: "Our door staff take ID issues very
seriously. We are very concerned for any people who suffered injuries and wish
them a speedy recovery."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                            January 3, 2010, Sunday

GUN COPS FOIL AXEMAN ATTACK ON CARTOONIST;
TERROR FOR ARTIST WHO OUTRAGED MUSLIMS: SHOT AL-QAEDA SUSPECT ON MURDER BID RAP

BYLINE: FIONA YOUNG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 438 words


AN axe-wielding Muslim fanatic who tried to butcher a Danish cartoonist in his
home was carried into court on a stretcher yesterday to be charged with
attempted murder.

The 28-year-old Somali, said to have links to al-Qaeda, was also accused of
trying to kill a police officer who shot and wounded him outside Kurt
Westergaard's home.

Westergaard, 75, has been a target of extremists since he drew a cartoon in 2005
of the Prophet Mohammed wearing a bomb-shaped turban.

The cartoon was one of a series which outraged the Islamic world.

Westergaard was at home with his five-year-old grand-daughter in the city of
Aarhus late on Friday when the attacker broke in.

The house is fortified but the man smashed a window to get in. He told
Westergaard in broken English that he had come to kill him.

Westergaard fled with his granddaughter to a "panic room" in the bathroom. He
said the attacker yelled "Revenge!" and "Blood!" and smashed the door with the
axe.

The cartoonist pressed an alarm button to alert police. Officers arrived within
two minutes and confronted the axeman outside.

Jakob Scharf, head of Denmark's PET intelligence service, said the man
brandished the axe at one of the cops, who shot him in the right knee and left
hand.

Westergaard was shocked but unhurt. He told a Danish newspaper: "It was scary.
It was really close. But we did it. My grandchild did fine."

The attacker, who cannot be named under Danish privacy laws, was taken to
hospital.

He was brought to court later, where he denied two counts of attempted murder.
He was remanded in custody for four weeks.

Scharf said the man, who had asylum in Denmark and lived near Copenhagen, had
"close relations" to al-Qaeda in east Africa and the Somali terror group
al-Shabab.

Al-Shabab is an extremist rebel faction fighting to take over the lawless
country. Several people, including a girl of 13, have been stoned to death for
"adultery" by the group.

Muslims across the world were furious after Westergaard's drawing and the other
cartoons were published. It is against Islamic law to produce pictures of the
Prophet.

Westergaard, the best-known of the cartoonists, was forced into hiding by death
threats. He later returned to public life, saying he wanted to defend free
speech.

Two men based in Chicago were charged last October with plotting to kill
Westergaard.

And in 2008, Danish cops arrested two Tunisians and on suspicion of planning to
murder the cartoonist. Neither man was charged.

The Danish Muslim Union condemned the attempt to kill Westergaard. They said:
"We strongly distance ourselves from the attack, and any kind of extremism that
leads to such acts."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Guard: The attacker, his face covered, is brought to court Ordeal:
Westergaard. Above: Smashed window at the cartoonist's fortified home

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 4, 2010 Monday

Editorial says attempted terror attack to affect Nigeria's re-branding campaign

LENGTH: 665 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper Daily Trust website on 4 January

Nigerians hoping for a catharsis after months of intense uncertainty were
severely jolted with the Christmas Day news that one of their compatriots
attempted to blow up an US passenger airliner over the city of Detroit on that
day.

Faruok Abdul Mutallab, the 23-year-old Nigerian was named as the alleged
perpetrator of the act, reminiscent of the September 11, 2001, tragedy that
struck the United States and precipitated the US global 'war on terror' that is
still being waged to this day.

According to statements attributed to US officials, and amplified at the weekend
by US President Barack Obama, the Nigerian was a protege of an affiliate of its
sworn enemy, Al-Qa'idah, which, it was claimed, recruited him to embark on the
apparent suicide mission. Accounts suggest that Faruok Mutallab boarded the
Delta Airlines plane from Amsterdam in the Netherlands bound for the US. His
flight apparently originated in Nigeria. The accounts also suggested that as the
plane made its final approach to Detroit,  Faruok tried to ignite a substance
strapped to his body; passengers said they saw a flash, followed by smell of
smoke, coming from the direction of  Faruok's aircraft seat. Passengers rushed
and overpowered him.

Officials later determined the substance to be pentaerythritol tetranitrate, or
PETN, said to be highly explosive.

Since the incident, questions have been asked about the involvement of what led
this, by all accounts, bright, educated and promising young man in the highly
unusual mission for a Nigerian. It has since emerged that the young man's
father, the highly regarded banker, Dr Umaru Mutallab, who retired recently as
chairman of First Bank of Nigeria Plc, had sometime in November 2009 alerted
some Nigerian security officials and US embassy staff in Nigeria about what he
thought were the strange behaviours of his son, who was known to be a resident
student at a university in London.

The Nigerian government's reaction to the event, in statements made by
Information and Communication Minister, Prof Dora Akunyili, has been incoherent,
wafting from denouncing the alleged terrorist act, to virtually disowning
Faruok as a rootless Nigerian whose conduct has been influenced by Western
education and culture. We wonder what Mrs Akunyili's reaction would have been if
Faruok had not been suspected of attempted bombing, but the recipient of a
global recognition for some scientific discovery.

When all is said and done, however, the fact is that Faruok is expected to
appear in a US court on charges of terrorism and terrorism related offences. As
long as this unfortunate episode lasts, Nigeria as a country and its citizens
will once again be in the global spotlight for the worse of reasons, making a
big mess of the government's poorly-focused national re-branding campaign.

Faruok's profile, as we can piece together from the different accounts of his
school days, his social affiliations and worldview, reveals a young man detached
from his Nigerian roots, and unable to fit in the 'other world' he found
himself. What role parental supervision (or lack thereof) played in the young
man's character and current travails is an issue that would be hotly debated in
the weeks and months to come.

But for now, as this unfortunate episode continues to unfold, one of the
principal lessons that we must take from it is the need for children to be
guided through school at home to a certain level, preferably first degree,
before being sent to other cultures abroad for further studies. As we have seen
in this case, the absence from home and from kindergarten age might have played
a role in the parents not being able to observe Faruok veering off from the norm
before it was too late.

Is Faruok Mutallab a terrorist?  Faruok's day in court will come soon; until
that happens, the evidence is not conclusive that we settle for that
description.

Source: Daily Trust website, Abuja, in English 4 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 4, 2010 Monday

Paper criticizes US agencies for blaming Nigerians of attempted terror attack

LENGTH: 499 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper Vanguard website on 4 January

Nigerian authorities must stand up against the American posture of trying to
label us a country of terrorists after the Christmas Day incident in which
23-year-old Nigerian Umar Farouk Abdul Mutallab tried to blow up a passenger
aircraft as it was landing in Detroit.

Details of the case as they evolve have not shown any complicity on the part of
Nigerian authorities or security lapses at the Murtala Muhammed Airport from
which Mutallab's flight originated.

Nigerians should be proud of the thorough security checks at the Lagos
international airport. There is documented evidence that the young Mutallab went
through them. The security equipment at our international airports passed
American examination as part of requirements for direct flights from Nigeria to
the US.

More importantly, Alhaji Umaru Mutallab, Farouk's father, weeks before the
incident, reported to security agencies in Nigeria and the US about the family's
concerns over Farouk. The older Mutallab thought the son could be leaning
towards extremist views.

Few fathers, not even in the US, would have gone to this extent to alert
security agencies about suspicions of a family member. The embarrassing fact is
that American security agencies ignored the information. They want to export the
blames.

As is their usual practice, American agencies find it convenient to blame others
for everything. If they had taken the concerns on Farouk serious, the incident
could have been avoided. Their first reaction was to heap the blames on
Nigerians and they carried on as if the attack had the support of all Nigerians.

Our country of more than 140 million people is maligned endlessly each time an
infraction involves one of us. Without supporting Farouk's activities, it must
be said that Nigerians (his father is one) did their best in this instance, as
in many other instances.

Alhaji Mutallab should be praised for his effort to make the world safer. That
those who should have acted on his information ignored it, is not entirely his
problem, except that it has landed his son in trouble and by extension his
family.

"There was a mixture of human and systemic failures that contributed to this
potential catastrophic breach of security," US President Barack Obama admitted
after the incident.

"Our government has not acted as it should. A systemic failure occurred and I
consider this unacceptable."

American agencies should like President Obama own up to the defects in their
system.

They tend to be all-knowing and racist in their action. Had the information from
Alhaji Mutallab come from elsewhere, they may have acted differently.

Americans throw their importance around enough that at some airports in Europe,
those bearing American passports do not go through checks.

There are no bases for harassing Nigerians following this incident. We are not
terrorists.

It is unacceptable for us to be treated as if we are.

Source: Vanguard website, Lagos, in English 4 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             January 4, 2010 Monday

Man arrested over artist attack was suspected of terror plot

BYLINE: Malin Rising

LENGTH: 298 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE Somali man who tried to attack an artist who depicted the Prophet
Muhammad in a controversial cartoon has previously been arrested in Kenya.


The Danish intelligence agency PET knew that the 28-year-old Somali man was held
in Kenya in September for allegedly participating in plotting an attack against
US secretary of state Hillary Clinton, the Politiken newspaper reported.

Citing unnamed sources, it said he was later released due to lack of evidence.

Mrs Clinton visited Kenya as part of an 11-day tour of Africa in August.

Denmark's ambassador to Kenya, Bo Jensen, told the news agency Ritzau that the
Somali  was arrested in Kenya at the time for having incomplete travel
documents.

However, he said Kenyan authorities never told the embassy he was suspected in
any terror plot.

PET would not comment on the reports or the Somali suspect.

The suspect was charged with two counts of attempted murder on Saturday after
breaking into artist Kurt Westergaard's home armed with an axe and a knife on
Friday night. He denied the charges at the court hearing.

Westergaard - one of 12 Danish artists whose cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad
outraged the Muslim world in 2006 - escaped the attack by fleeing to a specially
made safe room and alerting police. Police shot the Somali man in the hand and
knee.

On Saturday, the head of PET, Jakob Scharf, said the man was suspected of having
been involved in terror-related activities in east Africa with the terror group
al-Shabab and had been under PET's surveillance.

However, he did not specifically mention Kenya or any attack against Mrs
Clinton.

Westergaard's cartoon of Muhammad wearing a bomb-shaped turban was viewed as the
most provocative, and he has been the target of several death threats since
then.

He has been under round-the-clock police protection since February 2008.

Islamic law generally opposes any depiction of the prophet, even favourable, for
fear it could lead to idolatry.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            January 5, 2010, Tuesday

101 THINGS I'LL GET A 10 TEENY BIT FED-UP OF;
THE NOUGHTIES GAVE US BIG BROTHER, TERROR ATTACKS AND ANNOYING ABBREVIATIONS.
TIME TO START A NEW DECADE WITH A CLEAN SLATE. HERE ARE 101 THINGS TO AVOID IN
THE NEXT DECADE

BYLINE: John McKie

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1130 words


1 Referring to the 2010s as "The Teenies". 2 Geri Halliwell judging a singing
contest. 3 Cheryl Cole judging a singing contest. 4 Dannii Minogue judging a
singing contest.

5 Amanda Holden judging ... well, just Amanda Holden.

6 A sneeze receiving the response: "Sure you haven't got swine flu?" No. It was
just a sneeze.

7 Men being tortured in orange boiler suits for info - unless it's Tony Blair
and John Reid at the Chilcot Inquiry. 9 Nude charity calendars. 10 Pictures of
the Loose Women on a night out. This happens every night.

Hardly a shock news story. 11 OK! magazine producing black-bordered tribute
issues to people who are still alive.

12 Big-time celebs calling award shows "humbling". If they are intended to be
"humbling", it ain't working. 13 Ireland tapping grandparents of perfectly
Scottish players.

14 Scotland tapping grandparents of perfectly English players (Hello Danny Fox).

15 The "Some council just banned Christmas" story.

16 Anyone with a WKD side. 17 Crazy Frog.

18 Crazy Frog's missus, Carla Bruni. 19 "Xoxoxo" (internet slang for hugs and
kisses) 20 Conservative MPs cleaning moats and chandeliers with our dosh.

21 Other Conservative MPs talking about how they "live on rations". 22 The
failed actor producing celeb toxic spills under the name Perez Hilton. 23 Smugby
Union World Cup winner Matt Dawson on A Question Of Sport.

24 Harriet Harman speaking out on behalf of older women (and wrecking their
cause in the process).

25 Davina McCall saying "Listen" (Fear this request has come too late).

26 Baseball caps with "Hague". 27 (Shadow) Cabinets with "Hague." 28 Or
"Cameron" and "Osborne." 29 Everyone responsible for making The World According
To Clarkson the third best-selling non-fiction book of the decade being allowed
in bookshops. 30 Anyone classifying The World According To Clarkson as
non-fiction. 31 "Wassssssssssuppppp?" 32 John... 33 ...and Edward. 34 Ryanair
charging you to use the loo on their flights, even if it probably is the best
seat in the house.

35 The words "Cheryl Cole" and "national treasure" appearing in the same
sentence, unless Corrie's Betty Turpin guest stars on The X Factor. 36 Another
decade without Scotland in a major football tournament.

37 Sisqo, Basshunter, Another Level or Lady Sovereign records in the top 10. 39
Another Scott Harrison fight (a boxing fight is OK).

40 Papers and BBC declaring a government "on the brink" because James Purnell
quit. Who? 41 EastEnders creating one more cliffhanger based around a Dallas
plotline from four decades ago.

42 Facebook telling me to "catch up with" a friend I just phoned. 43 Rangers
fans blaming stewards, police, media, directors (delete as appropriate) after
riots.

44 Criticising the winning of three titles as not being "Celtic-minded".

45 Football messageboard discussions short-circuited by Old Firm fans shouting
abuse about The Other Lot. 46 More bands choosing rubbish names like Joe Lean
and the Jing Jang Jong, MGMT and Does It Offend You, Yeah? 47 The word "Journey"
on a karaoke show. 48 The band Journey on karaoke show. 49 ITV2 making a third
reality show from the Peter Andre-Jordan divorce based on her son Harvey's first
girlfriends. 50 Especially if they call it Blind Date. 51 Peter Mandelson giving
himself titles longer than John Prescott's meal order. 52 "Thank you for
calling. You have reached a computerised message." 53 "If you want to be delayed
by an equally useless message, press one."

54 "For another time-wasting message, press two."

55 "To stay on the line and hear some hold music, please press three." 56 "Your
call is important to us." (20 more minutes of hold music.) 57 "Thank you for
calling Sky Customer Services. We are unable to help you at this time." (click)
58 Basic Instinct 3. 59 The use of Here Comes The Girls in an ad or TV show.

60 Or Coldplay during a sob story. 61 The next time there's a war, the US
President not engaging his heart and mind before using the phrase "winning
hearts and minds".

62 Michael Buble, 34, calling people his own age "kid".

63 GI Joe: The Rise Of Cobra 2, with Sienna Miller.

64 The comment "Did you know more people voted for Will Young/Joe McElderry,
than voted for Blair ?" Attention, numbskulls. 14-year-olds can't press redial
in a General Election. 65 2012: "The world is about to end. The Mayan Calendar
says so."

66 Out-of-control usage of the number 66 in the run-up to the next World Cup. 68
Moira Stewart hiding in a cupboard to tell strangers to pay their tax returns.
69 Still on tax returns, celebrity BB contestants saying: "I'm doing it for my
charity".

70 A Home Secretary who doesn't know which home is her main one.

71 Men in skinny jeans. 72 Men in ripped vests. 73 Men in winklepickers. 74 Or
as they're also known, Russell Brand. 75 Anyone over 15 discussing Team Jacob,
R.Pattz or other teen vampirerelated issues.

76 The ridiculous sunglasses hanging off Nicole Richie and Paris Hilton. 77 The
ridiculous Nicole Richie and Paris Hilton hanging off the sunglasses. 78 Tony
and Cherie's holidays at pop stars' houses. (Although Amy Winehouse's could get
interesting) 79 Lady Gaga without make-up. 80 Jeremy Kyle's staged public
floggings. (His own, on the other hand...) 81 Trig, Track, Piper, Willow and
Bristol Palin or the woman who saddled them with those names.

82 Bangladesh, or other impoverished countries, ending up underwater because
people were too busy reading The World According To Clarkson. 83 The new Charlie
Sheen sit-com, Two And A Half Wives. On second thoughts, that might be worth
watching. 84 Jade Goody: The Live Seance, with Derek Acorah.

85 "LOL" (slang for "Laugh out loud"). 86 Dick Cheney shooting anyone except
perhaps his old boss.

87 Horne... 88 ... and Corden. 89 Adulation of size-zero-brained Kate Moss.

90 Susan Boyle bringing out her own swimwear range.

91 Or Tommy Sheridan's own-brand waxing cream.

92 Bob Geldof siring another daughter. 93 Piers Morgan travel shows ... although
would consider watching Piers Morgan On The Bermuda Triangle. 94 The Director
General hiring another private jet with our money when Russell Brand and
Jonathan Ross make their next daft phone call.

95 Yet another DFS ad campaign. Save for a Tom Cruise-fronted one.

96 The last record shop closing. This, sadly, may be inevitable.

97 The sight of Hazel Blears with, or without, motorcycle leathers. 98 Nintendo
DS ads with Fearne Cotton ... unless there's a new game called Small Brain
Academy. 99 Madonna returning from Africa and forgetting a baby she left in hand
luggage. 101 "l8rs". Not a sign-off. Just another stupid abbreviation designed
to make anyone over 25 feel 75.

100 Kanye West rushing on stage during an acceptance speech.

Unless Gwyneth Paltrow wins another Oscar on a 8 James "Avatar" Cameron making
another film about Jar Jar Binks breeding with a Smurf

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANNOYING: Clockwise from top left, Cheryl Cole, Kanye West, SuBo, James
Corden and Avatar alien

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 5, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Profiling air passengers could make terrorist attacks easier;
Podium

BYLINE: Talal Rajab

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 381 words


SINCE THE attempted bomb attack on an airliner bound for Detroit, there have
been calls to profile passengers according to age, ethnicity, gender or
geography as part of British airport security policy. This coincides with the US
announcement that passengers from or travelling through 14 countries will face
increased security checks. Such profiling is ineffective and may actually make
terrorist attacks easier.

Islam is not ethnically or geographically centred - nor is terrorism. This,
coupled with the fact that a large number of converts have been involved in
terrorist plots, makes profiling according to religion impossible. Previous
terrorism cases have shown why profiling on the basis of race, gender, age or
location can often be ineffective:

1. Geography: Terrorists who have attacked US airliners, including Richard Reid
and the 9/11 hijackers, have been from or based in European countries. Recent
arrests in the US and Canada have shown that the US faces a very real threat
from radicalisation at home and in its nearest neighbour. None of these
countries is on the US list.

2. Race: Muriel Degauque, a Belgian citizen of European origin, was the first
female European suicide bomber in Iraq in 2005. Profiling would have failed to
identify Andrew Ibrahim and Nicky Reilly, both of whom converted to Islam before
going on to plot terrorist attacks.

3. Gender: Female suicide bombers have been behind many of the most lethal
attacks in Iraq and Israel.

4. Age: Fifty-year-old Samira Ahmed Jassim, who was arrested in Iraq in 2009,
has admitted to running a network which recruited and trained female suicide
bombers. Also in 2009, the Pakistani army announced that it had discovered a
Taliban-run school in which boys as young as nine were being trained to carry
out suicide bombings.

Profiling also risks alienating Muslims who are visibly devout but who reject
the ideologies that lie behind terrorism. Distrust between visibly devout
Muslims and the government risks endangering cooperative efforts to combat
Islamist extremism and root out violent extremists.

Security measures must be proactive, not reactive. If security measures are to
remain one step ahead of terrorists then profiling should be avoided.

Talal Rajab is a trainer at Quilliam, the counter-extremism think tank

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            January 5, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Glass attack terror in pub

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 242 words


A MAN suffered head injuries after being hit by a glass thrown during a pub
fight.

The bleeding 43-year-old victim was rushed to Paisley's Royal Alexandra
Hospital, where he needed stitches to a wound on his forehead.

Police said he was injured during a frightening incident at The Glenleven Inn,
in Kilbarchan, on Sunday night.

It's understood that an argument broke out in the premises and, at some stage, a
glass was thrown, which struck a man on the head.

As paramedics and police were alerted, staff and customers went to help the
injured man.

One source said: "It's not exactly clear how this argument started and there may
have been more than two people involved.

"During the argument, a glass was thrown and it hit a man on the head. He had a
wound to the forehead and it was bleeding badly.

"Staff and other people tried to help him and stayed with him until medics
arrived to attend to his injuries.

"He was later taken to the RAH, where the wound was stitched. Police were also
at the scene and they were interviewing a number of people."

Last night, cops revealed they are treating the incident as a serious assault.

One officer said: "A man aged 26 was arrested a short time after an incident at
a pub in Kilbarchan on Sunday night.

"He was taken to Paisley Police Office, where he was quizzed and later charged."

It is understood that a man is expected to appear at Paisley Sheriff Court today
in connection with the incident.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 6, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan's Karachi reportedly under threat of Mumbai-like terror attacks

LENGTH: 291 words


Text of report headlined "Threat of Mumbai-like attacks in Karachi; security
agencies directed to make strict arrangements" published by Pakistani newspaper
Khabrain on 4 January

Karachi: In the wake of threats of Mumbai-like attacks in Karachi, the KPT
[Karachi Port Trust] and Maritime Security Agency have issued directives to all
the concerned departments to make strict security arrangements. And in this
regard, orders have also been issued to ensure registration of fishing boats and
their crew. According to the information received at some departments, Karachi
Korangi, Gawadar, and Pasni Ports can be targeted or they can be used for
carrying out any major terrorist act.

According to intelligence reports, the coast of Karachi Korangi, Gawadar, or
Pasni can be used in the same way boats were used in the Mumbai attacks. In
order to avert any such terrorist act, the fishermen have been given
instructions not to get close to the Pak-India maritime boundary as the Indian
security forces may seize any boat under the pretext of maritime boundary
violations, and this boat can be later used for terrorist acts by India.

The Karachi Port Trust and Maritime Security Agency have issued directives to
all the concerned departments to take timely and effective measures in this
regard. A meeting of the concerned officials, leaders of the fishermen and
fisheries' officials with Lieutenant Commander Ghazi Salahuddin, Deputy Director
Maritime Security Agency, in the chair was also held. The meeting decided to
take all preventive measures to avert the threat. A deadline for registration of
all the boats, which are used for fishing as well as the crew, has also being
fixed.

Source: Khabrain, Islamabad, in Urdu 0000 GMT 04 Jan 10, pp 6, 8

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 6, 2010 Wednesday

One policeman killed in Indian Kashmir terror attack

LENGTH: 317 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Srinagar, 6 January: An attempt by Pakistan-based Lashkar-i-Toiba (LeT) to carry
out a suicide attack in Srinagar city was Wednesday thwarted by Jammu and
Kashmir police which prevented the militants from approaching a possible target,
leading to the death of a policeman and injuries to seven others.

Highly-placed police sources said that an intelligence input was received
Tuesday suggesting that LeT terrorists were planning to carry out a suicide
attack in the city.

Following the input, the authorities sent messages on mobiles to public at large
and officials concerned asking them to alert.

Giving details about the incident, senior police officials said that the
terrorists were stopped during a routing check near Pladdium in the heart of Lal
Chowk.

They said the militants panicked when stopped and started firing
indiscriminately besides hurling three grenades. They rushed towards a small
hotel identified as "Punjab Hotel" on the adjacent Court Road, they said.

During the firing and lobbying of grenades by the militants, police constable
Mohammed Yusuf, who was driver of Station House Officer of Maisuma in India's
northern state of Jammu and Kashmir, was killed while seven others including a
camera person of a New Delhi-based private TV news channel were injured, they
said.

The condition of one of the injured is stated to be critical, the sources said,
adding that he is being operated upon.

Director General of Police Kuldeep Khoda said senior officers had rushed to the
spot to oversee the operations. "We were alert and this has helped us in
preventing militants from carrying out a fidayeen-type attack," he told PTI over
phone from Jammu.

Though Jamiat-ul-Mujahideen claimed the responsibility for the attack, the
sources said this was a handiwork of Lashkar terrorists only.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1116gmt 06 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           January 6, 2010 Wednesday

Yemen terror nothing new;
In your Issue of December 28 I read an article which included the statement
"Yemen... has had a reputation as a terrorist haven since the 2000 suicide
attack against the warship USS Cole".

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 89  words


This comes as a surprise to me, as I served in Aden, South Yemen, in 1966 and
there were terrorists there then  -  who tried  to blow me up, but failed,
fortunately.

British troops served and died in the country before that. There is a military
cemetery called Silent Valley there, too, full of young British lads who were
killed by those terrorists.

Perhaps the Americans only became aware of Yemen's terrorists in 2000 after the
USS Cole incident -  but I can assure you that we knew all about them in the
1960s.

David Laine  Newton Abbot

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2010 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday

Pakistan TV show on Karachi terror attacks, Islam, politics in Bangladesh

LENGTH: 1850 words


Karachi Dawn News television in English at 1600 GMT on 5 January relays live the
regularly scheduled "Newseye" program. Dawn News anchor Saima Mohsin reviews and
analyzes major developments of the day with government ministers, officials,
opposition leaders, and prominent analysts in this program.

Reception: Good/Fair

Duration: 60 minutes

Segment I

Mohsin opens the program by saying "the Karachi bombing of the religious
procession of Muharram [first month of Islamic calendar] mourners is still being
investigated to determine whether it was a suicide attack or carried out using a
planted device. Shafqat Malik, head of the Peshawar bomb disposal squad unit,
has been brought into Karachi to investigate the matter." Mohsin speaks with
Shafqat Malik and discusses his findings. Malik says "we have just concluded our
investigation, which revealed that it was not a suicide bombing, but a bomb set
off above the ground. There was no crater on the ground and no remains of a
suicide bomber were found, while the Sindh police and investigative authorities
confirm that all the bodies have been identified. After reconstructing the crime
scene, we found that an iron container had been set up at the epicenter, almost
three feet above the ground, which was meant to contain refreshments for the
mourners gathered there. Examining the pieces of the container that had been
blown away from the epicenter further revealed that the blast originated from
the inner sides of the container's sheets.

"Our investigation also showed that improvised explosives were used in this
blast instead of regular explosives, and probably some hydrocarbon was added for
a more lethal effect, with screw nuts added to cause greater damage. The attack
on the Muharram procession was well planned and well executed, which is
different from what we have seen lately where a suicide bomber sometimes fails
to reach his target, and in many instances does not manage to cause the intended
amount of damage. We cannot link this particular bomb blast with other suicide
bombings that are occurring elsewhere in Pakistan; this is a new trend and
nothing like the previous terrorist attacks we have seen. This may be a
practically new group, as this attack can only be linked with two or three other
such attacks that occurred in the same month in Karachi."

Mohsin says "rangers are being given increased powers under the Anti-Terrorism
Act (ATA), allowing them to arrest anyone involved in violence, for 90 days. The
decision comes as the Interior Minister announced shocking figures in the rise
in Karachi target killings. Newseye correspondent Mikhal Fernandez Islam says in
his report that 250 people have been murdered in target killings in Karachi over
the last six months. The victims belonged to various political and non-political
parties. Political parties are warning their workers to be cautious of any
propaganda, while the new increased security measures include forming a
committee comprising representatives from intelligence and police agencies that
will convene weekly to assess the current security situation. A ban has also
been placed on the issuance of arms licenses, and all four provinces have been
asked to computerize arms licenses within a month. The ban on riding pillion on
motorcycles is also being strictly implemented to control the security situation
in Karachi."

Mohsin speaks with Mohib Asad, former inspector general of police (IGP) and
former director of the FIA (Federal Investigation Authority), to discuss target
killings in Karachi. Asad says "target killings are not confined to Karachi
alone; they are happening all over the country, but Karachi has had this problem
in some specific areas since the early 1990s. Primarily, the reason behind this
is the infighting between some political activists of various organizations.
Many times, the police and the administration are not informed of the facts
because political workers think that the vendetta will be settled between them
at some point in time. Therefore, most of these cases go untraced and in many
instances, no arrests are ever made. There can be many motivations under the
cover-up of political vendettas; extortion, turf wars, ethnic or linguistic
differences, gang wars and private revenge can all result in a rise in target
killings. Proper investigation of each and every FIR (First Information Report)
and a follow up in the courts, supported by evidence, can definitely control
target killings in Karachi, but this resolve has to come from the very top in
the government of Sindh. I am not for the idea of giving vast powers of arrest,
search and seizing to low grade operatives, because then these powers can be
used to the detriment of the public."

Segment II

Mohsin says "Bangladesh's High Court has banned the use of religion on political
campaign charts and said that parties should not use Islam in their name. The
verdict effectively prevents dozens of Islamic political parties from using
their primary source of appeal while rallying for votes. Newseye correspondent
Anum Munir says in her report that the Bangladeshi Supreme Court on Sunday [03
Jan] upheld the earlier ruling by the High Court from 2005, throwing out the
Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, which had previously allowed religion-based
politics to prosper and expand in the country. The Supreme Court verdict,
however, does not affect the constitutional amendment that made Islam the state
religion in 1988 and incorporated a Koranic verse in the Constitution. The
incumbent Bangladeshi Government had earlier outlawed a controversial religious
party in October 2009, accusing it of destabilizing the country, while four
other religiously-slanted organizations have also been banned after they carried
out a series of nationwide bombings that left 28 people dead in 2005. The main
opposition Bangladesh Nationalist Party is allied with two Islamic parties, and
is determined to appeal against the verdict. Analysts say there is no way of
telling whether the ban is an attempt by the secular Awami League to stay in
power, or a genuine product of political ideology."

Mohsin speaks with PML-N member Ahsan Iqbal and religious scholar Khalid Zahir
to discuss if a similar ban on using religion in politics is practical in
Pakistan. Iqbal says "there is a difference in Western traditions and the
tradition of Muslim societies; we see in European history that there was a
persecution campaign led by the Church against science, innovation and the
advancement of knowledge, and from there a break-up of religion and state took
place. It was considered that if you are religious then you cannot be
progressive, but looking at the tradition of Islamic history, we note that
religion was never an obstacle in the way of seeking knowledge, advancement or
progress of society. However, after colonization, certain religious groups
emerged which used religion for political motivation.

"In Pakistan, politics has formed into a very centralist platform. The PML-N is
not a theocratic party or a religious party, but at the same time we are
certainly not apologetic about Islam. Islam has a place in Pakistan's politics,
as it had in the genesis of the Pakistan movement. Religion should certainly not
be used as a political tool, but if you completely deny religion as an entity,
then the extremist groups come in. In Germany, the ruling party is the Christian
Democratic Union (CDU); they do have a Christian name in their politics, but it
does not make them a fanatical group. Religion has been abused in Pakistan
because of the lack of a political process and mainstream politics in the
country. Dictators have used religion to attain legitimacy, while certain
religious parties or groups, who otherwise would not have found much support,
also took advantage of the vacuum and got more than their size and share of
power. If we let the political debate and system go on, people will be mature
enough to decide the right mix of religion and politics".

Zahir says "there cannot be any division between Islam and politics, because
committed Muslims are dedicated to being honest people in their individual
capacity, and most certainly they would like the collectivity to also be moulded
according to the ideals of Islam. The step taken by Bangladesh is an extreme
reaction to the kind of Islam and the fanatical approach that has been adopted
by a minority group of Muslims. It is important that we take a stand, which is
more reasonable. If we have a democracy and Muslims are the majority, and if
that majority believes that an Islamic approach should be adopted, then of
course democracy would allow them to do so. A certain country can surely decide
if religion can be used as an expression for political parties, but it cannot
take away our Muslim identity from us. People realize that the mere slogan of
Islam should not be used, but religion in its true spirit should be implemented
in society. An extreme step, like the one taken in Bangladesh, is always met
with a backlash. There is always going to be resentment among the masses and it
may very well be used by the religious parties as a ploy to portray that Islam
is in danger, one way or another, and bring in extremist forces."

Segment III

Mohsin says "the PML-N chief Nawaz Sharif has stated that he is willing to
relinquish a third term as premier in writing as long as the 17th Amendment is
repealed." Mohsin asks for Iqbal's comments on the PML-N's stance vis-a-vis the
17th Amendment. Iqbal says "General Musharraf introduced a two-term ban on any
person from holding the office of prime minister under the 17th Amendment, and
as Mr Sharif has already been prime minister for two times, there is a belief
that the PML-N is very keen to push the 17th Amendment for this reason. However,
Sharif has very clearly said in his press conference that 'we are pushing for a
repeal of the 17th Amendment not for any personal gain, but for principles.'
Unless this dichotomy of power is removed, governance at the national level
cannot function effectively and we will continue to see confusion in governance,
which sometimes creates embarrassment for the country and creates real issues in
the economic and political management of the country."

Iqbal says "if the Parliament is not sovereign, it cannot grant provincial
autonomy to the provinces. The long shadow of martial law in Pakistan has made
the institutions very dysfunctional, and now if Parliament becomes sovereign we
can start parliamentary oversight on other areas of governance as well. No
single leader or party can actually tackle the problems that Pakistan faces, by
themselves. There has to be a responsible opposition to play its role. The PPP
(Pakistan People's Party) and PML-N agree on certain positive parts of the 17th
Amendment like a joint electorate, the lowering of the voting age, seats for
women in Parliament and seats for minorities, along with a couple of other
things, which can be retained. However, the rest that was only done to suit a
military dictator, must go."

Source: Dawn News TV, Karachi, in English 1600gmt 05 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Obama 'must make heads roll';
Calls for security chief to quit after terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 507 words


PRESSURE is growing on President Barack Obama to shake up the US intelligence
community with dismissals in the wake of not one but two humiliating and highly
damaging debacles -- the thwarted Christmas Day bombing and the slaughter in
Afghanistan of seven CIA officers by an informant who was in fact a double
agent.

Mr Obama's statement on Tuesday expressing his anger specifically at the failure
of the intelligence community to "connect the dots" to disrupt the Christmas
airliner incident has yet to quell criticism of how it was mishandled.

So far he has not sought any resignations but some in Washington are casting
their eyes at the Homeland Security Secretary, Janet Napolitano, who said
immediately afterwards that security arrangements had "worked".

The damage caused by the suicide bombing at the CIA base in Afghanistan a week
ago was still being assessed, with reports emerging that the perpetrator, a
Jordanian doctor named Humam Khalil Abu-Mulal al-Balawi, had been seen by his
American handlers as offering them the best chance they had had in years
properly to infiltrate the top command in al-Qaida. Only his self-detonation as
a human bomb told them how wrong they were.

The widow of al-Balawi was quoted yesterday in the Turkish media saying that her
dead husband considered the US his adversary, but that she was nonetheless
shocked when she heard he had blown himself up on December 30.

Speaking to CNN-Turk television, Defne Bayrak expressed doubt that he ever
genuinely worked for the CIA or the Jordanian intelligence service, which took
the lead in allegedly "turning" him to work against America.

The suicide attack has served to highlight how thin the straws appear to be for
the CIA as it grasps for anything that may lead them to the al-Qaida leadership,
including Osama bin Laden himself.

"This was one of the agency's most promising efforts", a senior intelligence
officer told the New York Times in reference to the al-Balawi operation.

He added: "He had provided information that checked out about people in al-Qaida
whom he had access to."

The White House has promised to publish reviews of security procedures to
protect air travellers before the end of this week.

But some analysts believe that Mr Obama, after expressing his anger that
disaster so nearly happened, will have to set some heads rolling.

"The two agencies that have failed security big-time are the Secret Service and
TSA (Transport Security Agency)," Ed Rollins, the veteran Republican consultant
and White House adviser, wrote yesterday.

"The person in charge of both agencies is Janet Napolitano. Fire her and
convince us that standing in long lines at airports is worth the price."

The chairman of the Republican Party Michael Steele has also demanded that Ms
Napolitano, the former governor of Arizona, be relieved of her job.

CAPTION: US President Barack Obama walks up to the White House podium to speak
about improved security in the wake of the attempted airline bombing on
Christmas Day, and (above) Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     January 7, 2010 Thursday 08:52 AM GMT

Terror leader praises attack on CIA base

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 320 words


A top terror leader praised the suicide attack on a CIA outpost in Afghanistan
today and said it was to avenge the deaths of a Pakistani Taliban leader and two
al-Qaida figures.

The claim, made in a message signed by al-Qaida's number three, Sheikh Mustafa
Abu al-Yazid, on jihadist internet forums, adds further confusion to which group
orchestrated the bombing that killed seven CIA employees and a Jordanian
intelligence officer and wounded six.

A Pakistani Taliban spokesman had previously identified the bomber and claimed
responsibility.

Terrorist watchdog groups are disagreeing over the intent of the new message -
whether it was a claim of responsibility or just praising the bomber.

The bomber, a Jordanian doctor identified as Humam Khalil Abu-Mulal al-Balawi,
was apparently a double agent who had been invited inside the CIA outpost
bearing a promise of information about al-Qaida's second in command, presumed to
be hiding in Pakistan.

Al-Yazid said the attack avenged the death of Baitullah Mehsud, Abu Saleh
al-Somali and Abdullah Saeed al-Liby.

A US counter-terrorism official has said al-Somali was a senior al-Qaida
operations planner who was killed in an American missile strike last month in
western Pakistan. Mehsud was a Pakistani Taliban leader killed on August 5 in a
CIA missile strike in north-west Pakistan.

Al-Somali was responsible for the terror group's operations outside the
Afghanistan-Pakistan region, reaching into activities in Africa, according to US
intelligence, and was suspected of being involved in plotting attacks against
the US and Europe, the official said.

The official said al-Somali was part of al-Qaida's senior leadership circle and
had connections to other Pakistan-based extremists. His role was to take
guidance from senior leaders and develop plans for prospective terrorist
attacks.

The identity of the third man mentioned in the message could not be immediately
determined.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Buxton Advertiser

                                January 7, 2010

Wrong number led to terror of night attack

LENGTH: 377 words



HIGHLIGHT: AN INTRUDER who brought terror to a Buxton man whom he woke up in the
early hours of Boxing Day morning had made a big mistake - he was in the wrong
flat.


Paul Phillip Booth, 59, then struggled with the flat's rightful occupier John
Kelly, trying to evict him.

High Peak magistrates heard that Booth was so drunk that he mistook flat number
18 for number 8, at Milton Court.

John Cooper prosecuting, said it was pitch black when  Mr Kelly  heard his
television fall over and was startled to see a man lying on the floor.

Mr Kelly told police: "I helped him get to his feet and then he started shouting
at me to get out."

Booth grabbed Mr Kelly around the neck and swung him to the ground and they
both ended up on the floor. Mr Kelly managed to call the warden and told them
police were needed as he was being attacked.

That was when Mr Kelly  recognised him as new resident of the building  - and
tried to make conversation to keep him calm until the police arrived.

Kirsten Collings, defending, said her client had no recollection of the incident
due to alcohol.

"He had moved into the property three or four days before the incident. When he
returned home he went to what he believed was his own property.

"He believed it was his own flat as he was trying to get the occupier of the
flat to leave.

"I accept it is an aggravating factor that the assault is within someone's house
- and on another level it is a mitigating factor in that the defendant did not
enter the property to cause harm: he went home drunk and intended to go to bed.

"The defendant accepts his appearance in that flat must have been very
frightening for the complainant."

She said the victim's personal statement referred to  how shocked and stunned Mr
Kelly had been by the incident, but that he felt partly responsible for leaving
the door unlocked.

She said there was almost a comical aspect to the case.

Chairman of the bench David Holtom said: "In many ways as your solicitor said it
has an almost comical aspect to it  - there again parts of it could have been
very serious.

"We are talking about an establishment that contains an awful lot of elderly
people.

"Someone going into the wrong room, albeit by mistake, under the influence,
could have caused serious shock and we have got to consider that."

Magistrates adjourned the case until January 13 for a report to be prepared on a
suitable community order and ruled out custody as a sentencing option.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BATC


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 8, 2010 Friday

Pakistan: US senator says drone attacks one of "many tools" against terrorists

LENGTH: 1441 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, Jan 8 (APP): American Senators Friday [8 January] said the relations
of United States with present democratically elected government in Pakistan are
very close and based on shared values of democracy, rule of law and both the
countries are real partners for the welfare and safety of the people.

Addressing a press conference here at local hotel a US Senate delegation led by
Senator John McCain, said despite having some disagreements on certain issues,
both Pakistan and US have been working closely and in agreement on many other
issues.

Besides Senator John McCain, Senator Joseph Liebermann, Senator John Barrasso
and Senator John Thune along with US ambassador in Pakistan Ms Anne W. Patterson
were also present in the press conference.

The Senate delegation arrived here after visiting Afghanistan and called on
President Asif Ali Zardari on Thursday evening while they will held meetings
with Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gillani and Chief of Army Staff General
Ishfaq Pervez Kayani before leaving Pakistan today.

The US senators said the relations being enjoyed by Pakistan and US today at
government to government, military to military and people to people level have
never been better.

Appreciating the strong Pakistan-US relations during the current democratically
elected government Senator Liebermann said he did not remember the best
Pakistan-US relations today in his 21 years as Senator. He said, "We have better
relations."

They said the bipartisan Senate delegation visiting Pakistan to express
sympathies to the victims of terrorism and appreciate the struggle and courage
of Pakistan Army in tackling the issue of extremism and terrorism.

Senator Joseph Liebermann said, "We are here to express our sympathies to the
victims of terrorism in Pakistan and pay our gratitude to armed forces of
Pakistan for their heroism, for their bravery and for the losses they have taken
in the fight they waging against extremism."

Referring to Pakistan-US relations, Senator Liebermann said: "We are in seven
decade of history of these relations with Pakistan and have close relationship
based on shared values of democracy, rule of law.

Referring to strong Pakistan-US relations, Senator Joseph Liebermann said, "The
commitment we have to our relationship with people of Pakistan is not as I have
seen in history."

US Senators said the US has very long term commitment towards government and
people of Pakistan from the US people.

Expressing satisfaction on the meeting with President Asif Ali Zardari, Senator
John McCain said, "We are not in agreement in all the issues, as friends not
agreed on all the issues." He was referring to the drone attacks, on which
Pakistan has its reservations and Pakistani leadership including President Asif
Ali Zardari have spoken against drone attacks.

Senator John McCain said the issue of drone attack was discussed during the
meeting with President and added that there are disagreement between the two
countries on the issues.

Defending the drone attacks, Senator McCain said, "Our government has stated
that it is one of the many tools we must try to use against the terrorists."

He said although there are different opinion on drone attacks but there is need
to read actual threats to the government, to the people of Pakistan, Afghanistan
and US therefore it is necessary to go after the terrorist where ever they are.

He however said the issue will be discussed with Pakistani leadership and intend
to continue to do every thing possible in this regard and not a single innocent
person can be injured.

Senator McCain said there has been tremendous improvement in the decision making
process involved in the drone attack.

He said the US would continue to have some common grounds with Pakistan
government on the issue of drone attacks adding "we feel necessary also to
protect Americans from the attack of terrorists."

He said although the issue of drone attacks would be continuously discussed
between Pakistan and American, but it would not effect the war on terror.

On the question of drone attack, he said, as head of the Senate Committee he
will do his best that independence of freedom of Pakistan, US, Afghanistan and
rest of the world could be ensured.

He said, "I am confident that we will succeed in partnership with government of
Pakistan."

Senator McCain said, "There are elements operating in Pakistan, if allowed to do
so, they would go to Afghanistan and kill American and destroy government
there."

He said Afghanistan is being used as base for attacking on US and other allies.

The senator said there is need to take measures in order to prevent these
attacks happen and need to go to the source where these attacks are being
planned.

Highlighting the issue of terrorism, the US senators said, "We are both victims
of terrorism and together we shall stand and together we shall prevail over the
forces of extremism in the interest of people of our two countries."

Appreciating the sacrifices and loss of lives of Pakistan Army, the US senators
said, they are grateful for the fine work of the military.

Supporting the new Pak-Afghan policy of President Obama and sending additional
troops to Afghanistan, the US senators said President Obama enjoyed bipartisan
support on Capitol Hill and also have majority support from the American people
in his decisions regarding Afghanistan.

John McCain said, "In our visit to Afghanistan, we are encouraged and believed
that tide will be turning there towards better way and for the benefit of the
people of the region and the world."

Senator McCain said, "I am confidence that due to the state of relations between
the two countries we can work out these differences."

He said, "We will work out as friends and partners" in this war against
terrorism and other issues.

The US Senators said both the countries have shared values and goals and
determination to defeat the evil of terrorism and extremism through mutual
cooperation.

The US troops in Kandahar and other areas are working to provide secure
environment.

Referring to Pakistan's internal situation, Senator John McCain said, "We can
not success in Afghanistan unless we succeed in Pakistan."

He said, "We have lot of work to do. We have right resources, right leadership
and with effective partnership with the people and government of Pakistan and
United States we will succeed."

Senator McCain said, Stable and secure Afghanistan is in the interest of
Pakistan and the world."

Replying to a question on the harassment of American diplomats in Pakistan for
visiting some of the sensitive places, the Senator John McCain said there is
need to resolve it through negotiations between US embassy and Pakistan
government officials.

He said due to increase in the financial aid, there is need for more trained and
technical staff at the US embassy to handle the aid projects.

He however said even among the friends there could be some tension but expressed
the hope that it will not disturb the relations between two countries.

Senator McCain said he did not have any information regarding presence of
American at the sensitive areas in Pakistan but added that it could be discussed
at appropriate platform. He expressed the hope that the issue will be resolved
amicably. On the question of Kerry-Lugar Bill, Senator Liebermann said that
people have misunderstood the legislation. He said without giving into detail of
the KLB, he said, it was a costly expression by American people and Congress and
Senate despite difficult economic conditions that US pledged to provide 1.5
billion dollars every year to Pakistan.

He said the conditions mentions in the bill are not required for the extension
of the funds but these are for the satisfaction of the Senate Committee adding
that such requirements have also been asked from the US military for the
satisfaction of American people.

Replying to a question about legislation on Reconstruction Opportunities Zones,
the US Senators said the issue has been discussed during their meeting with
President Zardari.

They said "we do not support protection" adding "we support for knocking down
natural barriers to promote trade". They said trade is very important between
Pakistan and US.

Senator Liebermann said there are two types of Taleban, one working in
Afghanistan and the others working inside Pakistan and killing innocent people
in mosques and other places. He said there is no distinction between these
militants as they are threat to people of Pakistan, people of Afghanistan and
American people.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0801gmt
08 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             January 8, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terrorists hail 'revenge' attack

BYLINE: Toby Harnden

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 164 words


AL-QAEDA has praised the suicide bombing that killed seven CIA personnel in
Afghanistan as "revenge" for the deaths of its commanders in American drone
strikes.

Mustafa Abu al-Yazid, an al-Qaeda leader, said in a statement: "He detonated his
fine, astonishing and well-designed explosive device, which was unseen by the
eyes of those who do not believe in the hereafter."

The suicide bomber, Humam Khalil Abu-Mulal al-Balawi, was a "triple agent" - a
doctor who had been recruited by Jordanian intelligence and then agreed to work
for the CIA. He was also a jihadist sent to infiltrate US intelligence. A
Jordanian intelligence officer was also killed in the blast, the biggest loss
for the CIA since eight of its personnel were killed by a Beirut bomb in 1983.
Friends and relatives named three of the CIA operatives killed as Elizabeth
Hanson, 31, Harold Brown Jnr, 37, and Scott Robertson, 39. Two American security
contractors, Dane Clark Paresi, 46, and Jeremy Wise, 35, also died.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 9, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

TERROR ATTACK AT NATIONS CUP

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 13 words


Togoteams bus is machine gunned. Driver killed and three players badly injured
s2-3

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 9, 2010 Saturday

ADEBAYOR IN TERROR ATTACK;
Nations Cup under threat after players are shot in Togo ambush

BYLINE: By Simon Yeend

SECTION: SPORT FOOTBALL; 96

LENGTH: 554  words


EMMANUEL ADEBAYOR said Togo may withdraw from the African Nations Cup after
their team bus was attacked by gunmen in Angola yesterday.

The driver was killed and two players were shot after rebel separatists opened
fire on the coach in Cabinda ahead of the tournament, which starts tomorrow.
Manchester City striker Adebayor escaped unharmed but admitted many of his Togo
team-mates wanted to return home.

He said: "A lot of players want to leave. They have seen their death already.
Most of the players want to go back home to their families. No one can sleep
after what they have seen.

"They have seen one of their team-mates have a bullet in his body, who is
crying, who is losing consciousness and everything."

Defender Serge Akakpo and goalkeeper Kodjovi Obilale were confirmed by their
clubs as the players injured in the attack.

"We are still in shock, " said Adebayor. "If the security is not sure we will be
leaving tomorrow. I don't think they will be ready to give their life.

"We will discuss everything as a team and we will take a decision that we think
is good for our career, is good for our life and good for our families."

Organisers have vowed the tournament will continue, but any withdrawal from Togo
would clearly cause a huge logistical problem.

"Our first priority is the safety of the players but the tournament will go
ahead, " said Confederation of African Football (CAF) spokesman Suleimanu
Habubu.

But Manchester City and Portsmouth want to bring their African stars home if
assurances cannot be provided over their safety.

A spokesman for Portsmouth, who have a number of players in Angola, said: "We
will be asking the Football Association to talk to FIFA to ensure the players'
safety. That is paramount and if the players' safety can't be ensured, then the
players should be sent home."

Adebayor recounted what happened when the team bus reached the border between DR
Congo and Angola. He said: "We saw military people dressed like they were going
to war and it was a little bit of a shock at the beginning, but I thought, 'OK,
it's for security which is normal, because we are players here for a big
tournament and we are like ambassadors for Africans so it's normal that security
is big'.

"We got into Angola and I don't know, 5km away from the border we started
hearing shooting on the bus. We got a lot of people injured. One of our second
goalkeepers got a bullet in his body.

"These are the things we keep saying - in Africa we have to change our image if
we want to be respected but unfortunately that's not happening. We have a chance
with one of the biggest tournaments in the world, the World Cup. Can you imagine
what's happening now? I'm disgraced and it's unfair."

Adebayor hailed the guards who were trying to protect the team. "Without the
security then I would not be here talking. Maybe you would be talking to my dead
body.

"I don't know whether I am the target or not, but I know my team or my country
is the target. Why, I don't know."

FIFA also released a statement speaking of their concern about the attack.

"FIFA and its president, Joseph Blatter, are deeply moved by today's incidents
which affected Togo's national team, to whom they express their utmost sympathy,
" said the statement.

Aston Villa have also confirmed their midfielder Moustapha Salifou is shaken but
OK after the attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEEN DEATH: Emmanuel Adebayor says his team could quit tournament after
horror in Angola
MAYHEM: Distraught Togo players moments after attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 10, 2010 Sunday

Netanyahu says Israel to react strongly to "terrorist" attacks, "incitement"

LENGTH: 338 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 10 January

[Unattributed report: "PM: Israel Will React Strongly to Verbal and Physical
Attacks"]

Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu on Sunday [10 January] opened the weekly
cabinet meeting with a warning for terrorists and those who incite to violence
against Israel, vowing to respond decisively and strongly to any attack. Twenty
rockets and mortar shells were fired at Israel from Gaza this past week,
Netanyahu told the cabinet ministers.

The IAF immediately reacted by attacking rocket manufacturing plants and tunnels
"used by Iran to smuggle missiles and rockets into the Strip," the premier said,
reiterating that Israel would continue to react swiftly and mightily to the
firing of rockets into its territory.

The cabinet meeting centred on the frozen Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, with
the prime minister sending a resounding message to Palestinian [National]
Authority [PNA] leaders and accusing them of failing to prevent incitement in
their territory.

"However, it is not just missiles and rockets that jeopardize our security and
drive peace further away. Words too can be dangerous," Netanyahu said.
"Incitement continues in schools under the jurisdiction of the PNA and in its
official media networks ... This is not the way to make peace."

Netanyahu stressed that doing away with incitement was necessary for the two
peoples to achieve true peace. He explained that the glorification of female
terrorist Dalal al-Maghrabi, one of the perpetrators of the 1978 Coastal Road
Massacre in which 38 Israeli civilians were killed, could only serve to incite
to more violence.

Calling the killers of Rabbi Me'ir Chai shahids [martyrs] also constitutes an
expression of support for terrorism by PNA leaders, the prime minister said.
"Peace is achieved by education for reconciliation, by encouraging good
neighbourly relations and promoting mutual respect," he concluded.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 10 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                January 10, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Ireland

Rebels vow to destroy Africa Cup;
Terrorism Gunmen who attacked the Togo football team have Premier League stars
in their sights, reports Dan McDougall

BYLINE: Dan McDougall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1061 words


SEPARATIST gunmen who killed at least three people in an attack on Togo's
football team at the Africa Cup of Nations in Angola issued a chilling threat of
further violence yesterday, in effect warning that some of the world's most
expensive footballers were in their sights.

As more than £100m worth of Premier League talent, including the Chelsea stars
Didier Drogba and Michael Essien, prepared to play their opening games in the
troubled oil-rich province of Cabinda, the guerrillas claimed that operations to
destroy the tournament had only just begun.

The armed wing of the Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda said it
had repeatedly warned the footballing authorities before last Friday's attack
that the territory was at war, and it would now strike again.

"This operation is only the start of a series of targeted actions that will
continue in all the territory of Cabinda," said Rodrigues Mingas,
secretarygeneral of the movement, which has fought for control of the northern
enclave and its oil and diamond reserves for more than 40 years.

The attack came on Friday afternoon as the Togo squad and its entourage crossed
the heavily militarised border from Congo to prepare for their first match of
the tournament, which had been expected to mark Angola's resurgence after
decades of civil war.

Instead, it will be remembered for the attempted massacre in which an Angolan
driver and the Togolese assistant coach and press attaché were killed. A
goalkeeper was severely injured and six other members of the party were in
hospital yesterday with bullet wounds.

It emerged last night that most of the squad, which included Manchester City's
£24m striker Emmanuel Adebayor, had survived the assault only because the
balaclava-clad assassins, numbering up to 20, had targeted the first bus in the
convoy, carrying the team's kit and luggage.

Sources in Cabinda suggested that if the team bus had borne the full brunt of
the attack, few players would have survived.

The bus had travelled six miles into Angola when it came under fire. "The driver
was shot almost immediately and died instantly, so we were just stopped on the
road with nowhere to go," said Moustapha Salifou, the Aston Villa player.

"Our security ... were in two separate cars, about 10 of them in total, and they
returned fire. The shooting lasted for half an hour and I could hear the bullets
whistling past me. It was like a movie.

"I know I am really lucky. I was in the back of the coach with Emmanuel Adebayor
and one of the goalkeepers. A defender in front of me took two shots in the
back. The goalkeeper, Obilalé Dodo, one of my best friends, was shot in the
chest and stomach area and he's been flown to South Africa to undergo an
operation to save his life.

"It was horrific. Everybody was crying. I couldn't stay in control myself. I
cried when I saw the injuries to my friend. I don't know how anyone could do
this. We were looking forward to playing football and to being together as a
team. None of us can play football now."

Adebayor, who escaped injury, convened a team meeting at which the players were
reported to have favoured withdrawal from the cup.

Angolan government sources said last night that Togo would stay in the
tournament, but Manchester City said Adebayor was on his way home. The players
had been traumatised, a spokesman said. "Most of the players want to go back to
their family. No one can sleep after what they've seen. They've seen one of
their teammates have a bullet in his body, who is crying, who is losing
consciousness. We have all seen death."

Togo's football team had been told to fly to Cabinda rather than risk a journey
by road, according to tournament officials.

"The rules are clear: no team should travel by bus," said Virgilio Santos, a
member of the organising committee.

Togo officials said their Angolan hosts had underestimated the threat to
security and should consider calling off the tournament.

"It's an act of barbarism while we are here to celebrate African hospitality,"
said Hubert Velud, the Togo coach.

"We don't feel the authorities are taking this very seriously."

Some Togo players tried to persuade other footballers to boycott the event. Some
were said to be wavering, but the Angolan government insisted the championship
would go on. One Angolan minister, Bento Bembe - himself a former Cabinda
separatist - said he remained confident that security forces would ensure the
safety of the remaining players. "Cabinda is a province like any other in
Angola," he said. "And the Cup of Nations is positive for Angola. It does not
represent a threat. There is no reason not to organise the cup in Cabinda."

A peace deal was agreed between the government and the separatists in 2006, but
resentment of Luanda, the capital, is thought to have been rising in the
province. Although Cabinda has gold, gas and uranium deposits as well as oil and
diamonds, its people remain poor.

The vast majority of revenues from the 900,000 barrels of oil produced there
every day do not benefit the 300,000 inhabitants. They see only 10%.

The attack raised inevitable questions about security at the World Cup, which
begins in South Africa in five months.

World Cup organisers described the incident as an isolated act of terror. But
Anneli Botha, of South Africa's Institute for Security Studies, said the gunmen
had demonstrated a cheap method of grabbing the global limelight.

"The ease with which these guys operated is a massive wake-up call," she said.

SPORT

DARK CLOUDS OVER AFRICA

What the terror attack means for football P 1, 6-7

CONGO DR CONGO ANGOLA CABINDA (ANGOLA) Death at the cup Firefight: Front bus
carrying support team and baggage attacked first. Driver killed instantly.
Police escorts return fire 3 Trapped: Captain Emmanuel Adebayor, below, and team
mates hide under seats 4 Escape: Shooting stops after 30 minutes, leaving
assistant coach and press attaché mortally wounded and eight others injured.
Shocked players finally leave the bus Support team bus Police escort Cabinda's
riches Rebel gunmen Angola exports 1.8m barrels of oil a day 50% produced in
Cabinda Majority of 300,000 population live on less than $2 a day Vast gold,
diamond, uranium, magnesium and phosphate deposits Players' bus TOGO 1 Ambush
Heavily armed gang fires on convoy carrying Togo football team six miles into
Angola's oil-rich territory of Cabinda 50 miles

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                January 10, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Separatists vow to destroy Africa cup;
Terrorism Gunmen who attacked the Togo football team have Premier League stars
in their sights, reports Dan McDougall

BYLINE: Dan McDougall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 911 words


SEPARATIST gunmen who killed at least three people in an attack on Togo's
football team at the Africa Cup of Nations in Angola issued a chilling threat of
further violence yesterday, in effect warning that some of the world's most
expensive footballers were in their sights. As more than £100m worth of Premier
League talent, including the Chelsea stars Didier Drogba and Michael Essien,
prepared to play their opening games in the troubled oil-rich province of
Cabinda, the guerrillas claimed that operations to destroy the tournament had
only just begun. The armed wing of the Front for the Liberation of the Enclave
of Cabinda said it had repeatedly warned the footballing authorities before last
Friday's attack that the territory was at war, and it would now strike again.

"This operation is only the start of a series of targeted actions that will
continue in all the territory of Cabinda," said Rodrigues Mingas,
secretarygeneral of the movement, which has fought for control of the northern
enclave and its oil and diamond reserves for more than 40 years.

The attack came on Friday afternoon as the Togo squad and its entourage crossed
the heavily militarised border from Congo to prepare for their first match of
the tournament, which had been expected to mark Angola's resurgence after
decades of civil war.

Instead, it will be remembered for the attempted massacre in which an Angolan
driver and the Togolese assistant coach and press attaché were killed. A
goalkeeper was severely injured and six other members of the party were in
hospital yesterday with bullet wounds.

It emerged last night that most of the squad, which included Manchester City's
£24m striker Emmanuel Adebayor, had survived the assault only because the
balaclava-clad assassins, numbering up to 20, had targeted the first bus in the
convoy, carrying the team's kit and luggage.

Sources in Cabinda suggested that if the team bus had borne the full brunt of
the attack, few players would have survived.

The bus had travelled six miles into Angola when it came under fire. "The driver
was shot almost immediately and died instantly, so we were just stopped on the
road with nowhere to go," said Moustapha Salifou, the Aston Villa player.

"Our security ... were in two separate cars, about 10 of them in total, and they
returned fire. The shooting lasted for half an hour and I could hear the bullets
whistling past me. It was like a movie.

"I know I am really lucky. I was in the back of the coach with Emmanuel Adebayor
and one of the goalkeepers. A defender in front of me took two shots in the
back. The goalkeeper, Obilalé Dodo, one of my best friends, was shot in the
chest and stomach area and he's been flown to South Africa to undergo an
operation to save his life.

"It was horrific. Everybody was crying. I couldn't stay in control myself. I
cried when I saw the injuries to my friend. I don't know how anyone could do
this. We were looking forward to playing football and to being together as a
team. None of us can play football now."

Adebayor, who escaped injury, convened a team meeting at which the players were
reported to have favoured withdrawal from the cup.

Angolan government sources said last night that Togo would stay in the
tournament, but Manchester City said Adebayor was on his way home. The players
had been traumatised, a spokesman said. "Most of the players want to go back to
their family. No one can sleep after what they've seen. They've seen one of
their teammates have a bullet in his body, who is crying, who is losing
consciousness. We have all seen death."

Togo's football team had been told to fly to Cabinda rather than risk a journey
by road, according to tournament officials.

"The rules are clear: no team should travel by bus," said Virgilio Santos, a
member of the organising committee.

Togo officials said their Angolan hosts had underestimated the threat to
security and should consider calling off the tournament.

"It's an act of barbarism while we are here to celebrate African hospitality,"
said Hubert Velud, the Togo coach.

"We don't feel the authorities are taking this very seriously."

Some Togo players tried to persuade other footballers to boycott the event. Some
were said to be wavering, but the Angolan government insisted the championship
would go on. One Angolan minister, Bento Bembe - himself a former Cabinda
separatist - said he remained confident that security forces would ensure the
safety of the remaining players. "Cabinda is a province like any other in
Angola," he said. "And the Cup of Nations is positive for Angola. It does not
represent a threat. There is no reason not to organise the cup in Cabinda."

A peace deal was agreed between the government and the separatists in 2006, but
resentment of Luanda, the capital, is thought to have been rising in the
province. Although Cabinda has gold, gas and uranium deposits as well as oil and
diamonds, its people remain poor.

The vast majority of revenues from the 900,000 barrels of oil produced there
every day do not benefit the 300,000 inhabitants. They see only 10%.

The attack raised inevitable questions about security at the World Cup, which
begins in South Africa in five months.

World Cup organisers described the incident as an isolated act of terror. But
Anneli Botha, of South Africa's Institute for Security Studies, said the gunmen
had demonstrated a cheap method of grabbing the global limelight.

"The ease with which these guys operated is a massive wake-up call," she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 11, 2010 Monday

Iranian president calls Pakistani counterpart, condemns recent terror attacks

LENGTH: 115 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad: Iranian President Mahmud Ahmadinezhad called President Asif Ali
Zardari on telephone Sunday night and condoled loss of lives in recent terror
attacks in various parts of the country particularly the colossal loss of life
in Lakki Marwat and Karachi.

The two leaders also discussed bilateral relations and situation in the region.

During their conversation, President Zardari and President Ahmadinezhad agreed
to enhance cooperation between the two countries in fighting militancy and for
improving ties in various fields.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1952gmt
10 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 11, 2010 Monday

Suspected terrorist group allegedly plotted attack on Bosnian monastery

LENGTH: 857 words


Text of report by Bosnian edition of Croatian daily Vecernji list, on 5 January

[Report by Ana Popovic: "Church Was Targeted: Terrorists Wanted To Attck
Fojnica"]

Police officials devoted special attention to the recent Christmas holidays,
especially to the midnight mass held at the Monastery of the Holy Spirit in
Fojnica. At the time, the congregants did not know what was going on. Only a
small number of people knew about the police patrols and the stepped-up
measures, and for good reason: This had to do with incredible plans for a
terrorist attack on the monastery in Fojnica, namely by a terrorist group that
is characterized as very dangerous.

Police Observation Stepped Up

According to our findings, the stepped-up police observation of the Fojnica
monastery resulted from suspicions that the monastery in Fojnica could be
targeted at Christmas by terrorist attacks, and the police were alerted to these
suspicions by, among others, Pero Bosnjak, a retired police officer from
Fojnica. Ivo Marusic, the chief of the Kiseljak Police Department, told us more
about the reasons that stepped-up police patrols and observation of the
monastery in Fojnica were ordered. He said that the threats of attacks on the
monastery in Fojnica were linked to materials found in the possession of the
brothers Rijad and Muhamed Rustempasic as well as Edis Velic and Edis Stroil,
who were indicted by the B-H Court last 21 September on charges of terrorism,
associating for the purpose of terrorist activities, and illegal possession of
weapons. "According to intelligence agency information, the materials found in
the possession of the Rustempasic brothers and the others when they were
arrested included a detailed sketch of the Fojnica monastery, with a diagram of
the entire premises. Since a possible attack was linked to the members of this
very group, we reacted by organizing stepped-up observation of the monastery and
more frequent police patrols during the holidays, but also afterward," said Ivo
Marusic, the chief of the Kiseljak Police Department. Officials with the
Kiseljak Police Department, whose zone of responsibility includes Fojnica, also
forwarded information regarding a possible terrorist attack on the Fojnica
monastery to the Ministry of Interior [MUP] of Central Bosnia Canton [SBZ],
which in turn informed the B-H Federation MUP, says Drago Vukoja, the SBZ police
director. Fortunately, the warning that the monastery in Fojnica might be the
target of a terrorist attack by Rustempasic and his group proved to be
unfounded. However, those in charge say that because of the seriousness of the
suspicion and the severity of the acts with which the possible perpetrators -
Rustempasic and his group - are charged, the police had to react. "I also found
information on the Internet about possible terrorist attacks on the monastery in
Fojnica, the Sarajevo cathedral, and a church in Odzak, and such information was
also obtained by officials with the SIPA [State Investigation and Protection
Agency] and other intelligence agencies in B-H. I simply advised the authorities
to exercise caution, because I myself live in Fojnica and would not want anyone
to be hurt, and also because of the job that I worked at before retiring four
years ago, I try to keep up with everything that is going on that might affect
people's safety," Pero Bosnjak, the retired police officer in Fojnica, told us.

Congregants Found Out

Besides the police, he also informed Fra Nikica Vujica, the superior at Fojnica,
of the suspicions and reports of a possible terrorist attack. "It is true that
Bosnjak and the police warned me to exercise caution. The news spread throughout
Fojnica, and so some congregants asked me whether the midnight service would be
held. The mass took place, and fortunately everything went off peacefully, but
the police stepped up their observation of the monastery, especially on
Christmas Eve," Fra Nikica clarifies. According to information from the
Federation MUP, these reports were taken seriously because the terrorist group
had detailed plans for attacks.

[Box] Rustempasic Brothers Are Members of Wahhabi Movement in B-H

Rijad Rustempasic, Abdulah Handzic, and Edis Velic were arrested in Sarajevo in
November 2009 on suspicion of terrorism, under orders from the B-H Prosecutor's
Office. All three had also been arrested a year earlier on suspicion of
terrorism. In addition to the terrorism charge, Rijad Rustempasic, together with
his twin brother Muhamed Rustempasic, is suspected of unauthorized arms
trafficking. Muhamed Rustempasic was arrested on 22 September 2009 as he
attempted to leave B-H, and he is in prison. The Rustempasic brothers are
members of the Wahhabi movement. The B-H Prosecutor's Office suspects Muhamed
Rustempasic of sending 10 optic reflex sights for rifles from Austria to his
brother Rijad in B-H in March 2008, that equipment having been found in their
parents' home in Bugojno. Rijad Rustempasic was under investigation by the B-H
Federation MUP and is suspected of attacks against Croat returnees in SBZ.

Source: Vecernji list (Bosnia-Hercegovina edition), Zagreb, in Croatian 5 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                            January 11, 2010 Monday
                                   1 Edition

Togo stars go home after terror attack

BYLINE: By JOHN McGILL

SECTION: HS - SPORT; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 380 words


TOGO S squad have returned home after pulling out of the African Nations Cup
following the terrorist attack on the team bus which left three people dead.

However, it could prove to be a short stay after it emerged the country s sports
minister suggested they could return to Angola by the middle of the week.

Christophe Tchao said before the squad left Cabinda:  We have ordered a
three-day mourning. The players are leaving with the bodies of their fallen
brothers and we have asked the Confederation of African Football (CAF) to find
an arrangement so we can catch up with the competition later.

The decision to go home following two days of uncertainty eventually came from
the country s leading government figures, overruling the players who had
performed a U-turn and decided to participate as a mark of respect to the
fallen.

Togolese prime minister Gilbert Fossoun Houngbo and president Faure Gnassingbe
had the final say   despite some last-ditch talks instigated by the CAF designed
to keep the team in Angola   insisting the squad return home immediately.

Houngbo said:  We understand the approach of the players, but it would be
irresponsible to let them continue.

The team must return. The government s decision is unchanged. It is a conscious
decision since Friday. If a team or a person present themselves under the banner
of Togo, it would be a false represen-tation.

Manchester City striker and national captain Emmanuel Adebayor reluctantly
accepted the decision after speaking with Gnassingbe. He said:  The head of
state has decided we will return. There was a meeting between players on
Saturday and we said we were still footballers.

We all decided to do something good for the country and play to honour those who
died. Unfortunately, the head of state and the country's authorities have
decided otherwise.

Is there going to be another attack? Nobody knows. If they asked us back (home),
maybe they received a call saying the threat was not passed. We are obliged to
respect that. The head of state knows what is good for our careers and our
lives.

Adebayor revealed he had spoken to members of the Ivory Coast and Ghana camps
two of Togo s Group B oppo-nents   who appeared to back a boycott, but now seem
set to continue. Togo had been due to play Ghana today.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: evening_times


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            January 11, 2010 Monday

TOGO'S FOOTBALLERS FLY HOME TO MOURN AFTER FATAL TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 354 words


MATTHEW BEARD SPORTS NEWS CORRESPONDENT

TOGO's national football team arrived home today after the terror attack which
killed three people on their team bus.

Players including Manchester City striker Emmanuel Adebayor and teammate Eric
Akoto looked sombre as they returned at the start of three days of national
mourning. Adebayor, national team captain, said before boarding the plane home:
"We have to mourn for our dead. We go back home to do this."

Grieving relatives arrived at Lome airport to watch the coffins of the victims
removed from the presidential aircraft by Togolese police.

The Togo team had wanted to play in Angola as a mark of respect for the dead but
accepted the orders of their prime minister Gilbert Houngbo to pull out of the
tournament, the Africa Nations Cup. Sports minister Christophe Tchao said: "We
have ordered a three-day mourning. The players are leaving with the bodies of
their fallen brothers and we have asked the confederation to find an arrangement
so we can catch up with the competition later." The confederation later rejected
the request. Reports emerged today that two people have been arrested for
Friday's attack, which the Angolan government blames on a separatist movement in
the northern region of Cabinda, where it took place. The ambush killed three
people ? the bus driver, assistant coach Amelete Abalo and media official Stan
O'Cloo.

The competition's organisers have ordered a minute's silence before each
first-round match. Angolan president Jose Eduardo dos Santos said in an opening
speech before the 4-4 draw between the hosts and Mali that there was "no need to
be afraid".

Adebayor said he had spoken to members of the Ivory Coast and Ghana camps, two
of Togo's Group B opponents, who appeared to back a boycott but now seem set to
continue.

"I spoke with the captain and the Ivory Coast delegation and with the
Ghanaians," he said. "They expressed their support by saying they were ready to
leave the competition if we did. But, at the end of the day, we realised that
they were ready to continue. It is still a continent where a World Cup will take
place in South Africa.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright  2010   Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            January 11, 2010 Monday

Angola attack raises awareness of World Cup terror threat

BYLINE: David Smith (Africa correspondent)guardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 926 words

ABSTRACT

Fears have grown over the summer's World Cup in South Africa after machine-gun
attack on Togo team

FULL TEXT

Supporters at the World Cup in South Africa face "a deadly serious threat" from
terrorists encouraged by the global impact of last week's atrocity in Angola,
security analysts have warned.

The lethal ambush on the Togo squad showed the ease with which militants could
gain publicity with a copycat attack on a bigger stage, said Anneli Botha, a
researcher at South Africa's Institute for Security Studies which does work on
behalf of the United Nations.

World Cup organisers reiterated yesterday that political strife in Angola should
not be conflated with South Africa and promised that no chances will be taken
with players' safety when the tournament kicks off in June. But there was little
doubt that the shocking incident had cast a shadow over Africa's first World
Cup, even if only by reinforcing the fears of pessimists. South Africa, like
Angola, has invested millions in stadiums and infrastructure in the hope that
staging a major international event will help bury a troubled past. But experts
believe the Africa Cup of Nations incident shows how easily insurgents can grab
world headlines with attacks on soft targets.

"Far from needing weapons of mass destruction, terrorists have put a tiny place
like Cabinda on the map using simple strategy and a few guns," Botha said. "When
star football teams from places like Brazil and England turn up, it could be a
gift to aggressors like this."

Fans could also be vulnerable, she added. "It's a deadly serious threat for
supporters at the World Cup too, because it does not require the attacker to get
through security barriers. Anywhere where there are fewer gun control searches,
for instance by the big TV screens at fanparks, is wide open for trouble."

Botha, who monitors terror threats across southern Africa, said she feared the
Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda (FLEC), which claimed
responsibility for the ambush, could use the World Cup to boost its profile.
"FLEC have now proven to themselves how much attention they can get through this
sort of activity. The World Cup offers an even bigger stage, and it will not
take much effort to penetrate. What better opportunity for a troublemaker to do
damage?"

South Africa has had myriad major problems since the end of apartheid in 1994,
but terrorism is not one of them. The most unequal society in the world has one
of its highest rates of "ordinary" crime, including an average of 50 murders per
day. Such a climate could provide opportunities for terrorists from inside or
outside the country, experts say. Fake passports, illegal firearms and
explosives are all in wide circulation in South Africa.

Neil Thompson, the operations director of red24, a UK-based global security
company, said: "If you look at everything the terrorists want, in South Africa
they've got porous borders and easy access to weapons and explosives. The
security services have never been tested by an international terrorist group.
Assuming the terrorists will wait until just before the World Cup to come over
the border is naive. If there are terrorist cells here, I would expect them to
be in a township already, mixing with the population."

An "undisclosed" security threat last September led to the temporary closures of
the US embassy in Pretoria and consulates across the country. But linking the
situation in Angola to South Africa is at best foolish, and at worst an ignorant
post-colonial caricature, according to defenders of the 2010 project.

South Africa is the wealthiest country on the continent and a tourist hotspot
boasting Western-style airports, golf courses, luxury hotels, multiplexes and
shopping malls. Johannesburg is about 1,800 miles from Cabinda with Botswana and
most of Angola inbetween. Organisers are keen to point out that South Africa has
hosted more than 150 international events without major incident. Last year's
Confederations Cup saw only 39 arrests in or near a stadium.

Danny Jordaan, the chief executive of the South Africa 2010 organising committee
, insisted that the Angola attack should have no bearing. "I don't think the
world has ever asked one country to take responsibility for what happens in
another country," he said. Fortunately the majority of the world is not
influenced by a warped understanding of the African continent. If there is a war
in Kosovo and a World Cup in Germany, no one asks if the World Cup can go on in
Germany, everyone understands the war in Kosovo is a war in Kosovo.

"The world must be balanced and must not apply different standards when it comes
to the African continent. Our World Cup is secure and we are confident because
we have employed a lot of resources to safeguard the event in our country."

South Africa will put down a huge security blanket for the World Cup. Some
55,000 new police officers have been recruited and trained in the past five
years. During the tournament, 41,000 will be deployed - with 700 at each match -
in an operation costing £50m. Six helicopters, 10 mobile command vehicles, 10
water cannons and 100 high-performance cars will also be available for use.

The country's security services have worked with Interpol to create databases of
dangerous individuals including those involved hooliganism, gun smuggling and
terrorism. None will be allowed into the country. Various terrorist-simulation
exercises - including chemical, biological and radioactive attacks - have been
conducted and expertise shared with participating countries.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                January 11, 2010
                                 First Edition

Drogba 'mentally unfit to play' after terror attack;
FOOTBALL Ivory Coast's captain 'is struggling to come to terms' with Togo bus
atrocity Security non-negotiable, says Togo PM

BYLINE: Jonathan Wilson IN LUANDA, Sam Wallace and Mark Fleming

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 626 words


Didier Drogba was described yesterday as in the "wrong state of mind" to play in
the African Nations Cup by one of the survivors of the terrorist attack on the
Togo team bus in Angola that left three dead.

In the aftermath of the attack, Drogba, the Ivory Coast captain, spoke to the
Manchester City striker Emmanuel Adebayor and that conversation was related to
the rest of the Togo team, who yesterday withdrew from the Nations Cup and flew
out of Angola under orders from their nation's prime minister. Adebayor's Togo
team-mate Alaixys Romao, who plays for the French Ligue 1 club Grenoble, said:
"There was a long discussion between Drogba and Adebayor. Drogba said he was
fully aware of the psychological state that the Togo squad was in, and he too
was not ready to play in this African Nations Cup."

Drogba (right) will, in all likelihood, have no choice but to play after Ivory
Coast, who face Burkina Faso today, came under intense pressure from the
Confederation of African Football (CAF) to stay in the tournament. The
competition was plunged into disarray by Friday's attack on the Togo team who,
having overturned their original decision to withdraw, were ordered home by the
Prime Minister, Gilbert Fossoun Houngbo.

In an interview with the French newspaper L'Equipe, Romao also said that there
would have been a different reaction if a bigger nation than Togo had been
attacked. "If it had been Ivory Coast or Cameroon; or if [Samuel] Eto'o or
Drogba had taken a bullet, the competition would have been stopped immediately."

Drogba could not be contacted by his representatives in London yesterday but he
is understood to be in Angola with the rest of the Ivory Coast squad. His
Chelsea team-mate Michael Essien has flown to Angola to join up with the Ghana
squad today.

Adebayor told a French radio station yesterday that the Togo team had decided to
stay and play in the tournament before the order came from Houngbo. It is
understood that Manchester City are sending a plane to pick him up from Lome,
the capital of Togo. The club do not yet know whether he will be eligible to
play for them against Everton on Saturday, given that Togo have effectively
defied Fifa.

Describing his feelings during the attack, Adebayor said: "On Friday, we were
all dead on that bus. We sent our last messages to our families. We called to
say our last words. I told myself: 'If you're still there on the ground in
Angola, why not play?' The authorities decided we should return home, so we
will."

In Lome, Houngbo said: "We took into account the players' change of mind. In
remembering those who lost their lives we also need to take into account what
the families think is the best way to pay tribute. That does not overtake the
importance of security, and security is non-negotiable.

"So far we have not had a single call, even a call of sympathy from CAF. We
don't even have information that will allow us to assess security. It would be
irresponsible to pretend nothing had happened; that the show must go on."

While the governments of Namibia and Botswana have proposed that their national
teams replace Togo, the favoured plan is to proceed with just three teams in
Group B: Ghana, Ivory Coast and Burkina Faso. Ivory Coast's Bosnian coach, Vahid
Halilhodzic, said: "Everybody here is confused and scared, but we want to play
because we don't want to surrender to terrorists. But I'm not scared because the
army and police are all around. We're surrounded by them and there's almost no
contact with the outside world.

"The players are a bit scared, but not me. I had good training - I lived through
much worse things in Mostar [he was shot in the conflict in Bosnia]."

On the streets of Luanda

Jonathan Wilson, pages 2&3

The show must go on

James Lawton, page 3

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SS


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                January 11, 2010
                                 First Edition

Drogba 'mentally unfit to play' after terror attack;
FOOTBALL Ivory Coast's captain 'is struggling to come to terms' with Togo bus
atrocity

BYLINE: Jonathan Wilson IN LUANDA, Sam Wallace and Mark Fleming

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 615 words


DIDIER DROGBA was described yesterday as in the "wrong state of mind"

to play in the African Nations Cup by one of the survivors of the terrorist
attack on the Togo team bus in Angola that left three dead.

In the aftermath of the attack, Drogba, the Ivory Coast captain, spoke to the
Manchester City striker Emmanuel Adebayor and that conversation was related to
the rest of the Togo team, who yesterday withdrew from the Nations Cup and flew
out of Angola under orders from their nation's prime minister. Adebayor's Togo
team-mate Alaixys Romao, who plays for the French Ligue 1 club Grenoble, said:
"There was a long discussion between Drogba and Adebayor. Drogba said he was
fully aware of the psychological state that the Togo squad was in, and he too
was not ready to play in this African Nations Cup."

Drogba will, in all likelihood, have no choice but to play after Ivory Coast,
who face Burkina Faso today, came under intense pressure from the Confederation
of African Football (CAF) to stay in the tournament. The competition was plunged
into disarray by Friday's attack on the Togo team who, having overturned their
original decision to withdraw, were ordered home by the Prime Minister, Gilbert
Fossoun Houngbo.

In an interview with the French newspaper L'Equipe, Romao also said that there
would have been a different reaction if a bigger nation than Togo had been
attacked. "If it had been Ivory Coast or Cameroon; or if [Samuel] Eto'o or
Drogba had taken a bullet, the competition would have been stopped immediately."

Drogba could not be contacted by his representatives in London yesterday but he
is understood to be in Angola with the rest of the Ivory Coast squad. His
Chelsea team-mate Michael Essien has flown to Angola to join up with the Ghana
squad today.

Adebayor told a French radio station yesterday that the Togo team had decided to
stay and play in the tournament before the order came from Houngbo. It is
understood that Manchester City are sending a plane to pick him up from Lome,
the capital of Togo.

The club do not yet know whether he will be eligible to play for them against
Everton on Saturday, given that Togo have effectively defied Fifa.

Describing his feelings during the attack, Adebayor said: "On Friday, we were
all dead on that bus. We sent our last messages to our families. We called to
say our last words. I told myself: 'If you're still there on the ground in
Angola, why not play?' The authorities decided we should return home, so we
will."

In a press conference in Lome, Houngbo said: "We took into account the players'
change of mind. In remembering those who lost their lives we also need to take
into account what the families think is the best way to pay tribute to them.
That does not overtake the importance of security, and security is
non-negotiable.

"So far we have not had a single call, even a call of sympathy from CAF.

We don't even have information that will allow us to assess security. It would
be irresponsible of us to pretend nothing had happened; that the show must go
on."

While the governments of Namibia and Botswana have proposed that their national
teams replace Togo, the favoured plan is to proceed with just three teams in
Group B: Ghana, Ivory Coast and Burkina Faso. Ivory Coast's Bosnian coach, Vahid
Halilhodzic, said: "Everybody here is confused and scared, but we want to play
because we don't want to surrender to terrorists.

But I'm not scared because the army and police are all around. We're surrounded
by them and there's almost no contact with the outside world.

"The players are a bit scared, but not me. I had good training - I lived through
much worse things in Mostar [he was shot in the conflict in Bosnia]."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SS


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 11, 2010 Monday
                                 2 Star Edition

THEY ALL WANT OUT;
TERRORIST ATTACK: TOGO FLY HOME

BYLINE: DARREN LEWIS

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 64,62

LENGTH: 372 words


EMMANUEL ADEBAYOR believes pressure is being put on the Ivory Coast and Ghana to
remain in the Africa Cup of Nations after Togo quit last night.

Chelsea's Didier Drogba and Portsmouth's Aruna Dindane are among the Ivorian
players still due to play in the Cabinda region of Angola where three members of
the Togo party were shot dead last week. Chelsea's Michael Essien is in the
Ghana squad. Both Ghana and the Ivory Coast are in Togo's ill-fated group.

Adebayor spoke out as he relived the desperate, 9/11-style messages he and his
team-mates sent to their loved ones as their bus came under machine-gun attack
from terrorists on Friday.

The Manchester City striker said: "Last Friday at 14:30, we were all dead on
that bus. We sent our last messages to our families. We called our family to say
our last words.

"Yesterday I spoke with the captain and the Ivory Coast delegation and with
Ghanaians. They expressed their support by saying they were ready to leave the
competition if we did.

"But at the end of the day, we realised they were ready to continue. It is still
a continent where a World Cup will take place in South Africa.

"If we speak of the dead, the competition should have been cancelled. But CAF
(Confederation of African Football) have decided otherwise.

"Is there going to be another attack? Nobody knows. If our government asked us
back, maybe they received a call saying that the threat was not passed.

"We are obliged to respect that. The head of state knows what is good for our
careers and our lives."

Six matches are still due to be staged in the region of deadly fighting where
the Togo team were ambushed last week. Urgent questions are still being asked as
to why that remains the case.

The CAF held crisis talks over the weekend and launched a desperate bid to
convince the remaining teams that they would be able to play out their fixtures
in safety.

City are believed to have contacted the FA, the Premier League and the Togo FA
demanding Adebayor be allowed home.Mali staged a stunning comeback from 4-0 down
with 11 minutes to go to snatch a draw against Angola in the opening game of the
tournament.

Seydou Keita, who scored twice in an amazing finale, said: "I couldn't imagine
we could fight back like that."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRIVEN OUT The Togo team arrive at airport last night GUN GUARD
Security has been stepped up

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 11, 2010 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

THEY ALL WANT OUT;
TERRORIST ATTACK: TOGO FLY HOME

BYLINE: DARREN LEWIS

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 64,62

LENGTH: 377 words


EMMANUEL ADEBAYOR believes pressure is being put on the Ivory Coast and Ghana to
remain in the Africa Cup of Nations after Togo quit last night.

Chelsea's Didier Drogba and Portsmouth's Aruna Dindane are among the Ivorian
players still due to play in the Cabinda region of Angola where three members of
the Togo party were shot dead last week. Chelsea's Michael Essien is in the
Ghana squad. Both Ghana and the Ivory Coast are in Togo's ill-fated group.

Adebayor spoke out as he relieved the desperate, 9/11-style messages he and his
team-mates sent to their loved ones as their bus came under machine-gun attack
from terrorists on Friday.

The Manchester City striker said: "Last Friday at 14:30, we were all dead on
that bus. We sent our last messages to our families. We called our family to say
our last words.

"Yesterday I spoke with the captain and the Ivory Coast delegation and with
Ghanaians. They expressed their support by saying they were ready to leave the
competition if we did.

"But at the end of the day, we realised that they were ready to continue. It is
still a continent where a World Cup will take place in South Africa.

"If we speak of the dead, the competition should have been cancelled. But CAF
(Confederation of African Football) have decided otherwise.

"Is there going to be another attack? Nobody knows. If our government asked us
back, maybe they received a call saying that the threat was not passed.

"We are obliged to respect that. The head of state knows what is good for our
careers and our lives."

Six matches are still due to be staged in the region of deadly fighting where
the Togo team were ambushed last week. Urgent questions are still being asked as
to why that remains the case.

The Confederation of African Football (CAF) held crisis talks over the weekend
and launched a desperate bid over the last 48 hours to convince the remaining
teams that they would be able to play out their fixtures in safety.

That was not enough to convince Togo, however. Adebayor had the deciding vote
after some of his teammates insisted they would be prepared to stay in Angola
but their own government ordered them to quit.

City are believed to have contacted the FA, the Premier League and the Togo FA
demanding Adebayor be allowed to return back home.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRIVEN OUT The Togo team arrive at airport last night GUN GUARD
Security has been stepped up

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 12, 2010 Tuesday

SAfrican president says terrorist attack on Togolese soccer team "opportunistic"

LENGTH: 386 words


Text of report by non-profit South African Press Association (SAPA) news agency

Johannesburg, 11 January: The African heads of state, who visited Angola to
attend the African Cup of Nations (Afcon), viewed the terrorist attack on the
Togolese team as an opportunistic attack, the presidency said.

Vincent Magwenya, spokesman for President Jacob Zuma, who returned from a
working visit to Angola on Monday afternoon, said Zuma had an opportunity to
meet with other Heads of State during the opening ceremony of the soccer
tournament on Sunday.

The tournament was marred by a terrorist attack on the team bus of the Togolese
national soccer team, which left three people dead and eight injured in the
Cabinda province on Friday.

"They were all feeling it was an opportunistic attack," said Magwenya.

He reiterated that Zuma felt that what happened in Angola had no bearing on
South Africa's preparedness to host a successful and safe Soccer World Cup.

"Our security profiles are not the same and even for Angola, it was an
opportunistic attack," he said.

"We don't need to defend ourselves where it comes to the safety of the World
Cup."

Magwenya said Zuma was in Angola in its most dangerous times as a freedom
fighter and when he revisited Luanda over the weekend, he felt "at ease and
relaxed".

"There is no doubt that Angola would host a successful Afcon and there is
equally no doubt from anybody that South Africa would host a safe and successful
World Cup."

Magwenya said Zuma as the Commander in Chief of the South African security
forces received regular security updates from the security services but had not
been briefed on any specific threats that related to the World Cup in
particular.

He said Zuma was impressed with the level of development of Angola and the pace
at which it was growing. He was impressed too with the level of organization of
the opening ceremony and the infrastructure in Luanda.

"(It) proves that Africa can stand with its head held high, confident that
Africa can host events that it previously was not able to do," said Magwenya.

He said the visit strengthened relationships between the two countries from a
political, social and economic point of view.

Zuma did not have a chance to meet the victims of the terrorist attack.

Source: SAPA news agency, Johannesburg, in English 1737 gmt 11 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 12, 2010 Tuesday

Iraq says 25 people planning terror attacks in Baghdad arrested

LENGTH: 77 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Television in Arabic at 0918 gmt on 12 December carries the
following "breaking news" as screen captions:

"Baghdad Operations [Command]: 25 people planning to carryout terrorists
operations and attacks in Baghdad were arrested today."

"Baghdad Operations [Command]: 200 kg of TNT, 200 kg of C4, 250 litres of
Ammonium, and 60 mortar shells were found after raids were carried out today."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 0918 gmt 12 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 12, 2010 Tuesday

Somali government denies foreign company plotting terror attacks in country

LENGTH: 195 words


Text of report by Somali independent Radio Gaalkacyo on 12 January

The minister of information, Dahir Mahmud Gelle, has accused the Al-Shabab
Islamic Movement of planning to carry out suicide attacks in Mogadishu.

Speaking to the media in Mogadishu, the minister said the group wanted to blame
its planned bomb attacks on a foreign company which it claimed was  based at the
presidential palace in Mogadishu. The minister dismissed as baseless reports
that a foreign company was planning to carry out explosions in the country. He
said the government is responsible of restoring long lasting peace for its
people, adding that it does not neglect its people.

The information minister said the international community had realized Al-Shabab
was butchering and terrorizing innocent civilians in the country. He stressed
the government will destroy the strongholds of insurgents in Mogadishu.

The minister's statement follows remarks by Al-Shabab spokesman, Shaykh Ali
Dheere, that a foreign company based at the presidential palace was planning to
carry out bomb attacks in the country and later blame it on Al-Shabab.

Source: Radio Gaalkacyo, Gaalkacyo, in Somali 1015 gmt 12 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            January 12, 2010 Tuesday

International: Pakistan suffers record number of deaths in militant violence:
3,021 killed in terrorist attacks, thinktank says: Country hit by a third more
suicide bombings

BYLINE: Declan Walsh, Islamabad

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 626 words


A record number of Pakistani civilians and security forces died in militant
violence last year as the country reeled from an onslaught of Taliban suicide
bombings that propelled it into the ranks of the world's most perilous places.

Pakistan saw 3,021 deaths in terrorist attacks in 2009, up 48% on the year
before, according to a report by the Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies
(PIPS), an Islamabad-based defence thinktank. Researchers counted a total of
12,600 violent deaths across the country in 2009, 14 times more than in 2006.

At least half of the dead were militants who were killed in US drone strikes or,
mostly, sweeping army offensives against their mountain strongholds of Swat and
South Waziristan along the Afghan border. A further 2,000 or so Pakistanis died
in bloodshed unrelated to militancy: political clashes, tribal feuds and border
skirmishes.

In comparison, just over 2,000 civilians were killed in war-torn Afghanistan
during the first 10 months of 2009, according to figures from the UN. In Iraq
4,500 civilians were killed during the year, said Iraq Body Count, an
independent monitoring organisation.

The high militant death toll in Pakistan was driven by the army operations,
although battlefield casualty figures are notoriously difficult to confirm. The
army dislodged the Taliban from their Swat stronghold but failed to capture the
local leader, Maulana Fazlullah, who reportedly slipped into Afghanistan.

In October the army moved into South Waziristan, capturing roads and towns but
not the militant leadership, which is thought to have moved into North
Waziristan, a hornets' nest of militancy, where speculation is growing that the
army will open a third front.

The army has failed to stop the suicide attacks, which surged by one third to 87
bombings that killed 1,300 people and injured 3,600. PIPS researcher Abdul Basit
said the militants were using "innovative tactics" such as targeted
assassinations, kidnapping and the use of sophisticated bomb materials. "This
year they were more technologically savvy," he said.

The strife is frazzling public opinion. A recent Gallup poll found that
four-fifths of Pakistanis feel unsafe in public. "Life has completely changed
for everyone," said Ali Mustafa, a doctor whose best friend was gunned down
during a "swarm" attack on a Rawalpindi mosque in December.

The new year started as badly as the last one ended: a Taliban suicide attack on
a volleyball match near South Waziristan on 1 January killed over 90 people. In
recent days about 40 people have been killed in Karachi in a spate of political
killings not linked to Taliban militancy.

Imtiaz Gul, author of a book on militancy, said that although only a small
number of al-Qaida fighters were hiding in

Pakistan, the group provided inspiration for much of the mayhem. "What we see in
this region right now is a fusion of interests and ideologies," he said.
"Al-Qaida is connecting people."

The tight bond between homegrown and foreign militants was underscored at the
weekend when a video emerged showing the Taliban leader, Hakimullah Mehsud,
sitting beside Humam Khalil Abu Mulal al-Balawi, the Jordanian suicide bomber
who killed seven CIA operatives at a base in Afghanistan in December.

Pakistan has become a magnet for aspiring jihadis across the world, partly
thanks to the internet. Yesterday five young American Muslims went on trial in
the city of Sargodha, accused of coming to the country to try to plot terrorist
attacks. The men deny the charges.

Captions:

A woman searches through debris of burnt-out shops in Pakistan's largest city,
Karachi Photograph: Akhtar Soomro/Reuters

48%

The 2009 rise in the number of people killed in terrorist attacks, according to
the Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies' figures

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 12, 2010 Tuesday
                                 1 Star Edition

FOOTIE BUS GUN ATTACK: 2 ARRESTED;
TERROR

BYLINE: STEPHEN MOYES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 132 words


TWO men were arrested yesterday over the machine gun attack on the Togo national
football side that killed two officials.

The suspects were pulled in by Angolan authorities in the northern province of
Cabinda, where the team bus was targeted on Friday.

Separatists in the Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda said they
carried out the attack.

Togo's assistant coach and press officer died and reserve goalie Kodjovi Obilale
was badly hurt in the 30-minute assault.

The arrests came as Togo's stars, including Manchester City's Emmanuel Adebayor,
were angered to hear they have been expelled from the African Nations Cup.

They had hoped to be excused for three days of mourning. But they missed a game
and the Confederation of African Football confirmed yesterday: "They are
disqualified."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL Star Adebayor

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 12, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Final insult as Togo are 'disqualified' after terror attack

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 13 words


Final insult as Togo are 'disqualified' after terror attack Football, pages
58-63

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 13, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan terror attacks being plotted on Afghan soil - spy chief

LENGTH: 185 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 13 January

KARACHI, Jan 12: Director General of Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) Gen Ahmad
Shuja Pasha said on Tuesday [12 January] that Afghan soil was being used for
terrorist activities in Pakistan, adding that there could be no peace in
Pakistan unless infiltration from Afghan border was stopped.

Gen Pasha's statement came against the backdrop of increased US pressure to
launch a parallel operation in North Waziristan.

According to DawnNews, the ISI chief, who was briefing the parliamentary
committee on national security, said the drug mafia in Afghanistan was
supporting terrorists who were creating unrest in Pakistan.

According to sources, members of the committee were of the opinion that the
Pak-Afghan border should be fenced and cross-border movement should be closely
monitored. The members also stressed the need for enhancing security along the
border.

After the meeting, Raza Rabbani told reporters that the members condemned the
measures for screening Pakistani citizens at US airports.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 13 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 14, 2010 Thursday

"Terrorist groups" trained in Georgia to attack Russia - Interior Ministry

LENGTH: 298 words


Text of report by Russian state news agency RIA Novosti

Vladikavkaz, 14 January: Foreign instructors are preparing terrorist groups at
military bases in Georgia for terrorist acts on Russian territory, Russian
Deputy Interior Minister Arkadiy Yedelev said in Vladikavkaz today at a meeting
of a board reviewing the results of the North Ossetian Interior Ministry's work.

"Terrorist groups are being prepared at military bases in Georgia under the
guidance of foreign instructors for committing terrorist acts on Russian
territory. I am telling you that this primarily concerns regions which they
consider to have combat potential and capable of destabilizing the situation in
the North Caucasus and southern Russia on the whole. These are North Ossetia,
Ingushetia, Dagestan, Chechnya, Kabarda-Balkaria and Karachay-Cherkessia,"
Yedelev said.

He urged law-enforcement agencies in the republic "to pay the most serious
attention to the growing activity of structures and associations, including
religious ones which propagate radical ideas". "Talking about threats and
attacks against clerics who promote traditional Islam and call for fighting
against people preaching militant Islam, this threat will continue to increase,"
he said.

Yedelev also said that the threat of international terrorism escalating in
southern Russia remained real. He cited statistics on terrorist acts in the
region according to which the number of terrorist crimes, including bombings and
firing attacks in the North Caucasus in 2009 totalled 637, an increase of 19 per
cent [presumably on 2008].

"Bandits committed five criminal attempts, three firing attacks and two bombings
targeting staff of law-enforcement agencies in North Ossetia," he said.

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1905 gmt 14 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           January 14, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Terror attack officer loses leg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 382 words


A Catholic police officer injured in a dissident republican car bomb attack last
week has had his right leg amputated.

Constable Peadar Heffron (33) had surgery on Tuesday and remains critical but
stable.

He was injured when a bomb exploded under his car on the Milltown Road near
Randalstown in Co Antrim last Friday.

Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness said the news that he has had a leg
amputated would come as a terrible blow to him, his wife, his family, colleagues
and friends.

"It is particularly devastating given Peadar's enthusiasm for sport and his
active membership of the GAA," he said.

"His love of the Irish language and Gaelic games, and his membership of the
Police Service, demonstrate how fundamentally the political situation has
changed in recent times."

Meanwhile, it has emerged that a key tool in the PSNI's fight against dissident
republican terrorism has been thrown into uncertainty after the European Court
of Human Rights ruled that stop and search powers were unlawful.

Coming at a time of "severe" terrorist threat and just days after the attempted
murder Constable Heffron, members of the Northern Ireland Policing Board have
warned the surprise ruling could hamper attempts by police to prevent further
terrorist attacks.

The Belfast Telegraph has learned that the PSNI had received prior intelligence
of a bomb plot to kill an officer, but the information was too vague to know
when and where the attack was to take place.

"We were expecting a bomb attack on an officer but intelligence was not specific
enough. We regularly receive warnings of impending attacks and all we can do is
remain vigilant," a police source said.

UUP Policing Board member Basil McCrea said the attack on Constable Heffron,
just months after a police officer's partner escaped serious injury when a
similar device exploded under the car she was driving in east Belfast, is proof
that the capabilities of dissident republicans are improving, and stop and
search powers can help police tackle the threat.

However, this week's ruling by the Strasbourg court -- that Section 44 of the
Terrorism Act violated individual freedoms guaranteeing the right to private
life -- throws doubt on the current anti-terror laws.

The Home Office has said that the Government is seeking to appeal the decision.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 14, 2010 Thursday
                                 Second Edition

Adebayor: 'I can't eat. It's difficult. I need time';
City striker speaks of his lasting torment in the wake of terrorist attack on
Togo bus

BYLINE: Ian Herbert

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 573 words


Emmanuel Adebayor last night revealed the deep emotional affect on him of last
week's deadly attack on the Togo team bus at the African Nations Cup in Angola,
revealing that he is losing weight and psychologically unprepared for a return
to Manchester City.

Togo's media officer, Stan Ocloo, died in Adebayor's arms last Friday in the
Angolan region of Cabinda. He was one of three people killed in the gun attack,
which led to the team's withdrawal from the tournament - and Adebayor,
recovering from the ordeal in Togo, is now not expected back in Manchester for
at least a week.

"If it meant going back tomorrow, I wouldn't be capable of giving everything
that I've got," Adebayor said from his home in the Togolese capital, Lome. "I
will not be able to play that game [against Everton]. Even standing on that
pitch would be the worst thing that I could do because I am not 100 per cent. I
have to start training first, recover first from what happened. My head is not
on football now. We are talking about lives - life is more important than
football."

The 25-year-old is understood to have contacted City to explain his appearance
for an interview on Tuesday in an Arsenal shirt, the images of which City said
last night have been a cause of concern to him. He left Cabinda minus his kit,
which was left on the ambushed coach, and having arrived in his homeland minus
kit borrowed the jersey from his brother to conduct his initial interview.

"At the moment I'm just sweating everyday and every day that God made," Adebayor
added. "I can't even eat. I'm losing weight, which is very difficult for
everyone. I will take time and I will come back on the pitch at the right time.

"I think my boss [Roberto Mancini] and my team understand that is the most
important thing. And they know I need time to recover from this, and at the
moment I am just staying home with all my [Togo] team-mates. We are all together
- [as] one."

Adebayor contacted City on Tuesday morning to express thanks for the minute's
silence for the three lost lives that was observed before Monday night's 4-1 win
over Blackburn Rovers.

"I appreciate what we [at City] are doing at the moment," he said. "But my head
is not what we are scoring at the moment, my head is on the families that lost
their people. You know, it's difficult because our press officer was my personal
press officer and he died in my hands. I think that's now the war I have in my
life, because having somebody die in your hands ... I had the press officer's
[hand] in my hand 'till his last breath ... so you can imagine it's very
difficult."

Adebayor, an emotional character at the best of the times, will be left by City
to attend the funerals of his colleagues - the coach driver died as well as the
assistant coach Amalete Abalo. His own struggle to contend with the events of
last Friday has been made no easier, however, by the organisational fiasco that
followed the shooting - with Togo first withdrawing from the tournament and then
being refused a request to rejoin after three days of national mourning.

Of the Arsenal shirt he wore, Adebayor said: "When we jumped out from the bus we
left all our luggage in the bus and we ran away. So when I came back [here] I
didn't have anything to wear and the first person I asked was for my brother to
give me a shirt. At the moment, we are all confused in our heads. I just want to
say again sorry for the shirt and I hope people will understand."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           January 14, 2010 Thursday

Contract to stop terror attacks on power plants

BYLINE: Gary Mitchell

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 396  words


A security specialist has won a multi-million-pound contract to help protect UK
electricity and gas plants from terrorist attacks.

Galliford Try Infrastructure Security (GTIS), of Wolvey, said the work would be
its first major deal with the  National Grid.

The firm, an arm of   construction group Galliford Try, is one of two businesses
being drafted in to improve security at National Grid sites across the UK over
three years.

The energy company is one of hundreds of firms on an official list of power,
water, finance and transport  hubs  important to national security.

The Government's Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure has given
advice to these organisations on how they can ensure their premises are
protected from attack - creating business opportunities for firms such as GTIS.

Details of what GTIS will be doing for National Grid and the value of the deal
have not been revealed, but it could include installing CCTV cameras,   intruder
alarms and access-control equipment.

Systems to strengthen the structure of buildings could also be installed.

Justin Mitchell, operations manager for GTIS, said: "Upgrading security to take
account of the advice from Government is a complicated, time-consuming and
ongoing matter which will affect   hundreds of organisations across the country.

"We see security as a great opportunity to expand and, in some cases, build on
relationships with  Galliford Try group's existing clients, in health, rail and
water sectors, for instance."

The firm is one of several in Leicestershire involved in tackling the global
terrorist threat.

Lutterworth firm Intercede, which supplies identity card systems, has predicted
major growth thanks to a combination of the recession and the global terrorist
threat.

The business has enjoyed soaring demand for its sophisticated software, known as
MyID, which manages access to buildings.

In the past 18 months, it has signed contracts with US federal agencies, a US
military base, a large US state and a government in the Middle East, among
others.

As well as supplying the industrial market, Image Scan, of Barrow upon Soar,
provides its X-ray baggage scanners to airports around the world, including
China.

Vessel Traffic Management Systems, of Barwell, has supplied buoys on the River
Thames - near the Houses of Parliament - which are designed to alert authorities
to an attempted attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2010 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                           January 14, 2010 Thursday

Henrique Almeida: Angola's president may use terrorist attack to shore up his
own powers

LENGTH: 636 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE deadly ambush on football players in  Angola has embarrassed
President Jose Eduardo dos Santos on the world stage,  but it will help him
tighten his 30-year grip on power in one of Africa's biggest oil producers.


The  gun attack on a bus carrying the Togo squad in Cabinda, which Angola called
a terrorist act, could see dos Santos' already substantial presidential powers
increased further.

Analysts say the attack has given his government more power to pursue and
destroy the Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda (Flec), which it
accuses of staging the bus ambush that killed two members of the Togo delegation
at the African Nations Cup.

The Flec has waged a three-decade-long war against the government for
independence of Cabinda, a small geographically separated exclave that pumps
half of Angola's oil.

"The attack last Friday has exposed that there is a continued, low-intensity
separatist problem ongoing," said Alex Vines, head of the Africa programme at
Chatham House in London.

"After the matches are over, I expect we will see a crackdown on sympathisers,
separatists and counter-insurgency operations in the north of the country."

In the search for Flec members, Angola is expected to renew ties with France and
the  Democratic Republic of Congo  - relations with the latter turned sour after
it expelled thousands of Angolan immigrants in a tit-for-tat wave of expulsions.
Both countries have said they will pursue Flec leaders that have been living in
exile on their territory.

"The government is willing to use this tragedy to get rid of Flec once and for
all and to win international support to do so," said Rafael Marques, a political
analyst in Angola.

The French foreign ministry said on Tuesday that remarks by Flec secretary
general Rodrigues Mingas, who is part of its leadership in exile, in which he
pledged to pursue an insurgency, were "unacceptable and will have consequences".

The government of the Democratic Republic of Congo  -  whose territory separates
Angola from the Cabinda enclave  -  said it regarded Flec as a "terrorist
organisation" and would strip its members of their refugee status.

One Angolan analyst said dos Santos, 67, could use the war on Flec as an excuse
to approve a new constitution that would enable him to be elected through an
indirect vote instead of a popular vote, as is currently the case.

Dos Santos says   a presidential election will not take place until 2012 and he
has rushed to approve a new constitution that will increase his powers. He has
failed to hold an election since the end of Angola's 27-year civil war in 2002,
despite repeated promises to do so.

"This is another distraction that will help the government approve the new
constitution, that will maintain or even increase the president's powers," said
the analyst, who declined to be named.

The ruling MPLA party has submitted a draft charter that would keep the
president as the head of government and  enable the president to be elected as
head of the list of the most popular party in an election.

While dos Santos' MPLA won 82 per cent of the vote in the 2008 parliamentary
election, it is not clear whether he enjoys such  popularity in a country where
two-thirds of the population live on less than $2 a day. Most people have
endured their woes in silence after the country emerged from the civil war to
rival Nigeria as Africa's biggest oil producer. The Flec attack may also signal
that patience is running out.

The roots of the 30-year conflict between the government and Flec are deep and
complex, but one of the separatists' main grievances is that Cabindans see few
benefits from the oil produced from their homeland.

Antonio Bento Bembe, a former Flec leader who is now Angola's minister in charge
of Cabinda, said   some  separatists preyed on individuals who were unhappy with
their living conditions. "A lot of things have been changing without a need to
pick up a knife or a gun," he said. "(The attacks] come from people who are
frustrated because they could not realise their dreams."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            January 15, 2010 Friday

Compensation for British victims of overseas terror attacks

BYLINE: Ned Temkoguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 363 words

ABSTRACT

Package scaled back amid Ministry of Defence fears of payments to soldiers for
roadside bomb injuries

FULL TEXT

The government has agreed to provide financial help for British victims of
terrorist attacks overseas, nearly five years after Tony Blair first promised
action.

But the package has been scaled back after Ministry of Defence objections that
it could lead to retrospective claims from soldiers injured by roadside bombs in
Iraq or Afghanistan.

A single scheme covering past and future victims had been agreed for last year's
Queen's speech but the MoD objections prompted Gordon Brown to withdraw the
proposal, leading to months of internal debate over the measure.

Planned amendments going before the Commons on Monday will include a more
generous scheme for future victims, along the lines of the settlement for
victims of the 7/7 terror bombings in London. But those injured in terror
attacks since 2002 in Bali, Egypt, Turkey and Mumbai will receive more limited
compensation.

Under an ex gratia scheme, those most seriously injured - such as Will Pike, the
28-year-old Londoner who has to use a wheelchair after injuries in Mumbai - will
receive payments in line with those injured in the 7/7 bombings. But there will
be no financial settlement for families of Britons killed in overseas terror
attacks, and no compensation for loss of earnings for those who have been
injured.

Victims groups and their supporters in parliament broadly welcomed the decision,
although they were disappointed at the limitations and the long delay.

"The main thing is that we are finally seeing a recognition of responsibility to
help British citizens whose lives have been blighted," said Ian McCartney, the
former government minister who has been at the forefront of the battle for
compensation.

He said that the government had accepted its "basic moral duty" to provide
assistance.

Dozens of victims like Pike were not covered under the criminal justice
compensation scheme, an anomaly Blair promised to address in 2005.

Pike's plight, after a Mumbai attack in which the terrorists sought out people
with US or British passports to kill, gave an impetus to calls for a change in
the law.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      January 18, 2010 Monday 4:14 PM BST

BRITONS TO BE COMPENSATED FOR FOREIGN TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: David Hughes and Craig Woodhouse, Press Association Political Staff

SECTION: PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 2714 words


The Government outlined plans today to compensate British victims of terror
attacks overseas.

Home Secretary Alan Johnson said the scheme would apply only to future
incidents, but victims of earlier atrocities who suffer continuing problems
could also benefit.

Mr Johnson told MPs the plans would mirror the domestic criminal injuries
compensation scheme.

Details of the scheme will be set out in amendments to the Crime and Security
Bill, Mr Johnson said during the legislation's second reading debate.

Mr Johnson said: ``It is sadly the case that many recent British victims of
terrorist attacks have been injured or killed because they are Westerners and
there has been a particular increase in such attacks since 9/11.

``Whether the attacks are targeted at individuals or more indiscriminately,
terrorism is intended as a political statement and an attack on society as a
whole and as such has ramifications far beyond those directly affected.''

The new victims of overseas terrorism compensation scheme will only apply to
``designated terrorist incidents'' that take place in future.

But Mr Johnson said: ``We recognise that there will be victims of overseas
terrorist attacks in recent years who continue to face hardship because of
disability arising from the injuries they have sustained.''

He continued: ``Subject to the passage of the Bill, we will provide assistance
to eligible victims of overseas terrorist attacks since 2002.''

The issue of compensation for Britons injured in attacks overseas has been the
subject of long-running negotiation in Whitehall, with reports that the Ministry
of Defence had raised objections, fearing claims from troops injured by roadside
bombs.

The wide-ranging Crime and Security Bill contains measures including a reduction
in the length of time innocent people's DNA is kept on the national database and
steps to crack down on rogue car clampers.

Mr Johnson said the Bill ``will bring greater protection to the victims of
domestic violence, it will cut police bureaucracy and it will establish a new
framework for the retention of DNA records''.

He added: ``This Bill will also make it an offence not to take reasonable
precautions to prevent air weapons coming into the hands of children, thus
sending a strong message about the need to improve safety.''

The Bill also makes it an offence to possess a mobile phone in prison without
proper authorisation.

Under the measures to tackle anti-social behaviour, the Bill extends new
injunctions for gang-related violence to children as young as 14, and requires
courts to issue a Parenting Order where a child under 16 has breached an Asbo.

Police red tape would be cut by reducing the information recorded when officers
carry out a stop and search procedure, Mr Johnson said.

The Government has been forced into changing procedures for the retention of DNA
profiles after a European Court of Human Rights ruling in 2008.

Under the new proposals, adults arrested but not convicted of a crime other than
terror-related offences will have their DNA profiles destroyed after six years.

The European Court of Human Rights said that holding the profiles of innocent
people indefinitely was disproportionate and a breach of privacy rights.

Mr Johnson said ministers had sought to balance human rights, consider the
latest research and the link between previous and future arrest, and consider
concerns about privacy while drawing up the new rules.

As a result, the Government was proposing that the profiles of all those
convicted of crimes and all juveniles convicted of serious offences would be
held indefinitely, while most adults arrested but not convicted of a crime would
have their DNA profiles destroyed after six years.

Police will be given powers to take DNA samples from people convicted of
serious, violent and sexual offences in the past - before DNA samples were
routinely taken - and those who have committed such offences and are returning
from overseas.

The six-year rule would not apply to ``exceptional'' national security cases, Mr
Johnson said, where investigations have been known to take as long as 25 years.

The Home Secretary said the records of under-18s convicted of serious crimes
would be held indefinitely while the records of those convicted of minor
offences will be held for five years upon first conviction, or indefinitely if
it is a second conviction.

The Government had also sought to address concerns that many people considered
the retention of material ``disturbing'', so all biological samples taken from
people would be destroyed after six months - with only the profile data being
retained.

The Bill will place a ``legal duty'' on chief constables to consider requests
for innocent people's DNA to be removed from the database in certain
circumstances.

These would be where an arrest was unlawful, the taking of biometric data was
unlawful, the arrest was based on mistaken identity, or ``other circumstances
relating to the arrest or alleged offender that would make it appropriate to
destroy the material''.

Mr Johnson told MPs: ``I believe that the framework we propose is proportionate,
led by the best available evidence, guided by public opinion and the
professional judgment of the police.''

Mr Johnson said there were significant differences between the model currently
operating in Scotland and the measures being proposed by the Government.

He said the Tories were ``profoundly wrong'' to argue for the introduction of
the Scottish system, which he said only retains the records of people arrested
but not convicted of serious crimes and does not take account of the most recent
research.

He told MPs that in 2008-09, 23 rapists and killers in England and Wales had
been convicted on the basis of DNA evidence taken at the time of arrest for
minor crimes.

Under the Scottish model, he said, ``23 killers and rapists would have remained
free to kill and rape again''.

The Home Secretary also said the Scottish system retains the full DNA sample
rather than just the profile, and that courts can authorise those samples to be
kept indefinitely.

Mr Johnson refused to confirm reports that the Bill would be used to amend the
law which allowed a British court to issue an arrest warrant for Israeli
politician Tzipi Livni.

Shadow attorney general Edward Garnier asked whether the legislation would be
amended to adjust the law on ``universal jurisdiction''.

Mr Johnson said: ``I can't answer that question at the moment.''

Ministers were looking at the ``unacceptable situation regarding Tzipi Livni''
and would produce proposals ``in due course''.

Concluding his speech, the Home Secretary said: ``Along with the measures to
curb anti-social behaviour and gang involvement among young people, to cut
police bureaucracy and grant greater protection to victims of domestic violence,
the Crime and Security Bill will bring greater protection and peace of mind to
the public and make our streets safer.''

Mr Grayling welcomed the crackdown on rogue wheel-clampers and plans to tackle
the use of mobile phones in prison.

But he said the real dividing line over the Bill was the inclusion of the DNA
database proposals, which were ``illiberal'' and ``wrong''.

Mr Grayling accused ministers of acting in a ``completely cavalier'' fashion
with the traditions and rights of UK citizens.

``As the number of DNA records has increased, the number of detections has
fallen,'' he said.

``There is no evidence that building a bigger and bigger database will help
solve more and more crimes.

``We have argued consistently for the approach used in Scotland. There, DNA from
people who have neither been charged or convicted for minor offences is not
retained. The only exceptions are in cases involving serious sexual violent
offences.

``We think that is the right balance. A Conservative government would adopt the
Scottish system across England and Wales.''

Mr Grayling said his party would not back the Bill as long as it retained the
proposals on DNA and would push forward with amendments to implement the
Scottish system at a later stage.

Keith Vaz, Labour chairman of the home affairs select committee, welcomed the
plan to compensate terror victims, calling for it to be as ``transparent and
efficient'' as possible.

He also welcomed plans to regulate car clampers.

Mr Vaz said he would abstain during the Bill's second reading vote because he
could not support the Government's proposals on the database.

He said: ``I do support a lot of what the Government is proposing... but I can't
support the Government with a positive vote on second reading today.

``I am abstaining on the issue of the database... I don't think I can possibly
support a measure that will keep the inadequacies of the DNA database going for
six years when I am not satisfied that it should be kept for 12 years.

``I am not satisfied that the Government has dealt with the ruling of the
European Court on this issue and I regret it.''

Labour's Diane Abbott (Hackney N and Stoke Newington) said: ``The number of
black youth on the database is disproportionate to the amount of convictions and
that is the key correlation here.''

For the Liberal Democrats, Chris Huhne attacked much of the Bill, which he
labelled ``legislative diarrhoea''.

He said: ``This is an omnibus Bill. As such, it is a random cross-section of
measures which have been thrown together for no greater reason than they have
been hanging around at the bus stop at the time when the Bill was going past.

``There are some pleasant-looking passengers dotted around on the bus, but the
overall impression is that it is tainted by the leering ogre picking its teeth
on the front seat on the top deck, namely the proposals for the DNA database.''

Unless there were ``dramatic'' concessions in the Bill, the Liberal Democrats
would ``do our best to beach it like a whale''.

Mr Huhne said Britain had the largest DNA database in the world and almost one
in two of all black men were on it.

He told MPs: ``(The Government) would rather, it seems, continue their dangerous
obsession with creating massive and illegal databases of any information that
they can get their hands on rather than accept they were wrong, that they have
gone beyond the law.''

The evidence behind the six-year rule was ``frankly a shambles'', he said.

``All the Home Office has done is to halve the period they put forward in the
consultation document, as if splitting the difference were a substitute for
evidence.''

Instead there should be a ``strict split between innocence and guilt'' so that
only if a person was convicted of a crime would their DNA profile would be
retained.

Former shadow home secretary David Davis said he had serious concerns about the
DNA database proposals.

``This affects ordinary citizens in our country day by day and what it does is
drive a stake through the presumption of innocence in our society,'' he said.

Ministers and officials, he said, had formed their views on terrorism and crime
from ``watching too many editions of Spooks or CSI''.

He continued: ``It is too common an issue that we take from popular culture what
we understand to be happening in reality.''

Labour's Neil Gerrard (Walthamstow) was also critical of the Government's DNA
plans, saying: ``I really cannot see what the hard evidence is to support what's
being proposed in this Bill.''

He said ministers seemed to be relying on a ``no smoke without fire'' argument.

``The fact that someone has been arrested leads to the assumption that this
person is more likely to commit a crime in the future than someone who hasn't
been arrested.

``I really don't think we should be going down that road.''.

Labour's Robert Flello (Stoke-on-Trent S) turned to the problem of prisoners
smuggling mobile phones into prisons, which he said had increased
``phenomenally''.

He said: ``The size of the handset has reduced dramatically... and I am sure the
convicts in the prison who smuggle them in their bodily orifices have realised
they have got smaller.''

To laughter from MPs, he turned to Home Office minister David Hanson and said:
``I hope you are not reaching for your phone to check the size of it.''

Labour's Angela Smith (Sheffield Hillsborough) was also critical of the
Government's stance on DNA, saying ministers had not gone far enough in
responding to the human rights ruling.

She said it was ``absolutely appalling'' that in cases where a sample was taken
from someone arrested for a minor offence, but not convicted, they could be
assumed to be far more likely to commit a serious offence in the future.

Plaid Cymru's parliamentary leader Elfyn Llwyd attacked this aspect of the Bill
too, insisting Scotland had the right balance and ministers should think again.

``Every person has the right to be presumed innocent until the opposite is
proven,'' he said. ``An acquitted person must be treated in the same way.''

Former Home Office minister Tony McNulty said the measures on mobile phones did
not go far enough.

``I don't think, given my knowledge and expertise in terms of the use of mobile
phones in prisons - not least with convicted terrorist prisoners - that simply
to put on the statute books a possession offence is good enough,'' he said.

The Ministry of Justice should not let concerns about resources prevent an
outright ban on mobile phones in prisons for both staff and inmates.

Ministers had also ``wimped out'' over the wheel clamping provisions, Mr McNulty
claimed.

``I don't think simply a licensing regime will do what we all want it to,'' he
said.

Former police minister Mr McNulty launched an attack on Justice Secretary Jack
Straw, who claimed last month some officers preferred to stay indoors doing
paperwork than get back out on the beat.

Mr McNulty said: ``For an ex-home secretary to say that, I think, was quite
shocking.''

He also dismissed as ``nonsense'' the idea that race was a less important factor
than class in Britain today.

Communities Secretary John Denham said last week that tackling discrimination
and inequality must take account of the importance of social class in holding
people back rather than simply concentrating on race.

Mr McNulty said: ``The notion that somehow race is no longer a factor in terms
of our politics, as suggested recently - now it's class, apparently - is
nonsense, profound nonsense.

``Especially in terms of the criminal justice system.''

Tory David TC Davies (Monmouth), a special constable, said he would not mind his
own DNA on the database because ``security is more important to us than civil
liberties''.

He commended the Government's enthusiasm for the database, adding: ``There are
some people who may be found innocent by the courts but who nevertheless will
have their DNA retained on a database.

``And that is something which I am perfectly comfortable with.''

He also suggested that police be given more powers to stop and search.

Mr Davies said that out on the beat once he had stopped a man and was told on
the radio he was ``foxtrot india''.

He told MPs: ``'Oh well, leave him alone', says my colleague. 'He's a female
impersonator, harmless enough, transvestite'.

``Turns out actually foxtrot india is for firearms and india foxtrot would have
been impersonates females so we got that one wrong.''

But the man could not have been searched anyway because the police had no
evidence that he had a firearm on him at that particular moment, Mr Davies
added.

``That's why I would like to see ... an amendment that would allow people to
take into account somebody's previous criminal reocord when deciding whether or
not a search would be warranted.''

Shadow Home Office minister James Brokenshire said: ``We believe the Government
has failed to strike a proper balance on DNA retention and, even with the
proposals outlined in the Bill, continues to be on the wrong side of the line of
what is proportionate and justified.''

He said ``questions still remain'' over whether the new procedures would satisfy
the European court.

Crime and Policing Minister David Hanson acknowledged that the new proposals
were pushing the the court's ruling to the limit.

``Our judgment is: six years is within the remit of the court, is within the
remit of the judgment, is pushing that judgment to its boundaries but is about
protecting the public and ensuring that we do all we can to do that.''

The Bill was given a second reading by 272 votes to 197, Government majority 75.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday

Paper expresses concern over spread of terror attacks to Pakistani Kashmir

LENGTH: 346 words


Text of editorial headlined "End to calm" published by Pakistan newspaper The
News website on 18 January

Azad Kashmir [Pakistan-administered Kashmir], which had till recently remained
relatively free from terror attacks, seems to have been increasingly drawn into
the spiral of violence that has shaken Pakistan. Most recently, two security
personnel were killed and three others injured in an attack on their vehicle
near Rawalakot. The area till now had a reputation for immaculate law and order,
with people safely leaving doors unlocked even in this day and age. There had
previously been other deaths in a bombing targeting an Ashura procession in
Muzaffarabad. The patterns of violence thus seen across Pakistan have quite
obviously spread to Azad Kashmir. The heavy troop presence in the area of course
makes it a tempting target for militants. It is indeed ironic that the issue of
militancy, which began with the 'jihad' in Kashmir and the emergence of groups
backed by the establishment, should have returned to us in a somewhat different
form, with 'jihadi' militants seen as allies in the past having turned into
foes.

The situation points to the complexities of militancy and the reason why there
are no easy solutions. The problem, ideally speaking, needs to be addressed in a
holistic manner, by finding some way to work towards a resolution of the Kashmir
dispute while also looking at the other, still more dangerous, kinds of
militancy that have taken root. But this will take time. There are no immediate
or easy answers. In the meanwhile it is imperative that we do all that is
possible to prevent terrorism from expanding and wrapping its ugly tentacles
around areas that have till now been calm. This has already been happening in
Kashmir. There is a possibility too that the militants will attempt to carry out
recruitment campaigns in Kashmir. They must be prevented from doing so before
they add further to the miseries of people who already confront poverty and also
uncertainty on a daily basis.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 18 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           January 19, 2010, Tuesday

MORNING OF MURDER & MAYHEM;
TERRORIST ATTACKS HIT KABUL

BYLINE: Andrew Gregory

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 326 words


A WAVE of terrorist attacks wreaked havoc in Kabul yesterday and killed at least
five people.

Taliban bombers targeted the presidential palace, government buildings, shopping
centres and a hotel - sparking five hours of gunfights with Afghan troops.

The defence ministry said a child was among the dead.

Forty people were wounded and seven rebels were killed.

The Taliban claimed 20 militants took part in the attacks, which began just
before 10am local time as president Hamid Karzai swore in members of his
cabinet.

A suicide bomber blew himself up in front of the Central Bank, next to the
presidential palace.

Minutes later, suicide bombers plus armed militants over-ran a shopping centre
and attacked other government buildings and the five-star Serena Hotel.

As security forces lay siege to the mall, a suicide bomber drove a van disguised
as an ambulance to the front of another shopping centre and detonated his
explosives.

Militantsthentookoverabuilding and took two children hostage. The kids were
released later.

Explosions and gun battles broke out at various locations until
securityforcesdeclaredthesituation under control at about 3pm.

Coup Kabul residents were shocked that the insurgents had managed to penetrate
the heavily secured city.

ShopkeeperMohammadHussain, 25, said "We are so concerned. Tens of thousands of
US and NATO troops are being sent to Afghanistan, yet security is
deteriorating."

Another shopkeeper Abdul Rahman Hamedi, 38, added: "Today it looks like a coup.
Everybody said, 'The city is full of suicide bombers'."

Prime Minister Gordon Brown condemned the violence and added: "This incident
strengthens our resolve to build a safer, more secure Afghanistan."

US special envoy Richard Holbrooke said the Taliban behind the attack were from
extremist groups operating in the border areas between Afghanistan and Pakistan.

He added: "They are desperate people. They are ruthless. We can expect these
sorts of things on a regular basis."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: Afghan cops surround a bombed shopping centre BLAST: A man
flees a bomb

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday

Victims of foreign terror attacks to receive UK compensation

BYLINE: Rob Merrick

SECTION: REGIONAL (NORTHERNECHO NEWS)

LENGTH: 292 words


THE victims of terror attacks abroad will finally receive compensation, after
the government bowed to pressure from campaigners including a North-East woman.

Payments will be made only after future incidents, but Britons injured in
atrocities dating back to January 2002 who "continue to face hardship" will also
receive help, MPs were told.

The announcement - which came two months after it appeared the move had been
shelved - delighted Sharon Holden, who lost her 21-year-old daughter Helyn
Bennett in a Turkey bomb blast.

Mrs Holden, from Spennymoor County Durham, has campaigned for other families to
be spared the ordeal that followed the tragedy, in July 2005.

The family received no financial help from the British government and a £5,000
insurance payment did not come close to covering the funeral costs, or the
medical bills of five other family members seriously injured in the blast.

In October, the family was awarded £1,099,531 in compensation by the Turkish
government, but has yet to receive a penny because the case went to appeal.

Mrs Holden said: "I'm over the moon. I have campaigned for this for
four-and-a-half years and I feared it would never happen.

"We don't expect any help for ourselves, but it will help other people in the
future, when they face lots of trips to hospital and are off work, or can never
work again."

Details of the scheme have not been revealed, but compensation is not expected
to be paid to to the families of people killed in foreign attacks, or for
victims' loss of earnings.

Home Secretary Alan Johnson said: "It is sadly the case that many recent British
victims of terrorist attacks have been injured or killed because they are
Westerners and there has been a particular increase in such attacks since 9/11."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday

New skipper proved his worth after terror attacks

BYLINE: Matt McGEEHAN

LENGTH: 189 words



HIGHLIGHT: QUIETLY and methodically - like his batting - Alastair Cook has
accumulated 52 Test caps, at an average of 42.65. It appears his England
captaincy will follow the same approach.


"I am probably not a gambling captain - you have to be true to your nature and I
think things through before making decisions," he said yesterday after being
thrust into the top job.  "I will be conservative at times,  or more aggressive
depending  on the situation."

Cook, who has been long touted as a future England captain, led his country in a
Twenty20 international in South Africa at the start of the last tour, but it was
in the aftermath of the Mumbai terror atrocities in 2008 that the opener truly
showed his leadership ability.

He had the responsibility of reading out the statement on behalf of his
team-mates which declared England would be returning to play their two Test
series in India and would be donating half their match fees to the victims of
the attack.

On the occasion he addressed the world's media, Cook showed his renowned
temperament at the crease.

If he can cope in such circumstances, he surely has  the right ingredients to
succeed as skipper.

He is confident it is a role in which he will be a success, adding: "I feel
behind the scenes that I have done a lot of work and I feel I am growing into
the role."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 20, 2010 Wednesday

Arrested terror suspect was planning attack in Hyderabad 26 Jan - Indian police

LENGTH: 270 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Hyderabad, 19 January: The capital of India's southern state of Andhra Pradesh
would have witnessed yet another terror attack on this year's Republic Day had
Mohammed Amjad alias Khaja, an operative of terror group
Harkat-ul-Jihadi-al-Islami of Bangladesh, succeeded in his "conspiracy", police
here claim.

Khaja had allegedly hatched a plan to unleash terror in Hyderabad but the police
claimed to have it by arresting him from Afzalgunj bus stand here Monday.

A senior police official said Khaja, who was made South India chief of terror
outfit Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami (HuJI-Bangladesh), has confessed to
interrogators that he had hatched a plan to create panic in Hyderabad on the
occasion of Republic Day for which he had contacted his associates here.

Hyderabad had witnessed terror attacks, including Mecca Masjid blasts and twin
blasts in 2007, which claimed over 40 lives.

According to the official, 27-year-old Khaja, a native of Malakpet locality here
who allegedly has close links with terror outfits LeT, Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM)
and Indian Mujahideen (IM), was tasked by the Inter Services Intelligence (ISI)
of Pakistan to carry out some major action in South India.

"Khaja was supervising operations on recruiting youth for terror acts and
accordingly he arrived in Hyderabad. We are investigating if he visited
Bangladesh and India earlier also," the senior police official said.

Khaja, according to the official, was in Karachi and reached Colombo on January
15 before flying to Chennai and Hyderabad.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1517gmt 19 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           January 20, 2010 Wednesday

Features - Analysis - Inside the mind of a terrorist;
Following the failed terror attack on a US plane, Ian Sinclair asks what others
won't - why?

BYLINE: Ian Sinclair

LENGTH: 1163 words


Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab's attempt to blow himself up on Northwest Airlines 253
over Detroit on Christmas Day has generated a stupendous amount of column inches
and airtime in the US and British media.

While the saturation-level coverage has focused on questions of "who," "what,"
"when," "where" and "how," it has categorically failed to ask the most important
question of all - why?

Those hoping that the new messiah of the United States would enlighten the
ignorant masses were sorely disappointed when the Democratic president could
only offer to "communicate clearly to Muslims around the world that ... the
United States stands with those who seek justice and progress."

Barack Obama then turned the floor over to his top counter-terrorism adviser
John Brennan, who made the blindingly obvious and technically true statement
that "al-Qaida is an organisation that is dedicated to murder and wanton
slaughter of innocents."

As with much of Obama's foreign policy, his inability or unwillingness to
articulate why the US is the target of so much terrorism has more in common with
his universally reviled predecessor than many of his supporters would like to
admit.

Of course Bush was always far more crass and simplistic than the smooth Harvard
graduate. "America was targeted for attack because we're the brightest beacon
for freedom and opportunity in the world," the then commander-in-chief told the
US on September 11 2001.

Just in case anyone is turning their noses up at "those stupid Americans," we
shouldn't forget that immediately after the July 7 2005 terrorist attacks in
London, the BBC reported then home secretary Charles Clarke as saying that
"those responsible for such attacks simply wanted to destroy democracy."

In contrast Michael Scheuer, the man who headed the CIA unit monitoring Osama
bin Laden in the 1990s, argues Islamic terrorist attacks on the US have nothing
"to do with our freedom, liberty and democracy, but everything to do with US
policies and actions in the Muslim world."

So who should we believe? To begin to answer this question, it seems pertinent
to look at the reasons those actually carrying out the terrorism give for their
actions.

Although it has since disappeared down the memory hole, in 2004 bin Laden
himself directly addressed Bush's claim that al-Qaida is motivated by a hatred
of US freedom and democracy.

"Let him tell us why we did not strike Sweden," the al-Qaida figurehead quipped
before stating: "We fought you because we are free and do not accept injustice.
We want to restore freedom to our nation."

What about Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged mastermind behind September 11
2001 and the man with the dubious honour of holding the world record for the
number of times to undergo waterboarding - 183 times according to the US Justice
Department.

"By his own account KSM's (Khalid Sheikh Mohammed) animus toward the United
States stemmed not from his experience there as a student, but rather from his
violent disagreement with US foreign policy favouring Israel," noted the
official 9/11 Commission report.

Back to Britain. Last September, the International Herald Tribune reported that
the jury at the trial of the 2006 plot to blow up 10 transatlantic airliners
were shown martyrdom videos prepared by several of the plotters.

"A common theme was that they planned to wreak revenge on Britain and the United
States for their interference in Muslim countries, especially the wars in
Afghanistan and Iraq," reported the newspaper.

No doubt some readers will be uncomfortable with taking mass-murdering
terrorists at their word. But what about testimony from the US government
itself?

In 2004 the Pentagon-appointed US Defence Science Board explained: "Muslims do
not 'hate our freedom,' but rather they hate our policies." The board
elaborated: "The overwhelming majority voice their objections to what they see
as one-sided support in favour of Israel and against Palestinian rights, and the
longstanding, even increasing support for what Muslims collectively see as
tyrannies, most notably Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Pakistan, and the Gulf
states."

As someone paralysed in a 2004 attack by Saudi extremists, one presumes BBC
security correspondent Frank Gardner has thought a little bit about this topic.
In 2005 he told the Commons foreign affairs committee that "al-Qaida could not
give a stuff about what Americans do in America. What they object to is Western
military adventures in their heartland, whether it be Afghanistan, Iraq,
wherever."

Robert A Pape, professor of political science at the University of Chicago and
director of the Chicago Project on Suicide Terrorism, has written a whole book
addressing this question. He concludes that "suicide terrorism is mainly a
response to foreign occupation rather than the product of Islamic
fundamentalism."

Returning to the case of Abdulmutallab, a recent Associated Press story noted he
was "not overtly extremist," however he "was open about his sympathies toward
the Palestinians and his anger over Israel's actions in Gaza."

In addition Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula released a video after the
attempted attack stating that it was in revenge for two joint US-Yemeni air
raids on December 17, supposedly targeting al-Qaida operatives. Yes that's
right, the latest recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize personally ordered US air
strikes in Yemen, killing 23 children and 17 women, according to local
officials.

The enigmatic US novelist Thomas Pynchon once wrote: "If they can get you asking
the wrong questions, they don't have to worry about answers."

So far the "wrong questions" asked by politicians and the mainstream media have
led to the implementation of "the most significant changes to airport security
since 2006," according to the Guardian. "Increased pat-down searches, more
sniffer dogs in terminals and a step-up in hand luggage inspections" along with
"the introduction of body scanners" has been the British government's knee-jerk
response to Abdulmutallab's attempted attack.

The problem is that these are technical answers to something that desperately
requires a political solution. In fact, by ignoring the inconvenient question of
"why," the chances are that we are actually making future terrorist attacks on
the US and Britain more likely.

This is not to suggest that British foreign policy should be decided by the
actions of a small group of murderous Islamic extremists. Rather it should
radically change because it is immoral, hypocritical and has directly caused
hundreds of thousands of deaths, many of them in the Islamic world.

Put simply, reversing US and British backing for Israel, withdrawing from Iraq
and Afghanistan and ending our Machiavellian support for undemocratic Arab
regimes is the right and moral thing to do.

A welcome by-product of implementing these sane and humane policies would be a
decrease in the hatred directed against the US and British in the Islamic world
- and therefore a significantly reduced terrorist threat.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                           January 20, 2010 Wednesday

Edlington attacks: The quiet Yorkshire estate terrorised by two brothers

LENGTH: 532 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE brothers terrorised the community they were brought up in,
despite their young age.


The attacks that shocked Britain: Full coverage »

Despite much soul-searching focusing on Edlington, where the attacks took place,
the youngsters lived on an otherwise quiet estate in a different part of the
Doncaster area until just a few weeks before the incident.

The ordinary families who lived near them for many years spoke of the senseless
vandalism and sporadic violence the boys and their family brought to their
neighbourhood.

They described how they believed the brothers were products of their chaotic
upbringing by their mother and her partner, resulting in a plague of abuse and
anti-social behaviour.

One man, typical of many, talked about frequent damage to cars, stones thrown at
windows and buses, and constant noise and abuse, with police visiting the
family's home "two or three times a week".

Others in the community spoke of random acts of violence, including one incident
when one of the brothers attacked an 11-year-old girl with a baseball bat.

After the two brothers were arrested and the rest of their family moved out of
their dilapidated semi accompanied by a fleet of council and police vehicles,
other residents gathered to watch and celebrate their departure.

One man with a young family said: "I think everyone is so pleased they've gone
they're thinking of holding a street party. I can put my car out now without
fear it will be wrecked. I can let my kids out to play now."

Their next-door neighbours described the misery the family had inflicted on
them. The 11-year-old girl kept of a diary of the anti-social and racist
behaviour she endured which included throwing stones at her mother.

Her father described how the boy's mother told him: "F*** off, they're nothing
to do with me." The boys had lived in the street for about eight years.

The estate is otherwise quiet. Many of the houses have been bought from the
local authority and have been renovated. The wreck of a property the boys lived
in provided a depressing contrast to those around it with its graffiti strewn
walls and garden filled with all manner of rubbish.

It had a "Beware of the Kids" sign hung by the front door.

The boys lived there with their mother, 36, and some of her other five sons,
aged between eight and 18 years old.

Her partner of many years lived with them until a short time before the two boys
were put into foster care and moved to Edlington, just weeks before the attack.

Neighbours said the partner was a "violent drunk" and laughed when asked what he
did for a living.

A woman said: "His life was drink, drink, drink, go out, come back, kick off,
beat the kids, drink, drink, drink."

Other people said the brothers appeared to live a scavenging existence in the
area, often stealing what they needed or "salvaging" clothes from skips.

"She never cooked a meal for them," one neighbour said.

"They just scavenged for food or just ate fish and chips and stuff."

But one person who had suffered constant problems with the brothers conceded:
"All they wanted was a bit of sympathy - a bit of love from their parents. For
them to get into trouble they were getting attention from their parents."

The boys were placed in foster care in Edlington three weeks before the attack
on the two boys.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YPOS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Muslim police say Islam not to blame for terror attacks;
Muslims terror abuse

BYLINE: Robert Winnett

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 755 words


MUSLIM police officers have rebelled openly against the Government's
anti-terrorism strategy, warning that it is an "affront to British values" which
threatens to trigger ethnic unrest.

The National Association of Muslim Police (NAMP) claimed that ministers were
wrong to blame Islam for being the "driver" behind recent terrorist attacks.

Far-Right extremists were a more dangerous threat to national security, it said.

The officers told MPs that Muslims were being "stigmatised" by the Government's
attempts to tackle terrorism, which was adding to "hatred" against entire
communities.

In the official intervention, the association said the Government's
anti-terrorism policies could not "continue unchecked".

The comments, made in a seven-page memorandum to a parliamentary committee
investigating extremism, are embarrassing for Gordon Brown. They indicated that
Muslim officers may be reluctant to take part in "hearts and minds"
anti-terrorism campaigns.

The organisation, which represents more than 2,000 officers, was previously
publicly backed by Mr Brown. The Prime Minister said the association was crucial
to bridge the historic divide between Muslims and the police.

There have been growing concerns about the radicalisation of Muslims in Britain.
The failed Detroit bombing on Christmas Day was carried out by an
al-Qaeda-inspired extremist who had studied in London.

The Daily Telegraph disclosed last week that American intel-ligence agencies
believed that Britain had the greatest number of Islamic extremists of any
Western country.

It is thought to be the first time that the Muslim association, which was
founded in 2007, has criticised government policy.

In an analysis of the Prevent strategy, which is a set of policies designed to
stop radicalisation, the organisation claimed: "The strategies of Prevent were
historically focused on so-called Islamist extremism.

"This has subjected the biggest black and ethnic minority community, and second
biggest faith group, in an unprecedented manner, stigmatising them in the
process.

"Never before has a community been mapped in [such] a manner ... it is
frustrating to see this in a country that is a real pillar and example of
freedom of expression and choice.

"Our British system is a model for the world to follow, yet we have embarked on
a journey that has put this very core of British values under real threat."

The association warned there were "echoes" of the racism of the 1970s and 1980s
which led to inner city riots. "We appear to have ignored the lessons learnt
from these dark days," the officers said.

There is growing criticism among Muslim groups of the government strategy, which
was welcomed by mainstream police organisations.

The policies are aimed at stopping Muslims from becoming radicalised through
measures such as sponsoring moderate community groups.

Ministers insisted that the strategy, which costs more than £140million a year,
had "real successes". More than 200 people were convicted of terrorist offences
in the past eight years.

But the NAMP claimed the policies had led to "hatred against Muslims" which "has
grown to a level that defies all logic and is an affront to British values". The
organisation said Prevent should focus on confronting far-Right extremists such
as the BNP. The memorandum warned that Muslims were subjected to "daily abuse"
due to the strategy. "We must not diminish our British values further by
continuing to allow such behaviour and polices to continue unchecked," it added.
The Muslim officers believe the Government is wrong to blame Islam as the main
driver of terrorist activity.

Research by "those convicted of terrorism acts shows Islam was not, and is not,
a real driver but all our strategy seem to focus on is this unevidenced view of
Islam being the driver," they said. The Government said that confronting Islamic
terrorism was one of the key priorities of the anti-radicalisation strategy.
Last night, the Foreign Office admitted that funding for counter-terrorism
policies in Pakistan had been cut.

A spokesman from the Department of Communities and Local Government said: "The
idea that we only focus on Muslims on terror issues is completely false.
"Muslims, like other faith groups, engage with government departments right
across Whitehall, from health to education to work and pensions, to culture,
media and sport. They rightly play a full role in our society, and across public
and civic life."

"Hatred against Muslims has grown to a level that defies all logic "NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF MUSLIM POLICE

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           January 21, 2010, Thursday

FLIGHT BANS TO FOIL UK TERROR ATTACKS;
BROWN PUTS SUSPECTS ON NO-FLY LISTS

BYLINE: Bob Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 375 words


THOUSANDS of terror suspects are to be banned from Britain after Gordon Brown
announced a "no-fly" list.

He said the latest intelligence, in the wake of the failed Christmas Day bomb
attack on a flight to Detroit, showed there were still terror cells "actively
trying to attack Britain".

And he said flight security had to be enhanced to stop them trying to get to the
UK.

In a range of measures, Brown announced:

Ano-fly list to ban suspects from getting on to flights to the UK.

A separate "special measures list" will name people who must be subjected to
extensive searches and questioning before being allowed onto flights.

Direct flights from Yemen, where the Detroit bomber trained, are to be stopped.

Sniffer dogs, explosive testing machines and full body scanners will be
introduced into airports from next week.

Brown told the Commons he recognised the moves would cause inconvenience to
passengers.

But he said: "The security of our citizens must be our priority."

Britain already has a "watch list" of terror suspects.

But Brown said: 'We intend, for the first time, to use the watch list as the
basis fortwo new lists."

In the US, the no-fly list has been estimatedtoholdanywherebetween a thousand
and a million names. Britain's list will be similar.

But in the US, it has been controversial, with some people claiming it is
racially biased against people from the Middle East and Africa.

Boost

There are also claims it infringes civil liberties.

The moves comes after an urgent security review after the Detroit bid.

It's alleged former British student Umar Abdulmutallab was allowed to board a
transatlantic plane before attempting to blow it up despite being on "watch
lists". Even his millionaire father had warned authorities that he believed his
son may be a risk.

The Conservatives welcomed the introduction of a "no-fly list" but called for a
specialist border police force to boost security.

Tory leader David Cameron said the man who tried to detonate the Christmas Day
bomb was radicalised in the UK before going to Yemen.

He said: "Doesn't that show that more needs to be done to tackle radicalisation
right here in the UK?"

LibDem leader Nick Clegg called for guarantees that peoples' civil liberties
would be protected amid the tougher measures.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BROWN: Tough new measures

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Edinburgh News

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday

Muslim police attack anti-terror strategy

LENGTH: 28 words



HIGHLIGHT: MUSLIM police officers condemned the Government's anti-terrorism
strategy as an "affront to British values" which had led to an upsurge in
Islamophobia.


The National Association of Muslim Police said the strategy - designed to stop
violent extremism - was "stigmatising" Muslims by focusing on "so-called Islamic
extremism".

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EN


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Glaswegian

                                January 21, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Safety in scanning?;
We ask your views on new airport security devices in wake of latest terror
attack

BYLINE: Mike Larkin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 480 words


FOLLOWING the recent failef suicide bomb bid by a religious extremist on a US
flight, airports have again tightened security.

A new generation of airport X-ray body scanners have raised the question
concerning the balance between personal freedom and safety in air travel. We
asked if people agree with the introduction of the controversial devices.

Production assistant Jaime Barr, 25, of Partick, said: "I am not sure if it is a
good idea. Dangerous people have found different ways to get around security.

"I don't know if I want people in a little room looking at X-rays of me.

"You can never be too careful, but with every extra bar you put up, people will
find ways around them.

"Part of it is I don't want people invading my privacy. You need a balance
between security and privacy."

Property developer Adrian Nicholl, 46, of Barrhead, said: "I have no issue with
it. It is the way the world is going.

"The way things are now, the world is full of crackpots everywhere.

"Even after they have done this, they will not have solved the problem, but you
are better to have them than not if it means you are better protected."

Retired Ann Atkinson, 64, said: "I am not particularly bothered by it. But it is
like everything else, they will find ways around it even with these new
scanners.

"I do not think it will bring extra security, but I am not worried about being
scanned as I have nothing to hide."

Offshore oil worker Michael Cardle, 35, of Dennistoun said: "It is a good idea.
It is for safety and it is the same for everyone.

"If you have nothing to hide it won't matter, and I think it would be good if
they brought it in at Glasgow Airport.

"It is especially important to bring them in on potentially dangerous routes,
like flights into America, and they should be in potentially dangerous
airports."

Maintainance worker Martin Simmons, 49, of Maryhill, said: "I definitely agree
with bringing them in. It is important that we make things more secure.

"I would feel more secure and I think other passengers would feel more secure.

"They should definitely bring them into Glasgow Airport. It will be another tool
that will make people feel safer."

Retired Fraser Gray, 66, of Netherlee, said: "I think it is good as it might
speed things up in security.

"I would feel more secure if they were brought in here, and you might also not
need to take your shoes and things off."

TALKING HEADS..

I am not worried because I have nothing to hide Ann Atkinson City Centre The way
things are, the world is full of crackpots everywhere Adrian Nicholl Barrhead I
don't know if Iwant people in a little room looking at X-rays of me Jaime Barr
Partick It's especially important on dangerous routes like flights to USA
Michael Cardle Dennistoun It will be another tool that will make people feel
safer Martin Simmons Maryhill I think it is good as it might speed things up in
security Fraser Gray Netherlee

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLA


                       Copyright 2010 Trinity Mirror, plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 22, 2010 Friday

Russia: 91 killed in criminal, terror attacks in Ingushetia in 2009 - prosecutor

LENGTH: 451 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Nazran, 22 January: Ninety-one members of law-enforcement agencies, servicemen
and civilians died as a result of criminal attacks and acts of terrorism [in
Ingushetia] in 2009, and around 500 people received various injuries, the
Ingushetia directorate of the Investigations Committee under the [Russian]
prosecutor's office has told Interfax-South.

The heads of the republic's Investigations Committee directorate, FSB [Federal
Security Service] directorate and prosecutor's office on Friday [22 January]
attended an expanded session of the board of the Ingushetia directorate of the
Investigations Committee under the [Russian] prosecutor's office, where the
results of last year were summed up.

"At the board it was noted that 75 members of law-enforcement agencies, seven
servicemen and nine civilians were killed as a result of attempted murders and
terrorist attacks in 2009," a representative of the Investigations Committee
press service has said.

Another 241 members of law-enforcement agencies, 35 servicemen and 221 civilians
received injuries of varying degrees of gravity, the representative said.

Last year 122 criminal cases in this area were solved, which is 183.7 per cent
higher than in 2008. Also in 2009 the proceedings of criminal cases were
completed and sent to court regarding 9 members of illegal armed groups who were
involved in committing more than 20 crimes that were terrorist in nature.

In all last year, the proceedings of 224 criminal cases were completed, 200 of
which were sent to court with an indictment, while 24 criminal cases were
dropped, the representative said.

Last year a significant increase in the number of crimes related to murder was
noted. In all, 101 such crimes were recorded, 23 per cent more than in 2008.
Despite this, it was noted at the board the murder detection rate was increased,
from 55.8 to 63.7 per cent, the representative said.

The most important factor negatively affecting the overall crime rate in the
republic is that there are practically daily attempts on the lives of
[law-enforcement] personnel and servicemen.

Last year the fight against corruption was enhanced, the representative added.
Specifically, criminal cases were sent to court, which is 7.7 per cent more than
in the equivalent period last year.

Among those who have been charged in corruption cases are a former minister of
the republican government, a deputy minister, several managers in housing and
utilities companies, officials from a number of ministries, employees of the
Ingushetia pension fund and an officer from the Russian Interior Ministry.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1744 gmt 22 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday

Pakistan Foreign Office rejects Indian statement on future terror attacks

LENGTH: 343 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 22 January: Spokesman, Foreign Office, Abdul Basit Friday [22
January] while rejecting the statement of Indian External Affairs Minister S.M.
Krishna said Pakistan would not be scared by any threat.

He was commenting on the statement of S.M. Krishna that there would be no
exchange of terrorists between the two countries and any attack in future from
Pakistani soil will harm relations.

Spokesman said it was Krishna's own thinking and as far as terrorism is
concerned, no country could be sincere more than Pakistan to expunge terrorism
as "we are the real victims".

He said this is an immature statement and despite all the cooperation from
Pakistan, India's response is not positive but the lethargic one.

Deadlock between the two countries would only be beneficial for non-state
actors, he maintained.

Replying to a question, he said both are nuclear powers and to think about war
is equal to suicide.

Spokesman, FO [Foreign Office], said Pakistan was fully capable to defend its
soil.

"Our nuclear deterrence are fully credible."

He further said Pakistan does not want any tension between the two countries and
for durable peace in the region India must respond positively to the peace
offers of Pakistan.

Resumption of composite dialogue is the only way for resolution of all the
issues and peace in the region, he maintained.

Abdul Basit said terrorism is a global phenomenon and Mumbai mayhem was not
possible until and unless there were elements in India who made the attack
possible.

He said India should understand the realities and avoid such statements which
could create tension.

When quizzed about the statement of US Defence Secretary Robert Gates that if
incidents like Mumbai assaults would happen in future, India must not tolerate,
spokesman FO said Pakistan is already tackling terrorism in a better way and now
India and other countries must cooperate with Pakistan.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1535gmt
22 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday
                             Black Country Edition

Terror attack threat rises

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 37 words


THE UK's terror threat level has been raised from "substantial" to "severe".

Home Secretary Alan Johnson made the announcement, which means a terrorist
attack is considered "highly likely" and urged people to be vigilant.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2010 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Alert level raised as terror attack 'likely';
60second briefing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 69 words


THE threat to the UK from international terrorism was last night raised from
substantial to severe - meaning an attack is "highly likely".

Home Secretary Alan Johnson said although the threat had increased there was no
intelligence to suggest an attack was imminent.

He said: "This means that a terrorist attack is highly likely but I should
stress that there is no intelligence to suggest than an attack is imminent."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday
                              North Wales Edition

Risk of terror attack is 'severe'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 156 words


THE threat to the UK from international terrorism was last night raised from
substantial to severe - meaning an attack is "highly likely".

Home Secretary Alan Johnson said although the threat had increased there was no
intelligence to suggest an attack was imminent.

He said: "The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre has today raised the threat to the
UK from international terrorism from substantial to severe.

"This means that a terrorist attack is highly likely, but I should stress that
there is no intelligence to suggest than an attack is imminent."

Mr Johnson added: "The highest security alert is critical and that means an
attack is imminent, and we are not at that level.'' He said more measures had
been taken to protect aviation since the alleged failed bomb attack on a plane
at Detroit at Christmas.

"We have a very adept and very focused counter-terrorism facility in this
country and people should be reassured by that."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2010 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BRITAIN PUT ON TERROR ALERT;
Government: Attack is 'highly likely'

BYLINE: by ROSS KANIUK

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 213 words


BRITAIN was braced for a major terrorist attack last night as the threat risk
was raised to a "highly likely".

Home Secretary Alan Johnson raised the official level from "substantial", which
means an attack is a strong possibility, to "severe", where one is highly
likely.

The danger assessment was made by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre, which
constantly reviews the situation.

It looks at the intent and capabilities of terror groups.

Although it means an attack is now believed to be almost certain, Mr Johnson
stressed it was not expected in the very near future.

The increased concern followed intelligence analysis.

Communications and activities o f terror suspects were being monitored.

The new "severe" threat is the second highest possible.

Most serious level is critical which means an attack is not only highly likely
but it is also imminent.

Mr Johnson said the JTAC had "raised the threat to the UK from international
terrorism from substantial to severe".

He added more measures had been taken to protect aircraft since the failed bomb
attack on a plane at Detroit at Christmas.

He said: "We have a very adept and very focused counter-terrorism facility,
people should be reassured by that."

He said that moving to the different threat level meant people had to be more
alert.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Edinburgh News

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday

New UK terror attacks are now 'highly likely'

LENGTH: 32 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE threat to the UK from international terrorism has been raised
from substantial to severe - meaning an attack is "highly likely".


Announcing the move last night, Home Secretary Alan Johnson said although the
threat had increased there was no intelligence to suggest an attack was
imminent. But he urged people to be vigilant.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EN


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday

National: Threat of terror attack in UK raised to severe: Move made despite lack
of specific threat 'Broad range of factors' resulted in upgrade

BYLINE: Jenny Percival and Vikram Dodd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 573 words


The threat of international terrorism to the UK was raised from substantial to
the second highest level of severe last night, meaning an attack is "highly
likely".

Alan Johnson, the home secretary, said there was no intelligence to suggest an
attack was imminent.

The escalation reversed a decision in July to downgrade the likelihood of a
terror attack from "severe" to "substantial".

Johnson said the change was not specifically linked to the increased threat from
international terrorism following the failed Detroit plane bombing on Christmas
Day or to any other incident.

He said the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (Jtac), a unit within MI5, had taken
the decision based on a broad range of factors, including the intent and
capabilities of international terrorist groups in the UK and overseas.

Johnson said: "We still face a real and serious threat to the UK from
international terrorism, so I would urge the public to remain vigilant and carry
on reporting suspicious events to the appropriate authorities, and to support
the police and security services in their continuing efforts to discover, track
and disrupt terrorist activity."

He said the public should be reassured by the UK's "very adept and very focused
counter-terrorism" services.

The terrorist threat has been at substantial, meaning an attack is a "strong
possibility", since July.

There are five levels of terror threat, ranging from low - meaning an attack is
unlikely - to critical, when an attack is expected imminently.

More security measures have been taken to protect airports since the failed
Detroit attack. On Wednesday, Gordon Brown announced fresh measures to track
terror suspects and improve airport security, including a suspension of direct
flights between Yemen and the UK and a "no-fly list" to stop suspected
terrorists from travelling to the UK.

A senior Whitehall security source said Jtac had assessed events, including the
Christmas Day bombing attempt and an international counter-terrorism meeting on
Yemen in London on Thursday, which will be held alongside a conference on the
future of Afghanistan.

The source added other factors which could not be discussed were also part of
Jtac's decision.

Security officials have no knowledge of a direct plot threat. The senior source
said: "It is not based on a single piece of evidence or event. There is no
knowledge of a new plot or an old plot moving on." Officials do not believe
there will be a need to make arrests in the next 24 hours.

The source added that a whole series of events and pieces of intelligence
stretching across continents had led to the decision: "Yemen is a part of it,
events in London are a part of it. There is no specific threat to London."

Sources with knowledge of the discussions yesterday before the decision said the
mood among security officials was sober and they had not been as worried as they
had been during recent terrorist crises, such as the disrupted 2006 plot to
smuggle liquid bombs aboard planes.

Johnson briefed Janet Napolitano, the US homeland security secretary, about the
development, which brings the UK on to a similar level of alert to the US.

Terrorism expert Paul Wilkinson, of the University of St Andrews, said raising
the terror threat level was mainly designed to increase the vigilance of the
emergency services and those working in security jobs. "I think it's not
something that the public will notice very much, in terms of everyday life," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday

Terror attack 'highly likely'

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 70 words


The threat to Britain from international terrorism was last night raised from
substantial to severe - meaning an attack is "highly likely". Home secretary
Alan Johnson said that although the threat had increased there was no
intelligence to suggest an attack was imminent.

He said the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre "keeps the threat level under
constant review and makes its judgments based on a broad range of factors".

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday

Terror attack 'highly likely'

LENGTH: 253  words


The threat to the UK from international terrorism has been raised from
substantial to severe - meaning an attack is "highly likely".

Home Secretary Alan Johnson said there was no intelligence to suggest an attack
was imminent, but he urged people to be vigilant.

He said the heightened alert level was not specifically linked to the Christmas
Day plane bomb plot or any other incident, although it comes ahead of a major
counter-terrorism conference in London next week.

Mr Johnson said: "The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre has raised the threat to
the UK from international terrorism from substantial to severe. This means that
a terrorist attack is highly likely, but I should stress that there is no
intelligence to suggest than an attack is imminent."

JTAC, a unit within MI5, sets the level based on an analysis of intelligence.
The assessment covers potential attacks by al-Qaeda or linked extremist groups.

There are five levels of threat, ranging from low - meaning an attack is
unlikely, to critical - when an attack is expected imminently.

The Christmas Day bomb plot has moved the focus of the fight against terror onto
the Yemen, where suspect Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab has reportedly claimed he was
supplied with explosives.

Following the attack, the Yemeni government has stepped up a US-backed military
operation against al-Qaeda sympathisers based in remote areas of the Middle
Eastern country.

Prime Minister Gordon Brown has called an international counter-terrorism
meeting on Yemen in London for January 27.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2010 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 24, 2010 Sunday

Jordanian court tries 10 suspects for planned terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 189 words


Text of report by Jordanian newspaper Al-Dustur on 24 January

[Unattributed report: "Trial of 10 Takfiris on Charges of Terror Plots Today"]

The State Security Court will try today 10 suspects who follow takfiri ideology,
and who planned to execute terror plots in Jordan targeting the counterterrorism
training centre and fuel tanks that transport fuel to US troops in Iraq,
according to the list of charges.

The general prosecutor has charged the suspects with four crimes: conspiracy to
execute acts of terror, manufacturing flammable material to execute [acts of
terror], acquisition of flammable material, and the acquisition of automatic
weapons for illegitimate use.

According to the list of charges, the group adopts the takfiri ideology, which
drove them to plan terror plots in Jordan using automatic weapons and flammable
material with the aim of disrupting public order and terrorizing people and
endangering their safety and security.

The list indicated that the places they had decided to target included a bar,
fuel tanks, vehicles, a counterterrorism training centre, and a factory.

Source: Al-Dustur, Amman, in Arabic 24 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      January 24, 2010 Sunday 10:34 AM BST

MILIBAND: THREAT OF TERROR ATTACK REMAINS VERY REAL

BYLINE: Emily Ashton, Press Association Political Staff

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 794 words


Foreign Secretary David Miliband today warned that the danger of a terrorist
attack ``remains very real'' and Britain should be ``extremely vigilant''.

His remarks came hours after an audio tape said to be from al Qaida leader Osama
Bin Laden claimed responsibility for the Christmas Day airline bombing attempt
in Detroit.

Mr Miliband said the attack demonstrated ``the links that can exist between
different terrorist groups''.

But he told BBC One's Andrew Marr Show that he would wait to see whether the
tape was authentic.

``Let's wait to see what he actually says; we know that the al Qaida senior
leadership are in the badlands of the Afghan-Pakistan border, probably on the
Pakistan side,'' he said.

``We know too that the Detroit attack was the first time that al Qaida of the
Arabian Peninsula, which is a sub-group of the al Qaida franchise ... represents
an attack on the West rather than an attack within the Middle East.

``Let's see what he says but it obviously demonstrates both the dangers that
exist but also the links that can exist between different terrorist groups.''

The short recording purporting to be from bin Laden warned US President Barack
Obama of further attacks against the US.

``The message delivered to you through the plane of the heroic warrior Umar
Farouk Abdulmutallab was a confirmation of the previous messages sent by the
heroes of the September 11,'' it said.

On Christmas Day, Nigerian national Abdulmutallab attempted to blow up the
Northwest Airlines flight he was sitting on as it approached Detroit Metro
Airport. But the bomb he was hiding in his underwear failed to explode.

He told police shortly afterward he had been trained and instructed in the plot
by al Qaida operatives in Yemen.

Mr Miliband said he believed that ``a significant part of the al Qaida senior
leadership'' had been killed.

``But the danger remains very real,'' he said.

``You've seen this week that the Home Secretary has thought it right to raise
the threat level back to the level it's been for most of the period since
9/11.''

He added: ``It remains the case that we need to be extremely vigilant.''

Alan Johnson upped the threat level from ``substantial'' to ``severe'' on Friday
night - meaning an attack is ``highly likely''.

According to the Sunday Telegraph, the change in threat level came amid fears
that al Qaida terrorist cells had trained women, who may not have Arabic
appearances, to carry out suicide bomb attacks.

The Home Office said it was unable to comment on whether the two were linked,
but insisted the threat level was raised only in consideration of an ``entire
body'' of information.

Mr Miliband said it would ``very stupid'' of him to comment on the intelligence
behind the change.

``The fact is though that these people will stop at nothing; they will try every
trick in the book, they will use advanced technology, they will use all the
mechanisms of open society that we depend on for their own terrible purposes.

``And they will try to strike Christians, Muslims, Jews randomly.''

The Government had a responsibility to keep the terrorist threat to the UK
``under very careful scrutiny'', he added.

``We think it's right to keep the public informed about the general threat
level.''

The Christmas Day bomb plot moved the focus of the fight against terror on to
Yemen, where Abdulmutallab reportedly claimed he was supplied with explosives.

Following the attack, the Yemeni government has stepped up a US-backed military
operation against al Qaida sympathisers based in remote areas of the Middle
Eastern country.

Mr Miliband said the heart of the al-Qaida senior leadership remained on the
Afghanistan-Pakistan border - but there was a ``real issue'' in Yemen.

``The fact that al Qaida of the Arabian Peninsula should have tried to strike in
Detroit marks a new phase in their campaign and that's why there's an important
meeting on Yemen on Wednesday.''

The meeting in London, called by Gordon Brown, will be attended by
representatives of the Yemeni government, regional powers and Britain's allies,
probably including US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.

It will come one day before a key conference in London on the future strategy of
allied forces in Afghanistan, to be attended by Afghan President Hamid Karzai.

Shadow home secretary Chris Grayling said he had been informed in advance of the
decision to raise the terror threat level, but had not been given specific
details of the rationale for the change.

Mr Grayling told BBC1's Politics Show: ``What is most important of all is that
the Government takes steps that both make the public aware of the nature of the
threat and provide proper protection for the public.

``I have got no reason to believe that is not happening and I am entirely
supportive of what the Government has done.''

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                            January 24, 2010 Sunday

Terror attack threat 'very real'

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (SWA NEWS)

LENGTH: 234 words


FOREIGN Secretary David Miliband has warned that the danger of a terrorist
attack "remains very real" and Britain should be "extremely vigilant".

His remarks came hours after an audio tape said to be from al Qaida leader Osama
Bin Laden claimed responsibility for the Christmas Day airline bombing attempt
in Detroit.

Mr Miliband said the attack demonstrated "the links that can exist between
different terrorist groups".

But he told BBC One's Andrew Marr Show that he would wait to see whether the
tape was authentic.

"Let's wait to see what he actually says; we know that the al Qaida senior
leadership are in the badlands of the Afghan-Pakistan border, probably on the
Pakistan side," he said.

"We know too that the Detroit attack was the first time that al Qaida of the
Arabian Peninsula, which is a sub-group of the al Qaida franchise ... represents
an attack on the West rather than an attack within the Middle East.

Mr Miliband said he believed that "a significant part of the al Qaida senior
leadership" had been killed.

"But the danger remains very real," he said.

"You've seen this week that the Home Secretary has thought it right to raise the
threat level back to the level it's been for most of the period since 9/11. It
remains the case that we need to be extremely vigilant."

Alan Johnson upped the threat level from "substantial" to "severe" on Friday
night - meaning an attack is "highly likely".

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                January 24, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Pigs blasted in terror attack experiments

BYLINE: Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 575 words


LIVE pigs are being blown up with explosives at Porton Down, the government's
secret military research laboratory, to simulate the effect of terrorist attacks
on civilian targets.

In a series of tests at the biological and chemical research centre in
Wiltshire, 18 large pigs were wrapped in protective blankets before bombs were
detonated a few feet away. The scientists allowed the pigs to bleed until almost
a third of their blood was gone to see how long they could be kept alive.

MPs and animal-welfare groups have questioned the use of live animals in the
explosions, even though the pigs were anaesthetised throughout. None survived
the experiments.

Norman Baker, the Liberal Democrat MP for Lewes, said: "These are revolting and
unnecessary experiments. Sadly, we are too familiar with the effects of
terrorism. It is perfectly possible to find out things we don't know without
blowing up pigs to find out."

Research papers, obtained by The Sunday Times, show that the experiments at the
Defence Science and Technology Laboratory were carried out because "blast
injuries are an increasing problem, owing to the widespread terrorist threat".

The blasts were meant to recreate the effect of an explo-sioin an enclosed
space, such as the July 2005 attacks on the Underground and a double-decker bus
in London, and had been designed to help medics to control haemorrhaging from
victims.

The pigs were wrapped in Kevlar blankets to protect them from minor bomb debris
and placed less than three yards from the explosive device.

Before being blown up, they had tubes inserted into their blood vessels and
bladders, and their spleens removed.

A major blood vessel in the abdomen had a wire put into it so the vessel was
lacerated during the blast.

Porton Down said the research programme would help British soldiers exposed to
bombs in Afghanistan as well as potential civilian terror casualties. Up to 94%
of critically injured victims of the 2004 Madrid train bombings were identified
as suffering from "blast lung", an injury that leaks over time.

A spokeswoman said that anecdotally there was already evidence that the research
was helping to save lives.

"This work is part of our broad combat casualty care programme. Anecdotally, we
are seeing evidence of people surviving because of this work," she said.

Porton Down, originally set up to research chemical warfare during the first
world war, uses a special breed of white pig that has skin resembling human
flesh.

Scientists at the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection questioned the
validity of the tests, saying that the effect on an anaesthetised pig of a bomb
blast would "differ substantially from those of a conscious human being".

A spokesman said: "We understand the need to deal with the human tragedy, of
which sadly there are too many cases. However, we do not believe that mutilating
pigs in these horrific experiments is the answer."

A paper published August last year in the World Journal of Surgery by Porton
Down Scientists said injuries previously not seen outside Israel and Northern
Ireland were now taking place elsewhere. "The increasing number of largescale
civilian terrorist attacks means the management of blast injury is now no longer
confined to military doctors or those working in certain geographic locations,
it said.

'' WE ARE SEEING PEOPLE SURVIVE BLAST INJURIES BECAUSE OF THIS WORK AT PORTON
DOWN

56,240 Number of animals used in Porton Down experiments in 2005-07

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                January 24, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Live pigs blasted in terror attack experiments

BYLINE: Marie Woolf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 493 words


LIVE pigs are being blown up with explosives at Porton Down, the government's
secret military research laboratory, to simulate the effect of terrorist attacks
on civilian targets.

In a series of tests at the biological and chemical research centre in
Wiltshire, 18 large pigs were wrapped in protective blankets before bombs were
detonated a few feet away. The scientists allowed the pigs to bleed until almost
a third of their blood was gone to see how long they could be kept alive.

MPs and animal welfare groups have questioned the use of live animals in the
explosions, even though the pigs were anaesthetised throughout. None survived
the experiments.

Norman Baker, the Liberal Democrat MP for Lewes, said: "These are revolting and
unnecessary experiments. Sadly, we are too familiar with the effects of
terrorism. It is perfectly possible to find out things we don't know without
blowing up pigs to find out."

Research papers, obtained by The Sunday Times, show that the experiments at the
Defence Science and Technology Laboratory were carried out because "blast
injuries are an increasing problem, owing to the widespread terrorist threat".

The blasts were meant to recreate the effect of an explosion in an enclosed
space, such as the July 2005 attacks on the Underground and a double-decker bus
in London, and had been designed to help medics control haemorrhaging from
victims.

The pigs were wrapped in Kevlar blankets to protect them from minor bomb debris
and placed less than three yards from the explosive.

Before being blown up, they had tubes inserted into their blood vessels and
bladders, and their spleens removed. A major blood vessel in the abdomen had a
wire put into it so the vessel was lacerated during the blast.

Porton Down said the research programme would help British soldiers exposed to
bombs in Afghanistan as well as potential civilian terror casualties. Up to 94%
of critically injured victims of the 2004 Madrid train bombings were identified
as suffering from "blast lung", an injury that leaks over time.

A spokeswoman said that anecdotally there was already evidence that the research
was helping to save lives.

"This work is part of our broad combat casualty care programme. Anecdotally, we
are seeing evidence of people surviving because of this work," she said.

Porton Down, originally set up to research chemical warfare during the first
world war, uses a special breed of white pig that has skin resembling human
flesh.

Scientists at the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection questioned the
validity of the tests, saying that the effect on an anaesthetised pig of a bomb
blast would "differ substantially from those of a conscious human being".

A spokesman said: "We understand the need to deal with the human tragedy, of
which sadly there are too many cases. However, we do not believe that mutilating
pigs in these horrific experiments is the answer."

56,240 Number of animals used in Porton Down experiments in 2005-07

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                                January 24, 2010
                                 2 Star Edition

Terror attack in Britain is now 'highly likely'

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 208 words


HOME Secretary Alan Johnson last night raised the terror threat level to
"severe".

Announcing heightened security measures following extensive intelligence
gathering, he said that an extremist attack was "highly likely" in the UK and
urged people to be aware.

The new alert comes in the wake of tough measures banning flights to the UK from
Al Qaeda's new recruiting hotbed in Yemen.

Fears were raised that an attack could be launched from the unstable Middle
Eastern state after British-Nigerian student Umar Adbulmutallab attempted to
blow up a US jet with an improvised underpants bomb on Christmas Day.

A security review conducted in the wake of the failed attack led to Prime
Minister Gordon Brown's announcement on Wednesday of new measures, including a
"no-fly list" to prevent people with suspected militant links from travelling to
Britain.

A major counter-terrorism confer-r ence is also due to take place in London next
week to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and Yemen. Guests include US
secretary of state Hillary Clinton and Afghan leader Hamid Karzai.

Professor Richard Bonney, an expert in religious extremism from the University
of Leicester, said: "Hillary Clinton's visit to London is a very likely,
plausible threat."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: my


               Copyright 2010 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Sunday Sun (UK)

                                January 24, 2010
                                  1st Edition

CHEMICAL INCIDENT AT AIRPORT;
UK terrorism attack risk is now 'severe'

BYLINE: KIM PILLING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 466 words


PART of an airport terminal was evacuated and a chemical incident was declared
yesterday after a man attempted to carry an unidentified white powder onto a
plane.

The substance was discovered in a bag that the Asian man, believed to be aged in
his 20s, was planning to take on a flight from Manchester to London Heathrow.

The check-in and security screening areas at the airport's Terminal 3 were
evacuated as a precaution.

The rest of the airport remains open.

Police said the man has not been arrested and is currently helping with
enquiries while tests are conducted on the powder.

A Greater Manchester Police spokesman said: "Shortly before 12.55pm police at
Manchester Airport were called by security staff from the check-in desk at
Terminal 3, who had discovered a non-identified white powder in a bag which a
man was attempting to carry on to a plane.

"Officers attended along with the fire service and they declared it a chemical
incident. Tests are on-going to establish what the powder is.

"The check-in desk at Terminal 3 has been cordoned off and a man in his 20s is
helping police with their enquiries at the airport."

Flights departing Terminal 3 were facing delays but arrivals and those leaving
other terminals were not affected, the airport said.

A police source said the incident was not believed to be terror-related.

The passenger was trying to board flight BD589 to Heathrow, which was due to
depart at 1.55pm.

It is understood he told airport staff he was carrying a "freeze-dried compound"
on behalf of a friend.

Meanwhile, the threat to the UK from terrorism has been raised from substantial
to severe -meaning an attack is "highly likely".

Announcing the move yesterday, Home Secretary Alan Johnson said although the
threat had increased there was no intelligence to suggest an attack was
imminent. But he urged vigilance.

He said it was not specifically linked to the Christmas Day plane bomb plot or
any other incident, although it comes ahead of a conference on counter-terrorism
in London next week.

Mr Johnson said: "The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC) has raised the
threat to the UK from substantial to severe.

"This means that a terrorist attack is highly likely, but I should stress that
there is no intelligence to suggest an attack is imminent. "JTAC keeps the
threat level under constant review and makes its judgments based on a broad
range of factors.

"The highest security alert is critical and that means an attack is imminent,
and we are not at that level."

The minister said more measures had been taken to protect aviation since the
alleged failed bomb attack on a plane at Detroit at Christmas.

He added: "We have a very adept and very focused counter-terrorism facility in
this country and people should be reassured by that."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ss


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                            January 25, 2010 Monday
                                  1st Edition

Your Views;
INTELLIGENCE chiefs have raised the UK terror threat level to "severe" but are
you worried about a possible terrorist attack?

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 180 words


Psychology student Yan Birch, 19, from Thornaby, said: "I'm not worried about a
terrorist attack at the moment. I don't think we've been told enough to be
worried."

Steve Innocent, a 47-year-old financial advisor from Middlesbrough, said: "No,
I'm not worried. I don't think Teesside is particularly a target."

Daniel Storey, a 24-year-old customer service advisor from Redcar, said: "I
don't think we've got anything to worry about round here. I would be more
vigilant if I lived in a large city, though."

Fred Hutchinson, 51, a university lecturer from Coulby Newham, said: "Not
significantly. It is difficult to accurately predict the threat level, it
depends on what intelligence has been gathered."

Rebecca Storey, a 25-year-old customer service advisor from Redcar, said: "No,
I'm not. That is the point of terrorism, to make people scared. Being so just
plays into their hands."

Scott Fellows, 18, an apprentice mechanic from Darlington, said: "I think if I
was down south I'd be more worried. Although if there's an attack, it affects us
all no matter where we live."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2010 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            January 25, 2010 Monday

Was Baghdad hotel attack result of terrorist marriage of convenience?

BYLINE: Martin Chulovguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 480 words

ABSTRACT

Iraqi officials claim alliance of former Ba'ath party members and Shia Muslim
militants trying to destabilise Shia government

FULL TEXT

Four devastating bombing campaigns within five months and Iraq once more has the
feeling of a nation nearing the precipice. Today's attacks were again designed
to shock - in the most visible manner possible.

All four hotels that were hit are well-known symbols that jut from the low-set
desert capital in a decaying reminder of grander days. In August and October, it
was  and . In December, , plus a court house.

. The message was the same: those who want to wreak havoc can send their bombers
anywhere.

The ease with which the hotels' security perimeters were penetrated, especially
the Hamra and Babylon, has rattled locals who want to believe that things are
safer now. But even more shocking is how big car bombs were again driven through
highly strategic, and ostensibly secure, areas of the capital, past numerous
checkpoints and security forces that are more competent now that at any time
since the invasion.

Of further concern is the timing of today's blast, within minutes of the
execution of one of Saddam Hussein's most ruthless loyalists, Ali Hassan
al-Majid, known better by his pseudonym, "Chemical Ali". He is the man who
gassed the Kurds of Halabja, killing more than 4,000 in 1988 and the most
high-profile figure executed since Saddam himself.

The timing seems more than coincidental. Chemical Ali's hangman had been
readying himself for days - a fact that was well known publicly. The Iraqi
government's oft-repeated accusation that former Ba'athists have been stirring
the violence tonight looks a lot stronger.

Iraqi officials believe that the wave of attacks, all well planned and
meticulously executed, were the result of an unlikely alliance between exiled
Ba'athists - a largely secular lot that kept Saddam and themselves in power
through ruthless oppression of the masses - and sworn Sunni Muslim jihadis, who
oppose all manner of secular rule.

They say a conspiracy to destablise the Shia majority, western-backed government
was hatched at a meeting near Damascus on 7 July last year, that was attended by
two-high profile exiled Iraqi Ba'athists, as well as Syrian intelligence
officials and military officers.

Ever since, security officials have been one step behind a resurgent threat,
which is clearly more sophisticated than the market place bombs that peppered
daily life from 2005 - 2007.

There is a growing sense of foreboding in Baghdad that the next seven weeks will
bring more of the same: a well-intentioned security force two steps behind a
canny and powerful enemy that is determined to prevent a Shia majority in the
heartland of Arabia from remaining the status quo.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            January 25, 2010 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

Terror attack a 'real threat';
National briefs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 71 words


FOREIGN Secretary David Miliband warned that the danger of a terrorist attack
"remains very real" and Britain should be "extremely vigilant". His remarks came
hours after an audio tape said to be from al Qaida leader Osama Bin Laden
(pictured) claimed responsibility for the Christmas Day airline bombing attempt
in Detroit. Mr Miliband said the attack demonstrated "the links that can exist
between different terrorist groups".

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                            January 25, 2010 Monday

Britain on high alert for terrorist attack as 'bin Laden' praises aircraft bomb
plot

BYLINE: Tom Palmer Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 239 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE Government has warned that the danger of a terrorist attack in
Britain "remains very real" after Osama bin Laden purportedly claimed
responsibility for the attempt to bomb a US-bound plane on Christmas Day.


The new audio message allegedly from the al-Qaida leader threatened more attacks
on the United States and claimed the attempted bombing was meant to send a
message similar to that of the September 11 attacks in 2001.

Bomber Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab attempted to blow up his Northwest Airlines
flight as it approached Detroit Metro Airport but the explosive powder he was
hiding in his underwear failed to detonate.

He told federal agents shortly afterward that he had been trained and given the
explosives by an al-Qaida affiliate in Yemen.

The minute-long recording carried on TV by Al-Jazeera Arabic news channel said:
"The message delivered to you through the plane of the heroic warrior Umar
Farouk Abdulmutallab was a confirmation of the previous messages sent by the
heroes of the September 11.

"America will never dream of security unless we will have it in reality in
Palestine. God willing, our raids on you will continue as long as your support
for the Israelis continues."

The announcement was dismissed by American intelligence chiefs who said there
was "no evidence whatsoever" that bin Laden had any involvement in the plot or
even knew about it beforehand.

However hours after yesterday's announcement Foreign Secretary David Miliband
warned that Britain should be "extremely vigilant".

The threat level to Britain was raised by the Government from "substantial" to
"severe" on Friday night , meaning an attack is "highly likely".

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YPOS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 26, 2010 Tuesday

Terrorist attack prevented in Russia's Ingushetia

LENGTH: 130 words


Text of report by state-controlled Russian Channel One TV on 26 January

A major terrorist attack has been prevented in Ingushetia. An explosive device
was found near the Nazran central mosque. Sappers rendered it harmless at the
scene. The power of the bomb was eight kg in TNT equivalent. Moreover, it was
stuffed with bolts and nuts to enhance damage.

The street where the mosque is located has been cordoned off, but usually the
place is crowded. In addition, the building of the republican Interior Ministry
is located near by. If the device went off, it would be hard to avoid
casualties. Police officers also found a grenade launcher hidden near by, its
barrel was aimed at the scene of the planned terrorist attack.

Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 0900 gmt 26 Jan 10

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            January 26, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

'Plane crash was not terror attack'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 172 words


AN ETHIOPIAN Airlines plane carrying 90 people caught fire and crashed into the
sea minutes after taking off from Beirut, setting off a frantic search as debris
washed ashore.

No survivors had been found by nightfall yesterday and health minister Mohammed
Jawad Khalife told reporters that emergency workers had so far recovered 21
bodies.

Lebanon has seen stormy weather since Sunday night, with thunder, lightning and
rain, but it is not yet known if this was blame for the crash.

The Lebanese army said in a statement the plane was on fire shortly after
take-off.

Lebanese President Michel Suleiman said terrorism was not suspected over the
crash of Flight 409, which was headed for the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa.

"Sabotage is ruled out as of now," he said.

Weeping relatives streamed into Beirut's airport to wait for news of their loved
ones.

Pieces of the plane and debris washed ashore in the hours after the crash,
including passenger seats, a baby's sandal, a fire extinguisher, suitcases and
bottles of medicine.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Devastation: Lebanese soldiers stand near debris from the Ethiopian
Airlines plane that crashed in the sea at the shore near Beirut.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2010 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            January 26, 2010 Tuesday

US not ready to cope with biological terror attack, report warns

BYLINE: Chris McGrealguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 457 words

ABSTRACT

Commission says Obama administration lax in preparing measures to protect large
numbers of Americans at risk, report warns

FULL TEXT

Barack Obama plans to announce a new plan to respond to a bioterrorism attack
after a government commission today warned that the US was ill-prepared for such
an event.

The commission on the prevention of weapons of mass destruction proliferation,
set up by Congress to monitor the government's readiness for a nuclear or
biological attack, said the Obama administration had been lax in preparing
measures to protect the large numbers of Americans who would be at risk from the
release of deadly viruses or bacteria.

"Nearly a decade after September 11 2001 ... and one month after the Christmas
Day bombing attempt, the United States is failing to address several urgent
threats, especially bioterrorism," the commission's chair, former senator, Bob
Graham, said.

"Each of the last three administrations has been slow to recognise and respond
to the biothreat. But we no longer have the luxury of a slow learning curve when
we know al-Qaida is interested in bioweapons."

The commission's report said the threat of an attack on a larger scale than 9/11
remained real.

"Especially troubling is the lack of priority given to the development of
medical countermeasures - the vaccines and medicines that would be required to
mitigate the consequences of an attack," the report said.

The commission's executive director, Randy Larsen, said the government's
handling of swine flu was evidence of how poorly prepared it was for large-scale
emergencies.

Larsen said that even though the authorities had six months in which to prepare
a H1N1 vaccine, there were widespread shortages when the virus returned towards
the end of last year.

The report made a number of recommendations, including the tighter oversight of
laboratories that deal with dangerous pathogens and enhancing a rapid response
plan to prevent biological attacks from inflicting mass casualties.

The White House said Obama would address plans to counter deadly biological
threats in his state of the union address tomorrow.

But while Graham cited the attempted Christmas Day bombing of a plane over
Detroit by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab as evidence of the continuing threat from
al-Qaida, Obama said Osama Bin Laden's claim of responsibility for the failed
attack - in a recording claimed to be from "Osama to Obama" - was a sign of his
weakness.

"Al-Qaida itself is greatly weakened from where it was back in 2000," the
president told ABC news.

"Bin Laden sending out a tape trying to take credit for a Nigerian student who
engaged in a failed bombing attempt is an indication of how weakened he is,
because this is not something necessarily directed by him."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                           January 28, 2010 Thursday

GROVE PARK: Brothers describe dog attack terror

BYLINE: Scott Mullins

SECTION: TOP STORIES (TOPSTORIES)

LENGTH: 465 words


TWO teenagers have relived the moments their pet dog turned on their dad in a
sustained and bloody attack.

Steven and Jonathan Atkins say they were at their home in Palace View, Grove
Park, on Sunday night (January 24) when year-old Buster tried to bite
14-year-old Steven.

They claim their father John Atkins, 53, intervened and pulled the dog off,
sparking a 15 minute ordeal as the family battled to control their snarling dog.

Jonathan, 16, said he and his dad were barely strong enough to pin down the
out-of-control animal, taken in by the family as a stray four months ago.

"Buster must have got a taste for human blood and flesh - it just wouldn't let
go of my dad," he explained.

"Someone came in with a motorbike helmet and golf club and started bashing them
over the dog's head but it wouldn't give up.

"My dad was losing a lot of blood. He was crying out 'help me, help me'.

"I went and got a kitchen knife to stab the dog but my dad told me not too
because the dog was so close to him."

He added: "I eventually got the dog by its back legs and threw it into the back
garden."

Jonathan and his dad then made their way outside to their car, in an effort to
get to hospital.

But Jonathan says Buster escaped from the garden and continued its attack,
prompting neighbours to call 999.

%image(1176778)

Despite being blasted with a fire extinguisher, the dog forced its way into the
car and then into the back of an ambulance before police arrived at around 9pm.

Jonathan, a former pupil at Catford's Sedgehill School, said: "The living room
was like a murder scene. I was smothered in blood too.

"There was blood all over the lounge floor. Buster was white but by the end of
it all he was red, soaked in blood.

"The dog was after my dad - it was trying to kill him."

Steven, who attends Sedgehill School, was bitten on the hand at the start of the
attack and says he and his brother managed to save his dad's life by helping to
beat off the pitbull-type breed.

He added: "I was crying when it was happening.

"My brother and I basically saved our dad's life - he would have been dead if we
weren't there.

"It was terrifying.

"Buster had always been a loving and caring dog."

%image(1172770)

The teenagers say their dad, who works at a supermarket in Orpington, is
expected to be in St Thomas' Hospital for several more weeks, recovering from
fractures to his hands and arms.

They say doctors have had to put metal pins into his hands during reconstructive
surgery.

The boys live with their 12-year-old sister, Louise, and claim Buster was only
ever aggressive to other dogs but never to their family.

Stephen and Jonathan are staying with family in Beckenham and Elmers End while
their dad recovers.

The dog is thought to have been destroyed and the Met police have confirmed they
are investigating the incident.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           January 30, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

OSAMA ATTACKS USA FOR CLIMATE CHANGE;
Terror boss goes green

BYLINE: by TOM HUTCHISON

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 194 words


OSAMA bin Laden has blasted the US for causing global warming.

And he has urged the world to boycott American goods.

The al-Qaida chief usually threatens holy war against the West.

But he changed tactics in his latest audio tape yesterday.

He said: "We should stop dealing with the dollar and get rid of it as soon as
possible.

"I know that this has great consequences and grave ramifications but it is the
only means to liberate humanity from slavery and dependence on America.

"The way to stop climate change is to bring the wheels of the American economy
to a halt."

He blamed Western nations for hunger and floods across the globe. And he called
for "drastic solutions" to global warming, "not solutions that partially reduce
the effect of climate change". The tape was broadcast on the Al-Jazeera TV
channel.

Bin Laden has mentioned global warning in the past but this latest rant was his
first dedicated to the topic.

The speech was seen as an attempt to give his message an appeal beyond Islamic
militants.

The new tirade, whose authenticity has not been confirmed, comes after a tape
last week in which he endorsed a failed bid to blow up a US airliner on
Christmas Day.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RANT: Evil Bin Laden and melting icecap

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday

Taiwan raises travel alert for Indonesia, UK over possible terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 230 words


Text of report in English by Taiwanese Central News Agency website

[By Chris Wang]

Taipei, Feb. 2 (CNA) - The Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA) has elevated its
travel alert level for Indonesia and the United Kingdom (UK) over concerns of
potential terrorist attacks, the ministry said in a statement Tuesday.

The ministry has elevated the travel alert level for Indonesia and the UK to
yellow, the second lowest on the MOFA's four-scale system, and also issued a red
travel alert, the highest on the scale, for Iraq.

The MOFA said Indonesia, and especially Bali which attracts the most Taiwanese
tourists, could possibly be targeted for a terrorist attack.

The ministry issued the new alert for Britain after the UK's Home Office raised
its domestic terrorism threat level in late January from substantial to severe,
the second highest in its five-tier threat warning system, which means an attack
is highly likely.

A yellow alert warns travellers to take extra precautions and reassess their
travel plans for the place in question.

The terrorist group Al-Qa'idah could also possibly launch attacks in Iraq,
prompting the ministry to issue the highest red alert before the country holds
its parliamentary elections on March 7. The ministry again advised Taiwanese
travellers against visiting the Middle East country.

Source: Central News Agency website, Taipei, in English 0551 gmt 2 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Johnson attacks MPs terror report

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: UKP; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 107 words


Complacent civil servants leading the fight against terrorism could be putting
the public at risk by settling for second best, a report warned today.

Some of those leading the national counter-terror  effort are paralysed by a
dangerous  institutional inertia , a group of MPs said.

The Home Affairs Committee called on those responsible for leading
counter-terrorist activity to proactively adapt to meet an unpredictable and
evolving threat.

Home Secretary Alan Johnson labelled the report  inadequate .

Mr Johnson said:  The Government fully understands the threat from international
terrorism and has effective systems in place to deal with it.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: evening_times


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 3, 2010 Wednesday

"Terrorist attack" leaves dozens dead, injured in Iraq's Karbala - roundup 3 Feb

LENGTH: 385 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Television in Arabic reports within its 0900 gmt newscast on
3 February on a blast in Karbala; statements by a Kurdistan Alliance deputy,
describing the concern of the US ambassador in Iraq regarding the decision of
the Commission for Accountability and Justice as normal; and calls by an Iraqi
deputy on the Independent High Electoral Commission, IHEC, to punish the voters
who violated the instructions related to electoral campaigning.

"Ten people were martyred and dozens others were wounded in a terrorist attack
that targeted the visitors of the shrine of Imam Al-Husayn peace be upon him on
the highway leading to Karbala. Al-Iraqiyah correspondent noted that the attack
is due to the explosion of a booby-trapped motorcycle that was parked near the
Institute of Arts in Karbala. A medical source in the governorate had earlier
noted that the casualty toll of the terrorist attack that took place in the
governorate yesterday is two martyrs and 23 wounded people, including women and
children."

"Kurdistan Alliance Deputy Mahmud Uthman has described the concern of US
Ambassador in Iraq Christopher Hill regarding the decision of the Commission for
Accountability and Justice as normal. In press statements today, Uthman pointed
out that Hill believes that the exclusion decision is politicized. Meanwhile, US
President Obama and his Vice-President Joseph Biden had earlier announced that
this issue is purely Iraqi. He pointed out that the issue of excluding
candidates from the upcoming parliamentary elections is assigned to the
Cassation Commission formed by the Council of Representatives so as to give the
final say about it."

"Deputy Karim al-Ya'qubi has called on the IHEC to punish the voters and
political blocs that publicly violated the instructions related to electoral
campaigning. In press statements, Al-Ya'qubi added today that there is a
violation of the Election Law and of the IHEC's instructions. He added that
certain deputies and political entities started their campaigns before the
starting date of the electoral campaigns and propagated through media outlets
the serial number of their candidates. He called on the IHEC to publicly punish
them and implement the legal measures related to such violations."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 0900 gmt 3 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 3, 2010 Wednesday

UK expresses concern over Nigeria's situation following attempted terror attack

LENGTH: 261 words


Text of report by Ibrahim Chonoko entitled "Mutallab: UK sympathetic to Nigeria,
says envoy" published by Nigerian newspaper Daily Trust website on 3 February

The government of the United Kingdom is sympathetic to Nigeria's situation over
the alleged attempted bombing of an American airplane by Umar Farouk
Abdulmutallab.

Nigeria's High Commissioner to the UK Dr Dalhatu Sarki Tafida who disclosed this
to the Daily Trust in London said the UK "is not contemplating listing Nigeria
on its terror countries list."

"Britain knows Nigeria is not a terrorist country and Nigerians are not
terrorists. Nigerians love life and don't want to die just like that," he said.

The envoy said he had held meetings with British government officials and the
London Metropolitan Police officers following the incident, adding that a number
of police officers have travelled to Nigeria over the incident.

During the recent celebration of Diaspora Day in London, which was attended by
some British government officials, Nigerians were unanimous in condemning the
attempted bombing of the American airplane over Detroit.

Dr Tafida also disclosed that the British Foreign Secretary had written a letter
of sympathy on President Umaru Yar'Adua's illness, describing the gesture as a
welcome development, especially as some people were "politicizing the
president's ill health".

He expressed optimism that the efforts being made by the Nigeria-British Chamber
of Commerce Network would improve economic relations between the two countries.

Source: Daily Trust website, Abuja, in English 3 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 7, 2010 Sunday

Pakistan TV show discusses terror attacks in Karachi, Karbala

LENGTH: 676 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1700 gmt on 5 February relays live
regularly scheduled "Today With Kamran Khan" program. Noted Pakistani journalist
Kamran Khan reviews, discusses and analyzes major day-to-day developments with
government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and prominent analysts
in Geo TV's flagship program. Words within double slant lines are in English.

Program: "Today With Kamran Khan"

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Segment IKhan says: There have been two terrorist attacks in Karachi and Karbala
each today. At least 25 people were killed when two explosions hit a bus
carrying people to Chehlum [marking 40th day of mourning] procession and a
hospital where the wounded were being treated. This carnage was a reminder of
what the residents of Karachi had witnessed on 28 December 2009 when a terror
attack on the Ashura [10th day in month of Muharram] procession had resulted in
dozens of causalities. Astonishingly, a very similar kind of carnage took place
in Karbala, Iraq killing dozens of mourners.

Continuing Khan says: The ethnic and sectarian violence is being attributed
directly to Al-Qa'idah, which is supporting the extremists groups fighting each
other in Karachi.

Khan establishes a telephone link with Imtiaz Gul, author of a book on
Al-Qa'idah, and asks him how can he link the Karachi and Karbala attacks
logically? Gul says: The target of attacks in Karachi and Karbala was common and
that was the Shiite mourners. Second, since //soft targets// produce maximum
damage and casualties, the terrorists mostly prefer this kind of occasion to
attack. Third, terrorists want to destabilize Karachi as it is the most
important city of the country; so a destabilized Karachi means a destabilized
Pakistan. Al-Qa'idah is getting its agenda implemented through extremist groups
in Karachi.

Khan asks Gul: What is the main //objective// of Al-Qa'idah, which it thinks,
can be achieved by conducting terrorist attacks in Pakistan? Gul says: The fact
is that Al-Qa'idah is losing quickly both space and time as a result of an
international campaign against the same. The alliance of dozens of countries,
including Pakistan, is closing in on Al-Qa'idah. So, Al-Qa'idah has come to a
point where it is now trying to deal with the question of survival. So,
frustration and desperation has caused it to look for soft targets to
destabilize the countries, which are a part of the international alliance.

Khan asks Gul: Do you believe that Al-Qa'idah has been providing financial
support to these sectarian groups? Gul says: It is true that jihadist
organizations were //conduits// of Al-Qa'idah and the funding the Pakistani
jihadist organizations used to receive from abroad particularly from Saudi
Arabia as //charity// in the name of welfare activities used to be diverted to
conducting terrorist activities against Shiites in Pakistan as well as in
Afghanistan.

Khan establishes a telephone link with Sind Chief Minister Qaim Ali Shah and
asks him if the government was provided with any tip-off on time? Shah says: Our
focus was on the protection of the main procession as that was the most likely
target. According to the initial investigation, they were not suicide attacks;
instead the bombs were //planted//. There was another bomb planted in Jinnah
Hospital, but fortunately that was disposed off immediately; the third bomb
weighing 25 kg could have caused maximum damage. The findings of our
investigation link these attacks with the terrorist base in FATA [Federally
Administered Tribal Areas]. It was just another terrorist attack; it was not
sectarian violence.

Khan says: The investigation is underway and doubtful places are being raided by
the police to rake evidences against the perpetrators of today's attacks. The
police claim to have gathered //strong clues// leading to the planners of the
attack. Although the police had a contingency plan in place to prevent today's
attacks but the terrorists outclassed the police.

Khan concludes the program.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1700gmt 05 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                          February 10, 2010 Wednesday
                                  1st Edition

TEEN GIRL'S ATTACK TERROR;
Police warning as 15-year-old is grabbed in third similar incident in as many
weeks: Warning as girl is grabbed

BYLINE: NAOMI CORRIGAN

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 450 words


A THIRD frightening attack on a teenage girl on Teesside was being probed by
police today.

In the latest incident, a 15-year-old was grabbed by a man wearing leather
glovesoutside the Park End pub in Middlesbrough. She only managed to escape when
her dog attacked him. It comes less than a week after a girl, also 15, was
grabbed while walking alone near the James Cook University Hospital in
Middlesbrough, and a fortnight after a 14-year-old was grabbed by the hair while
walking alone on Malcolm Drive, Stockton.

Cleveland Police confirmed they are exploring any possible links between the
incidents and urged young girls to be vigilant. Assistant Chief Constable Sean
White said: "Thankfully events of this nature are extremely rare and our advice
to any girl or woman who is out walking is to stay with friends where possible,
be vigilant at all times and take public transport where you are able and report
any concerns or suspicions to the police." The latest incident occurred at
midday on Monday while young girl was exercising her dog on the green behind the
Park End Public House. A man wearing leather gloves jumped out of a white van
and grabbed her arm.

He tried to pull her into the van. The 15-year-old, who was too afraid to reveal
her name, said: "This man came up behind me and grabbed my right arm and said
'You're coming with me'. He tried to get me into the van but my dog went for
him. "I feel shaken and worried about going out on my own." The youngster's dad
said the whole family was left upset. "My daughter is only 15 and it's worrying
to think what could have happened," he said. The suspect is described as between
35 and 40 years old, of mixed race, skinny and with short black hair that was
greying at the sides. He was around 5ft 11in tall, wearing a light blue
tracksuit top with white sleeves and white stripes on the front. He was also
wearing black leather gloves.

The white van he was driving was an old and rusty. Detective Sergeant John
Wrintmore, of Cleveland Police, said: "This was a particularly scary experience
which left the girl very shocked and upset. I would appeal to anyone with any
information to please come forward." The attack occurred less than a week after
a girl was grabbed on Devil's Bridge alongside St Mary's College between
Saltersgill Avenue and Cranswick Drive in Middlesbrough. The man said "come with
me", but she managed to fight him off. Anyone with information on the Park End
attack is urged to contact PC Michael Fearns of Middlesbrough Police on 01642
303126. For the Devil's Bridge attack call PC Deborah Edney on 01642 303126. For
the Stockton incident call 01642 302226. Alternatively call Crimestoppers on
0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ATTACK SCENE: The girl was grabbed near the Park End pub

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2010 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           February 11, 2010 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

pounds 10K BOUNTY TO CATCH THUGS;
Man tells of attack terror in his home

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 96 words


THE victim of a brutal and terrifying robbery today relived his ordeal.

And Kevin Taylor and his father Ken, who run a transport firm in Slaithwaite,
also offered a pounds 10,000 reward to catch the vicious thugs.

Kevin, 44, revealed how the four masked men beat him unconscious with a crowbar
- and then carried on battering his defenceless body.

"These people are just abnormal, they're not right in the head - they're
animals," he said.

Mr Taylor had been asleep in bed at his home in the grounds of the firm's
haulage depot when the thugs attacked.

. Full story -Page 2

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ FAMILY BUSINESS: Kevin's father Ken Taylor

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Kildare Nationalist

                               February 11, 2010

Teenage girl's terror after school attack

SECTION: FRONT PAGE: TOP

LENGTH: 465 words


BY VICKI WELLER

AN 18-year-old girl suffered an injury to her skull after being attacked by two
fellow students in front of several witnesses at her school.

An ambulance was called to Athy Community College last Thursday afternoon after
students and teachers witnessed the incident, in which the girl had her hair
pulled and her head banged against a wall. On being taken to Portlaoise
hospital, she was found to have suffered a compression injury to her skull and
now says she is in considerable pain.

The girl, who is a Leaving Certificate Applied student at the community college,
told the Kildare Nationalist that the incident occurred during the school
lunchtime, at around 1.20pm.

She said that she was initially walking in the door of the school when one of
the two girls involved pushed her up against the door. At that point, another
girl pulled her off but a few minutes later, inside the school hall, the victim
was attacked again by two girls.

"One of them grabbed my hair and just pulled some of it out. Then my head was
banged against the wall."

She added that she was attacked again, and this time taken unawares, when
walking to the vice-principal's office to make a phone call shortly afterwards.

The girl's mother stated that her daughter and her two younger siblings were now
"terrified" of going back to school. Describing herself as "very angry", she
added: "My son had to watch his sister being beaten and my other daughter tried
to intervene and separate them but all three of them are traumatised now."

Saying that the matter had been reported to the gardaí, the woman noted that the
two girls involved in the incident (both younger than her daughter) had been
temporarily suspended from school.

She further commented that the two students involved had been previously abusive
to her daughter and were "constantly calling names" but claimed her daughter did
not retaliate.

"Now the people involved are claiming to the school that they are being
discriminated against, which is just not right."

The woman also believes that, not only students, but teachers, are afraid
because of the activities of certain people in the school. "A lot of the other
pupils were very upset and were in tears after this, which is disgraceful, in my
view."

Speaking yesterday (Tuesday) she said: "My children went back into school this
morning. The principal and vice-principal have been very good about it, but all
three of them are still very frightened."

While school principal Richard Daly confirmed that an incident had taken place
in the school, necessitating the call-out of an ambulance, he said he was not in
a position to comment any further.

"The matter is being dealt with by the school authorities, under disciplinary
procedures, and I have seen the families of those involved," he stated.



LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 13, 2010 Saturday

Pakistan TV show on terror attacks, NATO operation in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 1043 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1700 gmt on 10 February relays live
regularly scheduled "Today with Kamran Khan" program. Noted Pakistani journalist
Kamran Khan reviews, discusses, and analyzes major day-to-day developments with
government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and prominent analysts
in Geo TV's flagship program; Words within double slant lines are spoken in
English.

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Segment I

Khan says: "Security forces have lost a Cobra //gunship helicopter// in Khyber
Agency, FATA [Federally Administered Tribal Area]. Although the ISPR [Inter
Services Public Relations] spokesman did not provide any details, it is feared
that the helicopter is being hit by terrorists. Similarly, a suicide attack in
Jamrod, Khyber Agency, claimed 17 lives, including 11 Khasadar Force personnel.
In yet another terror attack in Khyber Agency, a security forces vehicle came
under attack leaving a brigadier dead and two other Army officers injured."

Khan establishes a video link with Rahimullah Yousafzai, a senior journalist and
resident editor of The News Peshawar, and asks: "Which group is responsible for
these attacks?" Yousafzai replies: "There was a military operation going on
against the Lashkar-e-Islam, a Khyber Agency-based group led by Mangal Bagh when
one of the two gunship helicopters fell on the ground; however, no report
vindicates that it was hit by terrorists. The accident might have occurred
because of bad weather or technical fault; the Army sources have said. The
destruction of the helicopter left two officers dead. The Tira valley in Khyber
Agency is the center of the Lashkar-e-Islam and its local sympathizers. The
local Taleban have reportedly formed a union with the Lashkar-e-Islam."

Khan asks Yousafzai: "Is the Lashkar-e-Islam a part of the Tehreek-e-Taleban
Pakistan [TTP]? Yousafzai replies: "Initially, Bagh did not have any connection
with the TTP. Although he has been favoring the Afghan jihad, reports about
Bagh's alleged connections with the TTP emerged once the military operation in
Bara, Khyber Agency, was started."

Khan asks Yousafzai: "Do you think a big operation against Bagh is in the offing
after today's terror attacks?" Yousafzai replies: "There have been three
military operations in Bara so far, but complete peace is yet to be
established."

Segment II

Khan says: "A petition has been submitted in the Supreme Court against Punjab
Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif challenging his eligibility. The petition says
that Shahbaz Sharif, who has already taken oath twice, cannot take oath as the
chief minister for the third time as prohibited by the Article 223 of the
Constitution. Sharif had taken the oath as chief minister for the second time on
8 June 2008 after winning the by-election on 3 June 2008 from Bhakkar, a
provincial assembly constituency. The petition says that when Sharif won the
other provincial assembly seat from Rawalpindi on 21 June 2008, he surrendered
the previous seat of Bhakkar constituency, and with this his oath became
invalid. The Supreme Court is going to begin the hearing from 18 February."

Khan establishes a video link with former Law Minister Dr Khalid Ranjha and asks
him to comment on the nature of the case. Ranjha replies: "The objection is
//relevant// and Article 223 does apply here. The constitution says that a
person cannot keep two seats at a time for more than 30 days, and if he does not
surrender the other seat, he loses both seats automatically. Although Sharif
does not have to be afraid of losing the Rawalpindi seat, the problem is that he
cannot take oath for the third time. As far as the first sight of the case is
concerned, Article 223 goes against Shahbaz Sharif as the chief minister."

Segment III

Khan says: "The government says that it wants to incorporate the Charter of
Democracy [CoD] in the constitution so that the appointment of judges can be
made according to the //formula// that was determined by Benazir Bhutto and
Nawaz Sharif."

Khan establishes a telephone link with Haider Abbas Rizvi, senior leader of the
Muttahida Qaumi Movement [MQM] and member of the committee for constitutional
reforms, and asks him to comment on the progress of the committee. Rizvi
replies: "There has been considerable progress in our work on the constitutional
reforms, and we are closing in fast to the final stage. The committee's main
objective is to seek //consensus// of all political parties before finalizing
the reforms according to the CoD."

Segment IV

Khan says: "The US and NATO forces are preparing themselves for a decisive
battle in Afghanistan. Western policymakers want to invite the Taleban for talks
and give them an opportunity to get streamlined; however, they think that it is
time the Taleban detach themselves from Al-Qa'ida. In the backdrop of possible
US withdrawal from Afghanistan, Pakistan is anticipating a central role to play
once the talks between the United States and the Taleban begin." Khan adds:
"Meanwhile, General James John, adviser to the US President on national
security, has arrived in Islamabad today to discuss the Afghanistan situation."

Khan establishes a telephone link with Dr Maleeha Lodhi, former Pakistani
ambassador to Washington, and asks her: "What does Pakistan wants to //achieve//
in Afghanistan by seeking a central role for itself?" Lodhi replies: "Pakistan
has to play a central role in the entire issue. The United States has not yet
taken any concrete decision of applying a political solution to the problem
although deliberations are under way in the US Administration. Second, the
operation in Helmand Province is also unlikely to give positive results to the
NATO forces. The United States is still dubious whether or not to have talks
with the Taleban. To be in favor of talks with the Taleban and to be in favor of
use of force in both Afghanistan and Pakistan at a same time is incomprehensible
at all. I think Pakistan is waiting for the United States to begin talks with
the Taleban and will play its role later."

Segment V

Passage omitted on appointment of a new head of CPLC [Citizens-Police Liaison
Committee] Karachi.

Segment VI

Passage omitted on public toilets in India.

Khan concludes the program.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1700gmt 10 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 13, 2010 Saturday

Indian official says one foreigner killed in "possible" terror attack,

LENGTH: 214 words


Text of report by Press Trust of India news agency

Pune, 13 February: Terror struck Pune Saturday [13 February] evening when a
powerful bomb ripped apart a popular bakery near a Jewish prayer house, killing
eight people, including a foreigner, and injuring 32. The improvised explosive
device, kept in an unattended packet outside the kitchen of the German bakery,
exploded at around 7.30 pm local time when a waiter attempted to open it.

"It is most probably a terror attack. Forensic experts of Central Bureau of
Investigation and team of National Investigation Agency (NIA) officials are
being airlifted to Pune to assist the state police in the investigations," Union
Home Secretary G K Pillai said.

The German bakery is a favourite food joint for foreigners, located close to
Osho Ashram, a spiritual centre, which had been surveyed by Pakistani-origin
American David

Coleman Headley, a Lashkar-e Taiba operative.

Quoting information from the Maharashtra government, Pillai said eight people
had died and 32 were injured in the blast. He added that one of the killed and
one of the injured were foreigners, but could not give a nationality. The rest,
he said, were believed to be Indians but the situation could change.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1828 gmt 13 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           February 13, 2010 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Sledgehammer gang in valley terror attack;
Crimewatch TURNING the spotlight on crime in the Colne Valley. The column is
compiled with the co-operation of Neighbourhood Watch Liaison:

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 476 words


¦ ROBBERY - Slaithwaite, Feb 8. Four suspects forced entry through front door
armed with a sledge hammer. Victim assaulted and robbed of cash.

¦ BURGLARY - Longwood, Feb 4. Glass smashed in french door, unlocked using key
left on inside and stole purse from table and two sets of keys from hallway.
Then keys used to steal silver Ford Mondeo YD58 FCX from garage and a silver
Toyota Yaris YG58 VRW from the driveway. Longwood, Feb 6. Front door kicked open
but raider disturbed by house alarm and made off. Police arrested suspects
nearby. Longwood, Feb 9. Back window forced and jewellery and laptop computer
stolen. Milnsbridge, Feb 7. Back door kicked through and computer and fishing
gear stolen. Kirkwood Hospice Shop, Britannia Road, Slaithwaite, Feb 6. Back
door forced.

¦ CRIMINAL DAMAGE -Black Rock Mills, Waingate, Linthwaite, Feb 5. Suspect went
into demolition site and took plastic valve from oil container causing oil leak
which got into drainage system and waterways causing environmental damage.
Salendine Nook, Feb 6. Swing and children''s playhouse in house garden damaged.
Slaithwaite, Feb 8. Garden gate damaged using hammer or metal bar.

¦ THEFT - Cowlersley, Feb 9. Stones stolen from wall at back of house. Longwood,
Feb 5. Copper piping attached to wall at side of house stolen.

Milnsbridge, Feb 5. Raiders stole secure container and dragged it onto vehicle.
Container later returned minus blue Ford Fiesta J637 OBH which was stored
inside. Milnsbridge, Feb 6. Both front and rear reg plates stolen from vehicle.
Linthwaite, Feb 9. Black Vauxhall Astra S23 CLT left in street with the keys in
ignition stolen.

¦ VEHICLE CRIME - Marsden, Jan 23. Traffic cone used to damage body panels.
Cowlersley, Jan 25. Car door scratched with sharp implement. Slaithwaite, Jan
26. Black Fiesta YD06NHN stolen. Golcar, Jan 23. Paintwork scratched and gouged.
Longwood, Jan 19. Tyres slashed. Quarmby, Jan 23. Padlock unlocked and one of
two sets of ladders stolen from roof. Longwood, Jan 23. Motorbike stolen from
street. Later recovered damaged. Milnsbridge, Jan 24. Van parked on roadside
with keys in ignition as victim stood nearby. Suspect got in and let dog out.
then drove off towards Milnsbridge. Blue Transit YG51UHN stolen. Golcar, Jan 17.
Stones, bottles and snowballs thrown at vehicle cracking windscreen and denting
and scratching paintwork. Suspects detained by police. Royds Hall High School,
Jan 18. Car window smashed and satnav stolen. Golcar, Jan 14. Car tyre slashed.
Golcar, Jan 16.

Brick used to scratch graffiti on car bonnet and doors. Golcar Junior Infant &
Nursery School, Manor Road, Jan 28. Window smashed and handbag stolen.

CONTACT: Dave Whitteron, Neighbourhood Watch Liaison, Kirkburton Police Station,
Telephone: 01484-436840 or email: dw368@westyorkshire.pnn.police.uk or call
Crimestoppers on 0800-555-111

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 14, 2010 Sunday

Pakistan report says Uzbek militants behind recent terror attacks

LENGTH: 851 words


Text of report by Kaswar Klasra headlined "Uzbek militants behind recent terror
strikes" published by Pakistani newspaper The Nation website on 14 February

Islamabad - Laying unconscious on a bed in Intensive Care Unit of Combined
Military Hospital, Rawalpindi, District Police Officer of Bannu Iqbal Marwat is
the latest target of Uzbek militants, as he sustained multiple injuries in a
suicide attack in Bannu on 11 February.

Investigations have been underway since the occurrence of horrible attack that
claimed 15 lives including eight policemen and the investigators claimed on
Saturday that the attack was carried out by militants of Islamic Movement of
Uzbekistan (IMU). Talking to this correspondent on Saturday, Additional District
Police Officer of Bannu Mohammad Shafiq Khan confirmed that investigators
believed that Uzbek militants of IMU carried out this attack.

It is a pity that no higher authority from NWFP Police or the administration
bothered to inquire about the health of the police officer who earned respect by
his hard work and honesty throughout his professional carer and has been laying
unconscious in CMH for the last three days.

Since the security forces have broken backbone of terrorists in Waziristan,
terrorist groups are on the run seeking refuge somewhere else to flex their
muscles for retaliatory attacks. IMU is one of the terrorist groups with more
than 5,000 troops, once hiding in North and South Waziristan.

According to sources from law enforcement agencies, terrorists of IMU may
further cause devastation in the region in near future if not eliminated
completely. It is relevant to mention here that security agencies informed
higher authorities of Interior Ministry five months back that they had credible
evidence that there were more than 5,000 Uzbek militants hiding in North and
South Waziristan.

It is also relevant to mention here that FATA Additional Chief Secretary
Habibullah Khan told Senate Standing Committee on State and Frontier Regions on
September 13, 2009 that law enforcement agencies had evidence that the USA,
Israel and India were involved in nurturing insurgency in FATA.

According to investigation done by this reporter, biggest group of foreign
militants operating on Pakistan's soil is believed to be that of the Uzbeks who
are associated with IMU, headed by Qari Tahir Yuldashev. By a rough estimate,
more than 4,800 Uzbek militants have strongholds in different localities in
Wana, North Waziristan Agency, and they enjoy close association with militants
of Mehsud tribe.

Uzbek militants are members of the IMU, which was formed in 1998. The group
operated from bases in Tajikistan and Taliban-controlled Afghanistan before
coming to Pakistan after US-led forces launched their campaign in Afghanistan.
Since then these warriors have been a constant threat to Pakistan, higher
authorities of Interior Ministry believe.

The IMU has been linked with groups fighting against Pakistan's security forces
and operating across the border in Afghanistan. Apart from Uzbeks, there are
other foreign militant groups such as networks of isolated Chechens, Libyan
Islamic Group and Chinese Uighar militants from the East Turkmenistan Islamic
Movement (ETIM). Members of ETIM are largely believed to be dormant in the area.

Uzbek militants had a close association with Wana's main militant leader
Commander Nazir since their arrival. However, due to some differences between
commander Nazir and Qari Tahir Yuldashev, the Uzbeks were cornered and driven
out by Commander Nazir from the Waziri territory last year.

After facing the wrath of Commander Nazir, the Uzbeks had to flee Wana and were
given refuge by the then leader of Mehsud tribe Baitullah Mehsud, an official
serving FATA secretariat on a key post told this reporter seeking anonymity on
Saturday when contacted.

"We have information that the Uzbek militants are on good terms with Mehsud
tribe even after the death of Hakimullah," he said. "At first the Uzbek
militants were supposed to be concerned with the IMU. However a message by
Yuldashev through a DVD, calling for attacks on Pakistani security personnel
made it clear that his movement was not just about Uzbekistan but was working on
al-Qaeda's overall goal," a security official told when contacted.

According to another source from Ministry of Interior, Uzbekistan asked Pakistan
to extradite a number of suspected Al-Qaeda fighters of Uzbek origin who have
been captured during the operation in Wana. However, this reporter could not
contact the spokesperson of Interior Ministry to confirm it till filing of this
report.

The Uzbeks captured in Pakistan in the recent days had joined Al-Qaeda network
in Afghanistan in 1990. In July 2008, authorities of Ministry of Interior
presented a report to Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gillani providing the latest
figures about foreign fighters present in FATA. Roughly their number was more
than 8,000 and out of them 4,800 were believed to be Uzbeks. The same facts and
figures were also presented at a special cabinet briefing last year.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 14 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                            February 15, 2010 Monday

Five men jailed for Australian terror attack plans

LENGTH: 127  words


Five Muslims have been sentenced for up to 28 years in prison in Australia after
being found guilty of conspiring to wage violent jihad.

The men had plotted to attack Australia as a protest against its involvement in
the Iraq and Afghan wars.

The men were found guilty in October of last year, in what is the longest
Australian legal case in history.

The New South Wales Supreme Court judge, Justice Anthony Whealy, said the men
were motivated by "intolerant, inflexible religious conviction". He claimed the
prospects of rehabilitation were poor. He went on to say their planning was
inept, but they were still dangerous.

A stockpile of bomb-making chemicals, weapons and ammunition were found and
linked to the men. Their arrests came after months of surveillance.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2010 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 15, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Attack puts US terror suspect back in spotlight;
Behind the story

BYLINE: Rhys Blakely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 236 words


The Poona bombing raises further questions about David Coleman Headley, an
American who went from being a US government informant to an alleged terrorist
behind the Mumbai massacre.

Mr Headley, 49, was born in Washington to a Pakistani diplomat father and an
American mother. He was arrested in Chicago in October, accused of reconnoitring
targets in India and Europe for Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). That work took him at
least twice to the area in Poona devastated by Saturday's blast, Indian
officials allege. He has denied the charges but it is his links with US agencies
that have made him infamous in India.

He first came to their attention in 1997 when he was arrested for heroin
smuggling in New York. His sentence was reduced when he agreed to infiltrate
Pakistan-linked narcotics gangs. Indian officials suspect that he later remained
on the payroll of the US but switched his allegiance to the LeT. The Indian
media suggest that Mr Headley is being protected by his American handlers.

"India is looking into whether Headley worked as a double agent," the Home
Ministry said in December. The CIA dismissed as "flat out false" the suggestion
that he worked for the agency.

"The feeling in India is that the US has not been transparent," said B. Raman, a
former chief of counter-terrorism in the Indian foreign intelligence service,
the Research and Analysis Wing. "It is almost certain that the CIA was aware of
him."

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                           February 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                  1st Edition

NURSE IN DOG ATTACK;
Patient hurt as rottweilers terrorise hospital

BYLINE: KRYSTA EAVES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 305 words


ROTTWEILERS attacked a nurse and an elderly man in hospital grounds on Teesside.

The three dogs terrorised people at James Cook University Hospital in
Middlesbrough.

One of the dogs bit a 36-year-old female nurse who was walking across the car
park.

And an elderly patient was also bitten while he was outside the hospital.

Both victims sustained minor injuries. Police were called to the incident at
6.45am on Sunday morning after hospital security reported seeing the dogs.

The dogs, one male, one female and one pup later gathered at the entrance of the
hospital where people were attempting to get into the building.

The rottweilers then ran off down Marton Road towards the shops near Belle Vue
roundabout.

Police officers from district support unit, armed response unit and the dog
section along with the RSPCA worked together to capture the dogs.

And DSU officers used their shields to corral the dogs into a corner behind the
shops.

By 7.45am two of the dogs had been caught.

And the last dog was rounded up just after 8am.

They were then held in separate vans and checked over by a vet.

The dogs were taken to a Middlesbrough rescue centre, and police are currently
trying to track the owners down.

Sergeant Ian Sharp, of Middlesbrough Community Safety Team said: "Our main
concern was obviously public safety and while this was undoubtedly a frightening
experience for the two people directly affected as well as others who witnessed
it, the incident was dealt with swiftly and professionally by police and our
partners at the RSPCA.

"I would appeal for anyone who has not already spoken to police about this
incident or knows who the owners are to get in touch." ¦ Anyone with any
information should contact Middlesbrough police front desk on: 01642 303126.
Alternatively call Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  DOGS DRAMA: Police were called to the grounds of James Cook University
Hospital before the rottweilers ran off down Marton Road Picture by IAN McINTYRE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2010 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                           February 16, 2010 Tuesday

5 jailed in Oz for planning terrorist attacks

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 205 words


Justice Anthony Whealy of the New South Wales Supreme Court said he had little
hope that the men, aged 25 to 44, could be rehabilitated, saying they were
motivated by "intolerant, inflexible religious conviction" and had shown
contempt for the Australian government, its leaders and laws.

The men were found guilty last October on charges linked to preparing for a
terrorist act between July 2004 and November 2005. The men - Australian-born or
naturalised citizens with Muslim immigrant backgrounds - had all pleaded not
guilty to the charges.

They stockpiled explosive chemicals and firearms.

During the trial, a former associate of the suspects testified that the group
had considered bombing an Australian Rules football final in Melbourne in 2005
that was attended by almost 92,000 people. Prosecutors said they had also
discussed killing former Prime Minister John Howard.

Whealy has restricted the media from publishing the men's names. One of the men
participated in a terrorist-run paramilitary training camp in Pakistan, and
three others attended similar camps in New South Wales to prepare for an attack.

The men had faced a maximum penalty of life in prison. The judge allowed for
parole after the men serve from 17 to 21 years.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          February 17, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Terrorist attacks 'more likely ' in Britain than US or Saudi Arabia

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 245 words


ŠBritain is at greater risk from terrorist attacks than the United States or
Saudi Arabia, according to an international assessment.

Britain is ranked 41st, the highest of any European Union country apart from
Spain, in the Terrorism Risk Index drawn up by global analysts Maplecroft.

Attacks are considered more likely than in China (43rd), France (56th), Germany
(81st), Canada (116th) or Australia (120th). The US is ranked 46th, and Saudi
Arabia 61st.

The index, which measures both the risk of a terrorist incident and the chances
of mass casualties, is topped by Iraq, followed by Afghanistan, Pakistan and
Somalia, with Spain in 34th position.

Britain has fallen two places from 39th last year, but is still considered at
medium risk. A Maplecroft spokesman said the "slightly decreasing" risk of
terrorism in Britain reflected the fact there had been no further al-Qaeda
attacks, that Irish Republican factions remained an isolated threat and that the
Northern Ireland peace process remained broadly on track.

Last month, the UK's Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre raised its assessment of
the threat from substantial to severe, indicating that officials regard an
attack as highly likely.

Charles Farr, the head of the Government's Office for Security and
Counter-Terrorism, warned recently that the "war on terror" was likely to last
as long as the Cold War. While the names of terrorist groups were likely to
change, he said, the threat itself would continue for decades.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          February 17, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Design for new nuclear reactors might not stand up to terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Robin Pagnamenta

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 739 words


One of the two new nuclear reactor designs being considered for use in Britain
may not be strong enough to withstand a direct hit from a commercial airliner,
which could stop the technology being licensed in Britain, the UK's nuclear
safety watchdog said yesterday.

The claim from the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate (NII) that the design
could be vulnerable to terrorist attacks is a blow for the American-Japanese
group that is behind the AP1000 reactor type.

Toshiba-Westinghouse sees the UK as a significant growth market and hopes that
the technology can play a big role in plans to build a new generation of nuclear
power stations in Britain.

But yesterday the NII raised its concerns in an official letter, which insisted
that Toshiba-Westinghouse provide fresh evidence that the design was
sufficiently strong to withstand "external shocks" before it could be considered
for a UK licence.

Kevin Allars, the NII director responsible for a detailed safety review of the
two reactor technologies earmarked for Britain - the AP1000 and the EPR, a
French design from Areva - told The Times that any new reactor must be able to
"withstand an external shock, such as an earthquake, extreme weather or a strike
from an aircraft". He said that the standards were contained in the NII's Safety
Assessment Principles, set by the security services.

The NII, he said, was concerned that a new design method proposed by
Toshiba-Westinghouse, aimed at speeding up construction and cutting costs, could
mean that the reactor's exterior concrete shell would be less robust than a
conventionally built nuclear power plant.

The letter said that Toshiba-Westinghouse's proposed "modular" approach to
construction, where large components are built off-site and then transported in
for assembly, was not proven. It raised questions about the strength of the
external fabric of the building, which uses a concrete and steel-plate sandwich
structure. This contrasts with traditional methods, adopted by the EPR, involve
reinforced concrete is poured in situ.

Mr Allars expressed confidence that the concerns could be resolved. "This is not
a showstopper.

But we need to resolve these concerns before we can proceed."

Mike Tynan, chief executive of Westinghouse UK, acknowledged that there was "a
significant amount of work that needs to be done" to secure a licence and said
it was right that the AP1000 design should be subjected to rigorous scrutiny.
The company said that ten AP1000 plants were already on order, four in China and
six in the United States.

Horizon Nuclear Power, a joint venture between E.ON and RWE, is considering
ordering the AP1000 for two new nuclear stations at Oldbury, in Gloucestershire,
and Wylfa, on Anglesey. Each reactor is expected to cost up to £4 billion to
build.

Mr Tynan said that the letter was part of a normal regulatory procedure.

"The matters highlighted are not new and we have been working with the
regulators for some months towards a plan to provide them with the assurances
and information they need." He believed that this could be achieved by mid-2011.

Long march to power Analysis Robin Pagnamenta The Government may have given a
green light to new nuclear power plants two years ago, but it will be the end of
2017 before the first one starts to generate electricity - and even then, only
if everything runs like clockwork.

It is not merely the huge costs and the planning disputes that are holding
things up. The industry regulatoris in the midst of a titanic effort to approve
two new reactor designs for use in the UK. Neither of these is yet generating
electricity anywhere in the world, intensifying the drive to make sure they will
be safe and reliable for decades to come.

Dozens of nuclear engineers are now employed full-time by the NII on the
project, as well as dozens of support staff and contractors. But it will still
be 18 months before either design can be approved.

The concerns expressed by the NII yesterday about the strength of the AP1000
reactor casing are a part of this process and the obligation now rests on
Toshiba-Westinghouse to persuade the regulator that its design is safe.

Only after the NII has granted a reactor licence can EDF, RWE and E.ON, the
energy companies that want to build reactors in the UK, submit a proper planning
application for the sites they have selected. The first concrete will not be
poured before 2013.

'We need to resolve these concerns before we can proceed'

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The power station at Oldbury, opened in 1967, could be the site of a
new AP1000 nuclear plant
MATT CARDY / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               PR Newswire Europe

                    February 18, 2010 Thursday 10:55 AM EST

85 Victims of Hezbollah Terrorist Rocket Attacks File Unprecedented Civil Suit
Against Iran's Central Bank and Iranian Commercial Banks in D.C. Court

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, February 18, 2010


WASHINGTON, February 18, 2010 /PRNewswire/ -- Eighty five American, Israeli and
Canadian victims of Hezbollah rocket attacks have filed an unprecedented lawsuit
against the Central Bank of Iran ("CBI"), Bank Saderat Iran of Teheran and Bank
Saderat, PLC of London. The suit, Kaplan v. Central Bank of Iran, was filed in
federal court in Washington, D.C. and seeks US$1 billion in compensatory damages
and an unspecified sum of punitive damages.

The plaintiffs, whose family members were killed or who were themselves injured
by rockets fired at Israel by Hezbollah between July 12 and August 14, 2006,
allege that the banks, which are controlled by the Iranian government, provided
Hezbollah with over US$50 million in financial support in the years prior to the
attacks with the specific intent of facilitating Hezbollah terrorist attacks
against American and Israeli targets. The plaintiffs assert that Hezbollah used
the funds transferred by the Iranian banks to prepare for and carry out the
rocket barrage which it rained on Israeli cities.

The plaintiffs rest their claims in part on an explicit October 25, 2007 finding
by the U.S. Treasury that between 2001 and 2006 Bank Saderat transferred funds
from the CBI via Bank Saderat, PLC in London to Hezbollah to support acts of
terrorism. See http://www.ustreas.gov/press/releases/hp644.htm.

This is the first lawsuit brought by terror victims against the Iranian banking
system.

The plaintiffs are represented by attorneys Robert J. Tolchin Esq. of New York,
and Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, Esq. of Israel.

Attorney Darshan-Leitner stated that: "CBI and Bank Saderat are major financial
conduits between Iran and Hezbollah. Without the funds transferred by these
banks, Hezbollah would have been unable to maintain its infrastructure, train
its terrorist members or carry out the rocket attacks. These banks, which
operate freely in Europe, intentionally aided and abetted Hezbollah terrorism
and are responsible for the injuries suffered by the victims of these attacks.
This is the first lawsuit to target the Iranian banks and prove they provide
massive financing to Hezbollah."

Attorney Robert Tolchin: "In light of the explicit findings by the U.S.
Treasury, we expect that proving liability in this case will present no
difficulties."

A copy of the complaint is available here:
http://www.israellawcenter.org/images/pdf2/Kaplan%20vs.%20Central%20Bank%20of%20
Iran.pdf .

For more information please contact:
Nitsana Darshan-Leitner (US) +1-212-591-0073, (Israel) +972-523837020
Email: nitsanad@zahav.net.il





CONTACT:Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, (US) +1-212-591-0073, (Israel) +972-523837020,
nitsanad@zahav.net.il

URL: http://www.prnewswire.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                   Copyright 2010 PR Newswire Europe Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 18, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Threat of terror attack at Commonwealth Games;
India

BYLINE: Jeremy Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 462 words


India sought to reassure the world that it was safe to visit yesterday after a
Pakistan-based militant group warned foreigners not to attend three sporting
events - the Hockey World Cup, the Indian Premier cricket league (IPL) and the
Commonwealth Games.

The threat was reported to have come from Ilyas Kashmiri, an alleged al-Qaeda
operative who heads the militant group 313 Brigade. It was received by e-mail at
the Islamabad office of Asia Times Online. "We warn the international community
not to send their people to the 2010 Hockey World Cup, IPL and Commonwealth
Games," the message said. "Nor should their people visit India - if they do,
they will be responsible for the consequences."

Palaniappan Chidambaram, the Home Minister, responded by pledging to provide a
high-level of security at the hockey tournament, which starts on February 28, as
well as the IPL, which begins in March and the Commonwealth Games in October.

"We will provide full protection to every player, every coach, every official
who participates in the forthcoming hockey, cricket and Commonwealth Games," he
told reporters. "We cannot be deterred, and we are not deterred by what Ilyas
Kashmiri says."

A second Pakistan-based group said that it was behind a bomb attack in the
Indian city of Poona on Saturday, which killed ten people in the worst attack
since Mumbai in November 2008.

Lashkar-e-Taiba al-Almi, a previously unknown group, made the claim in a
telephone call to the Islamabad bureau of the Indian newspaper The Hindu.

It claimed to have split from Lashkare-Taiba (LeT), the group blamed for the
Mumbai attack, because LeT "took its orders from Pakistan's intelligence
agency," The Hindu said.

The two messages could not be verified independently but are likely to place
further strain on scheduled talks between Indian and Pakistani foreign
secretaries in Islamabad next week. They will also increase fears over India's
ability to protect visiting athletes - especially British and other Western
competitors - because of its understaffed and undertrained police force.

After the Mumbai attack the IPL had to be staged in South Africa, Australia
pulled out of a Davis Cup tennis tie in Madras and Britain withdrew from the
badminton world championships in Hyderabad.

Organisers of the three leading events said yesterday that no teams or athletes
had withdrawn because of security concerns.

Several countries said that they were monitoring the situation.

The England Hockey Association said that its plans for the world cup were
unchanged.

Commonwealth Games England said that it still planned to send a team of about
500 people to the Delhi games. "We're going unless something significant happens
that makes people change the advice we're being given," Caroline Searle, a
spokeswoman, said.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Security at the Delhi stadium. Ministers say that athletes will be safe

MANAN VATSYAYANA / AFP / GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            February 19, 2010 Friday
                              North Wales Edition

Terror attack fear over reactor plan;
Wylfa design safety concern

BYLINE: OWEN HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 388 words


NUCLEAR regulators are worried that a reactor being considered for Wylfa B power
station may not withstand a terror attack.

The HSE Nuclear Directorate (NR) say the AP1000 reactor type could be vulnerable
to "external shocks" such as a direct hit from an aircraft or from extreme
weather.

They have asked American-Japanese group Toshiba-Westinghouse for more evidence
to demonstrate that their design for the pounds 4bn reactor is safe.

The AP1000 is one of two reactor designs being considered by Horizon Nuclear
Power, the German consortium behind proposals for new nuclear development on
Anglesey. The other reactor is the EPR, a French design from Areva.

Westinghouse said they were working on the issues raised and aimed to provide
further testing evidence by October 2010 to show the reactor design would be
safe from attack.

The report from the Nuclear Directorate said: "ND is not yet satisfied that the
proposed Steel Concrete Steel modular construction method which would be used
for some key structures could protect the reactor's safety systems from severe
weather and other external hazards such as physical impact.

"ND has therefore requested appropriate evidence to demonstrate that the
strength and durability of the structures have been adequately justified."

Horizon Nuclear Power, backed by E.on and RWE npower, has purchased land around
the existing Wylfa plant near Cemaes.

They hope the site gets the Government go-ahead this year once it completes its
Strategic Site Assessment in the UK.

Final reactor design assessment will take place in June 2011.

Mike Tynan, chief executive of Westinghouse UK, said: "The regulatory issue is
further evidence of the level of scrutiny which is quite rightly being applied
by the regulators to the proposed reactor designs.

"We are pleased that the regulators have confirmed they do not see this - or
anything else - as a likely 'show-stopper' to the AP1000 being licensed in the
UK, but we recognise that there is a significant amount of work which needs to
be done before we can achieve a positive outcome to the Generic Design
Assessment process.

"The matters highlighted in the regulatory issue are not new and we have been
working with the regulators for some months towards a plan to provide them with
the assurances and information which they need."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Wylfa on Anglesey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2010 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                               February 19, 2010

Terror as knifeman attacks

BYLINE: Jessica Thompson jessica.thompson@courier.co.uk

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 316  words


A Knife-wielding Tunbridge Wells meat worker has been held in custody for
breaching bail conditions after an attack on his housemates.

Krzysztof Chodan, of Willow Tree Road, appeared at Sevenoaks Magistrates' Court
on Tuesday after breaking his bail, imposed the day before due to an alarming
attack on Saturday.

The former Turners factory worker pleaded guilty to the charge, which banned him
from returning to his shared home of residence.

James Nichols, prosecuting, said: "Mr Chodan was before our colleagues here only
yesterday.

"He was previously in custody after being arrested at the weekend charged with
affray.

"The victim said at about 8pm she went to his room because he was playing his
music very loud and she knocked on the door.

"There was no answer so she knocked again. He went outside and said he wouldn't
be turning the music down and followed her to her room, holding a kitchen knife
of about 10cm saying 'be careful or I will hurt you'."

"He shouted at them to come out. At one stage the defendant began to smash the
kitchen knife against the door, causing the blade to go through the door three
or four times. The police arrived and arrested the defendant."

The latest charge was brought about after Chodan was arrested at his home on
Monday - again wielding a knife.

Brian Ferris, defending, said: "He knew nothing about the knife and he didn't
think anyone would call the police. He went back there because that was where
all his belongings were. When police arrived he was in his bedroom.

"Having said that, he was given bail conditions and he has driven a coach and
horses through that."

Chairman of the bench Carole Findlay said: "Your case cannot go ahead today
because we are awaiting a pre-sentence report.

"We are remanding you in custody until March 9 because we have substantial
grounds to believe that if granted bail you will commit an offence or interfere
with witnesses."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 101


                     Copyright 2010 Kent and Sussex Courier
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 20, 2010 Saturday

President condemns terrorist attacks in northwest Pakistan

LENGTH: 125 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 20 February: President Asif Ali Zardari strongly condemned suicide
blast attacks on police stations in Balakot and Mansehra that resulted in loss
of precious lives.

The president expressed grief over the loss of lives of policemen and citizens.

He said the government and people are determined to eradicate the menace of
terrorism from the society and the terrorists who committed such ghastly acts
will not go unpunished.

He prayed to Allah Almighty to rest the departed souls in eternal peace and
grant courage to the bereaved families to bear the irreparable loss with
fortitude.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0724gmt
20 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 21, 2010 Sunday

Intelligence agency fears terrorist attack on northwest Pakistan assembly

LENGTH: 100 words


Text of report headlined "Attack on NWFP assembly feared" published by Pakistani
newspaper Daily Times website on 21 February

Peshawar: The intelligence wing of the Special Branch has warned the provincial
government about a possible terrorist attack on the NWFP Assembly, sources told
Daily Times on Saturday [21 February].

The sources said the police had asked the authorities to beef up security to
prevent any potential terrorist attack. Security is already on high alert as the
assembly is in session nowadays to prevent any untoward incident.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 21 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                               February 21, 2010

Street riots greet Kashmir peace talks: Stone-throwers are in action as India
and Pakistan hold their first high-level talks since the Mumbai terrorist
attacks in 2008

BYLINE: Jason Burke Srinagar, Kashmir

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 886 words


At one o'clock, he is behind the dusty shelves of the small shop he runs with
his father. A few phone calls and an hour later, he is walking through the
streets of Srinagar's Nowhatta district, two friends in tow. Fashionable but
scuffed shoes, turned-up dirty jeans, a ring on each finger and a chequered
Arab-style scarf, Mehraan, 22 and already a veteran, knows where he is going: to
the police checkpoint on the Gojwara Road.

"It's going to be big. We're under a lot of pressure, but it's going to be big,"
he says as he strides through narrow lanes, past food stalls, rubbish-strewn
wasteland, and open drains full of human and animal waste.

Mehraan is a "stone-pelter", as they are now known in the Indian part of
Kashmir, the disputed Himalayan state. For weeks now, it has been the same
routine. An incident sparks a surge in demonstrations. There are injuries and
finally a teenager is killed, hit by a teargas canister or shot. The
demonstrations turn to riots, then repression brings a fragile calm. Until
another cycle starts.

This week will see the first high-level official talks between India and
Pakistan since the terrorist attacks on Mumbai in 2008. The two states have
fought three wars over Kashmir, which was split between them shortly after
independence in 1947. The Mumbai attackers came from Pakistan, and New Delhi is
demanding that terrorism be the focus of the forthcoming talks. Islamabad,
however, wants to restart a broader dialogue, one that would include the future
of Kashmir, India's only Muslim-majority state.

By the standards of Kashmir, where at least 50,000 people have died in a 20-year
civil conflict, the current violence is relatively mild. Last week, after days
of protests and curfews, police arrested scores of young men. Many more went
underground. This was the "pressure" Mehraan had referred to.

So the rocks thrown by Mehraan and his friends have a wider resonance. Enemies
of India claim the violent demonstrations in the city reveal the iniquity of the
"occupation" of Kashmir and the commitment of locals to independence or
accession to Pakistan. Enemies of Pakistan dismiss men like Mehraan as being in
the pay of politicians and Pakistan's intelligence services.

"The stone-pelters are being paid and being used by people who want to keep
things on the boil and to create the impression that things are not OK [in
Kashmir]," said Kuldeep Khoda, who runs the state police force.

Mehraan and his friends tell a different story, however. As he strode through
the rundown Nowhata, collecting fellow stone-pelters as he went, the shopkeeper
said he started attacking security forces when his cousin was shot dead two
years ago. Then he was arrested and, he claims, tortured. Since then, he says,
he has wanted two things: "Azadi" (freedom) and "blood for blood". Alongside
him, a 14-year-old says he started a few weeks ago when his friend was killed,
allegedly by security forces. "These things happen and nothing is changed and
then they happen again," he said.

In fact, many things have changed in Kashmir in recent years. Though clashes
between Islamic militants and security forces occur weekly - last week four
extremists died in two separate incidents - a fragile peace has come. The
resultant economic growth cannot satisfy the demands of a population of whom 62%
are under 30 and about half are under 25 and unemployed. Drug abuse, suicides
and psychological disorders are rife among the young.

"The reasons for the stone-pelting are mixed," said Ali Mohammed Sagar, one of
two parliamentary representatives from Mehraan's neighbourhood of Nowhatta.
"Sometimes it is genuine resentment at the government, sometimes it is just to
have a bit of action after Friday prayers. Sometimes political groups and
parties have egged on people. And unemployment is of course a serious problem."

Another issue may be generational. Political leaders who were once firebrands
are less vocal now. A moderate local government was elected last year in a poll
that saw a huge turnout. It is composed of "hypocritical collaborators", says
Sohail, a 31-year-old government official who leads a band of 50 teenage
stone-throwers in weekly demonstrations. Sohail argues that, if stone-pelting
does not succeed in forcing more autonomy and a milder security regime for
Kashmiris, then the "armed struggle", which in effect ended around five years
ago, will start again.

As the shadows of the snow-topped mountains lengthened across Srinagar at 5pm,
Mehraan had gathered his troops. A warm-up on a pair of policemen near the main
mosque, who fled, then the two or three dozen teenagers, scarfs over their
faces, advanced towards the Gojwara checkpoint, gathering bricks and chunks of
rocks and hurling them at the policemen, who hurled them back and threatened to
fire CS gas. For 20 minutes, the battle continued. Police reinforcements
arrived. The teenagers evaded pursuers easily in the narrow side-streets. The
stones rained down, clanging off the armoured trucks.

The fight continued as dusk turned to dark. A policeman paused for a moment to
answer a question as to when the riot might end. "I don't know," the sergeant
said. "It is out of our hands."

Captions:

An anti-Indian protester runs as a teargas shell fired by police explodes in
Srinagar yesterday. Photograph by Fayaz Kabli/Reuters


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 23, 2010 Tuesday

Pakistan president, US general discuss drone attacks, war on terror, security

LENGTH: 316 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 22 February: General David H. Petraeus, Commander of the US Central
Command (CENTCOM) called on President Asif Ali Zardari here at the Aiwan-e-Sadr
[President House] on Monday [22 February].

Matters relating to security situation in the region, drone attacks, fight
against militancy, rehabilitation of the internally displaced persons,
strengthening of the law enforcing agencies and coalition support funds arrears
were discussed in the meeting.

President Zardari appreciated the US support for Pakistan's security and
economic development and said that Pakistan values its partnership with the
United States. The president emphasized the need for democratic stability in
Pakistan which he said could be ensured by pursuing a well structured economic
development agenda in which the international community had a great role to
play. He also pointed out the delays in payments of arrears of Coalition Support
Fund of over 1.5bn dollars and called for early repayments of outstanding dues.

About the drone attacks on Pakistani territory, the president said that it
undermined the national consensus against the war on militancy and reiterated
Pakistan's call for transfer of drone technology to it for use by its own
security forces against the militants for wider public acceptability.

Referring to the new Afghan strategy the President said that Pakistan has
legitimate interests in promoting peace and stability in Afghanistan.

General David H. Petraeus thanked the president for meeting and appreciated the
role of Pakistani armed forces and other security agencies in the fight against
militancy. Chief of the Army Staff, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani and members of
the visiting delegation were also present during the meeting.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1750gmt
22 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                           February 23, 2010 Tuesday

Snowball attackers terrorise pensioner

BYLINE: AIMI REDFERN

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 338  words


A Gang of youths yelled abuse as they pelted an elderly woman with snowballs
outside her home.

June Eggleton was targeted by eight yobs when she went outside to clear up the
mess caused by an earlier snowball attack.

The 64-year-old, who is the sole carer for her disabled husband Ron, has been
left so shaken by the incident she is scared to go out.

Mrs Eggleton first became aware of the gang when she heard snowballs being
thrown at her house, in Meaford Drive, Blurton, on Sunday.

She said: "I was looking after my husband and I heard snowballs on the window. I
looked out and saw a big gang.

"I went to the door and asked them not to throw any more, because I was looking
after my husband, and they went.

"About an hour later I went out to sweep away the snow and slush and the next
thing the gang came back up, throwing snowballs at me from across the street."

Mrs Eggleton was repeatedly pelted with snowballs and the youths shouted abuse
at her. She managed to get back inside and call her daughter, Julie Taylor, who
lives in nearby Larch Grove.

Mrs Taylor, aged 42, said: "They were pounding her with snowballs, she was
slipping and sliding all over the place. They were shouting horrible things at
her as well.

"When she called me I went straight round and the youths were still around, they
were all about 19 or 20 years old.

"My mum's in a state, she couldn't even bring herself to go to the post office
to get her pension. I'm so angry and frustrated."

Mr and Mrs Eggleton have now asked Stoke-on-Trent City Council if they can be
moved to another area.

Mrs Eggleton said: "It's really shaken me up. I'm that frightened I can't even
face going through the door."

The incident has been reported to the police, who are now investigating.

A spokesman for Staffordshire Police said:  "Officers have carried out
house-to-house inquiries and CCTV footage has been seized. We are following up
lines of inquiry.  Anyone with information about those responsible is asked to
contact PC Simon Stone."

PC Stone can be contacted on 0300 123 4455.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 51


                      Copyright 2010 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                    February 24, 2010 Wednesday 3:48 PM BST

TERROR ATTACK FAMILIES 'TO GET LEGAL AID FOR INQUESTS'

BYLINE: Sam Marsden and Jack Doyle, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 708 words


Relatives of victims of the July 7 terrorist attacks look set to receive legal
aid for representation at the inquests into their loved ones' deaths.

The Ministry of Justice today granted a funding application from one of the
families of the 52 innocent people killed in the 2005 London bombings.

A lawyer for some of the victims' relatives said he believed the decision meant
that all the families would receive financial assistance to pay for legal
representation at the inquests, which are planned to start this autumn.

Clifford Tibber, from Oury Clark Solicitors, said: ``I would expect all the
families to be funded.''

A Ministry of Justice spokesman said: ``As of February 24, the Ministry of
Justice has received one exceptional funding application, relating to the 7/7
inquests, from the LSC (Legal Services Commission).

``Ministers have granted funding in this case.''

Mr Tibber said he expected applications for legal aid for the bereaved families
to be granted and backdated to today, but he raised concerns about the
bureaucracy involved in the process.

``The families are still required to submit means assessment forms, even though
our understanding is that the financial eligibility criteria will be waived,
which is a little bit insensitive,'' he said.

The relatives of the victims will learn more tomorrow about what form the
inquests will take.

The coroner, Lady Justice Hallett, will hold a short hearing at the Royal Courts
of Justice in central London to update them on progress.

She will also give directions about a longer pre-inquest review to be held in
April.

Mr Tibber, who is representing four bereaved families and 15 survivors of the
bombings, said the coroner would first have to decide whether the inquests
should be resumed at all.

Other issues likely to be discussed at the hearings include the scope of the
inquests, and whether the inquests of the four suicide bombers should be held
separately from those of the victims.

Another question to be resolved is whether the survivors of the attacks should
be counted as ``interested persons'' entitled to be represented at the hearings.

Mr Tibber argued that it would be ``folly'' for the Government not to provide
funding for legal representation for the survivors at the inquests.

``Some of those I represent, for example, were not only on the train and
injured, but helped people get off,'' he said.

``How can it possibly be said they're not a person who is interested in these
inquests?''

If the inquests go ahead, they are expected to start in October and last for
three months.

July 7 2005 dawned with London still buzzing from learning the previous day that
it had won the 2012 Olympics, but the euphoria was short-lived.

Suicide bombers Mohammad Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain,
18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19, met at Luton station that morning.

They took a train to King's Cross in London, then hugged and separated to carry
out their deadly missions.

Within three minutes of 8.50am, Tanweer detonated his bomb at Liverpool Street,
Khan set his device off at Edgware Road and Lindsay blew himself up between
King's Cross and Russell Square.

Hussain detonated his device onboard the number 30 bus at Tavistock Square at
9.47am.

As well as killing themselves and 52 others, the bombers injured more than 700
people.

A fortnight later another four would-be suicide bombers launched failed attacks
on the Tube and a bus, leading to police marksmen shooting dead innocent
Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes.

It is understood that most, if not all, of the families of the victims killed in
the attacks will be granted funding for representation at the inquests.

So far none of the relatives of the four suicide bombers have asked for legal
aid, and today's ruling by ministers does not apply to them.

A Ministry of Justice spokesman said: ``It is essential that potential
applicants fill in means forms, as all applicants for legal aid are required to
do so. Ministers have the power to waive eligibility limits, if they consider it
appropriate in the circumstances.

``It is in the interests of families to provide their means information so that
ministers can make an informed decision about their case. We of course
appreciate that this is a difficult time for those involved.''

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Cheddar Valley Gazette

                           February 25, 2010 Thursday

Pylons 'would make an easy target for terrorists to attack'

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 344 words


By Ian Mat cheddarvalley@midsomnews.co.uk 01749 832337

New pylons could be an easy target for terrorists, MPs believe.

The  Tory trio of David Heathcoat-Amory of Wells, John Penrose of
Weston-super-Mare and Dr Liam Fox of Woodspring, think "overhead power lines are
vulnerable to terrorist or other attack, and that this creates an additional
reason for undergrounding power lines."

The security suggestion is one of the counter-arguments aimed at swaying the
Government's consultation on how electricity is transmitted.

The importance of the National Policy Statements for Energy discussion comes as
it impacts National Grid's Hinkley Point to Avonmouth pylon plan.

The MPs' report also says: "The comment applicants have very limited choice in
the design of electricity pylons is too permissive. Clearly there are functional
constraints as with all industrial design, but there should be an obligation on
applicants to give more consideration to the design, appearance, and aesthetics
of these very prominent structures.

"Other countries use a variety of pylon designs, and with new materials and more
imagination it should be possible to do the same here."

The MPs also argue that the defence enjoyed by special protection areas should
be extended to places that are likely to become them, as is the case with part
of the Cheddar Valley seeking World Heritage status.

They also believe the costs associated with pylons, like property blight, loss
to tourism and wildlife damage, should be weighed up against the benefits of
undergrounding power transmission.

"Underground should be strongly presumed when a line must run across or very
near to an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty or similarly designated
conservation area," their response said.

The MPs demand the National Policy Statements are debated in Parliament before
being adopted, and that the final planning decision is not taken by the
"unelected and unaccountable" Infrastructure Planning Commission, but by a
minister answerable to Parliament.

Pylon protesters ask county council for judicial review - page 9.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 184


                    Copyright 2010 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Forester

                               February 25, 2010

Pub landlady tells of dog attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 213  words


Redmarley pub landlady Amanda Goodyear has spoken of her terror after being
attacked by a rottweiler.

The dog was running free through Redmarley when it bit her arm.

The rottweiler evaded capture by police and dog wardens, but was caught the
following day.

Mrs Goodyear, 36, who was bitten near the village school, was taken to hospital
for treatment to her injured arm.

The landlady of Redmarley's Rose and Crown pub said some villagers believed the
dog was hers.

But her dog Cassie was safely locked up at the pub.

Mrs Goodyear, who took over as landlady last August, said: "Someone said the dog
is out. I said she can't be.

"We went out in the car and it came up to me like it was being friendly, then it
just turned and had my arm."

She was bitten on her lower right arm by the dog at around 3.50pm on February 3.

"Children were coming out of school," she said. "We were not doing anything to
provoke a dog."

Police said the owner was identified and he later collected his dog. In the
meantime, they visited his home to check on security measures.

A police spokeswoman confirmed they'd had a call about an aggressive dog near
the school in Redmarley which had bitten a woman. Officers managed to locate the
dog  but it ran off.

No charges have been made but a police investigation continues.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 35


                    Copyright 2010 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 26, 2010 Friday

Five Indian citizens among 17 killed in Afghan capital terror attack

LENGTH: 785 words


Excerpt from report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 26 February

[Presenter] In today's attack in Kabul city, 17 people including five Indian
citizens, have been killed and 33 others, including seven Indian citizens,
wounded. This incident took place around 0640 a.m. [local time]. Armed men
attacked the Park Residence Hotel at the Ansari intersection. At present reports
say that the Afghan security forces have succeeded to bring the situation under
control and no resistance is observed from the attackers. Our correspondent at
the site of the incident in his latest contact with us said that he had observed
that the Afghan forces took away three bodies, including foreigners from the
site. It is worth pointing out that the Taleban have claimed responsibility for
the attacks, targeting the Park Residence Hotel and Ansari intersection.

[Video shows a national policemen pointing with a Kalashnikov towards the City
Centre Building, destroyed shops, windowpanes]

Now, a deputy presidential spokesman is on the telephone connected with us and
is ready to give details in this regard.

[Voice of Siyamak Erawi, deputy presidential spokesman, over the telephone]
Well, the situation is completely under the control of security forces. The
security and aid forces are busy with delivering assistance to the affected
individuals at the site. The suicide attackers have been eliminated at the very
beginning. God willing, the situation is completely under control. Initial
reports on casualties say that more than 12 people have been killed and more
than 30 others wounded in the incident. Two people are said to be foreign
citizens and the remaining are our Afghans who have been martyred and wounded.

[Presenter] Now, our colleague Shakilah Ebrahemkhel has a report about the
condition of the wounded.

[Voice of a female correspondent over the telephone] Today's incident took place
at a guesthouse of Indian citizens in the Shahr-e Naw, Kabul city, this morning.
Twelve Indian citizens have been staying at the guesthouse and they were doctors
working at the Indira Gandhi Hospital. Seven of them have been wounded and at
present they are at the Sardar Mohammad Daud Khan Hospital. Also, seven have
been killed in the incident and they have been admitted to the same hospital.
Also, five other wounded people and three bodies have been delivered to the
National Security Hospital. It is said that most of the victims of the incident
are civilians and two policemen are also among the dead. Medical teams are at
the site searching in debris of building for wounded and killed individuals. It
is expected that the number of casualties will increase.

[A doctor at the Sardar Mohammad Daud Khan Hospital, in Pashto] As a result of
today's tragic incident, seven wounded people have been admitted to our
hospital, one of them is Afghan and the rest are Indian citizens. Seven people
have been killed, six of them are Afghans and one is Indian citizen.

[A wounded Indian man talking over the telephone at the hospital, in English]
All important documents are there and just tell the ambassador to do [sentence
incomplete].

[Voice of correspondent in Hindi] How are you?

[Indian wounded man in Hindi] I am fine.

[Correspondent] How are your colleagues?

[Indian man] All my colleagues are fine.

[An Indian young man, who sustained minor injuries showing his face and hands,
in English] Here are some injuries [in my hand] and cheeks. It was early morning
around five o'clock there was a blast, huge blast, two blasts.

[An Afghan young man, an eyewitness] I think our relatives are all under the
wall. Perhaps there might be wounded and killed people there.

[Correspondent] This means the explosion was quite heavy.

[Eyewitness] The explosion was very heavy as when I crossed the area I saw a
huge crater like a well.

[Passage omitted: doctors and journalists talking to each other inside the
emergency ward of the Sardar Mohammad Daud Khan Hospital]

[Correspondent asking an Indian wounded man, in Hindi] Who where there?

[Wounded Indian man in Hindi] There were some of my colleagues, now it is not
clear to me but there were two or four of our doctors. Now, it is not clear as
the room blew up and the roof totally collapsed.

[Correspondent] What do you think?

[Passage omitted: another correspondent asking question in Hindi]

[Wounded Indian man in Hindi] We were sleeping. I was sleeping.

[A journalist asks him to say it in Hindi]

[Indian wounded man continues in Hindi] He [the suicide bomber] entered the room
and fired from a rocket launcher. He opened fire and set ablaze the entire room.

[Passage omitted: doctors talking to wounded, voices of journalists and patients
could be heard]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 0730 gmt 26 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 26, 2010 Friday

India condemns terror attack in Kabul

LENGTH: 214 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 26 February: Government Friday [26 February] condemned the terror
attack in Afghan capital Kabul but said it was not in a position to give the
number of Indians injured or killed in the incident immediately.

"We are shocked at the inhuman attack on innocent lives earlier this morning in
Kabul. We unreservedly condemn the terrorist attack. Our mission is in close
touch with the Afghan authorities to get factual details," India's Ministry of
External Affairs spokesman Vishnu Prakash told reporters.

He said it is feared that Indians were also among the casualties and those
injured in the attack and the mission was in real time contact with the
authorities in Afghanistan to get the factual details.

According to the office of Afghan President Hamid Karzai, four Indians were
among 16 people killed in the attack against guesthouses in Central Kabul.

Asked if the incident would have any impact on the relations between India and
Afghanistan, Prakash said "our ties are strong and will remain so".

Terming the relations between the two countries as "historical", he said the
canvas of the ties has deepened and there was involvement in diverse areas of
Afghanistan.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1340gmt 26 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            February 26, 2010 Friday

NATO: NATO Secretary General condemns terrorist attack in Kabul

LENGTH: 82 words


terrorist attack in Kabul

I strongly condemn the terrorist attack which took place this morning
in Kabul. Once again, the enemies of Afghanistanhave killed innocent
civilians, Afghans and international workers alike. I express my
condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives, and a
speedy recovery to the over 30 people who were injured.

((M2 Communications disclaims all liability for information provided
within
information on
on the world wide web. Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2010 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            February 26, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

I COULD HAVE BEEN KILLED;
Young mum tells of terror attack by firebugs

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 375 words


A TERRIFIED teenage mum yesterday told how she feared for her life when firebugs
torched the front door of her flat and left her trapped inside.

Nicole Lawson, 18, was horrified to see flames shooting through the letterbox
and choking smoke engulfing the hallway of her home in Paisley's West End.

Her quick-thinking partner Stephen Calderwood, 24, came to the rescue by
throwing buckets of water onto the flames.

Nicole, who has a three-year-old son, told the Paisley Daily Express: "I was
choking and I started to panic. It was terrifying.

"Luckily, Stephen was visiting me at the time and he poured basins of water on
the burning door. While that was happening, I phoned the fire brigade.

"Stephen kept his cool and coped really well with what was happening. He wanted
to keep the inside of the front door damp in the hope the flames wouldn't burn
through the panels and his idea worked but, by that time, I was in a terrible
state."

Nicole's nightmare ordeal took place at her home in the Woodside area of Paisley
late on Sunday night.

She told how she went into her hallway to investigate after noticing a strong
smell of fuel.

Nicole added: "When I opened the door to the hallway, I couldn't believe my
eyes. There was smoke everywhere and flames were shooting through the letterbox.

"The heat was so strong that the door handle was red hot. It was a real relief
when the fire brigade turned up.

"The door is badly damaged and there is a terrible smell of smoke throughout my
flat but I'm glad no-one was hurt."

Police have confirmed they are treating the fire as malicious.

The remains of a broken bottle, believed to have contained fuel, were found
outside the charred door at Nicole's flat.

She said: "I've been told that two men were seen running away from my flat and
heading towards the graveyard at Woodside Cemetery.

"I have no idea why anyone would want to set fire to my home. I could have been
killed. Thank goodness I wasn't in bed at the time."

Cops have urged anyone who has information about the arson attack to call
Paisley Police Office on 0141 532 5900 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

One officer said: "We want to hear from anyone who saw two people acting
suspiciously in the Woodside area on Sunday night."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  TARGETED: Nicole Lawson's front door

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 27, 2010 Saturday

Four Indian, one Italian, one French killed in Afghan terror attacks - TV

LENGTH: 129 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 27 February

Canada, France and the USA were the first to condemn yesterday's incident in
Kabul city.

At the same time, some experts expressed various views about the incident.
During yesterday's attacks in Kabul, 17 people, including four Indian, one
Italian and one French nationals, were killed, and 34 people were wounded.
Indian citizens were also seen among the wounded.

Meanwhile, a number of foreign media outlets reported that eight Indian and one
Pakistani people were among those killed in the incident.

Taleban claimed responsibility for the attacks.

[Video shows the Afghan Presidential Palace; President Karzai's picture and the
text of his message condemning the attacks]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 0400 gmt 27 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 28, 2010 Sunday

Pakistan paper says Mumbai attacks attempt to cover up Indian terror group

LENGTH: 745 words


Text of report by Afshain Afzal "Mumbai attacks: Undeniable facts" published by
Pakistani newspaper The Frontier Post website on 27 February


The moment Indian authorities came to know through media that Mumbai has been
attacked at different locations on 26 November, New Delhi did not waste any time
in levelling allegations that all attackers were Pakistanis. Later all attackers
were killed leaving a lone attacker Ajmal Amir Kasab to dance on the tune of
Indian intelligence agencies. Without giving any regard to the country's law and
court procedure, those statements of Kasab which he reportedly furnished to
unidentified intelligence officers, even before his case was admitted in the
court, were regarded as evidence against groups living in other countries,
thousands of miles away. Isn't it the height of stupidly on the part of world
powers and the United Nations to over react on the Mumbai attacks by banning a
Muslim organization, Jamaat-ud-Daawa, without even looking at on ground
evidences against this unfortunate organisation?

Ironically the case of Ajmal Kasab is even today pending before Mumbai court and
you never know that he may come out as an innocent. One wonders that if this is
the criteria of the world governments and organisations like United Nations,
there is very dark future of this world. Ajmal Amir Kasab has recently denied
all charges before the Mumbai court as well as his alleged links with
Lashkar-e-Tayyiaba or Pakistan. One cannot say with confidence if Kasab is
guilty in Mumbai attacks or otherwise but who would undo the United Nations
Security Council Resolutions which banned Lashkar-e-Tayyiaba and
Jamaat-ud-Dawah. It reminds of a similar incident which happened five years back
in India when four Muslim terrorists linked with Lashkar-e-Tayyiaba who had
planned to launch a massive terrorist attack on the Indian Military Academy
(IMA), Dehradun, were arrested in 2005. The terrorists included Maulana Dilawar
Khan of Imdad-ul-Uloom Madrassa in Delhi's Welcome area and Imam Masood Ahmed,
an Imam at the Baghwali Masjid in the same area, Haroon Rashid, a former
mechanical engineer at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) and Muhammad Iftikhar
Ahsan Malik, a second year student of Biotechnology at Dehradun's Dolphin
Institute of Biomedical & Natural Sciences. Police was quick enough to put
recovery of a grenade and a Chinese pistol with 24 bullets on them. Ironically,
all the four so-called terrorists were acquitted and released in the light of
Patiala House Court judgment of 8 January 2010 which set them free for want of
evidence. So it would not surprise many if the case of Ajmal Amir Kasab and his
links with Lashkar-e-Tayyiaba also turn out to be a cock and bull story. If we
recall, the Mumbai Police Crime Branch arrested 36 Indian nationals who were
behind Mumbai attacks. In the same regard, a remand application was submitted by
Joint Commissioner of Mumbai Police (Crime) Rakesh Maria before the MCOCA court
on 15 December 2008 to allow investigations if the Indian Mujahideen (IM)
militants had any links with those behind the Mumbai attacks. Assistant
Commissioner of Police, Ashok Duraphe, who had drafted the remand application
confirmed that they filed an application to verify if the 20 alleged members of
Indian Mujahideen in their custody had links with Mumbai attacks. Mumbai Police
filed a second remand application for additional suspects before the same MCOCA
court on 2 January 2009 but under the pressure of Indian Intelligence agencies
they filed a corrigendum next day, requesting the court to delete that point
from the application. The FBI interviewed suspects in Indian custody and
collected critical information on attack planning and group leadership of
militants involved in Mumbai attacks. They concluded western link as well as
Indian home grown terrorism. Our memories are still sharp to recall that Kavita,
wife of slain ATS (Anti Terrorist Squad) Chief Hemant Karkare and their daughter
had asked the Indian government pardon for Ajmal Amir Kasab on humanitarian
grounds. What made Kavita and her daughter to make such an unusual request
indicate that Ajmal Amir Kasab had nothing to do with killing of Hemant Karkare.
Kasab himself in a statement immediately after his arrest disclosed that he did
not open fire on any Police officer as he was twice hit by Police bullets on his
hand before he could do anything.

Source: The Frontier Post website, Peshawar, in English 27 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 28, 2010 Sunday

Kabul attack on pattern of Mumbai terror incident - Indian agency

LENGTH: 465 words


Text of report published by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi: The terror attack in Kabul was on the pattern of the 26/11 Mumbai
carnage, with six to eight terrorists targeting two hotels and hunting for
victims during the strike in which six Indians were killed and 10 others
injured.

Investigators suspect involvement of the Taleban, particularly the Haqqani
group, in league with elements of Lashkar-i-Toiba in Friday's assault, sources
said.

The attack was carried out in a coordinated manner with the terrorists first
exploding bombs and then launching the armed assault, hunting for the targets,
particularly the members of the Indian medical mission, a pattern seen in Mumbai
during the 26/11 attack, they said.

About six to eight terrorists are suspected to have been involved in the assault
at around 6.30 am at the Park Residence Hotel and adjacent Noor guest house,
where Indians on transit usually stay, the sources said.

Two or three of the attackers might have been killed in the gunfight with Afghan
security forces, they said.

Two Major-rank officers of the army were among the six Indians killed and 10
others, including five army officers, were injured in the assault.

The terrorists targeted those Indians who were engaged in helping Afghan people
and building partnership between the two countries, Indian Ambassador Jayant
Prasad told PTI.

He said those targeted were earning goodwill for India by bringing the people of
the two countries closer through their developmental efforts.

"It is the handiwork of enemies of Afghan people and friendship between people
of India and Afghanistan," Prasad said and asserted that these attempts would
not deter India from pursuing its goal of helping Afghanistan.

Taleban, at the behest of Pakistan's intelligence agency ISI, has been
expressing opposition to India's developmental works in Afghanistan. They have
been demanding that India should end its presence in Afghanistan.

The sources said the attack reflected a change of pattern by Taleban terrorists,
as this time they went for the soft targets, unlike the protected installations
and persons as in the past.

Friday's attack was the fourth on Indian interests in Afghanistan since July
2008 when a car laden with 100 kgs of explosives was blown up at the gate of
Indian Embassy, killing 60 people, including four Indians - a Brigadier-rank
officer, a senior IFS officer and two ITBP personnel.

In October last year, terrorists struck again at the Embassy, carrying out a car
bomb explosion near its outer wall and killing 17 people.

Subsequently, in December, a hotel housing staff of an Indian IT company was
targeted. Eight people were killed and two IT executives, an Indian cook and a
cleaner were among those injured.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0726gmt 28 Feb 10

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           Asia Monitor - South Asia

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday

Another Terrorist Attack

LENGTH: 353 words


INDIA - RISK
RATINGS
              Latest   Tren Last Month   Previous    Regiona Global
              Rating*  d    Rating**     Rating**    l Avg   Mkts Avg
S-T Political 71.5          71.5         72.1        69.4    65.7
L-T Political 70.5          70.5         70.5        55.8    61.8
S-T Economy   63.5          63.5         65.8        57.6    52.0
L-T Economy   62.3          60.5         58.8        57.7    51.9
Business      39.8          39.8         39.8        47.1    46.9
Environment
Composite     57.9          57.6         57.8        55.8    43.0

POLITICAL RISK - Another Terrorist Attack
 A spokesperson from a new terrorist group called Lashkar-e-Taiba al-Almi has
contacted Indian daily, The Hindu, claiming responsibility for the bomb blast in
Pune in Western India on February 13. The spokesperson said that the attack was
in response to India's refusal to include the contentious region of Kashmir in
its discussions with Pakistan. While we were encouraged that the Indo-Pakistan
talks went ahead in any case on February 26, the threat of terrorist activity
will remain a major hindrance to India's political risk profile.

India's short-term political risk rating holds firm at 71.5 this month.

ECONOMIC RISK - Food For Thought
 Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has said that the worst phase of food
inflation has come to an end and the country will soon be in a position to
stabilise prices. He added that India registered an ease in food prices in
recent weeks and this trend is expected to continue. In spite of this news, we
forecast that poor monsoon rainfall and broad-based commodity price strength
will continue to stoke food price pressures in India.

India's short- and long-term economic risk ratings come in at a respective 63.5
and 62.3 this month.

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT - Oil's Well
 Saudi Arabia is to enhance crude oil supply to India to roughly 40mn tonnes
annually, compared with an existing supply of around 25.5mn tonnes per year. The
announcement was made during a meeting in Riyadh between India's Minister of
Petroleum and Natural Gas, Murli Deora, and his Saudi Arabian counterpart Ali
bin Ibrahim Al-Naimi on February 28. The supply boost will assist India in
catering to the growing needs of its refineries, and increasing demand for
energy consumption.

India's business environment score is 39.8, putting it in 109th place out of 167
globally.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Ratings Update

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: MISM


               Copyright 2010 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday

"Terrorists" attack Algerian police barracks in Tizi Ouzou - website

LENGTH: 186 words


Text of report by Algerian electronic daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on 2
March

[Report by Ameziane Athali: "Terrorism: Police Barracks Attacked with 'Homemade
Rocket' Near Tizi Ouzou"]

On Tuesday, 2 March, slightly before 0800 hours in the morning, the Judicial
Police Mobile Brigade (BMPJ) of Tigzirt, a community located 35 kilometres north
of the wilaya of Tizi Ouzou, was attacked by heb heb (homemade rockets), Tout
sur l'Algerie has learned from a local security source. The shots were fired
from the neighbouring Haga forest by an armed Islamist group from the ex-Salafi
Group for Call and Combat [GSPC], which has become Al-Qa'idah in the [Land of
the] Islamic Maghreb (AQLIM), the same source added.

At least three shots hit the barracks, causing slight injuries to the police,
our source added. According to an initial toll, there were at least two wounded
among the members of the security forces as well as one civilian. This was the
first time in several years that armed Islamist groups have used the heb heb to
attack the security forces in Tizi Ouzou.

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website, in French 2 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday

Revealed: Police plan for how Edinburgh would cope with major terror attack

BYLINE: BRIAN FERGUSON

LENGTH: 487 words



HIGHLIGHT: POLICE chiefs have lifted the lid on how Scotland's capital would be
evacuated in the event of a terrorist attack, a major chemical spillage or a
plane crash.


· Kenny MacAskill said: 'We will all need to work together'

A top-level security summit heard yesterday how tens of thousands of workers
would be ordered into the streets to leave the city centre on foot.

New measures drawn up in the wake of the terrorist attack on Glasgow Airport
will mean every business will be asked to draw up their own evacuation plan over
the next few months.

In the event of a major incident, police officers and council staff would be
issued with loudhailers and Tannoy systems across the city. This would include
the capital's new tram stops, which will broadcast emergency messages about the
quickest escape routes.

Buses and taxis would be ordered to leave the city centre immediately without
dropping passengers off, while traffic lights systems would be altered instantly
to allow traffic to leave major thoroughfares like Princes Street and George
Street.

Waverley Station would be completely closed down with all trains halted at
Haymarket.

Tens of thousands of people would be urged to go to one of five major assembly
points in the event of a major incident, although these will not be advertised
in advance to avoid them being targeted by extremists.

Police chiefs have admitted all or part of the city centre may have to be
evacuated on the basis of a threat of a terrorist attack, if it is thought to be
serious enough.

Special evacuation plans are also to be drawn up in the event of an attack on
Edinburgh's Hogmanay party, the Tattoo or the Royal Mile during the Fringe.
Police have admitted they lack a proper evacuation plan for large parts of the
city, were these events to be targeted by terrorists.

Firms will also be urged to create a "continuity" contingency plan in the event
of an evacuation to reduce the economic impact of a major incident.

Although Lothian and Borders Police yesterday insisted an evacuation order would
only be issued as a "last resort", the conference was told that the attack on
Glasgow Airport had changed the  approach of the force to security in the
Scottish capital.

Chief inspector Kevin Sewell, head of operational planning for the force, said:
"Since then we know now that both Glasgow and Edinburgh are possible targets for
an  attack.

"On a normal day, we have something like 100,000 people in the city centre, but
on Hogmanay that goes up to something like 300,000. It would be a huge operation
to evacuate. It has been  difficult when we've had to do it  from Princes Street
on Hogmanay."

The conference was also told major economic centres like Edinburgh need to draw
up  plans to cope with freak weather to avoid companies losing millions.

Justice secretary Kenny MacAskill said: "We have only recently seen the level of
security alert in Britain rise from substantial to severe, which means some kind
of attack is highly likely.

"When the unexpected happens, we will all need to work together, whether it is
terrorist attack or from a natural disaster."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday

Afghan MPs slam ban on live coverage of terror attacks

LENGTH: 295 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 3 March

[Presenter] The National Security Council [NSC] has decided to impose a ban on
live coverage of attacks. This was stated today [3 March] by the interior
minister at a meeting with MPs. However, the MPs seriously reacted negatively to
the decision and the interior minister's remarks, describing it as contrary to
freedom of expression.

[Correspondent] The interior minister said that live broadcast of attacks would
create obstacles during operations.

[Mohammad Hanif Atmar, interior minister, captioned] It was not the three
ministers' [defence and interior ministers and head of the National Security
Directorate] decision, the National Security Council of Afghanistan has made
this decision. First of all I would like to assure you that all officials, who
are responsible before you, believe in all values mentioned in our law.

[Correspondent] Meanwhile, some MPs criticize the security bodies for taking
such a step and described imposing restrictions on broadcast media as an obvious
violation of freedom of expression.

[MP Sardar Mohammad Rahman Oghli, captioned] We will appreciate our friends
[security officials] when they arrest terrorists at security belts in the north,
Jalalabad [provincial capital of eastern Nangarhar Province] Logar and
Maydan-Wardag provinces and let people know about this so that there is no need
for the media to report on this or on military operation of our security forces
close to the presidential office or the Interior Ministry building.

[Correspondent] Following the last Friday's [26 February] terrorist attacks in
the Shahr-e Naw Kabul, the security bodies have appealed to the media asking not
to cover such attacks live.

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 3 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            March 4, 2010, Thursday

CASUALS TERROR;
GERS YOB BANNED FROM IBROX ATTACKED DONS FANS AT ALLOA TIE

BYLINE: David Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 284 words


THREE Rangers casuals who went looking for trouble at an Alloa Athletic v
Aberdeen match were yesterday hit with football banning orders.

The men targeted last January's Scottish Cup clash as they thought there would
be a low police presence.

Cops turned them away from the Clackmannanshire team's Recreation Park after
they stood shouting anti-Aberdeen chants.

But they attacked away supporters just yards down the street at the end of the
game.

Known hooligan Elliot MacRae - who Rangers banned from Ibrox for life 10 years
ago - was yesterday banned from all UK football grounds for five years and given
150 hours of community service.

The Tullibody man, 39, and pals Leigh Wheater, 32, and Lee McKellican, 21, were
the only people out of 10 arrested during the fight to be taken to court.

Several Dons fans were left bleeding after the skirmish.

Wheater, of Tullibody, got a three-year ban and 150 hours' community service.
McKellican, of Alva, was banned for a year and fined pounds 300.

They were sentenced at Alloa Sheriff Court yesterday after being found guilty of
breach of the peace and football-related violence.

Procurator fiscal Andrew Grant said: "The imposition of banning orders will
protect genuine fans from being subjected to such behaviour."

Former prison warder MacRae has previously been alleged to be a leading figure
in the notorious Inter City Firm of football casuals.

He was first banned by Rangers in 1999 after being caught with a swastika flag
on a flight after a match in Spain.

He got a life ban by the club for attending a 2000 home match against Sturm
Graz.

And he was caught on camera in the thick of a clash with baton-wielding police
at a UEFA Cup game against Osasuna in March 2007.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGETED: Recreation Park in Alloa CLASHES: MacRae at the Osanuna v
Rangers match in Spain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 5, 2010 Friday

Website says people in Russian region fear fresh terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 609 words


Excerpt from report by Russian Kavkazskiy Uzel website, specializing in news
from the Caucasus, on 5 March

5 March: Local residents in Ingushetia are fearing that new terrorist attacks
await the republic following a special operation conducted by members of Russian
power-wielding agencies in the village of Ekazhevo on 3 March. During the
special operation, militants sustained losses and will most probably strike a
retaliatory blow in the near future.

If the killing of the ideologist of extremists, Said Buryatskiy (Aleksandr
Tikhomirov) is confirmed, their response may be even crueller.

According to information from security agencies, as a result of the special
operation a total of six militants were killed and 16 people were detained. It
transpired that five of them were Ingush policemen. According to preliminary
information, among the killed was the known militant Aleksandr Tikhomirov, more
known as Said Buryatskiy and Sheikh Said Abu Saad.

Rights activist Magomed Mutsolgov has said ordinary people believe that nothing
will change in the republic after the special operation, and that the problem of
killings and abductions of civilians cannot be solved in this way. If killed,
Buryatskiy will be replaced by someone else. The rights activist says he [Said]
will be replaced in the same way as [Chechen warlord] Shamil Basayev, killed in
July 2006, was replaced.

He believes that the structure of the resistance in the Caucasus does not depend
on one person. In addition, many do not believe that Said Buryatskiy is among
those killed. He has already "died": a video address was disseminated online, in
which he talked about his intention to become a martyr by blowing up the Nazran
town interior affairs department. However, as it became known later, another
suicide bomber died there.

At the moment, local journalists and rights activists are waiting for mourning
events to end so as to go to the site and learn the details of what happened -
the killed ones are being buried in the village where the special operation was
held.

The head of Maksimum news agency, Vakha Chapanov, who visited Ekazhevo, has
confirmed: people do not think that in the event of the death of Buryatskiy, the
situation in Ingushetia will stabilize.

[passage omitted: Chapanov is quoted as saying that no-one in the village will
cry for Buryatskiy as there is information that Buryatskiy had to do with a
number of terrorist attacks]

He tends to link the special operation conducted to the appearance yesterday in
Ingushetia of the country's prime minister, Vladimir Putin, and the presidential
plenipotentiary to the North Caucasus Federal District, Aleksandr Khloponin.

At the same time, the journalist adds: "I have doubts that it was Buryatskiy
that was killed. Security agencies cite as evidence the fact that he had two
passports on him: a Russian and a foreign one. I do not know why someone that
runs round forests and commits terrorist attacks would carry an ID on them.
Perhaps, of course, he had some plans for this weekend? Probably, what happened
is only a pretence of death."

[passage omitted: earlier report]

In the meantime, Chechen power-wielders confirm the information that Said
Buryatskiy was killed in Ingushetia. "The known terrorist Aleksandr Tikhomirov,
or as he called himself, Said Buryatskiy, was killed as a result of a successful
special operation which was conducted in the village of Ekazhevo in Nazranovskiy
District. One can now say this with full confidence," a source in the Chechen
Interior Ministry told a Kavkazskiy Uzel correspondent.

[passage omitted: Buryatskiy's biography]

Source: Kavkaz-uzel.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 5 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                       March 5, 2010 Friday 03:38 PM GMT

Terror attacks top last 15 years' online news searches

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 206 words


The September 11 terrorist attacks, cloning and the Iraq war top a list of
online news searches in the last 15 years, a new study shows.

Saddam Hussein, Harry Potter and the deaths of Michael Jackson and Australian
conservationist Steve Irwin were also hot topics, according to the list released
by internet company Yahoo! to mark its 15th birthday.

The figures also reveal that the number of websites has reached an estimated 200
million from just 18,000 in 1995, with the number of users increasing from 10
million globally, or less than 0.33% of the world's population, 15 years ago to
the current 1.6 billion or 25%, Yahoo! said.

Yahoo! co-founders Jerry Yang and David Filo said: "These numbers are
astonishing, but even more important and more exciting is the impact that the
internet is having on so many people around the world.

"From socio-economic opportunities to more accessible healthcare to educating
the next generation and beyond, the internet has changed the way we live, work
and learn."

The top 10 news searches in the last 15 years according to Yahoo! are:

1. September 11

2. Cloning

3. Iraq war

4. Saddam Hussein

5. Harry Potter book releases

6. Michael Jackson death

7. Steve Irwin death

8. Tsunami

9. Enron scandal

10. The Millennium

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              March 5, 2010 Friday

Islamist terrorists jailed for plot to attack US targets in Germany

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 345 words


Two German converts to Islam and two Turkish men were convicted yesterday over a
foiled 2007 plot to attack US targets in Germany, and given prison sentences
ranging up to 12 years.

The four men, operating as a German cell of the radical Islamic Jihad Union, had
plotted bombing attacks against American citizens and facilities, including the
US Air Force's Ramstein air base in Germany, the Dusseldorf state court found.

The case "has shown with frightening clarity what acts young people who are
filled with hatred, blinded and seduced by wrong-headed ideas of jihad are
prepared and able to carry out", Judge Ottmar Breidling said.

Three of the defendants - Fritz Gelowicz, 30, and Daniel Schneider, 24, both
German converts to Islam, and Turkish citizen Adem Yilmaz, 31 - were convicted
of membership of a terrorist organisation, while 25-year-old Turkish citizen
Attila Selek was convicted of supporting a terrorist organisation. All four were
also convicted of preparing explosive devices and conspiracy to commit murder.

They had confessed during the trial, which began in April, and showed no
reaction as Breidling announced the verdict in a high-security courtroom.

Gelowicz and Schneider were sentenced to 12 years in prison, Yilmaz to 11 years
and Selek to five.

The judge said the planned attacks could have been on a par with the 2005 London
transport bombings or the 2004 Madrid train bombings.

Had they succeeded, "there would have been a terrible bloodbath with an
incredibly high of number of dead and injured, above all members of the US army
but also civilians", Breidling said.

The defendants' goal was not only to attack Americans - for example at bars,
discos and other public places - but also to influence a German parliamentary
vote in October 2007 on extending the country's military deployment in
Afghanistan, the court found. As part of the judgment, the four were also found
guilty of attempting to coerce parliament.

Captions:

12

Islamic converts Fritz Gelowicz and Daniel Schneider received 12-year sentences
over a foiled attack on US targets in Germany

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                              March 5, 2010 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Four jailed for plotting terror attacks in Germany

BYLINE: MELISSA EDDY DUSSELDORF

SECTION: WOR; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 307 words


Two German converts to Islam and two Turkish men have been convicted over a
foiled plot to attack US targets in Germany and given prison sentences ranging
up to 12 years.

The four men, operating as a German cell of the radical Islamic Jihad Union, had
plotted bombing attacks against American citizens and facilities including the
US Air Force s Ramstein base in Germany, the Duesseldorf state court found.

The case  has shown with frightening clarity what acts young people who are
filled with hatred, blinded and seduced by wrong-headed ideas of jihad are
prepared and able to carry out,  Judge Ottmar Breidling said.

Three of the defendants   Fritz Gelowicz, 30, and 24-year-old Daniel Schneider,
both German converts to Islam, and Turkish citizen Adem Yilmaz, 31   were
convicted of membership in a terrorist organisation, while 25-year-old Turkish
citizen Attila Selek was convicted of supporting a terrorist organisation.

All four were yesterday convicted of preparing explosive devices and conspiracy
to commit murder in 2007.

They had confessed during the trial, which began in April, and showed no
reaction yesterday as Breidling announced the verdict in a high-security
courtroom. Gelowicz and Schneider were sentenced to 12 years in prison, Yilmaz
to 11 years and Selek to five.

The judge said the planned attacks could have been on a par with the 2005 London
transport bombings or the 2004 Madrid train bombings. Had they succeeded,  there
would have been a terrible bloodbath with an incredibly high number of dead and
injured, above all members of the US army, but also civilians,  Breidling said.

The defendants  goal was not only to attack Americans   for example at pubs,
discos and other public places   but also to influence a German parliamentary
vote in October 2007 on extending the country s military deployment in
Afghanistan. AP

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: herald


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Lancaster Evening Post

                              March 5, 2010 Friday

Terrorist 'attack' for businesses

LENGTH: 144 words



HIGHLIGHT: Businesses in Lancaster and Morecambe took part in a simulated
terrorist attack to help them cope with dangerous situations.


The skills learnt during the three-hour session are used to help businesses deal
with other risks, such as flooding, fire or gas leaks.

The workshop was part of Project Argus, a National Counter-Terrorism Security
Office initiative which highlights the importance of being prepared to help
safeguard staff, customers and company assets.

A number of businesses took part in the free Lancashire Constabulary and
Lancaster City Council workshop, aimed at raising the awareness of employees to
prevent, handle and recover from a terrorist attack.

Det Chief Insp Neil Gregson of Lancaster Police said: "The multi-media
simulation of a terrorist attack provided the audience with a series of
questions and dilemmas to resolve.

"The knowledge taken away from the session could save lives - but it can also be
used when dealing with the more common risks those businesses face."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PRES


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday

Afghan paper criticizes ban on live broadcast of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 527 words


Text of an editorial in Dari entitled: "The sound of iron steps of censorship",
published by Afghan independent secular daily newspaper Hasht-e Sobh on 3 March

In a letter sent to all broadcast media in the country, the Interior Ministry
has asked that television channels not broadcast live scenes from incidents such
as the terrorist attack on Kabul last Friday. The ministry has argued that live
broadcast of such incidents can help the insurgents.

What is unclear is the legal basis on which this order is issued. Should the
media accept this as an unconstitutional order regulating their activities?

Moreover, it is not known whether the Taleban, or insurgents as referred to by
the Ministry, benefit from the live broadcast of such incidents or whether not
showing such scenes helps them and enables them to exaggerate their success.

In the absence of accurate news reports, rumours spread automatically and
security forces can never stop people from spreading rumours especially when an
enemy affiliated to a country that breeds terrorism is waiting for such an
opportunity.

If for security reasons a scene from an incident or a news report cannot be
broadcast or published, security officials can request that the media not
broadcast or publish it (if the media has been informed beforehand). However,
this cannot be the norm. Freedom is not a desired value only for people or
journalists but it is also a good method for the government to ensure security
and justice because the government knows when the people know [as published].

Now let us pretend that a medium does not obey this order and broadcasts such a
scene. Will the Interior Ministry accuse that medium of having committed a
crime? The answer is in the negative because the constitution clearly says that
no action can be described as a crime unless a law defining that particular
action as crime has been passed already. If the Interior Ministry considers its
orders, instructions and verbal notes to be law, all directorates, even the
lowest-level units, can exercise the same right. This can then only be described
as security anarchy and only God knows how far reaching its effects would be.

The Information and Culture Ministry announced two days ago that in order to
stop immorality from spreading in society, a number of Internet sites would be
banned. Today, the Interior Ministry imposed a ban on live broadcast of
terrorist attacks for security reasons. Tomorrow, another institution will ban
reports about the rape of a woman by the mullah of a mosque in Konduz Province
or the sexual assault on a 13-year-old girl by the chief judge of Logar Province
or the sexual assault by another mullah in Daikondi Province and other similar
incidents, describing it as dangerous and an insult to religious scholars.

Everyone will begin to issue decrees, rendering the need for a parliament and
judiciary redundant. We will no longer need to respect any laws. Or perhaps
these are initial steps to deprive people of their right to exercise freedom of
expression, which has always been a hot topic for rulers in Afghanistan. Maybe,
maybe and maybe.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, in Dari 3 Mar 10, p 2

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday

Singapore on full alert for terrorist attack

BYLINE: ALEX KENNEDY

LENGTH: 120 words



HIGHLIGHT:  SINGAPORE  bolstered its defences yesterday  after receiving
information of a terrorist plot to attack vessels off the coast of the
city-state in one of the world's busiest shipping lanes, a cabinet minister
said.


Malaysia and Indonesia have also stepped up maritime and air patrols in the
Malacca Strait, where millions of barrels of oil pass daily. Singapore's navy
warned that a terrorist group was planning attacks on  tankers and other vessels
but gave no details.

"All alert levels have been raised," home affairs minister Wong Kan Seng told
parliament, saying that the government has increased security at border
crossings, airports, sea ports and at high-risk targets such as two new casino
resorts.

Until about a year ago, the strait was infested with pirates that hijacked
ships, and such attacks were a regular occurrence. But joint operations by
security forces of countries around the waterway has all but ended such attacks.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 7, 2010 Sunday

Rwanda: Arrest of grenade attacks suspect said major blow to "terrorist" groups

LENGTH: 375 words


Text of report in English by our reporter entitled "Deo Mushayidi's arrest major
blow to terrorists' alliances" published by Rwandan newspaper The New Times
website on 7 March

Kigali - The arrest and transfer to Rwanda of terror suspect Deo Mushayidi, has
dealt a heavy blow to a host of terrorist groups operating in the region.

Though Mushayidi was arrested in Burundi and extradited on Friday, according to
security sources, he had been criss-crossing the region for the past year in a
bid to set up a network for his armed group, PDP-Imanzi.

Prosecutor General, Martin Ngoga, announced shortly after the arrest that
Mushayidi had been working closely with renegade former army officers, Gen.
Kayumba Nyamwasa and Patrick Karegyeya, said to be behind the recent grenade
attacks in the country. Mushayidi has had a long history of alliances and
collaborations with terrorist organizations targeting Rwanda.

Before Mushayidi moved to the region, he was based in Belgium where he ran
intoxication campaigns against the Rwandan government on behalf of several
organizations allied to the rebel FDLR and former senior members of the
Habyarimana regime.

Mushayidi joined forces with the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda
(FDLR), remnants of the Ex-FAR and Interahamwe militia responsible for the 1994
Genocide against the Tutsi.

Between 2001 and 2002, he went into alliances with a number of groups, mainly in
Europe coalescing around the FDLR. Most of the time he has acted as Secretary
General and spokesman for these groups

In 2004, Mushayidi decided to form PDN-Igihango becoming the Secretary General
and went into an alliance with Lt. Col. Christophe Hakizabera's faction,
FDLR-CMC.

In 2008, PDN joined forces with Gen Emmanuel Habyarimana, Theobald Rwaka, and
another offshoot of the FDLR, RUD-Urunana to form Partenariat Intwari. Again
Mushayidi was elected Secretary General. Later, Deo Mushayidi decided to go his
own way, announcing the launch of his own violent activities, under the
PDP-Imanzi banner in 2009.

He claimed several times, on his internet postings, that he was carrying out
military operations in Rwanda and that his headquarters were at Kinihira, in
northern Rwanda.

Source: The New Times website, Kigali, in English 7 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 7, 2010 Sunday

Afghan human rights groups slam ban on live coverage of terror attacks

LENGTH: 812 words


Text of a report by Zafar Shah Royee in Dari entitled: "Civil and media
institutions should act collectively to prevent ban on media", published by
Afghan independent secular daily newspaper Hasht-e Sobh on 4 March; the original
subheading retained.

After security officials asked media groups to stop live broadcast of terrorist
attacks, civil and human rights institutions called the move as contrary to the
constitution, saying that the Afghan government should respect people's rights
to access information.

Recently, the Afghan Interior Ministry sent a letter to TV networks, asking them
to avoid live broadcast of security events. The National Directorate of Security
also announced that journalists would be arrested and have their equipment
confiscated, if they covered insurgent attacks.

This move has provoked reactions from media groups, domestic civil institutions
and the international community. These institutions view the ban on media
reporting of attacks as contrary to the Afghan government's pledges to support
freedom of expression.

Jamila Omar, the head of a human rights protection group, says that the Afghan
government is obliged to respect the constitution and media laws and it should
not deprive people of accessing information. She adds that respecting the right
to information and freedom of expression is mentioned in the country's laws as
well as in international agreements. Therefore, the Afghan government should
respect the law [she said].

Jamila Omar adds: "When the Afghan government gives such instructions and
ignores human rights and public demands, it is clear that it acts against the
country's laws." She insists that violating laws in the country is not a new
topic and has happened many times. She says no strong reaction has been shown to
the government's attempts to limit media activities. Consequently, media
activities are being gradually restricted [she said].

Dr Mohammad Saeed Niazi, the head of a development centre for civil societies,
believes that the recent act of the security bodies restricts freedom of
expression. He says security bodies do not have the right to directly send
letters to the broadcast media. Niazi adds that there is a committee which
observes media activities and security officials should raise the issue and
convey their ideas through this committee. He says that live reports which do
not have a direct impact on the security situation or intelligence activities
must not be banned.

Hiding incapability

Security officials say that live broadcast of terrorist attacks will have a
negative impact on the security situation, but media people and authorities of
civil institutions believe that security bodies are trying to cover their
weaknesses. The head of a human rights group says that coverage of the recent
Kabul attack by the broadcast media showed the incapability of police. This has
led the security bodies to restrict media activities.

Jamila Omar adds: "When the Friday incident happened, some journalists were able
to reach the area quickly and they recorded what police and security forces were
doing in the region. This was showing the police's lack of awareness of the
incident. Airing such reports can show the government's weakness, particularly
the shortcomings of the Interior Ministry and Afghan police. That is why the
security bodies tried to impose restrictions to prevent such issues being
raised."

She emphasizes that if access to information is restrained, the opposition will
take advantage of this and attract media attention. Jamila Omar says the Afghan
government will not be able to prevent broadcast of such incidents outside the
country, even if it is successful in imposing such restrictions [at home].

The decision [on the media reporting ban] was made after the recent terrorist
attack in Kabul. About 17 people were killed and 38 others wounded by the
attack. The decision was also made after a number of broadcast media outlets
presented live reports of the recent attacks.

Wahid Omar, presidential spokesman, said at a news conference on Tuesday that
the decision had been taken to protect the lives of journalists. However,
reports by human rights organizations show that most of the violence against
journalists is done by government authorities.

Meanwhile, activists of civil institutions say that the civil and media
organizations have failed to react strongly and in a coordinated way to the
imposition of restrictions on media, which is why the government is trying to
[further] restrain media activities.

Saeed Niazi says that all civil institutions have the responsibility to resist
[such] government acts and prevent bans on media reports. Jamila Omar also
states that to remove the restriction, media and civil institutions, as well as
human rights organizations, must act collectively and show their reaction.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, in Dari 4 Mar 10, p 5

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        March 7, 2010 Sunday 5:19 PM BST

MILIBAND CONDEMNS IRAQ ELECTION DAY TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Andrew Woodcock, Press Association Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 369 words


Foreign Secretary David Miliband condemned terror attacks which killed 36 people
as Iraq went to the polls today.

But Mr Miliband said that the parliamentary elections were an indication of the
``significant democratic progress'' made in Iraq since the 2003 war which
toppled Saddam Hussein.

It was too early to say whether the elections were free and fair, but initial
reports were ``encouraging'', said the Foreign Secretary.

About 6,200 candidates are competing for 325 seats in the new Parliament, in the
second such elections since the US-led invasion seven years ago this month.

Some 19 million Iraqis are eligible to vote in a poll which it is hoped will
help the country move beyond the sectarian divisions which marked the
post-invasion years.

At least 14 people died as an explosion destroyed a building in Baghdad, while
seven others were killed in mortar attacks and three when a hand-grenade was
thrown into a crowd of voters elsewhere in the Iraqi capital. A bomb in the city
of Mahmoudiya killed a policeman inside a polling station, and explosions were
reported in other parts of the country.

In a statement issued by the Foreign Office in London, Mr Miliband said: ``The
British Government has been following very closely the elections in Iraq.

``The determination to vote has been significant, but the violence and loss of
life shows the extent of the challenge faced by the Iraqi people. We condemn all
terrorist attacks without reservation.''

He added: ``Today's elections follow a vibrant election campaign and underscore
the significant democratic progress across the country. The Iraqi people, voting
in their millions, have made clear they want an effective, accountable and
inclusive government, and one which acts in truly national, not sectarian
interests.

``The Iraqi people deserve our congratulations.

``It is too early to reach a conclusion on the freedom and fairness of the
election or on turnout, but I can say that initial reports are encouraging and
that we and our EU partners will be fair and open in our final assessment.

``I hope that, after the results have been confirmed by Iraq's Independent High
Electoral Commission, a government will be formed whose aim is to serve all
Iraqis.''

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              March 8, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

Miliband fury at Iraqi poll terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 187 words


FOREIGN Secretary David Miliband condemned terror attacks which killed 36 people
as Iraqis went to the polls.

But Mr Miliband said that the parliamentary elections were an indication of the
"significant democratic progress" made in Iraq since the 2003 war which toppled
Saddam Hussein.

It was too early to say whether the elections were free and fair, but initial
reports were "encouraging", said the Foreign Secretary.

About 6,200 candidates are competing for 325 seats in the new Parliament, in the
second such elections since the US-led invasion seven years ago this month.

Anger: Milliband.

Some 19 million Iraqis are eligible to vote in a poll which it is hoped will
help the country move beyond the sectarian divisions which marked the
postinvasion years.

At least 14 people died as an explosion destroyed a building in Baghdad, while
seven others were killed in mortar attacks and three when a hand-grenade was
thrown into a crowd of voters elsewhere in the Iraqi capital. A bomb in the city
of Mahmoudiya killed a policeman inside a polling station, and explosions were
reported in other parts of the country.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2010 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                              March 8, 2010 Monday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Polling station terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 140 words


FOREIGN Secretary David Miliband condemned terror attacks which killed 36 people
as Iraq went to the polls yesterday. But Mr Miliband said that the elections
were an indication of the "significant democratic progress" made in Iraq since
the 2003 war which toppled Saddam Hussein. It was too early to say whether the
elections were free and fair, but initial reports were "encouraging", said the
Foreign Secretary. Some 19 million Iraqis are eligible to vote in a poll which
it is hoped will help the country move beyond the sectarian divisions which
marked the post-invasion years. At least 14 people died as an explosion
destroyed a building in Baghdad, while seven others were killed in mortar
attacks and three when a handgrenade was thrown into a crowd of voters. A bomb
in the city of Mahmoudiya killed a policeman inside a polling station.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                              March 8, 2010 Monday
                                Nuneaton Edition

U.S. terror attack is top online search

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 191 words


THE September 11 terrorist attacks, cloning and the Iraq war top a list of
online news searches in the last 15 years, a new study shows.

Saddam Hussein, Harry Potter and the deaths of Michael Jackson and Australian
conservationist Steve Irwin were also hot topics, according to the list released
by internet company Yahoo! to mark its 15th birthday.

The figures also reveal that the number of websites has reached an estimated 200
million from just 18,000 in 1995, with the number of users increasing from 10
million globally, or less than 0.33% of the world's population, 15 years ago to
the current 1.6 billion or 25%, Yahoo! said.

Yahoo! co-founders Jerry Yang and David Filo said: "These numbers are
astonishing, but even more important and more exciting is the impact that the
internet is having on so many people around the world.

"From socio-economic opportunities to more accessible healthcare to educating
the next generation and beyond, the internet has changed the way we live, work
and learn."

The top 10 news searches in the last 15 years according to Yahoo! are: 1.
September 11 2. Cloning 3. Iraq war 4. Saddam Hussein 5. Harry Potter books

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                              March 8, 2010 Monday

Iraqi poll marred by violence as 38 killed in terror attacks

BYLINE: Suadad al-Salhy and Missy Ryan

LENGTH: 563 words



HIGHLIGHT: MILLIONS of Iraqis went to the polls in parliamentary elections
yesterday, as bomb and rocket attacks aimed at intimidating  voters killed at
least 38 people.


&#149 A voter shows hi ink-stained finger after voting at a polling station in
Baghdad Picture: Getty

Blasts rumbled across Baghdad and other cities as mortar rounds, rockets and
roadside bombs exploded near polling stations in a campaign to scare voters
after Sunni Islamist insurgents had vowed to wreck voting for Iraq's second
full-term parliament since the 2003 invasion.

Polls closed at 5pm local time, ending  ten hours of balloting in which 19
million people were eligible to take part. UN officials said  the results could
take three days.

Iraq's  election is being watched closely by oil companies planning to invest
billions in the country.

US President Barack Obama plans to halve US troop levels over the next five
months and withdraw entirely by the end of 2011.

In the  worst incident, 25 people were killed when an explosion blew up a
three-storey Baghdad apartment block. Rescuers pulled bodies from the concrete
as a woman  screamed for help.

Four people were killed in a similar explosion and nine others were killed in
rocket, mortar and roadside bomb attacks.

Despite the violence, the US military said insurgents had "fallen short" in
attempts to intimidate voters. Iraq's Independent High Electoral Commission said
two polling stations  were closed briefly for security reasons.

The Islamic State of Iraq, an al-Qaeda affiliate, had warned Iraqis not to vote
and vowed to attack those who defied them.

The 96,000 US troops still in Iraq stayed in the background, underscoring the
waning  US role in the country, but US helicopter gunships provided support.

Voters in the ethnically and religiously divided country were given a choice
between Shi'ite Islamist parties that have dominated Iraq since Saddam Hussein's
fall and secular rivals.

Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, a Shi'ite, urged all parties to accept the
results. "He who wins today may lose tomorrow, and he who loses today may win
tomorrow," he said after casting his ballot in the fortified Green Zone.

One of Mr Maliki's opponents, ex-prime minister Iyad Allawi, has already
complained of voting irregularities. Mr  Allawi's secular party  hopes to gain
support from the once-privileged Sunni minority on the back of exasperation with
years of conflict, poor public services and corruption.

About 6,200 candidates from 86 factions are vying for 325 parliamentary seats.
No  party is expected to win a majority and it may take months to form a
government.

"Today is the day when Iraqis speak while others keep silent," declared Ammar
al-Hakim, Shi'ite leader of the Supreme Islamic Iraqi Council (ISCI), after
voting.

Mr Maliki, whose State of Law coalition is claiming credit for improved security
since sectarian warfare peaked in 2006-7, faces a challenge from ISCI and his
other former Shi'ite allies, derided by Sunni militants as pawns of neighbouring
Iran.

Anti-American Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, speaking at a news conference in
Tehran, said holding an election under the "shadow of occupation" was
illegitimate, but urged Iraqis to vote anyway to pave the way for "liberation"
from US forces.

In contrast to the previous election in 2005, Iraqis can vote for individual
candidates this time, not just party lists.

Abdul Rasheed al-Tamimi, a labourer in  Najaf, said: "I'm only voting because
it's an open list and I know the candidate personally. I can hold him to account
if he breaks his pledges."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 9, 2010 Tuesday

Indian intelligence warns of possible terror attacks in four cities

LENGTH: 468 words


Text of report by Namrata Biji Ahuja headlined "Delhi & 3 Top Metros Put on IM
Terror Alert" published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 9 March

New Delhi, March 8: The Centre [federal government] on Monday [8 March] sounded
an alert in New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Bengaluru warning of possible terror
attacks in these metropolises following the sustained interrogation of suspected
Indian Mujahideen [IM] militant Salman Ahmed.

Salman is believed to have told his interrogators of the IM gameplan of
targeting these cities, saying that some key IM operatives were in Pakistan,
where the outfit was getting the support of terrorist outfits based in that
country. Top government sources said the Intelligence Bureau had shared details
of Salman's interrogation with the home ministry, after which the alert has been
issued.

"Some IM operatives are in Pakistan and some in India. The Bhatkal brothers,
Iqbal and Riyaz, are out and there are one or two others. We have a trace on
them and we are trying to nab them wherever they are," the sources said. Two
more suspected Indian Mujahideen terrorists were arrested by the security forces
on Monday. The suspected IM cadres, who are residents of Uttar Pradesh, were
arrested along the Indo-Bangladesh border. "We suspect they were returning to
India via Bangladesh after getting training in Pakistan," a home ministry
official said.

Salman, who is in the custody of the Delhi police, has told his interrogators
that the IM cadres are going to Pakistan for training and are using Nepal and
West Asian countries as a "base" before travelling back to India. Salman,
suspected for his involvement in serial blasts in New Delhi, Ahmedabad, Varanasi
and Gorakhpur, had left Pakistan a year ago. A Nepali passport and an
international SIM card has been recovered from him.

The intelligence officials are piecing together information to establish the
close links of the IM and the Pakistan-based Lashkar-i-Toiba [LT] - which also
came to light during the interrogation of US-based LT terror suspect David
Coleman Headley by America's FBI. Headley, who has been indicted by the FBI for
his role in the 26/11 terror attack in Mumbai, had spoken about the "Karachi
project" -- under which Indian youths are being sent to Pakistan for terrorist
training and then being pushed back to this country to carry out subversive
activities.

"Salman has shared some information with us but since he left Pakistan more than
a year ago, there is no tactical value to his present claims," an intelligence
official said. Home Ministry officials, however, said they are not taking any
chances and have alerted the state governments of Maharashtra, West Bengal and
Karnataka to take all necessary security measures immediately.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 09 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                             March 9, 2010 Tuesday

Ricin Racist Who Planned Terror Attack

BYLINE: Copytaker 3

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 395 words


A WHITE supremacist is facing years behind bars after admitting a series of
terrorism charges.

Trucker Ian Davison was found with lethal chemical weapon ricin when anti-terror
police raided his North East home.

Now the 41-year-old has admitted six terrorism charges at Newcastle Crown Court
and was warned by a judge to expect prison.

Flanked by four prison guards from High Security Frankland Prison, Davison
pleaded guilty to offences including preparing for acts of terrorism and
producing ricin.

Davison had been arrested when officers raided his home in Burnopfield, County
Durham, last summer.

His son, Nicky, denies two linked charges and will stand trial next month.

Judge John Milford said: "Ian Davison, doubtless you have been told only custody
can follow. You will be sentenced after your son's trial has concluded."

Anti-terror police had raided Davison Snr's home in Myrtle Grove, Burnopfield,
last June.

A jam jar of poisonous ricin was found along with a number of documents linking
the white supremacist with terrorism.

Now he has entered guilty pleas to six charges in relation to the material
found.

He admitted preparing for acts of terrorism between January 1 2006 and June 3
2009, in that he intended to commit acts of terrorism or assisting others to do
so.

He also admitted producing a chemical weapon, namely ricin, between January 06
and June 09.

Davison Snr further admitted possessing electronic copies of three documents
which contained information on how to produce explosives.

The documents were called The Anarchists Cookbook, Kitchen Complete and The
Mujahadeen Explosives Handbook, which were all found when police carried out
their raid last year.

The 41-year-old also pleaded guilty to possession of a prohibited weapon, namely
a spray canister which was designed to discharge of noxious liquid or gas.

Toby Hedworth QC, for Davison Snr, said his client's role in the white
supremacist organisation he was involved with was  in respect of propaganda'.

Mr Hedworth asked for a psychiatric report to be carried out on his client
before he is sentenced.

Davison Jnr, 19, of Grampian Way, Annfield Plain, County Durham, denies two
charges of having documents useful to a person preparing for acts of terrorism.

He will stand trial on April 12 and was released on conditional bail.

Davison Snr was further remanded in custody until the end of his son's case.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       March 9, 2010 Tuesday 3:07 PM BST

FIVE 'ARRESTED DAYS BEFORE LAUNCHING UK TERROR ATTACK'

BYLINE: Margaret Davis, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 581 words


Five men linked to a UK terror plot which would cause ``mass casualties'' were
arrested days before they planned to strike, a court heard today.

A British intelligence officer, identified only as ZR, told the Special
Immigration Appeals Commission that the group was set to stage an atrocity
between April 15 and 20 last year.

He told the hearing that Abid Naseer exchanged coded emails with an al Qaida
operative called Sohaib while planning the attack.

The pair used girls' names to cover their tracks, the officer said.

He told the hearing: ``On the face of it the emails are designed to look,
without knowledge of the surrounding context, they're designed to look like
correspondence between two people about girls.''

ZR went on: ``I don't assess this to be two young men simply talking about
girls. I think it's two people discussing attack planning on behalf of al
Qaida.''

Naseer and Ahmed Faraz Khan are appealing against their deportation to Pakistan
on the grounds that they are a national security risk.

Another three men - Shoaib Khan, Abdul Wahab Khan and Tariq Ur Rehman - have
already been sent back to the country and are appealing to return to the UK.

ZR compared the alleged plan to the July 7 attacks and the airline bomb plot,
but refused to reveal details of the similarities in open court.

He said: ``The overarching similar fashion was that they were all planning a
terrorist attack in the UK under the direction of al Qaida and these were aiming
for mass casualties.''

The officer went on: ``I'm comfortable that there are similarities between those
plots and I'm comfortable to talk about that in closed session.''

Representing Naseer, Joel Bennathan QC said Naseer and Sohaib used women's names
because as Muslim men this was the only way they could access certain websites.

The subject of two of the emails was ``Sohaib here'', which showed they had
nothing to hide, he said.

Mr Bannathan told ZR: ``You know, don't you, that in Pakistan in public, senior
figures in the Pakistani government have been saying 'these boys are innocent,
they should be allowed to carry on with their studies'.''

The officer replied: ``The claims that these individuals are not involved in
terrorism are wrong.''

MI5 claims that in their e-mails Naseer, 23, and Sohaib used names of
girlfriends to refer to different explosive materials needed for homemade bombs.

They also mentioned a wedding which was in fact the alleged attack, the security
service maintains.

Mr Bennathan read excerpts to the court which said: ``Gulnaz sounds OK but she's
fond of money and in order to approach her I must find work.''

Another read: ``Fozia is sometimes bulls***. She lets you down sometimes.''

He asked ZR how Sohaib would have known what the code words meant, but the
officer would not comment.

In other plots members of the terror cell had gone abroad to learn how to make
bombs and had amassed the necessary materials weeks in advance, Mr Bennathan
told the hearing.

But no bomb-making equipment or ingredients were found in this case and the
security services claim Naseer was getting advice via e-mail on how to make a
device.

Again, ZR said he could not respond in open court.

The five men were arrested during anti-terror raids in Manchester and Liverpool
in April last year.

MI5 was forced to swoop early after Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner
Bob Quick accidentally showed secret documents with details of the plan to
photographers outside Downing Street.

The hearing was adjourned until tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 10, 2010 Wednesday

Daily report says Pakistan-based militant funding terror attacks in India

LENGTH: 324 words


Text of report by Pramod Kumar headlined "LeT's Qama is 'banker' to terror plans
in India" published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 10 March

New Delhi, 9 March: India's most wanted terrorist Abu Al Qama, a Lashkar-i-Toiba
[LeT] commander based in Pakistan-Administered Kashmir who was also allegedly
involved in 26/11 [26 November, 2008] terror attacks, has been playing a key
role in "transferring funds" to terrorists for carrying out terror activities in
India.

The central [federal] intelligence agencies have decided to question two
recently arrested Indian Mujahideen [Indian Mujahidin] suspected terrorists -
Sahzada and Salman - regarding the role of Abu Al Qama and another LeT terrorist
Abdul Karim Tunda in recent blasts in the country.

Central intelligence agencies are also questioning Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami
(HuJI) [Harkatul-Jihad-al-Islam] top commander Amjad Khwaja, recently picked by
Indian agencies from Colombo, about the role of Al Qama and Tunda in terror
funding.

Latest investigation by the central agencies reveal that Qama and Tunda, both
operating from Pakistan, are the pointmen of the LeT, responsible for
transferring funds to militants belonging to LeT, Indian Mujahideen and Hijbul
Mujahideen [Hizbul Mujahidin], for carrying out terror activities in the
country, sources said. Both operate on the directions of the Pakistan's ISI
[Inter-Services Intelligence].

Central agencies investigating the fund trail of 2005 Delhi serial blasts, which
had claimed 67 lives and left over 225 injured, reveal that Qama sent 5.5 lakh
rupees [12,105 dollars], 14.9 lakh rupees [32794 dollars] and 23.5 lakh rupees
[51,713 dollars] in three instalments on 15 October 2005, just 14 days before
the blast, through hawala [private/informal money transfer] channels from Dubai.
The money was later received by two suspects Gulam Ahmad Khan and Farooq Ahmad.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 10 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 10, 2010 Wednesday

US condemns terror attack at NGO office in northwest Pakistan

LENGTH: 85 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 10 March: The US embassy on Wednesday [10 March] strongly condemned
the terrorist attack targeting the World Vision office in North-West Frontier
Province district of Mansehra.

"We extend our deepest sympathy to the injured and our condolences to the
families and friends of those who lost their lives," the embassy statement said
issued here.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1216gmt
10 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            March 10, 2010 Wednesday

999 teams' ability to handle terror attack under review

BYLINE: David Leask

LENGTH: 156 words



HIGHLIGHT: SCOTLAND'S readiness to deal with  the aftermath of a terror attack
is to be assessed in a major review.


Government inspectors of  police, fire and the NHS will carry out a joint review
of procedures in the emergency services.

They will focus on the "blue light" services - police, fire and ambulance - and
the ability of  accident and emergency departments to deal with large numbers of
casualties.

Her Majesty's Inspector of Constabulary in Scotland, Bill Skelly, yesterday told
The Scotsman that he was already planning a joint  inspection with the Scottish
Government's fire advisory board and NHS Quality Improvement Scotland, the
health watchdog.

Mr Skelly said: "This is going to be a big job for us over the next six months.

"There has been a lot of investment in Scotland on how various areas are
prepared for an incident. We are going to do a joint inspection. We are at the
planning stage.

"Essentially we are talking about the preparedness of the blue light services,
including the ambulance service, but also of  accident and emergency."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Tamworth Herald

                                 March 11, 2010

Hotline plea on terror attack threat

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 233  words


Police in Staffordshire are urging the public to call a confidential
Anti-Terrorist Hotline if they suspect suspicious activity.

The number is 0800 789321 and is staffed by specialists round-the-clock.

"The threat from all types of terrorism and violent extremism continues and we
cannot afford to be complacent," said Assistant Chief Constable Mick Harrison.

"We have seen that terrorists can strike anywhere at any time, so everyone needs
to play their part."

The appeal comes at the start of a nationwide campaign, funded by the
Association of Chief Police Officers, to raise awareness of the number.

The campaign was not launched as a result of any specific threat, although the
security level across the country was upgraded to 'severe' in January.

Police believe the public can play a vital part in providing information which
could help disrupt terrorist planning.

"Calls from the public have proved vital in the past so we would much rather
people ring the Anti-Terrorist Hotline and it turn out to be nothing for us to
worry about, than us risk missing something important," added ACC Harrison.

"The security situation is categorised as severe - meaning a terrorist attack is
highly likely - and it is the responsibility of everyone to help keep our
communities safe."

Callers to the hotline can speak in confidence to officers to discuss their
concerns. The number should not be used for emergencies.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 52


                    Copyright 2010 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 12, 2010 Friday

Philippines on alert for attacks after Indonesia terror suspect's death

LENGTH: 200 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Philippine Star website on
12 March

ZAMBOANGA CITY , Philippines -Government forces are on heightened alert to avert
possible sympathy attacks from the Abu Sayyaf, a group linked with the Jemaah
Islamiyah (JI), following the death of Dulmatin, JI's alleged master bomb maker,
in a police raid in Indonesia last Tuesday.

Lt. Gen. Ben Dolorfino, chief of the Western Mindanao Command, said surgical
strikes against the JI and the Abu Sayyaf continues in areas in Mindanao where
Dulmatin sought refuge after escaping from Indonesia following the 2002 Bali
bombings that left 202 tourists killed and dozens injured.

Dulmatin, a 39-year-old Indonesian trained by al-Qaeda in Afghanistan, was
wanted for the suicide bombings that tore through two Bali nightclubs popular
with Westerners.

Reports said when Dulmatin came to Mindanao, he trained the Abu Sayyaf militants
in bomb-making.

Brig. Gen. Rustico Guerrero, commander of the anti-terror Task Force Comet based
in Jolo, Sulu, a known lair of the remaining Abu Sayyaf groups, said his forces
have been implementing strict security measures.

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 12 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Edinburgh News

                             March 12, 2010 Friday

Victim tells of dogs attack terror

BYLINE: LAURA CUMMINGS

LENGTH: 411 words



HIGHLIGHT: A WOMAN who was savagely attacked by two out-of-control dogs told
today how she feared they were going to maul her to death.


Kate Robertson, 47, was walking her dog Ben, a Border terrier, in woods near her
home at Wallyford Bing, East Lothian, when the attack happened.

Ms Robertson was left with a black eye and a puncture wound to her neck after
desperately trying to protect her six-year-old pet from the "vicious" dogs,
which Ms Robertson said looked like pit bull terriers - a banned breed.

The attack has increased calls for more powers to crack down on dangerous dogs
and comes in the wake of news that attacks by dogs - either on humans or on
other animals - are soaring in Edinburgh. At least one violent incident is now
reported every week.

Ms Robertson, a project worker for adults with learning disabilities, said she
feared for her life in the attack last Thursday.

"My little dog stopped still, so I followed his line of vision and there was
what looked like a pit bull terrier standing watching him," she said. "I'm only
4ft 11in, but I lifted Ben up above my head, then another 'pit bull' came. They
were jumping up trying to get him and I lost my balance and fell. I was able to
lie on top of Ben to protect him. I knew what they would have done to him - they
would have ripped him apart."

Ms Robertson suffered two bites and scratches to her left hand, as well as
several scratches to her left arm and face, and a cut lip. Ben was bitten on the
tail.

She added: "I was screaming for somebody to help me and it seemed like forever
before the owner came and pulled them off me. He must have seen the state of me
- I was covered in blood and muck - and he just went away with the dogs, which
weren't on a lead. I was traumatised and crying. I thought that was it, I
thought they would have  killed me."

She was taken to Edinburgh Royal Infirmary where  she received a tetanus
injection and antibiotics.

Ms Robertson, who has had trouble sleeping since the attack, said: "The dogs
were in a frenzy. What if they do it again? It could be a kid the next time."

It emerged this week that the UK Government is proposing  laws requiring all new
dog owners in England and Wales to fit their pets with microchips and take out
insurance to protect attack victims.

While animal campaigners in Scotland said it was not necessary to force every
dog owner to take out third party insurance "as it was more likely to penalise
responsible dog owners who would insure their pets anyway", they did support the
microchip requirement.

A police spokesman said inquiries were ongoing into the Wallyford attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EN


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             March 12, 2010 Friday

United States: Her father's daughter: Liz Cheney attacks lawyers for defending
terror suspects: Ex Bush official accused of McCarthyite campaign Backlash after
attorneys branded 'al-Qaida seven'

BYLINE: Chris McGreal Washington

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1252 words


Not long after the Twin Towers fell, Dick Cheney declared the death of more than
two centuries of American tradition. "It will be necessary for us to be a nation
of men, and not laws," he said.

The then vice-president did his best to follow through by riding roughshod over
the constitution and international laws by promoting torture, indefinite
detention without trial and support for secretive military tribunals in which
defendants were stripped of many of their rights.

Now Cheney's daughter, Liz, has taken up the cudgel by heading what some are
describing as a McCarthyite campaign to purge the government of lawyers who
dared to defend men, and even a child, accused of terrorism. The lawyers drew
particular ire by sometimes defeating in court the Bush administration's
attempts to declare itself beyond the law.

Liz Cheney and her organisation, Keep America Safe, have dubbed lawyers who
acted on behalf of accused terrorists, and who now work for the department of
justice, the "al-Qaida seven". The group has rebranded the justice department
the "department of jihad".

Liz Cheney, who trained as a lawyer and served as a deputy assistant secretary
of state in the same administration as her father, is backed by some Republican
members of Congress, relatives of 9/11 victims and parts of the conservative
press who have accused the lawyers, some of whom worked pro bono, of "coddling"
and "abetting" terrorists.

Keep America Safe - whose mission statement says the current administration is
"unwilling to stand up for America" - has recently launched a television attack
advert questioning the loyalty of the targeted lawyers and sinisterly asking:
Whose values do they share?

But the assault has prompted an unexpected backlash from some former Bush
administration lawyers and officials who have joined liberal critics in
denouncing the campaign as unAmerican and violating the principle that even the
most unpopular defendant is entitled to a lawyer.

People for the American Way, a liberal pressure group, accused Liz Cheney of
using fear and smear tactics.

"Character assassination, attacks on loyalty, guilt by association . . . they
are textbook McCarthyism," it said. "What makes this cowardly political attack
all the more outrageous is that the lawyers in question were asked by the Bush
administration to represent the detainees."

The targets of Keep America Safe's campaign include the deputy solicitor
general, Neal Katyal, who represented Osama bin Laden's driver, Salim Hamdan, in
a case that led the supreme court to declare the Bush administration's original
plan for military tribunals to be unconstitutional.

The campaign against Katyal is in part led by the conservative Weekly Standard,
whose editor, Bill Kristol, is a board member of Keep America Safe. The magazine
attacked Katyal over his courtroom description of Hamdan as a "simple driver"
and for demanding that the accused man's constitutional rights be protected. It
accused the lawyer of being unable "to tell the difference between us and our
terrorist enemies".

The assault has also focused on an assistant attorney general at the justice
department, Tony West, who defended John Walker Lindh, an American captured
fighting with the Taliban, and Jennifer Daskal, another justice department
official who previously worked for Human Rights Watch against the Bush
administration's detention policies.

Daskal has been attacked for describing a 15 year-old detainee, Omar Khadr, as a
child soldier. "Khadr is a terrorist, not a soldier . . . We regularly try
15-year-olds for crimes as adults in America," said the Weekly Standard.

The campaign is in part driven by a broader attempt to portray Barack Obama as
soft on terrorism because of his intent to close the Guantanamo Bay detention
centre and his plan to give accused terrorists such as Khalid Sheikh Mohammed,
the alleged mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, a civilian trial.

But the attempts to portray the Obama government as riddled with fifth
columnists has drawn stinging criticism from some prominent conservatives,
including former officials in the last Bush administration.

Nineteen former officials and lawyers - including Kenneth Starr, the former
solicitor general and independent counsel who investigated Bill Clinton, and
George Bush's former acting attorney general, Peter Keisler - described the
attacks on the lawyers as "shameful" and as undermining the struggle against
terrorism.

"As attorneys, former officials, and policy specialists who have worked on
detention issues, we consider these attacks both unjust to the individuals in
question and destructive of any attempt to build lasting mechanisms for
counterterrorism adjudications," the letter said.

"The American tradition of zealous representation of unpopular clients is at
least as old as John Adams's representation of the British soldiers charged in
the Boston massacre." In 1770, John Adams, who went on to become the second US
president and one of the most influential of the founding fathers, defended
eight British soldiers who were accused of killing five innocent civilians
during a riot.

The letter denounced what it said was the maligning of the lawyers "who have
taken honourable positions on contested questions" and the demanding of a
uniformity of views among those who serve in government that will not benefit
the country.

Starr told MSNBC that the lawyers deserved to be commended, not criticised.
"This was very unwise and really an out-of-bounds characterisation and challenge
to good, honourable lawyers," he said. "It's very important for lawyers to be
willing to take on unpopular causes to make sure that power is checked, that
there are, in fact, arguments being advanced on behalf of those who have been
subjected to governmental power."

Other Bush administration officials have come to the defence of the lawyers
including the former solicitor general, Ted Olson, who told Politico that
representing unpopular defendants is "in the finest tradition of the
profession".

But he said that he wished some of those now critical of Keep America Safe had
spoken out on behalf of lawyers in the defence and justice departments who wrote
the legal advice defending waterboarding of terrorist suspects.

Liz Cheney's tutor at the University of Chicago law school, Richard Epstein, has
joined the criticism and expressed bafflement at the position taken by his
former pupil. Keep America Safe has responded to the criticism by saying that
lawyers who defended alleged terrorists could now be deciding policy towards the
same people. "The American people have a right to know who in the department of
justice is setting policy regarding detention of terrorists and related national
security issues," the groups director, Aaron Harison, told ABC news.

"Lawyers in private practice have the right to volunteer pro bono to defend
terrorists. However, membership in the legal profession does not immunise a
person from questions or criticism of their prior actions."

In the line of fire

Neal Katyal

The current deputy solicitor general and lawyer who defended Osama bin Laden's
driver, Salim Hamdan

Tony West

A lawyer who defended John Walker Lindh, below, who was captured fighting with
the Taliban

Jennifer Daskal

A justice department official who fought against the Bush administration's
detention policies

Captions:

UnAmerican values

Liz Cheney and Keep America Safe have faced criticism for labelling US justice
department lawyers that defended Guantanamo detainees as terrorist sympathisers

Photograph: Cliff Owen/AP

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           Medway Messenger (Friday)

                                 March 12, 2010

Students tackle 'terrorist attack'

LENGTH: 116 words


STUDENTS have been finding out what would happen if there was a terrorist attack
in Medway.

Police Special Branch officers, along with colleagues from the hate crime unit,
gave students at MidKent College, Gillingham, a presentation on issues of
extremism and possible terrorist attacks.

It is the first time such a presentation has been held in Medway and gave young
people  the opportunity to debate extremism within their communities.

They made decisions in a role-play situation and solved problems associated with
terrorist attacks.

DS Sallie Baisley  said: "They had to take into consideration a number of things
such as police tactics, the impact on the public and handling sensitive
information.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 12, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terror suspect 'planned attack after joining BA'

BYLINE: Jack Malvern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 400 words


A British Airways computer specialist charged with planning a suicide bombing
had volunteered to work as cabin crew during strike action at the airline, a
court heard yesterday.

Rajib Karim, 30, from Newcastle upon Tyne, appeared before City of Westminster
Magistrates' Court to answer three terror charges. Mr Karim, who was born in
Bangladesh, is accused of two counts of planning suicide bombings - including
his own death. One involves an alleged plot in Britain, while the second alleges
contact with militants in Bangladesh, Pakistan and Yemen. The court heard that
he came to Britain to plan an attack, and the charges state that he had been
plotting terrorist acts from April 2006 to his arrest last month. The third
charge alleges that he collected money to be sent overseas to fund terrorism.

Mr Karim was arrested in a raid on BA offices in Newcastle, where he was a
software developer. Colin Gibbs, for the prosecution, said Mr Karim had offered
to pass on information gleaned from cabin crew training - which the airline made
available to company volunteers so that services could be kept running during a
strike.

He said that Mr Karim had offered advice to overseas contacts about how to
overcome airport security, including details of liquid allowances on aircraft,
security scanners and the questions asked by immigration officials.

The charges state that Mr Karim remained in Britain to obtain a passport, got a
job with BA and gathered information useful to terrorists in Yemen. The terror
fundraising charge alleges that he collected money which was sent to Yemen and
Bangladesh to further terrorist acts, including suicide bombing. Further
allegations relate to an attack on BA's computers to cause the company financial
losses.

Mr Karim spoke only to confirm his name and date of birth during the 15-minute
hearing. James Nicolls, his solicitor, asked that his address be withheld for
fear of attacks against his family. No bail application was made.

Senior District Judge Timothy Workman remanded Mr Karim in custody and adjourned
the case until March 26, when he will appear at the Old Bailey. Three men
arrested in Slough, Berkshire, as part of the inquiry were released without
charge this week.

BA said Mr Karim had not received aircrew training. "There is no way this
individual would have been considered for cabin crew work because he did not
meet the criteria," said a spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rajib Karim is accused of planning suicide attacks with overseas
militants
ELIZABETH COOK / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                 March 14, 2010

What the attack on me by a 'terror dog' says about society: Bitten by a bull
terrier last month, Hannah Fearn has plenty of reasons to want a crackdown but
says the real danger is an alienated generation: THE LAW: MUZZLED OR MUDDLED?

BYLINE: Richard Rogers

SECTION: OBSERVER IN FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1068 words


The debate over government plans to crack down on dangerous dogs in our cities
was, for me, timely. Three weeks ago I was the victim of a vicious attack by a
black-and-white Staffordshire bull terrier on a London bus.

How such an attack could have come about unprovoked I still do not understand,
but despite the shock and confusion the salient details are clear. Boarding the
38 bus from Angel, Islington, to Hackney, I took a seat next to a young man and
his dog. The animal was agitated, moving around anxiously and whining; I
privately wondered if he'd been training it to fight.

A week earlier a friend had spoken in graphic detail about the "status dogs"
she'd seen, forced by their owners to hang from the branches of trees by their
teeth, a tactic aimed at strengthening the poor animals' jaws into formidable
fighting tools. My neighbour on the night bus, I thought, seemed quite the
candidate.

The journey itself passed off uneventfully until its final, terrifying climax.
As the bus approached my stop I rose to press the button. Here I made a crucial
mistake. As I started to move I looked directly at the dog. As soon as its eyes
met mine I knew there was a problem, but it was already too late.

With a guttural growl that turned the stomach, the dog leaned on its powerful
hind legs and leapt across its owner toward me, teeth bared. It could have been
only a split second before the owner took control and pulled it away, but in
that moment the animal took a bite, leaving blood pouring down my cheek and out
of my nose.

As strangers rushed to assist me I believe I heard the dog's abuser faintly
apologise. He can't have been that sorry - he and his four-legged protege fled.

I was lucky; the wound was superficial. Three weeks, a tetanus jab and a short
course of antibiotics later, you'd have to peer closely to notice the small scar
on my cheek. But thoughts of what could have been still dominate. That is why
legislation to deal with dangerous animals is so important.

Sitting in the hospital with my cheek in bandages, my first thought was for the
safety of others. The police took my complaint seriously. They photographed the
wound as evidence and searched for man and dog, but so far they have found
nothing. They are looking for a needle in a haystack: a mixed-race young man in
his late teens or early twenties with a Staffie, not necessarily on a leash. I
live behind the Trelawney Estate in Hackney.

The statistics touted last week (in which I suppose I now figure) are
frightening: 100 hospital admissions a week following an attack by a dog; a
12-fold increase in the number of complaints to the RSPCA about dog fights; 900
dogs seized by police in London alone last year.

In this climate, government plans, including extra training for police and
compulsory microchipping for dogs are more than welcome, but will they really
address the root cause of this new menace?

Let's take a healthy dose of realism here. Neat little solutions packaged up for
middle-class families, such as the introduction of a compulsory insurance scheme
to compensate those attacked, will be ignored on the estates of east London.

Purchased from a reputable breeder, a Staffordshire bull terrier can cost
between £ 600 and £ 1,000. Which of the young owners on the Trelawney can come
up with that sort of money? These dogs are bred and bought on the black market.
Whatever legislation is passed in Westminster, they will remain unleashed,
unchipped and uninsured.

The government would spend its time more profitably addressing the real reasons
why people own and train dogs in this way. Why does a young man feel that he can
walk his own streets safely only with an aggressive canine in tandem? What
happened to me was astonishing, terrifying, outrageous. But so is the sense of
alienation and fear felt by the owners of these "status dogs".

The swelling number of these "weapons" is surely a sign of police success in
dealing with knife and gun crime. Let's hope this legislation is a first step
towards a similar leap forward when it comes to dealing with dangerous dogs.

You may ask why I chose that seat on the bus, the one next to the young man with
the growling mutt at his feet? It is a fair question and one I have asked myself
numerous times. But in Hackney these dogs are as ubiquitous as the art student,
part of the furniture. Long-term residents like myself are used to their
presence and we live among them. Until last month I didn't consider that they
could present such a danger to me.

The attack, however, has changed my mind. And until the problems of inner city
poverty and low (or no) aspiration are addressed, then bald legislation will do
little to tame the terror dogs. What all this points to is a social scar and one
far deeper than the bite on my left cheek.

Hannah Fearn is a reporter and feature writer for Times Higher Education
magazine

In May 1991, six-year-old Rukhsana Khan was attacked by a pit bull terrier in
Bradford, suffering more than 30 bite wounds. Witnesses described her being
shaken like a "rag doll".

Three days later, prime minister John Major announced to the House of Commons
that urgent action would be taken and from midnight, supported by Labour MPs,
the import of several breeds of fighting dogs was banned.

The next day, home secretary Kenneth Baker introduced the dangerous dogs bill,
which proposed banning the breeding, sale or exchange of four "types" of dog:
the pit bull terrier, Japanese Tosa, Dogo Argentino and Fila Braziliero.

The legislation used the phrase "types", rather than "breeds", so that courts
would have the power to decide which dogs fell into these categories based on
their appearance. If found to be illegal, the dog would be destroyed, and its
owner faced up to six months in jail. A dog of any other breed found to be
dangerously out of control in a public place would also be destroyed.

The act became law in August 1991. The law was amended in 1997, removing the
compulsory destruction orders, so that courts had discretion over both the
sentencing of the dog and owner.

In criticising the effectiveness of the act, campaigners point out that a 2008
NHS study showed the number of people admitted to accident and emergency wards
for injuries related to dog attacks had risen by 40% in the past four years.

Richard Rogers

Captions:

Hannah Fearn was bitten on

her cheek by a Staffordshire bull

terrier on a London bus.

Photograph by Katherine Rose


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                             March 15, 2010 Monday

Schoolboy in terror gang attack

BYLINE: Ian Millar

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Theft; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 148 words


A SCHOOLBOY was threatened, beaten and robbed by hooded thugs in Aberdeen.

The 12-year-old was attacked near Aberdeen beach by up to five youths.

And today councillors said they were shocked by the attack, which happened about
4.30pm on Saturday.

A Grampian Police spokesman said: "A boy was threatened and assaulted by four or
five youths and robbed of a small quantity of money."

The attackers were thought to have been between 14 and 15 and were wearing dark
hooded tops. One of them had a bruised right eye.

Officers said the victim was walking in the Queens Links area when he was
targeted.The victim's parents later took him to the accident and emergency unit
at ARI but his injuries were not thought to be serious.

Labour councillor Jim Hunter, pictured, said today: "This is happening far too
often and it is just shocking."

Fellow councillor Andrew May said: "It is downright cowardice."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL: A 12-year-old boy is recovering after being attacked and robbed
near the Queens Links at Aberdeen beach.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2010 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 15, 2010 Monday

Pakistan TV show discusses terror attacks in Punjab

LENGTH: 880 words


Dawn News TV in Urdu at 1500 GMT on 13 March carries live regularly scheduled
"In Focus" programme. The programme mirrors the questions and the debates raging
in the country. Host Kamran Yousaf asks tough questions from the leaders who are
shaping this moment in history, holding them accountable for past and present
deeds.

Programme: "In Focus"

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Guests: 1. Syeda Abida Hussain, former Pakistani ambassador to Washington and
PPP [Pakistan People's Party] senior leader; 2. Senator Zafar Ali Shah, PML-N
[Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz] leader

Yousaf says: More than 70 people have been killed in the fresh wave of what has
been baptized guerrilla warfare by Interior Minister Rehman Malik. Malik has
accused the banned religious extremists of being involved in these attacks in
Lahore. We will analyze whether the war theater is being shifted from FATA
[Federally Administered Tribal Areas] to Punjab.

Yousaf asks Hussain: Do you think that the war theater is being shifted from
FATA or NWFP [North West Frontier Province] to Lahore? Hussain says: What
happened in Lahore the other day should not be //surprising// for us as the
terrorists are fighting for their survival, now. Yousaf asks Hussain: Who can be
held responsible for these attacks; the TTP [Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan] or
other banned extremist organizations; for instance, those based in south Punjab?
Hussain says: You cannot rule out the involvement of the one or the other;
neither can you rule out the involvement of India.

Yousaf asks Shah: Some PML-N members are suspected to have been in interaction
with leaders of the banned organizations and it is this policy, which enabled
extremists to launch this kind of offensive; what is your assessment? Shah says:
A policy at Punjab-level has nothing to do with terrorism; it is a national
phenomenon. Some national //political// forces are promoting what I call
//political terrorism//.

Yousaf asks Hussain: Can you identify the terrorist elements that operate from
south Punjab? Hussain says: Despite the fact that these extremist organizations
are banned in Pakistan, Punjab Law Minister Rana Sanaullah went there and met
leaders of the Sipah-e-Sahabah Pakistan to seek support in the by-election of
Jhang. The law minister's meeting with a banned extremist organization was
tantamount to //unleashing a sectarian monster//.

Yousaf asks Shah: Do you not think that your chief minister should have had
taken action against Sanaullah who is freely interacting with the leadership of
a banned organization? Shah says: If that was violation of the law, it does make
ground for punitive measures against Sanaullah. It is an //open secret// that on
the demand of whom these organizations were banned. Hussain says: Let me remind
Shah that a terrorist from the same banned organization had tried to assassinate
Nawaz Sharif as the prime minister in his second term from 1997 to 1999. Yousaf
says to Hussain: So, it means that our real enemy is the banned terrorist
organizations and we will have to close in on them to uproot terrorism.

Yousaf establishes a telephone link with General [retired] Asad Durrani, former
ISI [Inter-Services Intelligence] chief, and asks him to identify the
perpetrator of the terrorist attacks in Lahore. Durrani says: To identify the
perpetrator will be a complicated task because Pakistan has numerous enemies now
and all are trying to exploit the current law and order situation to achieve
their respective objectives; for instance, neither can you rule out the TTP nor
the banned sectarian organizations nor even an outside element. Your country is
at war for so long now; so what happened was not surprising at all. Yousaf asks
Durrani: Do you believe that these terrorist attacks are being conducted by the
organizations that once used to be part of the Afghan and Kashmir jihad? Durrani
says: Now we have to make a //distinction// between those who are conducting
terrorism in Pakistan and those who regard the country's interests. The state
must take a stern action against //rogue elements// like the TTP. Yousaf asks
Durrani: You mean that we do not have to take action against pro-Pakistan
jihadist elements at this point in time and should concentrate on only those who
are spreading anarchy in Pakistan? Durrani says: If you begin taking action
against every jihadist organization, it will become an //unmanageable// task for
the state. Prudence demands that those who could be convinced should be
convinced without using force to avoid escalation in the anarchy; so do take
action against rogue elements or those who do not listen to the state but do not
overreach in the crackdown by including nonviolent or relatively moderate
elements.

Yousaf asks Hussain: Do you agree with Durrani's formula? Hussain says: I think
any organization, which has been involved in violence and killing of people
should be banned and should be declared unconstitutional.

Yousaf asks Durrani: Do you believe Pakistan should //abandon// its erstwhile
policy of using jihadist elements for its regional interests? Durrani says: The
//policy is not applicable// any more because you cannot afford the presence of
a Frankenstein at home.

Yousaf concludes the programme.

Source: Dawn News TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1500gmt 13 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                             March 15, 2010 Monday

Daytime attack left me in terror

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 540 words


A plymouth woman was left terrified after a man violently tried to rob her on a
busy street in broad daylight.

Dawn Hayward, aged 44, was pushed to the ground by the man who tried to throttle
her before demanding money.

She said the attack had "destroyed her life" and left her frightened of men.

She has agreed to be identified in The Herald in the hope witnesses will come
forward and give police the best chance of catching the thug responsible.

Mrs Hayward was walking to Sainsbury's on Western Approach from her nearby home
at lunchtime on Saturday when she saw a man who seemed to want to get past her.

"The next thing I knew I was shoved to the floor and he had his arm around my
throat," she said. "He then asked me for money."

Despite having only a few pounds on her, the terrified mother-of-eight refused
to hand anything over and fought back. In the struggle she managed to knee her
attacker between the legs.

She said: "I kneed him. I had to get him off me somehow. I was struggling to get
him off because of his strength."

The man then ran off.

Mrs Hayward said she had screamed for help during her ordeal but despite the
street being busy, nobody came to her aid, even after the attacker had fled.

"I wish someone had come to help me," she said.

Mrs Hayward has been left traumatised by the attack, is afraid of men and has
been unable to sleep.

Just recalling the incident leaves her shaking in fear.

The evening after it happened, she even had to ask her own son and son-in-law to
leave the room because she was frightened of them in her home.  When she was
persuaded to try going outside, with family members close at hand, she said she
was "petrified" every time a man walked past.

Mrs Hayward said: "I can still see him. I can still hear him. He just said that
he wanted my money. He shouted it out in a very deep voice."

She added: "He's a scumbag. Anybody who can put anyone through this, especially
a woman, is a scumbag. What gives him the right to destroy, and I mean destroy,
my life?"

Mrs Hayward said that she finds it hard not to blame herself for what happened,
even though she did not do anything to provoke her attacker. She was not even
carrying a handbag or anything of value.

The attacker is said to be a white man of about 30, a little shorter than 5ft
6ins tall with distinctive blond spiky hair. Mrs Hayward thinks he was a natural
blond and the spikes were three or four inches long.   He was clean shaven, with
no jewellery, piercings or tattoos visible. He had blue eyes and was wearing a
denim jacket with buttons, scruffy black trousers and new-looking white
trainers.

The attack happened at 12.20pm on Saturday, on Western Approach near the Armada
Centre.

PC Tamsyn Dingley, who is investigating the incident as an assault with intent
to rob, urged anyone who witnessed the incident or has information about the
attacker, to come forward.

She said: "This kind of attack is unusual in the daytime. We are urging
witnesses to come forward. Someone must have seen something."

Police are also looking through CCTV footage to try to track the attacker's
movements.   Anyone who has any information is asked to call police on 08452
777444 quoting crime reference EC/10/2569, or call Crimestoppers anonymously on
0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 82


                         Copyright 2010 Evening Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 18, 2010 Thursday

Nearly 6,000 dead in Pakistan terror attacks since 9/11 - paper

LENGTH: 1390 words


Text of report by Sabir Shah headlined "332 terror hits claimed 5,704 lives
since 9/11" published by Pakistan newspaper The News website on 18 March

Lahore: The extent to which Pakistan has borne the brunt of the US-led War
against Terror can be gauged from the fact that during the last 102 months since
the 9/11 episode, the country has averagely been rocked by terrorists every 10th
day during this period, which has witnessed 332 terrorism-related incidents
inflicting 5,704 deaths till date.

While 58 terrorism-related incidents have jolted Peshawar (Charsadda and Darra
Adamkhel included) since September 11, 2001, the twin cities of Rawalpindi and
Islamabad have been hit 46 times by terrorists in these last eight and a half
years.

A research conducted by The News, using statistics and chronology recorded by
the US Department of State, archives of Pakistani newspapers and websites
carrying information about global terrorism, has revealed that while the port
city of Karachi has been struck 37 times by terrorists during this period under
review, Lahore has confronted such happenings on 21 occasions, the same number
as the Swat valley.

While Quetta has so far seen blood pouring down its drains 18 times, Dera Ismail
Khan has been attacked 16 times by the terrorists during this still ongoing war.
The Pakistan Army personnel and installations of country's armed forces, outside
the war zones of Swat, South and North Waziristan etc, have been targeted at
least 22 times during this time period under review.

Meanwhile, not fewer than 105 terrorism incidents have taken place since in the
war-ridden Bajaur Agency, Kurram Agency, Orakzai Agency, Lower and Upper Dir,
Mohmand Agency, South Waziristan and North Waziristan agencies etc.

The NWFP [North-West Frontier Province] cities mainly hit include Hangu, Kohat,
Shangla, Buner, Bannu, Mansehra, Buner, Haripur, Nowshehra, Lakki Marwat and
Parachanar etc. Terror has also whacked the calm of Dera Bugti four times.

The residents of Bahawalpur, Sialkot, Hub, Sargodha and Faisalabad found
themselves strapped in the grip of fear on two occasions each.

Horror also haunted Multan, Mian Channu, Taxilla, Pishin, Panjgur, Gujranwala,
Wah, Dera Ghazi Khan, Kalat, Kamra, Bhakkar, Chakwal, Mianwali, Hassan Abdal and
Muzaffarabad etc, at least once each.

During this fright-studded period, high-ranking Al-Qa'idah officials like Abu
Zubaida and Ramzi Binalshibh were arrested by Pakistani officials on March 23,
2002, and September 14, 2002, respectively.

Similarly, on March 1, 2003, Wall Street Journal newsman Daniel Pearl's killer
Khalid Shaikh Muhammed was arrested during CIA-led raids on a suburb of
Rawalpindi.

At the time of his capture, Khalid was the third highest ranking official in
al-Qaeda and was believed to have supervised the planning for the September 11
attacks on the US.

Khalid Sheikh Muhammed was also linked the USS Cole bombing, an attempt to blow
up a civilian airliner with a shoe bomb and the terrorist attack at a synagogue
in Tunisia.

Claiming that it has lost around $35 billion since joining the still-continuing
War on Terror, Pakistan witnessed only two terror-related incidents in 2001, 14
in 2002, just 8 in 2003, 18 in 2004, 11 in 2005, 16 in 2006, 56 in 2007, 72 in
2008, 130 in 2009 and 29 in the first two-and-a-half months of 2010 till the
fling of this report.

The year 2009 of course remained the bloodiest of all with 130 incidents
claiming around 1,800 lives, followed by 2008 which saw 1,565 people falling
prey to 72 such attacks.

Terror in Pakistan claimed the lives of eminent personalities like the two-time
Premier Benazir Bhutto (December 27, 2007), banned Anjuman-e-Sipah-e-Sihaba
chief Maulana Azam Tariq (October 6, 2003), former Interior Minister Lt Gen (R)
Moinuddin Haider's elder brother Ehteshamuddin Haider (December 21, 2000), noted
religious scholar Ghulam Murtaza Malik (May 7, 2002), eminent Deobandi scholar
and head of Islamic religious school Jamia Binoria, Mufti Nizamuddin Shamzai
(May 30, 2004), leading Shia scholar and Chief of Tehrik-e-Jafaria Pakistan,
Allama Hassan Turabi (July 14, 2006), Chief of Peshawar City Police Malik Saad
(January 27, 2007), former Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam MNA and Wafaqul Madaris Vice
Chairman Maulana Hassan Jan (September 15, 2007), Pakistan Army's top medic Lt
Gen Mushtaq Baig (February 25, 2008), former head of Pakistan Army's Special
Services Group Maj Gen (R) Ameer Faisal Alvi (November 19, 2008), Awami National
Party Provincial law-maker Alam Zeb Khan (February 11, 2009), leading Sunni
Barelwi cleric Sarfraz Ahmed Naeemi (June 12, 2009), Punjab-born Baluchistan
Education Minister Shafiq Ahmed Khan (October 25, 2009), Baluchistan's Deputy
Inspector General Nizam Shahid Durrani (November 19, 2009), ANP politician
Shamsher Ali Khan (December 1, 2009), former NWFP Education Minister
Ghani-ur-Rehman (January 3, 2010), Peshawar's District Police Officer Iqbal
Marwat (February 12, 2010) and Jamaat Ahl-e-Sunnat's key leaders Mufti Saeed
Jalalpuri (March 11, 2010) and Maulana Abdul Ghafoor Nadeem (March 14, 2010).

During this particular period, former President Pervez Musharraf survived three
life attempts.

While Musharraf saw death close to him twice in December 2003, he also managed
to survive the July 6, 2006, attack aimed at his life.

Then Corps Commander Karachi Lt Gen Ahsan Saleem Hayat also narrowly escaped on
June 10, 2004, when gunmen opened fire at his convoy in Karachi.

On July 30, 2004, there was an unsuccessful assassination attempt on the Prime
Minister-elect Shaukat Aziz, while he was campaigning for a by-election in
Attock District.

On August 2, 2004, Baluchistan Chief Minister Jam Mohammad Yousaf also managed
to deceive death.

On April 28, 2006, the then Interior Minister Aftab Ahmad Sherpao, survived an
assassination bid at Charsadda.

On July 17, 2007, another suicide bomber blew himself up outside the venue of
the district bar council convention in Islamabad, just be-fore the arrival of
Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry.

Former prime minister Benazir Bhutto also escaped unhurt on October 18, 2007,
when her convoy was attacked in Karachi upon her return from a long exile, but
could not ride her luck the second time she was fatally targeted on December 27,
2007.

On October 30, 2007, a suicide bomber struck a police checkpoint in the high
security zone of Rawalpindi, less than a kilometre from President Musharraf's
Camp Office.

The blast also splattered the checkpost outside the residence of then Chief of
the General Staff General Tariq Majid.

On November 9, 2007, a suicide bomber detonated explosives at the house of the
then Federal Political Affairs Minister Amir Muqam in Peshawar. The minister
escaped unhurt though.

On December 21, 2007, a suicide bomber again unsuccessfully targeted former
Interior Minister Aftab Ahmad Khan Sherpao.

On June 9, 2008, controversial Swat cleric and chief of Tehrik-e-Nifaz-e-Shariat
Muhammadi Maulana Sufi Muhammad survived a remote-controlled bomb.

On October 2, 2008, a suicide attacker targeted the Charsadda house of ANP
[Awami National Party] leader Asfandyar Wali Khan, who survived the attack.

On October 6, 2008, a suicide attacker targeted a gathering at PML-N legislator
Rashid Akbar Nawani's house in Bhakkar. Nawani luckily survived the attack.

On November 11, 2008, a suicide bomber blew himself up at a packed Qayyum
Stadium in Peshawar, minutes after the NWFP Governor Owais Ghani had left the
venue and just moments prior to the departure of Senior Provincial Minister
Bashir Bilour.

On March 3, 2009, a convoy carrying Sri Lankan cricketers and officials in two
buses was fired upon near the Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore. Six members of the Sri
Lankan cricket team were injured.

On March 11, 2009, senior minister of the NWFP Bashir Bilour survived yet
another assassination attempt in Peshawar.

On June 11, 2009, the NWFP Prisons Minister, Mian Nisar Gul Kakakhel, was
seriously injured when his convoy was ambushed by suspected militants in Darra
Adam Khel.

On September 2, 2009, sitting Religious Affairs Minister Hamid Saeed Kazmi was
injured in a brazen attack in Islamabad.

On February 9, 2010, renowned politician Sheikh Rashid Ahmed was attacked by
militants in Rawalpindi, though Sheikh Rashid managed to live on by ducking the
bullets.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 18 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 18, 2010 Thursday

Five Americans charged with plotting terror attacks in Pakistan - paper

LENGTH: 242 words


Text of report by staff correspondent headlined "American terror accused
indicted" published by Pakistan newspaper The News website on 18 March

Sargodha: Five Americans, who were arrested on the charge of plotting terrorist
attacks in Pakistan, were indicted on Wednesday [17 March].

The alleged terrorists -- Ramzi Zamzam, Umar Farooq, Waqar Hussain, Ahmed
Abdullah Mini and Aman Hussain Yamir -- were produced before special judge
Anti-Terrorist Court Mian Anwar Nazir, who held hearing at the Sargodha District
Jail amid tight security.

After framing of charges against the accused, the judge put off the hearing till
March 31. They were charged under 120B, 125, 126 PPC, 11E, 11I and 11N clauses.
The charges were framed during the hearing on Wednesday. The accused denied all
the charges.

Earlier, the court dismissed the bail application of the accused to register a
case of abduction and torture and ordered to contact the sessions court, on
which the defence lawyer, Kh Khalid, told the court that the said application
was referred to the Anti-Terrorism Court.

The court later rejected their plea and the defender announced to file the
application in the high court. The prosecution also distributed the remaining
copies of the challan to defending lawyers, which included statement of the
accused taken by the DPO [District Police Officer] and statements about e-mail
messages and Jihadi CDs.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 17 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            March 18, 2010 Thursday

U.S. citizen accused in Mumbai terror attacks expected to plead guilty

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 172 words


U.S: Chicago man David Coleman Headley, 49, expected to plead guilty having been
charged with conducting surveillance on potential targets in Mumbai, India,
ahead of the Nov 2008 terrorist attacks that left 166 people dead and planning
an attack on a Danish newspaper after it ran cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed.
He allegedly made five extended trips to Mumbai from Sep 2006 to Jul 2008,
taking pictures of various targets and scouting the Taj Mahal and the Oberoi
hotels, the Leopold Cafe, and the main CST train station, all of which were
attacked by militants armed with grenades and assault rifles. He had previously
pleaded not guilty to all 12 charges, incl six counts of conspiracy to bomb
public places in India, and to murder and maim persons in India and Denmark,
though it is not known what charges he will plead guilty too or whether he will
cooperate with prosecutors in exchange for leniency at sentencing

Event Start Date: 2010-03-18

Event End Date: 2010-03-18

Event URL: http://www.ilnd.uscourts.gov/

Event time: 13:30 CDT

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2010 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Sunderland Echo

                             March 19, 2010 Friday

Attack terror after woman gets off bus

BYLINE: Marissa Carruthers

LENGTH: 254 words



HIGHLIGHT: A stalker followed a woman off a bus before grabbing her by the
throat during a terrifying assault.


While holding her with one hand by the neck, the attacker then put his other
hand over the victim's mouth to stifle her screams.

Police have released a CCTV image of a man they are hoping to trace who may have
important information about the attack.

The frightening incident happened after the woman got off a bus in Gayhurst
Crescent, Mill Hill.

After a struggle, the 42-year-old managed to break free from her attacker and he
ran off towards Monkswood.

The incident occurred just after the woman got off the Number Four Stagecoach
bus at Mill Hill Road, at the junction with Gayhurst Crescent.

The man is described as about 5ft 8in tall, medium build, and wearing a khaki
green or grey hooded top.

The incident took place just before 6.45pm on Wednesday, March 3.

This was the latest in a series of attacks related to buses that have happened
across Wearside.

A serial flasher left two women shaken during two incidents.

In the first, a man boarded the number 42 Go North East service in Ryhope on
December 30, at 6.30pm.

He walked to the back of the bus, where he sat near a 31-year-old woman before
exposing himself to her.

On February 4, a man boarded the No 12 Stagecoach bus outside the Top Ten bingo
hall, Silksworth Terrace, at 2.20pm.

A young girl got on at the same stop. The man followed her to the back of the
bus, where he pestered her.

Anyone with information on any of the incidents, or who recognise the man,
should contact Sunderland South CID on 03456 043 043 extension, 69191 or
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEJJ


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Worcester News

                             March 19, 2010 Friday

Terror in the suburbs as gang attacks

BYLINE: James Savage

SECTION: LATEST (WN NEWS LATEST)

LENGTH: 496 words


A FAMILY living in a quiet Worcester suburb have been left fearing their safety
after a group of 15 men armed with bats, bricks and glass bottles carried out a
violent attack in the early hours.

Police were called to Cobden Avenue, Warndon Villages, yesterday after reports
of large-scale disorder.

Several fights broke out in the street before officers got the situation under
control.

As the group broke up, a chilling threat was made to throw a petrol bomb through
the window "next time."

Robert Cox, aged 19, who lives at the house with his parents, two older brothers
and younger sister, said the group arrived at about 1am and starting hitting the
cars parked on the drive.

Mr Cox believes he was targeted as a result of a domestic dispute.

Thousands of pounds of damage was caused to Mr Cox's Renault Clio and his
brother's new Peugeot 207 GTI.

He said: "It was crazy, it is lucky no one was seriously injured or even killed.

"I don't understand why all these people, who I don't even know, have got
involved. I didn't recognise any of them.

"What are you supposed to do when 15 people turn up at your house and start
smashing up the cars on your drive?"

Mr Cox, who is a plumber, said he confronted the gang with his dad and two
brothers, and left two members of the group needing hospital treatment.

"I got smashed on the back of the head with a bottle, knocked to the floor then
kicked a number of times. One of my brothers got hit with a bat," he said.

"The police did a really good job at sorting everything out. They said they
would stay in the area to make sure no one came back but at 3am some people came
back and threw a brick at my dad's car.

"They have threatened to come and smash the cars up again and said they will
throw a petrol bomb through the window next time.

"My mum is terrified. We don't want to leave her in the house on her own in case
they come back."

One resident, who did not want to be named, said: "The noise woke me and my wife
up. It was like a riot.

"You really don't expect this sort of thing to happen here. It is a quiet area."

Another neighbour said they saw one of the men in the group holding a knife.

A police spokesman said officers stayed in the area for two hours after the
incident.

She said: "We are continuing to interview those thought to be involved. Plans
are in place for regular patrols throughout the night to reassure Mr Cox and
other residents."

The spokesman said they have already received a number of calls from the public
about the incident but have urged other witnesses to call them on 0300 333 3000
quoting incident number 20/s/180310.

A spokesman for West Midlands Ambulance Service said: "We were called at 1.10am
after reports of an assault. An ambulance and a rapid response vehicle were
sent.

"There was initially two patients but one said they would make their own way to
Worcestershire Royal Hospital. The other was taken by ambulance."

· It is understood that arrests were made this morning in connection with this
incident.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday

Girl's sex attack terror in bushes

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 107  words


A teenage girl was dragged into  bushes by a stranger  and sexually assaulted.

The attack happened in Braunstone Town at around 6.30pm on Thursday, February
25.

The girl   was attacked as she walked alone across Mossdale Meadows, near
Braunstone Civic Centre, in Kingsway.

The suspect is white, in his mid-20s, with a spotty and stubbly complexion,
dark bushy eyebrows and scratches on his knuckles.

He was wearing green or grey tracksuit bottoms, a zip-up black hooded coat with
a white stripe down either side, a dark-coloured hat and black trainers which
were ripped.

Anybody with information should contact Pc Fiona  McGrady on 0116 222 2222.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2010 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Dad's terror at bus stop stone attack;
Yobs hurl lethal missiles at father of one

BYLINE: ALAN WESTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 312 words


A FATHER-OF-ONE has spoken of the terrifying moment he had to cower inside a bus
shelter after coming under attack from stone-throwing yobs.

Zimbabwean national Simba Chipunza was on his way to the Royal Liverpool
hospital to visit his wife when a gang of five or six began to throw stones in
his direction.

He had to take cover in the bus shelter in Netherfield Road North, Everton, as
the missiles rained down.

Police are investigating but it is not clear whether the attack was targeted or
racially motivated.

Mr Chipunza, 42, was uninjured but left very shaken by the attack.

He said: "My wife had been admitted to hospital because of a heart problem and I
had to leave home to be with her. I was on my way to catch the bus when I saw
the lads coming towards me.

"They started throwing stones. It must have gone on for about 10 minutes.

"It was terrifying and I could hear the impact of the stones. They were quite
large and were all around the shelter.

"I don't know what their intention was, but if there had been no shelter I would
have been badly bruised or could have ended up in hospital. I've lived here
three years and this has never happened to me before."

Mr Chipunza, who is selfemployed and has a sevenyear-old daughter reported the
incident to police.

A local patrol went to the scene and carried out a search of the area. An
investigation is under way.

Chief Inspector Shaun Holland said: "Members of the public should be able to
travel in safety and without fear. Throwing objects at people and vehicles is
extremely dangerous and could cause a serious incident.

"Fortunately, this is an isolated incident, which has not been reported in the
area previously.

"Anybody found committing this type of offence will face prosecution."

email alan.weston@liverpool.com SCARED: Simba Chipunza was targeted by a gang of
lads Picture: JASON ROBERTS

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                             March 22, 2010, Monday

SOHAM KILLER AN INCH FROM DEATH;
MURDERER'S TERROR AFTER RAZOR ATTACK: INMATE SLASHES HUNTLEY'S THROAT IN JAIL

BYLINE: Craig McDonald

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 579 words


SOHAM killer Ian Huntley had his throat slashed by a fellow prisoner yesterday.

The attacker used a razor blade attached to a toothbrush and missed Huntley's
jugular vein by an inch.

Last night, the former school caretaker was under heavy guard in hospital.

A source said: "He is lucky to be alive. It was a savage assault."

Huntley, 35, was attacked at Frankland Prison in County Durham, where he is
serving two life sentences for murdering schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica
Chapman.

He was taken to the University Hospital of North Durham.

A spokesman for the Ministry of Justice said: "A prisoner at HMP
Franklandwasassaultedbyanother prisoner at about 3.25pm.

"The prisoner was taken to outside hospital for treatment. His condition is not
thought to be life-threatening."

Huntley, who is serving life for murdering 10-year-olds Holly and Jessica, has
long been a target for other inmates.

But the latest attack is believed to be the closest he has come to being killed.

The wound to his neck was deep and the blade narrowly missed a vital artery.

Surgery The source said: "He was on the medical ward at the prison so staff were
able to get to him very quickly - otherwise he might not have survived.

"The doctors say he will probably need plastic surgery to fix the wound.

"Huntley has always been a major target for other inmates because of his sick
crimes. But after this, he is absolutely terrified for his life." It is not
known what Huntley, 35, was doing in the prison's health care centre in the
first place.

The centre consists of a fourbedded ward and 10 furnished rooms.

It also has a dental department, x-ray facilities and a suicide crisis suite.

Huntley was convicted of murdering Holly and Jessica in December 2003 after they
vanished from their homes in Soham, Cambridgeshire, in August 2002.

Inmates at Frankland jail have had it in for him since he was transferred from
Wakefield prison, in Yorkshire, last year.

He has regularly been running a gauntlet of hate after being put into the main
wing of the jail.

Huntley had been in a private cell for seven years at Wakefield to keep him away
from other prisoners and he was given round-the-clock protection.

But at Frankland he is in the regular maximum security wing.

He has been the target of a number of attacks by fellow inmates.

Before his move from Wakefield, he was reportedly scalded with boiling water by
fellow convict Mark Hobson in September 2005.

Huntley claimed prison bosses had failed in their duty of care towards him - and
lodged a claim for pounds 15,000 compensation.

In October 2006, an inmate at Wakefield ambushed him and held him at knifepoint
while he was on his way back to his cell following a meal.

The attacker used a sharpened plasticknifeandHuntleywasforced to fight for his
life to fend off the assault.

In another incident at Frankland last year, he was attacked in the showers.

An inmate poured a bucket of urine and faeces over his head in a violent attack,
but was stopped before he could injure him.

Huntley has also been under special watch after three suicide bids.

Depression In one attempt at Woodhill prison, Buckinghamshire, in 2003, he is
said to have downed 32 anti-depressant pills.

Huntley took another massive overdose in 2006 at Wakefield.

The source said the latest attack on Huntley could send him on a downward spiral
of depression as he lives in terror of future attempts on his life.

Huntley is serving a minimum of 40 years, which means he will not be eligible
for parole until 2042.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INJURED: Huntley, left, is in hospital, right. Above, Holly and Jessica

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday

Slain Indonesian terrorist Dulmatin ordered Philippine attack by e-mail

LENGTH: 320 words


Text of report in English by website of independent Indonesian news magazine
Tempo on 22 March

[Article by Yandi MR, Budi Setyarso and Cornila Desyana: 'Eksekusi!']

Minutes before he was shot and killed by police [on 9 March 2010], Dulmatin sent
an email to a member of the Philippines based Abu Sayyaf group. The email
contained only one word: 'execution'.

According to a member of the Indonesian National Police (Polri)
counter-terrorism unit Detachment 88 (Det-88), the email was an order to conduct
an attack in response to the 22 February police raids in Aceh during which a
number of Dulmatin's associates were killed. Several Abu Sayyaf members are said
to be in Indonesia and ready to conduct attacks.

Polri Criminal Investigations Agency (Bareskrim) Head Commissioner General Ito
Sumardi said that police are still investigating the email, and that they had
seized the computer the email was sent from in the internet cafe.

A Tempo source within the police said that Dulmatin used the internet to
communicate with his networks in Aceh and the Philippines via chat sites.

Statements given by a number of suspects have revealed that Dulmatin aimed to
free his associates in Cipinang Prison and planned to bomb several undisclosed
locations. The source said that to achieve his aims, Dulmatin had recruited
people willing die [for the cause]. One of those was Ibnu Sina (17), who comes
from Pandeglang, Banten, who joined on the invitation of his uncle, Jaja [aka
Slamet aka Pak Tuo aka Pura Sudarmo aka Mamang].

"He had no track record of involvement in radical groups," the source said.

"He was chosen so that he would be hard to trace later."

The source also said that Dulmatin had ordered members of his group to use
violence to collect funds, a practice referred to as fa'i, and that the group
was suspected of having already committed robberies in Padang, West Java.

Source: Tempo website, Jakarta, in English 22 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday

Lebanese court sentences 20 Al-Qa'idah "terrorists" for "plotting" attacks

LENGTH: 195 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese Hezbollah Al-Manar TV website on 23 March

[Unattributed report: "20 Qaeda-Linked 'Terrorists' Sentenced up To 15 Years in
Prison"]

A Lebanese military court on Tuesday [23 March] sentenced 20 people linked to
al-Qaeda on charges of plotting "terrorist attacks," a judicial source said.

Judge Nizar Khalil found the accused guilty of "belonging to al-Qaeda and
forming an armed gang with the aim of attacking civilians and undermining the
state and its authority, attempting to execute terrorist attacks, forging
official documents and transferring arms and wireless devices," the source
added.

The court sentenced seven people, Palestinians and Syrians, to 15 years in
prison in absentia. The 13 others, who had formed a separate cell, were in
custody and received sentences of two to 10 years in prison. They include Saudi
Arabian, Syrian, Palestinian and Lebanese nationals. Members of the 13-strong
cell have also been interrogated by a UN court investigating the assassination
of former PM Rafik Hariri, who was killed in a massive car bombing in Beirut in
2005.

Source: Al-Manar Television website, Beirut, in English 1533 gmt 23 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            March 25, 2010 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Port of call for terror attack

BYLINE: Joe Riley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 223 words


ALL eyes out to sea.

Alarmingly, Liverpool has been named in a government report as a possible UK
target for a nuclear "dirty bomb" attack by al-Qaeda.

London, Bristol, Newcastle, Glasgow and Belfast - all accessible by sea - are
also vulnerable to improvised nuclear devices being transported by boat,
following a rise in the trafficking of radiological material, especially from
the former Soviet Union.

Small craft access was responsible for 150 people being killed by a non-nuclear
explosion in Mumbai in 2008.

This is not alarmist nonsense.

It is happening, and has doubtless contributed, along with the failed attempt to
blow up an aircraft over Detroit on Christmas day, to the UK terrorist threat
level being raised to "severe" in January.

A survey just prior to Christmas showed most Britons had remained tolerant in
the wake of the 2001 and 2005 terrorist attacks.

But for how long can that semblance of goodwill hold? The only positive way is
to report every suspicious individual or action.

Instead of worrying, in a particularly rickety British way, whether a board game
of Dad''s Army could be sold on ebay in case it incited racial hatred because of
a swastika on its cover, we should be looking to the antics and aspirations of a
present, even scarier, enemy: one that doesn''t mind dying to achieve its evil
ways.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            March 25, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Saudi terror attack 'foiled by arrest of 98 al-Qaeda suspects'

BYLINE: Hugh Tomlinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 465 words


Saudi Arabia claimed yesterday to have foiled a major terrorist attack in the
kingdom, arresting 98 alleged members of al-Qaeda in a series of raids in and
around the capital, Riyadh.

The Interior Ministry said that 47 Saudi nationals and 51 foreigners had been
arrested by the security forces. The captives are believed by the Government to
be members of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and are accused of plotting
attacks in the country.

Sources close to the investigation said they believed that most of the
foreigners held had come from Yemen, but few details of those arrested or their
alleged targets have emerged.

The arrests are the latest in a series of strikes against al-Qaeda by Saudi
security forces over recent months. In August last year, government troops
arrested 44 members of the Islamist militant group in raids across the capital.

A large cache of weapons was seized, including machine guns and electronic
detonators. Some had been trained in the kingdom, while others had visited camps
in Yemen.

The subsequent investigation led to the discovery of another cache of weapons
and ammunition in a house 150 kilometres north of Riyadh. About 280 Kalashnikov
assault rifles were seized, along with 250 magazines and more than 40,000 rounds
of ammunition.

Despite these successes, the terrorist threat within Saudi Arabia remains high,
with the security services on full alert. Hundreds of suspects have been rounded
up in the past year.

The kingdom is stepping up efforts to seal off its porous south-eastern border
with Yemen but the mountainous terrain is difficult to patrol, making it easy
for militants to slip in and out of the kingdom.

Officials in the Jazan border province said last year that weapons are seized
crossing the border on an almost hourly basis. The Yemeni Government has been
engaged in its own campaign against al-Qaeda and it is thought this may have
driven Islamists back into Saudi Arabia.

Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula was formed by Saudi jihadis who were forced
out of Afghanistan by the US and British-led invasion in 2001. The group shot to
prominence in 2003-4, when it carried out a series of lethal attacks on
compounds housing Westerners in Riyadh and Al-Khobar. Almost 200 were killed
during the campaign, prompting a massive crackdown by the Saudi Government.

Al-Qaeda has since regrouped in Yemen behind the jihadist preacher Anwar
al-Awlaki. With the Yemeni Government in Sanaa grappling with an uprising by Sha
Houthi rebels in the north of the country and a growing separatist movement in
the south, the impoverished country has provided the perfect territory for
Al-Qaeda to reopen its training camps destroyed by coalition forces in
Afghanistan and relaunch its campaign of violence.

Most of the suspects are believed to come from Yemen

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 26, 2010 Friday

Pakistan spy agency said pressure Indian terror suspects to launch attacks

LENGTH: 301 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 25 March: Indian terror suspects who are enjoying the patronage of
Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence [ISI] are being pressurized to launch
terror attacks in the country.

Official sources said many terrorists who have been given protection for quite a
number of years have been asked to prove their worth or face consequences.

This was revealed during investigations into the alleged plans of Sikh militant
group Babbar Khalsa International men to plant a bomb in the national capital
and in the northern state Himachal Pradesh.

Sources said the men were being provided directions by Pakistan-based Wadhwa
Singh and Parminder Singh, who figure in dossier of wanted terrorists passed to
Pakistan recently. "The men have been provided cover for so long. There are no
free lunches in the world. They have to show their worth to enjoy the shelter of
the ISI," a source said.

He said attempts are being made by certain men to re-group and launch attacks on
country's stability.

Sources said that with Commonwealth Games scheduled later this year, the terror
groups being provided all help by ISI are under more pressure to launch attacks
but are jittery over busting of various modules by police across the country.

They said the efforts are to launch an attack and try to project the country as
unsafe before the Games. They said the strategy would be to launch an attack
through various groups based here rather than by those from outside the country.

Incidentally, on Wednesday, hundreds of armed militants including top LeT
commander Abdul Wahid Kashmiri and Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin had
gathered in Kotli town of Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) vowing to wage 'jihad'
against India.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1247gmt 25 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday

Fire authority agrees to take on government equipment;
A fire authority has agreed to take ownership of specialist equipment to tackle
major flooding and terrorist attacks - but only if the government continues to
pay for the costs.

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 173  words


Devon and Somerset Fire and Rescue Authority voted this week to accept a request
from the Department for Communities and Local Government  that the appliances
should be transferred.

The authority will now own  high-volume pumps, which can do the work of three
fire engines, plus a decontamination unit.

But chairman Bernard Hughes yesterday insisted the deal was on the firm
understanding that the government continued to pay approximately £900,000 a year
in staffing and maintenance costs.

Speaking after a meeting of the authority on Thursday, Councillor Hughes said:
"The view that we have taken is that this is a national asset that's been
brought about by the government. We'll look after it, but they pay for it.

"I'm not expecting this unit to cost Devon and Somerset rate payers anything.

"Up to now it has been a government-owned and directed project."

The appliances are based in Devon, and manned by 16 dedicated staff. But they
can be redirected anywhere in the South West and beyond if a situation such as a
terrorist attack arises.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2010 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday

Saudi official cited on foiling "terror plot to attack vital oil installations"

LENGTH: 453 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Saudi Gazette website on 27 March

The Saudi security forces have thwarted a terror plot to attack vital oil
installations in the Eastern Province, said a senior security official.

He said that two terrorist cells comprising 11 Saudis and a Yemeni were planning
attacks on Ras Tanura, 70km north of Dammam, and the residential compound of its
employees. Two security stations, including the headquarters of the Special
Emergency Forces, were also on the terrorists' hit list.

The official said that crack down on terrorists was in full swing across the
kingdom. And, he added, the forces are promptly acting on all available
information. He said that the forces have also seized seven machine-guns from an
area in the Nufud Desert in Qassim on Wednesday [24 March].

He said that a terror plot to attack oil installations in the Eastern Province
was not the first of its kind as the kingdom's forces had earlier foiled similar
attempts a number of times.

The official said that the terrorists were also planning attack on the
intelligence headquarters in Khafji in 2008 through a cell code-named the "Oil
Cell". "That Oil Cell was one of five cells dismantled by the security forces in
2008 during which 520 terrorists were arrested."

He said that the members of that cell detained by the kingdom included seven
Mauritanians. All of them, he added, were university graduates. He said that one
of them - holding a Masters' degree- had entered the kingdom with a driver visa
so as to freely move in the kingdom.

The official admitted that Al-Qa'idah in Yemen through its operatives in the
kingdom was devising plans to launch a series of attacks on the kingdom's vital
oil installations in the Eastern Province especially during the time when the
kingdom's forces were fighting infiltrators in the border region. But the
vigilant Saudi security forces thwarted the organization's evil plots, he said.

He said that it came as a surprise to the forces that a Bangladeshi national was
part of one of recently dismantled terrorist cells.

During the past few years, the security forces have foiled a number of attempts
made by the Al-Qa'idah to terrorize the Eastern Province. A number of terrorists
either got killed by the Saudi forces or fled to Yemen, he said.

He said that some of those foiled attempts included an attack led by four armed
terrorists on 27 May 2004 against the Abd-al-Aziz Oasis Compound in Al-Khubar.
In September 2005, he said, the Eastern Province had witnessed fierce clashes
between the security forces and Al-Qa'idah elements. On 24 February 2005 the
organization failed to explode oil refineries in Abga'ig.

Source: Saudi Gazette website, Jedda, in English 27 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                             March 28, 2010, Sunday

MY FEAR BY OF THE HITMAN;
ASSASSIN'S MOLL REVEALS ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: DEREK ALEXANDER

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 45 words


A HITMAN'S lover has told how he left her for dead in a savage attack.

Annmarie Craig, 33, yesterday revealed how she begged notorious hood Frank Doris
for her life, adding: "Violence is like a drug to him. I was terrified that he
was going to kill me."

FULL STORY: PAGE 11

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Feared: Doris

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 29, 2010 Monday

Indian seas on alert after reports of possible terror attacks on oil wells

LENGTH: 309 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 28 March: Security has been tightened in the high seas following
intelligence reports that Pakistan-based terror groups may target some oil wells
and Single Point Mooring (SPM) facilities where ships offload crude oil for
transportation to the mainland through pipes.

The central [federal] security agencies have asked the Indian Navy and Coast
Guard to increase patrolling in the seas and pursue any suspicious or
unidentified ship or vessel moving in Indian waters, official sources said.

The move comes in the wake of reports of central security agencies as well as
Western intelligence that Pakistan-based terror outfits, especially
Lashkar-i-Toiba may try and target oil wells located in the high seas and may
also try and hit the SPMs, mini ports located 70 to 80 nautical miles (130 to
150 kilometres) in deep seas.

It was found that the country has dozens of such unattended SPMs, where ships
carrying crude oil offload it and it is sent to mainland using pipes or smaller
ships.

The concerned authorities have been now asked to carry out a proper listing of
SPMs and hand over the list to Coast Guards so that security is provided to
them. Each SPM is built at an estimated cost of 600-700 crore rupees [one crore
equals 10m] in all those areas where ships cannot anchor at the coast because of
shallow waters.

Indian Navy and Coast Guards have, meanwhile, intensified patrolling around the
oil wells located in the high seas besides asking oil companies to keep a tight
vigil.

After the audacious 26/11 attacks in Mumbai, the union government had designated
the Navy as the central authority responsible for the country's overall maritime
security and it will be assisted by Coast Guard, state marine police and central
agencies.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0144gmt 28 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 29, 2010 Monday

Czech premier denounces terrorist attack in Moscow

LENGTH: 268 words


Text of report in English by Czech national public-service news agency CTK

Prague, 29 March: Prime Minister Jan Fischer, the Czech Foreign Ministry and the
Prague City Hall today denounced the bloody terrorist attack in the Moscow
underground, the officials told CTK.

A similar position was voiced by the Christian Democrats (KDU-CSL).

Prague City Hall has offered aid to Moscow.

The blasts in two metro stations have killed at least 38 people and injured over
100.

"The government of the Czech Republic, its citizens and me personally condemn
any sign of violence and terrorism as unacceptable and reprehensible," Fischer
wrote to his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin.

"Dear Mr Prime Minister, I would like to voice my sympathies to the families and
relatives of all the victims and I wish to recover as soon as possible to the
injured," Fischer wrote in the letter of condolences.

Czech Foreign Minister Jan Kohout also sent condolences to the relatives of the
victims and the whole Russian nation.

"The shocking barbarous act has deprived of life tens of innocent civilians,"
Kohout said.

Prague Mayor Pavel Bem voiced sympathies to his Moscow counterpart Yuriy
Luzhkov.

"As an underground operator, Prague reacts very sensitively to the act of
terrorism. It offers any help the Russian capital will ask for," the Prague City
Hall told CTK.

The Prague underground has reinforced its security. Anti-terrorist baskets have
been placed in some metro stations and others will follow.

CNN has said Chechen separatists have claimed responsibility for the attack.

Source: CTK news agency, Prague, in English 1408 gmt 29 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 29, 2010 Monday

Iran condemns terrorist attack in Moscow - agency

LENGTH: 150 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 29 March: Foreign Ministry spokesman Ramin Mihmanparast on Monday [29
March] strongly condemned the terrorist bomb blasts in two separate metro
stations in Moscow.

Speaking to IRNA, he said that Iran has repeatedly denounced such inhuman
measures which threaten lives of innocent people.

"Since the Iranian people and officials have been victims of terrorism, they
have negative attitude to such incidents and believe that such behaviour is not
suitable means to voice protest or opposition," he said.

"All countries should contribute to and help uproot terrorism and help the
international peace and security."

Forty people were killed and 90 injured after two bomb blasts ripped through two
packed metro stations in Moscow Monday.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1435 gmt 29 Mar
10

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             March 29, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

JORDAN'S STREET ATTACK TERROR;
'Most-hated woman in Britain' living in fear ; EXCLUSIVE

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 41 words


TERRIFIED Kate Price fears she is now Britain's "most hated woman" after being
attacked in the street by an angry mob.

The model and her new husband Alex Reid have been forced to beef up their
security following the brawl yesterday.

Full story: Page 7

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pictures: BIG PICTURES /NEWSPICS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             March 29, 2010 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

JORDAN'S STREET ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 45 words


Most-hated woman in Britain' living in fear

TERRIFIED Kate Price fears she is now Britain's "most hated woman" after being
attacked in the street by an angry mob.

The model and her new husband Alex Reid have been forced to beef up their
security following the brawl yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              PA Newswire: Ireland

                       March 29, 2010 Monday 6:05 PM BST

MINISTER CONDEMNS RUSSIAN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Ed Carty, Press Association

SECTION: PA Newswire: Ireland

LENGTH: 205 words


Foreign affairs minister Micheal Martin tonight condemned terror attacks on the
Moscow underground in a message of sympathy for those killed and injured.

Mr Martin said there could be no justification for the 35 deaths as workers
travelled across the city in the early morning rush hour.

``I am horrified at the appalling loss of life in bombings on the Moscow
metro,'' the minister said.

``I condemn those responsible for this gratuitous act of terrorism on innocent
people on their way to work. Nothing can justify such an outrageous attack,
which has taken the lives of so many and left scores injured.

``On behalf of the Government and people of Ireland, I send heartfelt sympathy
to the bereaved and offer my best wishes for a swift recovery to the injured.''

Dozens more people were injured when two female suicide bombers blew themselves
up on the metro trains.

The first 23 victims died in an explosion on a train shortly before 8am at
Lubyanka station, underneath the headquarters of the Federal Security Service
(FSB), the KGB's successor.

The second explosion hit the Park Kultury station about 45 minutes later,
killing at least 12 people.

Around 60 more were injured in the blasts thought to have been organised by
Chechen rebels.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 30, 2010 Tuesday

Russian premier praises rescuers' work after terrorist attacks in Moscow metro

LENGTH: 188 words


Excerpt from report by Gazprom-owned Russian NTV on 30 March

[Correspondent] We have just received the first video footage from the [Russian]
White House [government headquarters]. A session on transport security began
there a few minutes ago. Opening the session, [Russian Prime Minister] Vladimir
Putin expressed condolences to the families of those killed in the [29 March]
explosions on the Moscow metro and thanked all those who were rescuing
passengers.

[Putin] Today is a day of mourning in Moscow for those who were killed in the
terrorist attack in the Moscow metro yesterday. Once again, I am expressing my
sincerest condolences to the families of those killed. We will do everything to
help and support those who were injured.

I had an opportunity yesterday to look at and analyse the work of our rescue
services. And I would like to express gratitude to firemen, rescuers, doctors
and all those who gave help to people for very professional and coordinated
work. This was really done at a high professional level and with full
self-sacrifice. Thank you! [Passage omitted]

Source: NTV, Moscow, in Russian 1200 gmt 30 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                             March 30, 2010 Tuesday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Brown sends condolences after terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 126 words


THE Prime Minister today paid tribute to more than 35 people killed in terror
attacks on Moscow's underground network.

Gordon Brown said Britain's thoughts were with the Russian people after the
deaths during the morning rush hour. At least 35 people were killed and dozens
more injured when two female suicide bombers blew themselves up on Moscow Metro
trains.

Ahead of a Commons statement on the European Council, Mr Brown told MPs: "The
thoughts of the House and indeed our country are with the Russian people today
after this morning's terrorism attack on the Moscow transport network.

"I've written to President Medvedev to send our condolences to the victims and
their families and I pay tribute to the Russian emergency services and the
people of Moscow."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

Russian opposition to go on with Moscow rally despite recent terror attacks

LENGTH: 171 words


Text of report by Gazprom-owned, editorially independent Russian radio station
Ekho Moskvy on 31 March

[Presenter] Some organizers of an opposition rally in Triumfalnaya Ploshchad
[square in Moscow] have decided not to cancel the protest despite the fact that
a 5,000-strong rally called Generation Against Terror is to be held at the same
place, a member of the executive committee of the Other Russia [opposition
coalition], Eduard Limonov, has said.

[Limonov] We think that there can be no breaks for days of mourning in the fight
for freedom, including for Article 31 of the Constitution, freedom of peaceful
assembly. This is a daily process.

We are afraid of unpleasant surprises in Triumfalnaya [Ploshchad] both because
there will be pro-Kremlin supporters there in such amounts and, besides, there
may simply be a crush there.

[Presenter] Limonov added that similar campaigns in defence of Article 31 of the
Constitution will be held in 36 more cities of Russia.

Source: Ekho Moskvy radio, Moscow, in Russian 0400 gmt 31 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

India: Mumbai terror attack trial concludes, judgement on 3 May

LENGTH: 673 words


Text of report published by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai: The trial in the 26/11 Mumbai attack case against Pakistani gunman Ajmal
Kasab and two Indian conspirators concluded on Wednesday, almost a year after it
commenced, and the judge will pronounce his verdict on 3 May.

Special judge M L Tahaliyani reserved his judgement after the prosecution and
defence counsels wrapped up their final arguments and would pronounce his
verdict on 3 May.

If the accused are pronounced guilty, the court would on that day call upon the
prosecution and defence lawyers to put forth their arguments on quantum of
sentence.

The prosecution examined as many as 653 witnesses to prove their case that
Pakistan-based Lashkar-i-Toiba (LeT) carried out the dastardly attacks by
sending 10 jihadi terrorists from Karachi.

The court also examined four witnesses, including two National Security Guard
(NSG) commandos, who led the teams in operations to fight the terrorists.

Police had filed the charge sheet in the case on 26 February last year after
which the case was committed from magistrate's court to Sessions Court on 9
March 2009. A separate court was established in high-security Arthur Road
central prison here to hear the case.

On 17 April, before the trial began, Kasab had pleaded that he was a juvenile,
but the court rejected his claim after examining prosecution witnesses and
experts and ruled that he was over 20 years of age.

On 8 May, the first witness stepped into the box, saying he had seen Kasab
gunning down sub-inspector Tukaram Ombale at Girgaum Chowpatty.

After examining 653 witnesses, including 30 eyewitnesses, special public
prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam opened arguments this month, saying there was evidence
to suggest that the security apparatus of Pakistan was involved in the attacks
on India's financial nerve centre.

Days later, American LeT operative David Headley, in a plea bargain before a
Chicago court, disclosed that officers in the Pakistani Army were also behind
the conspiracy to strike terror in Mumbai on November 26, 2008.

Nikam argued for 13 days before the trial court and filed a 675-page written
submission. Kasab's counsel K P Pawar argued for three days, while R B Mokashi
and Ejaz Naqvi appeared for Faheem Ansari and co-accused Sabauddin Ahmed.

Nikam has sought conviction of the accused on various charges under IPC,
including waging war against nation, and other laws such as Foreigners Act,
Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Properties
Act, Customs Act, Passport Act, Arms Act, Explosives Act, Explosives Substances
Act and Bombay Police Act.

Talking to reporters outside the court, Nikam voiced satisfaction over
conclusion of the trial in the shortest possible time.

"While opening my argument, I had said it was a classic case of state-sponsored
terrorism in which the apparatus of the Pakistani Army was involved, a fact that
was established when David Headly admitted it before a Chicago court days
later," he said.

Noting that the prosecution had presented "concrete, and cogent evidence" to the
court in order to establish the charge against the accused, he said the US spy
agency FBI extended full cooperation to the Indian investigative agencies in the
probe.

"FBI agents and experts came and deposed before the court on the basis of which
we were able to prove that the terrorists had come from Karachi. The terrorists
tried to destroy the GPS data which we retrieved with FBI help," Nikam said and
lauded the role of the crime branch of Mumbai police for effective
investigation.

In the 26/11 case, Kasab is charged with killing 166 people and injuring over
300, the other two accused, Faheem and Sabauddin, are facing the charge of
taking part in the conspiracy by drawing maps of targets and sending them to
LeT.

Several of Mumbai's landmarks, including the bustling Chhatrapati Shivaji
Terminus, Taj and Oberoi-Trident hotels, Cama Hospital and Jewish prayer centre
Chabad House were attacked during the siege.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1305gmt 31 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

South African president condemns terror attacks in Russia

LENGTH: 202 words


Text of report by non-profit South African Press Association (SAPA) news agency

[Unattributed Report: "Zuma Condemns Russia Terror Attacks"]

President Jacob Zuma has extended condolences to Russian President Dmitry
Medvedev following the Moscow subway explosions, the department of international
relation said on Wednesday.

"I have learnt with shock and sadness of the terror attacks in Moscow which
killed scores of innocent people yesterday [Monday].

"In this regard I wish to extend my sincere condolences to the government of
Russia and to the families of the deceased. Our hearts and prayers are with you
and most especially those who have lost loved ones during these callous
attacks," said Zuma.

"The government of South Africa firmly condemns terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations. We will continue to stand together with the Russian government
to defeat the enemies of peace."

Thirty-nine people were killed in double suicide blasts on Monday on the Moscow
metro system.

The majority of the dead were killed in the first blast at the Lubyanka metro
station and another dozen people were killed in the second at the Park Kultury
station.

Source: SAPA news agency, Johannesburg, in English 0723 gmt 31 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

Russia: Dagestani leader says "monstrous terrorist attack" committed

LENGTH: 264 words


The president of the southern Russian republic of Dagestan has described the two
bomb attacks in the town of Kizlyar on 31 March as "a monstrous terrorist
attack"

Dagestani President Magomedsalam Magomedov was speaking after visiting people
injured in the explosions in a hospital on the same day. The state-run RGVK
Dagestan TV showed him telling journalists:

"A monstrous terrorist attack, an inhumane one, has been committed. The
terrorists that committed this terrorist attack are our enemies, enemies of the
Dagestani people... Nothing can justify their deeds, their actions."

He added: "These are links in one chain. The terrorist attacks that took place
just recently on the Moscow underground and the terrorist attacks that have
taken place here in our Kizlyar - they have one goal: to sow panic and fear
among people, shake society and get people to lose their trust in the
authorities and destabilize the situation in the republic. They will not succeed
in anything. We will not let them do [it]. People trust us, people trust that we
will give an appropriate response."

The TV channel quoted the Dagestani Interior Ministry as saying that traffic
police officers who were killed in the first blast might have prevented "more
serious consequences" as, it said, one of the theories is that the "terrorists"
planned to attack the building housing the district police department or the
local branch of the Federal Security Service located nearby.

Twelve people were killed and 29 injured in the two blasts, the channel added.

Source: RGVK TV, Makhachkala, in Russian 1530 gmt 31 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday

Prevention of terrorist attacks "main task" for Russian police - minister

LENGTH: 234 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Makhachkala, 1 April: The main task for the Interior Ministry is work on
preventing terrorist acts, Russian Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev has
announced at a meeting which the Russian president is conducting.

Speaking about the terrorist acts in Moscow and Kizlyar, Nurgaliyev noted that
"the link is obvious". "We must repulse these monsters for ever so that there is
no occasion to make an attempt on the most sacred thing - human lives," the
minister emphasized.

He noted that in 2009, the Interior Ministry lost 410 employees and 23 in 2010
but "the bandits understood that it is difficult to oppose the law-enforcement
agencies".

He considers the main tasks in the fight against terrorism to be "prevention
measures, explanatory work with the media and with the clergy and help for
people who have gone astray". "The main task is to work on prevention so that
people know that employees of the law-enforcement agencies have fulfilled their
official duty to the end," Nurgaliyev said.

"I do not know what the consequences of the events (in Moscow and Kizlyar) would
have been if employees of the internal affairs bodies had not got in the way of
the bandits," he noted.

The minister announced that the maximum support will be provided to the families
of all of those killed.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1055 gmt 1 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday

Russian security service knows who organized terrorist attacks - top official

LENGTH: 150 words


Text of report by Russian state news agency ITAR-TASS

Makhachkala, 1 April: The organizers of the recent terrorist attacks are
"personally known" to the special services and a number of individuals have
already been detained, head of the Federal Security Service (FSB) Aleksandr
Bortnikov reported today at a meeting held in Dagestan by Russian President
Dmitriy Medvedev.

"We know the organizers of the terrorist attacks personally; a search operation
is being conducted," he said. "Certain materials have been received, a number of
individuals have been detained, interrogations are being conducted, material
evidence has been received, analyses are being carried out," he added.

"The theory that the terrorist attacks were carried out by particular illegal
armed groups linked to the North Caucasus is being confirmed," Bortnikov said.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1031 gmt 1 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday

Russian paper expects more terrorist attacks soon

LENGTH: 1181 words


Text of report by Russian newspaper Novaya Gazeta's website, often critical of
the government, on 31 March

Article by Olga Bobrova: "The Remaining Shakhid Is a Custom Weapon: They Won't
Waste It Anytime Soon".

A year ago, in spring 2009, Dokku Umarov, emir of the self-proclaimed Emirate of
the Caucasus, announced the resurrection of the suicide bomber battalion known
as Riyyadus Salikhiyn.

Riyyadus Salikhiyn, which was first created at the dawn of the 2000s, was a very
aggressive group of militants. This subdivision has a sea of blood on its
conscience: Nord-Ost, Beslan, downed airplanes, all sorts of other things.
Formally the battalion ceased its existence along with the announcement of the
killing of Shamil Basayev, its unchallenged leader.

In this regard, Dokku Umarov's statement about reviving Riyyadus Salikhiyn
seemed whimsical, since a battalion of suicide bombers is -- well, let's put it
this way, it's a nominal organization.

Riyyadus Salikhiyn without Basayev is like, say, the Third Reich without Hitler:
just a name. Umarov, though, was not talking about creating a new battalion. He
specifically announced the revival of that one, the old one. Maybe he wanted to
put a scare in his enemies. Or maybe remind them of its methods.

Along with his statement about reviving Riyyadus Salikhiyn, Dokku Umarov
announced that the battalion had trained and released onto the plain 20
terrorist suicide bombers. Using shakhids -- especially female shakhids -- is
the signature of this organization specifically.

As it happens, Dokku may have been stretching the truth when it came to his
capabilities and achievements. However, the fact is still a fact: since that
moment at least 19 suicide bombers have shown themselves. In Chechnya,
Ingushetia, Dagestan, and Moscow.

The training may well not have ended with those 20, though.

Here a logical question arises. Might various terrorist subdivisions be training
suicide bombers? The answer, more than likely, is yes. By all accounts,
technically suicide bombers can be trained in several "workshops" operating
independently of one another at once. In Said Buryatskiy's letters, published
after his killing, the author speaks about how he had nothing to do with
training the suicide bomber who carried out the attempt on Kadyrov's life and
did not even know him. Previously, though, the organization of this crime had
been ascribed specifically to Buryatskiy. Considering the circumstances of
Said's life, one must understand that he had no reason to try to vindicate
himself in personal letters. Civilian life would no longer have accepted him in
any case. However, this detail implies that Buryatskiy was not the only one
training suicide bombers, that there were other "specialists" as well.

Nonetheless, the acts of each of the suicide bombers is known to the world
specifically under the Riyyadus Salikhiyn brand. It is a kind of virtual stamp.
Even before, back under Basayev, the battalion had the habit of taking
responsibility for any notable emergency in Russia, however minor, and also
willingly took credit for terrorist acts committed by other militant groups.
However, ever since the self-proclamation of the Emirate of the Caucasus, the
existence of autonomous groups also having significant strength to train a
suicide bomber has become unlikely.

A second interesting question that arises in this connection is whether shakhids
who have undergone the training ever vanish and do not become suicide bombers.
The answer is probably no.

Training a shakhid is an extremely expensive business. It takes time, strength,
and special caution. And some money, ultimately. A shakhid cannot appear of his
own accord and act autonomously. Each has behind him a major support group.
These efforts cannot simply go for naught.

The main component of a shakhid's training is psychological. The person has to
be taught how to decide to destroy himself. This decision comes no more easily
to a potential suicide bomber than it would to any other person.

"There is nothing in the mentality of the vaynakhs on which to hang shakhidism,"
Timur Akiyev, director of the Ingush group of the Memorial human rights center,
is certain. "Yes, there have been avengers prepared to die, but die in battle,
so that people knew about it, so that they were respected: he had his revenge
and did not reconcile himself to the insult. Here we have something different.
No one knows the shakhids, as a rule, and it is not a fact that a suicide bomber
will be able to carry out his assignment 'successfully.' There are plenty of
instances when shakhids simply died."

The current opinion about how the phenomenon of terrorist suicide bombers has
religious foundations is also true only in part. In fact, those who train
suicide bombers are likely to come up against their wards' traditional religious
convictions.

"Primordially in Islam, special attention was paid to the physical preservation
of the dead person's body. A person can rise up on Judgment Day only if there is
a body into which the soul can be embodied," Akhmet Yarlykapov, senior research
associate at the RAN [Russian Academy of Sciences] Institute of Ethnology and
Anthropology, explains. "Hence the idea of shakhids, martyrs, who go directly to
paradise, so they do not need to be resurrected on Judgment Day. After all, in
battle a soldier could have his head cut off, too. However, the ban on suicide
remains an inviolable Islamic principle. In addition, the female shakhids
encounter one other serious dilemma on the subway: there could be fellow
believers among the people they kill."

Preparation of terrorist acts in Moscow involves more than psychology. It is
also a matter of costly logistics. The suicide bombers have to be taken to
Moscow and given the opportunity to scope out the location. Prepare their
weapon. All this time they have to be hidden away somewhere, remembering that
the special services probably know about the terrorists' arrival in the city.
All these preparations take quite a lot of time, and this fact raises serious
doubts about law enforcement's statements about how the explosions that occurred
were revenge for the killing of Said Buryatskiy or Anzor Astemirov.

According to some information, the suicide bombers came to Moscow long before
Astemirov's killing. These women may have been trained by Said Buryatskiy
specifically; however, the idea that the suicide bombers' self-destruction was
an act of revenge for Buryatskiy is a far-fetched, "lay" version. Once the
shakhids had started down this path, sooner or later they would have shown
themselves, unless their action was averted by law enforcement. But it wasn't.

If the last shakhid from the group Umarov was talking about is alive, the hope
that he will give up on his idea is slim. However, he is also unlikely to be
used in the near future. The weekly blasts produced a terrifying effect on
Russia. It cannot be made any worse; it is already that frightening.

And a shakhid is a valuable resource, a custom weapon. They are not going to
waste it.

Source: Novaya Gazeta website, Moscow, in Russian 31 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday

Mumbai terror attack suspect's trial ends

LENGTH: 24 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE Indian trial of the suspected lone surviving Pakistani gunman
from the 2008 Mumbai attacks ended yesterday, with a verdict due to be announced
on 3 May, court officials said.


At least 166 people were killed by ten  gunmen in a three-day rampage, which
strained relations between nuclear-armed neighbours India and Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 2, 2010 Friday

Russian leader says culprits in recent terror attacks to be found soon

LENGTH: 221 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 2 April: Russian President Dmitriy Medvedev is convinced that the
special services and the SKP [Investigations Committee under the Russian
prosecutor's office] will do all that is necessary to find the culprits in the
Moscow and Kizlyar terror attacks soon.

"The head of the FSB informed me yesterday that the investigation is progressing
fairly quickly, we will see what the results will be like. But I am convinced
that the special services and the SKP are doing all that is necessary for a
quick and thorough investigation to find the culprits," Medvedev said at a
meeting with the leaders of the State Duma factions.

"As for militant hideaways, our actions will remain the same, we will carry out
operations, eliminate them where they are, without hesitation," he said.

He also said that those organizing terror attacks were trying "to split public
consciousness, to prove that fighting militants is dangerous for ordinary people
and therefore they should not be fought with, resulting in a number of
conclusions which could lead to the disintegration of the country".

"The efforts of our country and my personal efforts will focus on protecting
people and punishing criminals," he said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1116 gmt 2 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 2, 2010 Friday

Medvedev discusses terrorist attacks, arms deal with Russian party leaders

LENGTH: 1614 words


Text of "Excerpts from Meeting with Leaders of Political Parties Represented in
the State Duma 2 April 2010 The Kremlin, Moscow" in English by Russian
presidential website on 2 April

[President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev] Colleagues, this latest in our regular
meetings is taking place during what has proven a particularly difficult week
for our country. I therefore want to discuss with you first of all the political
and other consequences of what has happened. I am referring of course to the
terrorist attacks and the renewed activeness that terrorists unleashed this
week. I have already expressed my view of the situation, and did so immediately.

As you know, I was in Dagestan yesterday, and so our meeting, which was
originally scheduled for yesterday, was postponed until today. The situation in
Dagestan is relatively stable and calm, but there is no doubt that the terrorist
attack in Kizlyar is linked to the attacks in Moscow, and work is under way now
to identify the individuals involved. The director of the FSB reported yesterday
that the investigation is moving quite fast. We will see what the results are,
but we are sure that the security services and Investigative Committee will do
everything necessary to ensure a rapid and professional investigation and
identify the guilty parties. As for the actual bandit dens, as I said yesterday,
we will stick to our policy and will continue our operations to destroy them
wherever we find them without hesitation.

In any country facing this kind of situation it is important to consolidate the
views of all public groups on this issue. I am sure that you, the leaders of the
country's main political parties, the parties represented in our parliament,
have no differences between yourselves on this matter. We realize, after all,
that some try to sow dissent in the public consciousness in this situation,
persuading the public that fighting these bandits poses dangers for ordinary
citizens, and so we should abandon our combat. But this opens the way to a logic
that, if we take it to its conclusion, could ultimately lead to our country's
disintegration.

I count on your cooperation in this situation. We will discuss this issue. I am
sure that you all have your views on this matter of such importance for our
country. In any case, I want to assure you that our country's efforts, and my
personal efforts as President and Commander in Chief, will concentrate on
protecting our people and punishing the criminals.

Several important events have taken place since our last meeting in Zavidovo.
The regional elections were probably the most important political event. I think
they went smoothly and showed that our citizens want to take part in the
electoral process by personally voting and thus having their say in shaping our
country's political future, even at the regional and municipal level. After all,
government begins there, and not in the Kremlin. Government begins at the local
level.

I think the results were balanced. You can draw your own conclusions, of course,
but I note that in any case, all of the parties represented here consolidated
their representation overall. I think this will be helpful in developing
democracy in our country and nurturing political culture and voting culture too.
This is important, because people need to be able to not just think about the
country's future but also know how to make choices. These are things we need to
learn, things our voters need to learn. Voters usually make their choices based
on their political preferences. This is an intellectual process. I therefore
propose that we discuss the election results and look at what we can do to
develop further the proposals I made in my Address to the Federal Assembly and
the ideas that came out of the discussion that followed my article, Go, Russia!
The time is right for an interim review of where things stand today. Of course,
as is the practice at our meetings, I am ready to discuss any other issues you
want to raise.

* * * [ellipsis here and throughout the text as received]

Yesterday, when I met with the leaders of the regions in the North Caucasus
Federal District, I also noted one particular issue, namely, the media. Of
course, there is nothing so unusual in that the media criticize the law
enforcement and security services and the authorities in general, all the more
so when we are dealing with crimes of this nature. This is absolutely normal.
This is not the issue. The issue is that in a civilized society it is not done
to portray the fight against terrorism and civil society, people's lives, as
opposing things, because this can lead us to completely immoral conclusions. On
this matter I am pleased to see that you see things the same way as I and my
colleagues in the executive branch of power.

* * *

I discussed the question of legal liability yesterday with my colleagues, and
practically all the leaders of the Caucasus regions spoke in favour of criminal
liability for accomplices. Strictly speaking, this liability already exists in
our Criminal Code. Some of you have a legal background, and all of you are
jurists in a way, since you all work in the parliament now, and so you are all
aware of this fact.

But the liability of accomplices has varying degrees. In my view, in the case of
terrorism crimes, we should follow a model in which any accomplice, even those
who do no more than cook soup and wash clothes, is considered not simply a
criminal but someone who has committed a clear and specific criminal act. This
is the only way that we can have a hope of properly bringing these people to
justice under criminal law. I think that in the case of these crimes there can
be no leniency, no matter what the accomplices' particular involvement, from
those running round with old rifles somewhere to those cooking the soup. In
criminal groups this sort of distribution of roles is the usual situation, but
we have not applied this model in such a way to terrorism crimes yet.

I draw our lawmakers' attention to this issue. Maybe it would be worth amending
the law in this respect. In any case, this is something we should reflect on.
Maybe we could reformat the objective and subjective aspects of the crime
defined as terrorism under article 205 of the Criminal Code. I wanted to bring
this matter to your attention.

* * *

The fight against terrorism begins with each and every one of us. All of our
citizens need to play their part in this work. This is the way society is
organized in countries that have lived with this danger for decades now, and we
too, sadly, need to reflect on this issue, but this is a matter for a separate
meeting.

* * *

I want to come back to the main subject I outlined today - preventing terrorism.
The social and economic situation in the North Caucasus is indeed very
complicated, as Mr Zyuganov and other colleagues rightly noted. We think that
the main key to a solution is to make a real effort to address social problems
such as education, housing and unemployment, create jobs. This is all absolutely
right. But I want there to be no illusions on this point among any of you here.
When we say that this is the main thing this really is the case. But do not
forget that terrorists around the world are often far from being the poorest and
most neglected and miserable people. They are often wealthy and self-sufficient
people, and it would be short-sighted to reduce terrorism simply to the
dimension of social problems alone. Of course we need to bring order to the
North Caucasus and ensure a normal life for the people there, but this is not
all. Some people are never going to be able to be re-educated, and this is
something you have said yourselves.

Our colleagues, with whom I spoke yesterday, people working there, were right in
saying that it is also an issue of what is in people's heads. This is the
problem, and this is a separate issue, an issue linked to spiritual education,
to what preachers are doing, to what kind of Islam or any other religion we have
in our country. These are also things we need to keep in mind and areas in which
we need to work.

You said that we should restore the death penalty and that people guilty of
these kinds of crimes should be made to answer for their acts. The death penalty
is a separate issue, and we have obligations in this regard. I can say to you
quite frankly that if I had been in this job in the 1990s different decisions
would have been taken, however, there is no point in going back over all of that
now. But those responsible for these monstrous acts will pay with their lives,
even without the death penalty.

Regarding the START-3 Treaty and a number of other issues, we will discuss these
matters over a cup of tea. I will inform you of all the details, of course. The
documents are ready and what we have is a balanced agreement. I simply want you
to know this and so will inform you in more detail. Moreover, this document
enables us to modernize all aspects of our strategic nuclear forces and remain a
self-sufficient nuclear power. Any other scenario would have been unacceptable.
But it is right that you show an interest in this matter, because this is
something the parliament needs to be informed about.

In conclusion, I want to say that I really do sincerely count on your
consolidated position on counterterrorism, because terrorism is a real challenge
for our country and its existence. I hope that we will follow a common line on
this issue, otherwise I will find myself forced to take decisions without taking
your views into consideration, but I hope that this will not happen.

Source: President of the Russian Federation website, Moscow, in English 1700 gmt
2 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                              April 2, 2010 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Teenager in city sex attack terror

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 111 words


A TEENAGER was subjected to a terrifying ordeal when she was indecently
assaulted in Glasgow.

The 18-year-old woman was approached near to the junction of Rottenrow and North
Portland Street by a male in his 20s, who indecently assaulted her.

It happened around 2.30am yesterday.

The woman was uninjured but badly shaken as a result of the incident. The
suspect is described as white male, mid 20s, heavy build wearing blue jeans.

The suspect is believed to have made off in a small blue car.

Detective Constable Robert Welsh is appealing to anyone who was in the area
around the time of the assault to contact him on 0141 532 3036 or call
Crimestoppers free on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: evening_times


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 3, 2010 Saturday

Algerian paper says two civilians killed in terrorist attack in Tizi Ouzou
Province

LENGTH: 131 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 3
April

A terrorist attack was perpetrated on Thursday [1 April] at about noon on
National Road [RN] 30 linking Draa El-Mizane to Boghni and running through Ain
Zaouia. Two people on board a taxi were killed instantly.

These were the driver and the man accompanying him, who were coming from Boghni
to get to Draa El-Mizane (50 km south of Tizi Ouzou). According to corroborating
sources, the device had been hidden under an embankment one kilometre from the
southern exit to Ain Zaouia. The power of the explosion was such that it was
heard for several kilometres around. The depth of the crater that it left showed
the force of the device. [Passage omitted].

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 3 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 4, 2010 Sunday

Second blast goes off in Russia's Dagestan, incident deemed terrorist attack

LENGTH: 212 words


There were two blasts in a terrorist attack on a railway track in Kayakentskiy
District of Dagestan on 4 April, ITAR TASS reported on the same day quoting a
source in the investigations department of the Makhachkala interior transport
police department of the North Caucasus railway.

Following the first blast that caused eight carriages of a freight train to
derail, five of which overturned, "another explosive device went off as a result
of one of the carriages falling down". The device was placed near the railway
track 25 metres from the first one and was meant to be blown up when police and
investigators arrived at the scene", the source said as quoted by the report.

The investigations department has instituted criminal proceedings over blowing
up the train under three articles of the Russian Criminal Code: a terrorist
attack, illegal purchasing, and storing of explosives and explosive devices,
illegal manufacturing of explosives and explosive devices, the report said.

A later ITAR-TASS report said that the explosion of an improvised bomb that
occurred under the locomotive of the train had the force of around 5 kg of TNT
equivalent.

Sources: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0726 gmt 4 Apr 10; ITAR-TASS
news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0755 gmt 4 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 4, 2010 Sunday

Poland not prepared for terrorist attacks - security expert

LENGTH: 664 words


Text of report by Polish newspaper Rzeczpospolita on 1 April

[Interview with Przemyslaw Gula, former head of the Government Security Centre
(RCB), by Sylwia Szparkowska; place and date not given: "Poland Not Prepared for
Attacks"]

[Szparkowska] Why do terrorists attack subway stations, as was the case in
Moscow?

[Gula] Such attacks claim the highest number of victims. On average, 21 per cent
of those who are within the effective range of an explosive device in a subway
station or on a bus die. An explosive device of several grams is a deadly
weapon. In an open space, a terrorist must use several tonnes of explosive
materials and the effective range stands at an average of 7 per cent. In
addition, attacks on public transport in fact completely paralyse entire cities.
Children do not go to kindergartens and families lose contact. This is because
mobile networks stop operating in the event of such an attack.

[Szparkowska] Does this mean that the consequences affect not only the direct
victims of the attack?

[Gula] Yes. An attack on a crowded place causes people to wonder. I was there
yesterday, what would have happened if I had been there today? What would have
happened if my son or daughter had not left school early?

[Szparkowska] Do people panic when there is an attack?

[Gula] Paradoxically, rather not. Altruism always prevails over egoism. People
do whatever they can to help the victims, frequently by risking their own lives.
Terror comes later and is permanent.

[Szparkowska] Poland has only one subway line, not very crowded at that. Does
this underdevelopment mean that we are protected against attacks?

[Gula] It is very easy to carry untypical objects into subway stations and
people are not used to paying attention to untypical situations. I recently saw
a car pull over on tramway tracks. The driver disappeared. A crowd of people
left the tram. They were wondering what to do.

[Szparkowska] Was this a dangerous situation?

[Gula] No. However, it would have been seen as one in countries that are
permanently exposed to terrorist attacks. In our country, no one would even
think to check the car.

[Szparkowska] Do we not believe that there might be an attack?

[Gula] No, we do not. But I guess we should given the fact that we are involved
in the military operation in Afghanistan and we were in Iraq.

[Szparkowska] How are our rescue services prepared for attacks? We have
ambulances and hospitals.

[Gula] But we are not prepared for such operations in which ambulances take the
injured to hospitals that have free beds. We do not know how many people
intensive care units in hospitals can admit at any given moment. We do not have
a good communication network.

[Szparkowska] Does this mean that the rescue services may have problems
communicating?

[Gula] We can assume that emergency lines would be constantly engaged because
people would keep calling to ask about their families. We have no special
hotlines, well-trained staff or procedures for answering questions.

[Szparkowska] But there are emergency plans that are prepared in case of a
crisis.

[Gula] Yes, but a terrorist attack has different dynamics. Recent attacks
followed a similar scenario. At first, there is an explosion. When all the
services focus on neutralizing its consequences, there is a second explosion,
sometimes followed by a third one. The places where rescue operations are being
conducted may be hit by another attack. The area may be intentionally
contaminated.

[Szparkowska] Does this happen?

[Gula] In the Middle East, suicide terrorists are infected with the very
dangerous hepatitis C virus.

[Szparkowska] But there are exercises in which the rescue services practice such
scenarios.

[Gula] Yes, but the services have a fixed role to play in most exercises. Such
exercises do not teach them how to react to unexpected situations. Scenarios
assume that all the participants will act rationally. In reality, however, this
is not the case.

Source: Rzeczpospolita, Warsaw in Polish 1 Apr 10 p A9

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday

India "expected" to get access to US terror suspect in Mumbai attack case

LENGTH: 373 words


Text of report published by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi: India is expected to get access to Lashkar-i-Toiba operative David
Headley within 30 days of sending a letter of request, which is being prepared,
government indicated here on Monday.

The indication came as US Ambassador Timothy J Roemer met Indian Home Minister P
Chidambaram here and said the issue of access to Headley was being dealt with at
the highest level in the Obama administration.

Government sources said the letter, to be sent to the US, is being prepared and
access is expected to be given within 30 days after they receive it.

India has been seeking access to Headley, a Pakistani-origin American, to
unravel all details of his activities regarding the 26/11 attacks and plans for
further strikes in this country.

The US has shared with India a lot of information based on his interrogation but
has so far refused access to him, citing its legal difficulties.

Headley recently entered into a plea bargain with the US government under which
he offered to present himself for access through video conferencing, deposition
or Letters Rogatory (official request).

"I just had a very successful meeting with the Home Minister where I talked
about working very closely for cooperation with government of India and
government of US on counter-terrorism issues," Roemer told reporters after the
meeting.

On US granting access to Headley, he said, "This is an issue that is being taken
up at the highest levels of the US government day and night constantly."

He said it was in the interest of both India and the US to work together to
protect common people from attacks wherever may they come from.

"As former commissioner of 9/11 probe, somebody who has experienced loss of
life, we lost 3000 people, we empathised here in Mumbai with Indian people the
tragic loss of life here and we want to make sure that justice is brought
forward to all those involved in that kind of attack," Roemer said.

Indian Foreign Secretary Nirupama Rao yesterday said the Home Ministry and
related agencies are in touch with their US counterparts over the access issue
and "we are satisfied with the progress these negotiations have made".

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1502gmt 05 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday

Pakistan TV show discusses president's address, terror attacks

LENGTH: 1291 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1700 GMT on 5 April relays live regularly
scheduled "Today with Kamran Khan" program. Noted Pakistani journalist Kamran
Khan reviews, discusses and analyzes major day-to-day developments with
government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and prominent analysts
in Geo TV's flagship program; Words within double slant lines are in English

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Segment I

Kamran Khan refers to President Asif Ali Zardari's address to the joint session
of parliament on 5 April and says: Zardari's address comes a few days before his
status becomes "symbolic" after the passage of Constitution 18th Amendment bill
in the parliament as it will result in taking away all those powers from the
Presidency given to it during the rule of "two //military dictators [Gen Ziaul
Haq and Gen Pervez Musharraf]." Khan adds: "but there was no indication anywhere
in President Asif Ali Zardari's address that he is accepting this symbolic
status and that he would only remain a ceremonial president of Pakistan."
Continuing, Khan says: Zardari during his address claimed that his name will be
written in history because his steps [to transfer powers to the prime minister]
are historic. Khan adds: although Zardari stated that he will try not to raise
"controversial issues" during his address, but he indirectly referred to the
"most controversial issue" when he decided to give credit for the historic
Constitution 18th Amendment to the "most controversial cabinet minister" [Law
Minister] Babar Awan. Khan says: Zardari "surprised" the parliament when he
stated that the credit for introduction of the Amendment bill goes to Babar
Awan.

Kamran Khan says: although Zaradri admitted in his address that the people's
expectations from his government were not fulfilled because of failure to
control price rise and high unemployment rate, but he did not mention corruption
charges levelled against his government and even defended "controversial" rental
power plants. Khan adds: Zardari spoke in English and the authorities have
failed to explain why the President addressed the parliament and the nation in
English. Khan says: it was also noticed closely that Pakistan Muslim
League-Nawaz Sharif Chief Nawaz Sharif and his brother Punjab Chief Minister
Shahbaz Sharif were absent during Zardari's address. Continuing, Khan says:
nowhere during his address, Zardari indicated that this is that president's last
address "who will have no role in state affairs" and whose future status will be
"mere symbolic."

After a commercial break, Kamran Khan says Senator Reza Rabbani, chairman of
parliamentary committee on constitutional reforms, is receiving acclamations
both from within and outside the country for his role in forging a consensus on
the Constitutional reforms package and it is now being recognized that his
political stature has been enhanced, but Zardari in his address first mentioned
the name of his right hand Law Minister Babar Awan and then of Reza Rabbani
while giving credit for the preparation of constitutional reforms package. Khan
cites tributes paid by Pakistani print media to Reza Rabbani for his role in the
preparation of constitutional reforms package.

Kamran Khan establishes telephonic contact with Ayyaz Amir, noted columnist and
member of National Assembly, and asks him whether President Zardari's
"//intervention//" and "//influence//" in governance will end or reduced after
the passage of Constitution 18th Amendment. Amir says: Zardari's influence in
state affairs and governance is not due to his status as the president, but
because of his status as the co-chairman of ruling Pakistan People's Party [PPP]
and, therefore, he would continue to "//indirectly// influence" the
decision-making. Amir adds: Sonia Gandhi has no constitutional or government
position in India, but she is the head of ruling Congress party and she, thus,
has an influence in decision-making, and similarly, Zardari will also exercise
his influence as ruling party head. When Khan points out that Sonia Gandhi is a
not a "controversial figure" like Zardari because of his pending court cases and
other charges against him, Amir says whatever the controversies, the fact is
that Zardari is still head of the ruling party. When asked why Zardari mentioned
Law Minister Awan's name before Reza Rababni's name while giving credit for the
preparation of reforms package, Amir says Awan is "friend of friends" of Zardari
and, so, he had to take his name, but Zardari's mention of [Interior Minister]
Rehman Malik's name in this connection was "comical." On absence of Nawaz Sharif
and Shahbaz Sharif at the joint session of parliament, Amir says: the unity is
required on issues of war and peace like the situation in Waziristan, but every
party has its own viewpoint in politics and it is not good to unnecessarily give
an impression of "//unanimity//" on all issues. Amir adds: Opposition should
play its role as opposition.

Segment II

Kamran Khan says: Northwest Frontier Province [NWFP] was once again the target
of terrorists today. Khan adds: a suicide bomber blew himself up at an Awami
National Party's public meeting in Timergara in Lower Dir district in which 50
people were "martyred" and another big terrorist attack targeted the US
Consulate in Peshawar in which 2 security personnel embraced "martyrdom" and six
attackers, including two suicide bombers, were killed. Continuing, Khan says:
these attacks are once again reminding that terrorists are still present in NWFP
and they choose the area and targets at their own will for killing the people.

Video Report prepared by Geo News Correspondent Bahroz Khan describes in details
the two terror attacks in Peshawar and Lower Dir today. The report says
terrorists selected the day for these two attacks when President Zardar was to
address the joint session of parliament and the attention of the entire nation
was on the Constitution 18th Amendment bill.

Kamran Khan establishes telephonic contact with Mian Iftikhar Hussain, NWFP
senior minister, and asks him whether the local leadership of Awami National
Party [ANP] did not take a risk while arranging a public meeting in Lower Dir
because two or three major terrorist attacks have taken place there in recent
weeks. Sidestepping the question, Hussain says: the ANP is in "forefront" of war
against terror and it is supporting and siding with the security agencies at all
cost and, so, the terrorists are naturally targeting the ANP. Hussain adds that
the ANP has, however, accepted the challenge of terrorists and it will neither
be "frightened" nor "surrender" in fight against terror. Hussain says: "there
may be many more martyrdoms, but we have made a resolve, a firm resolve, that
our jihad would continue until the elimination of terrorists." When asked why
Dir is being particularly targeted by terrorists, Hussain says Dir borders
Bajaur and Mohmand Agency which had been strongholds of terrorists and as their
strongholds are being gradally dismantled [in military operations], terrorists
want to have their presence felt through some isolated attacks. When asked
whether attackers of US consulate have been identified, Hussain says: faces of
five of the attackers are beyond recognition and only the face of one remaining
attacker is slightly recognizable and he appears to be "foreigner," but this
would be confirmed only after the completion of investigation. Hussain pays
tributes to the security agencies for foiling the "well prepared" terror attack.

[Segment III passage on the continuing row between the Supreme Court and the
government on the implementation of court's order on National Reconciliation
Order omitted]

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1700gmt 05 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday

Uzbek paper urges vigilance following terror attacks in Moscow

LENGTH: 97 words


The Uzbek newspaper Ozbekiston Ovozi has called for vigilance.

A report published by the Ozbekiston Ovozi newspaper on 1 April, following the
recent terror attacks in the Moscow metro, quotes some foreign media as saying
that Russia has taken security measures.

The report says: "That violent crime which has been committed makes it necessary
for the world community to draw a relevant conclusion and to take measures. It
also prompts all of us to make vigilance our slogan."

(The report is about 700 words; no further processing)

Source: Ozbekistan Ovozi, Tashkent, in Uzbek 1 Apr 10 p 3

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday

Ukraine may be subjected to terrorist attacks - expert

LENGTH: 277 words


Excerpt from report by private Ukrainian news agency UNIAN

Kiev, 6 April: A potential threat of a terrorist attack in Ukraine should not be
ruled out, the president of the international public organization International
Anti-terrorism Unity, Oleksandr Dychek, has said at a news conference in Kiev.

He said that the experts point out external and domestic factors that contain
threats of terrorist attacks in Ukraine.

The expert said that external factors for Ukraine are linked to its geopolitical
position, where the interests of Russia, the West, the USA, Turkey and the
Muslim world meet. Among the external factors are also the participation of the
Ukrainian troops in the international peacekeeping and anti-terrorism missions
in different countries and active migrant flows throw Ukraine from the
terrorist-active regions, such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Tajikistan, India
etc.

Among domestic factors, Dychek mentioned the social-economic division inside
society, weak and corrupted judicial system, domestic political instability,
attempts to step up confrontation between western and eastern Ukrainian regions
and the factor of the Crimean Tatars.

[Passage omitted: expert's general remarks on the nature of terrorism]

"For its part, Ukraine, as a part of the global world, is not ensured against
terrorism. We can also add hosting the Euro 2012 football championship to the
already named factors. Yes, this is a challenge for Ukraine. This (acts of
terrorism - UNIAN) can take place in Ukraine, but the probability is lower than
in Russia," Dychek said.

[Passage omitted: more experts comment]

Source: UNIAN news agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 0932 gmt 6 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday

Russia: Ingush president says spate of recent terrorist attacks interlinked

LENGTH: 241 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Magas, 6 April: President of Ingushetia Yunus-Bek Yevkurov believes that the
terrorist acts which occurred in the Moscow metro, Dagestan's Kizlyar and in
Ingushetia's Karabulak could be links in one chain, the president's press
secretary Kaloy Akhilgov has told Interfax-South news agency.

"The way these terrorist acts were carried out makes it possible to draw the
preliminary conclusion that the same people are behind these crimes," Akhilgov
quoted Yevkurov as saying.

In the Ingush president's opinion, the terrorists are actively trying to recruit
new suicide bombers using the tactic of turning them into zombies.

"Employees of the main department of internal affairs will not lose heart; on
the contrary, they have all pulled their socks up. There is the desire not to
avenge, as it seems to some people, but the desire to introduce order, to punish
these scoundrels properly, as the law, our customs and conventional law
require," Yevkurov emphasized.

According to Akhilgov, on Monday, the Ingush president visited the scene of the
terrorist acts in Karabulak and heard a report about the course of the
investigation.

Akhilgov recalled that the decision has been taken to allocate R1m [34,000
dollars] to the families of the two policemen killed in the terrorist act.
[Passage omitted: background to the attacks]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1500 gmt 6 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack Policemen killed by [...]

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 15 words


Terror attack Policemen killed by suicide bombers in Russian province
telegraph.co.uk/world

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan TV show discusses 18th amendment, terror attacks in northwest

LENGTH: 1055 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1700 gmt on 6 April relays live regularly
scheduled "Today with Kamran Khan" program. Noted Pakistani journalist Kamran
Khan reviews, discusses and analyzes major day-to-day developments with
government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and prominent analysts
in Geo TV's flagship program; Words within double slant lines are in English

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Segment I

Kamran Khan says the "historic //package//" of the Constitution 18th Amendment
is now before the parliament for final approval. Khan adds: the Amendment
proposes reforms in about one-fourth of Articles of Pakistan's Constitution.
Continuing, Khan says: While addressing the parliament today, Prime Minister
Gilani tried to neutralize the perception made out of President Zardari's
address to joint session of parliament on 5 April in which he mentioned Law
Minister Babar Awan's name first among those who were given credit for the
formulation of the 18th Amendment. Khan adds: Gillani today stated that that the
credit for preparing reforms package, in fact, goes to all political forces and
parties of Pakistan.

Kamran Khan says the Amendment restores the spirit of the 1973 Constitution and
proposes solution to the most pressing issues of Pakistan's politics. Khan adds:
according to the basic changes to be introduced through the Amendment,
suspension of the Constitution will tantamount to treachery, number of federal
cabinet ministers will be reduced, seats reserved for minorities in Senate will
be increased, provincial governors will be natives of their respective
provinces, concurrent list will be abolished, Northwest Frontier Province will
be renamed as Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, chief election commissioner will be appointed
through joint consultation between the government and Opposition, service chiefs
will be appointed by prime minister, a seven-member commission will appoint
judges to higher courts, and president could dissolve the parliament only on the
advice of prime minister.

Kamran Khan establishes video link with retired Justice Nasir Aslam Zahid,
former judge of Supreme Court of Pakistan, and asks how the proposed reforms
would strengthened the parliamentary system and how the life of common man will
be affected with its passage. Zahid says abrogation of Article 58-2B, which gave
discretionary powers to the president to dissolve the parliament, will
strengthen federal parliamentary system in which only prime minister, who acts
as chief executive office, has the power to suggest dissolution of the
parliament. About the impact of Amendment on common man, Zahid says: the
Amendment insures right to free and appropriate education for 5-15 age group
which is a very good policy. Zahid, however, adds that the Amendment should have
proposed the appointment to public offices only on merit basis.

Segment II

Kamran Khan says the two terrorist attacks in Northwest Frontier Province [NWFP]
yesterday once again highlighted the terrorism in Pakistan, especially in NWFP,
throughout the world. Khan adds: the suicide attack at Awami National Party
[NWFP] public meeting at Timergara in Lower Dir district was especially very
serious, but observers are saying the attack took place because of "political
and administrative irresponsibility" as Lower Dir has been the base of
terrorists and arranging a public meeting there without providing effective
security is proof of "extreme irresponsibility" due to which so many people were
killed.

Kamran Khan establishes video link in Peshawar with Malik Naved Khan, inspector
general of NWFP police, and asks him whether the local political leadership and
administration should be blamed for the terror attack in Lower Dir yesterday.
Naved Khan says the ANP party workers were in jubilant mood [because of the
fulfilling of their demand to rename NWFP as Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa] and they
ignored the security measures to some extent. Naved Khan adds that there was a
"//security lapse//" to an extent as not everybody was searched. Continuing,
Naved Khan says: both local political and administrative authorities should not
have treated the security measures lightly as bomb blasts had earlier been
reported in Timergara and the terrorists could penetrate the area from Maidan
area. About future strategy to prevent such tragedies in future, Naved Khan says
he has already drafted detailed instructions to coordinate administrative
measures with the political authorities. When Khan asked whether those who were
behind the attack near US Consulate have been identified, Naved Khan says:
initial reports say that this was the "misdeed" of extremist groups whose mentor
is Al-Qa'ida. Naved Khan adds: "the //precision// with which they [terrorists]
came has imprints of Al-Qa'ida //planning// and especially its target [US
Consulate] makes it obvious that //directions// came from the upper level, and,
perhaps, the //local organizations// were used. "

[Segment III passage on Law Secretary Akil Mirza going on sudden leave
indicating government's dillydallying on implement of court's order on National
Reconciliation Ordinance omitted]

Segment IV

Kamran Khan says India's Maoist rebels, who are called Naxalites, in a major
attack today inflicted heavy losses on the Indian security forces and according
to a report, Maoists rebels in the attack on Indian forces in Chattisgarh
district killed 80 Indian military and paramilitary personnel. Khan adds: Maoist
rebels have launched a movement for a separate state and Maoist insurgency has
now spread to many Indian states. Continuing, Khan says: India has announced a
"major military action" to deal with the Maoist insurgency and about 60,000
troops are being dispatched to Maoist-infested areas. Khan adds: thousands of
square miles of the Indian territory is under the domain of Maoists who have
killed more than 950 Indian security personnel in last 4 years. Khan says:
Maoists claim the representation of the deprived section of the Indian society,
especially local tribal groups, who complain about poverty, illiteracy and
increasing child death rate. Khan adds: BBC today carried a statement of a
leader of Maoist rebels in which he claims that his armed struggle is
progressing fast and Maoist rebels would occupy Delhi within 15 years.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1700gmt 06 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday

Australian foreign minister condemns northwest Pakistan terror attacks

LENGTH: 199 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 6 April: Australian Foreign Minister Stephen Smith telephoned Foreign
Minister Makhdoom Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Tuesday [6 April] and conveyed his
deepest sympathies over the large scale human loss in yesterday's terrorist acts
in Peshawar and Lower Dir.

While strongly condemning these despicable acts, Foreign Minister Smith
acknowledged enormous sacrifices Pakistan is giving in curbing violent
extremism. Both the foreign ministers expressed satisfaction over the growing
bilateral ties and enhanced engagement in recent years between the two
countries.

Foreign Minister Qureshi appreciated Australia's cooperation with Pakistan in
education, agriculture and health sectors as well as in counter terrorism.

The Australian foreign minister expressed the hope that the Pakistani Foreign
Minister would be able to visit Australia soon. Both sides expect concrete
outcomes from the visit.

Foreign Minister Smith also congratulated the foreign minister on the successful
Pakistan-US Strategic Dialogue recently held in Washington.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1530gmt
06 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday

Russian editorial sees knee-jerk reaction against media after terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 776 words


Text of report by the website of Russian business newspaper Vedomosti on 5 April

[Editorial: "Wrong frames"]

Moscow's Central Administrative District prosecutor's office does not see any
grounds to accuse Nezavisimaya Gazeta of extremism for the publication of an
article by former Yukos head Mikhail Khodorkovskiy, Nezavisimaya Gazeta chief
editor Konstantin Remchukov says. Incidentally, there is not yet any official
refusal to open an anti-extremist investigation against the newspaper. State
Duma Deputy Sergey Abeltsev has written to the prosecutor's office. Another
deputy, Robert Shlegel, yesterday introduced a draft law on prohibiting the
media from disseminating any material in the name of terrorists. At a meeting
with the president at the end of last week the speakers of the State Duma and
the Federation Council accused the press of aiding and abetting terrorism.

These initiatives are hardly carefully coordinated; more likely this is the
appearance of the reaction to high-profile terrorist acts that is traditional
for the Russian establishment.

Let us recall that after the seizure of the theatre centre on Dubrovka in
October 2002 deputies, with the assistance of the siloviki, intended to prohibit
journalists from independently gathering information about counterterrorist
operations. The law did not come into force due to a presidential veto. However,
the authorities achieved the main aim - they took advantage of NTV's mistakes in
covering the terrorist act to bring the TV channel under control. At the end of
2002 Boris Yordan, its general director who had tried to preserve the channel's
previous line, and Leonid Parfenov, presenter of the "Recently" programme and
director of the "Country and World" programme, were fired from NTV. In April
2003 the heads of leading Russian media outlets signed an antiterrorist
convention in which they proclaimed a rejection of interviews with terrorists
and of the provision of live airtime to them. However, that turned out not to be
enough. After the tragedy in Beslan in September 2004, deputies again wanted to
prohibit the media from receiving and transmitting any information without the
approval of operational headquarters, and from broadcasting pictures depicting
the victims of the fighters.

The new attempts to threaten newspapers and TV channels demonstrate the
peculiarities of the Russian fight against terrorism. In the North Caucasus the
state has not been able to eliminate unemployment, poverty, clan power, and
abuse by the siloviki, which deprive local inhabitants of hope for a better life
and which allow those who inspire the fighters ideologically to recruit new
supporters. The multiple failures of the security services have not brought
about adequate personnel decisions or systemic reforms.

The Russian establishment resolves these problems differently - it tries to get
rid of the "incorrect" picture of reality which contradicts the virtual
wellbeing that caresses the eyes. And at the same time it threatens the press
and journalists who talk about unpleasant phenomena.

In this period of economic confusion, jaded propaganda cliches about impetuous
growth and prosperity are not working. Demand has emerged in the country for an
objective analysis of the situation that has taken shape and of the reasons for
the economic crisis and the obvious flaws of the Russian state apparatus, which
are aggravating its negative consequences for the inhabitants. The behind the
scenes fighting of the power groups has weakened censorship and the
self-censorship of journalists. Meaningful discussions about key problems that
concern society are now conducted not only on the Internet and in individual
print media outlets; they are going out live on air on second tier TV channels.

The establishment has turned out not to be ready to create new meanings and
adequate responses for the challenges of modern times. The lack of a meaningful
response engenders offended retorts in the previous style of "stability" and
those internal and external enemies hampering it. Vladimir Pekhtin, first deputy
chairman of the United Russia faction, has declared: "All the material published
fits the context of a mass 'black PR' action in the media aimed against the
current authorities and in particular against the leadership of United Russia,
Vladimir Putin and Boris Gryzlov" (quotation from the party's site).

Developing in his blog the proposal to prohibit quoting terrorists, Shlegel
proposed also extending it to the YouTube video hosting site, which belongs to
Google. The deputy has evidently studied Chinese experience well.

Source: Vedomosti website, Moscow, in Russian 5 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday

Senior Russian MP calls for media "self-regulation" in covering terror attacks

LENGTH: 618 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 7 April: The [governing] One Russia party believes that it is necessary
in the country to establish a system of objective provision of information for
citizens about terrorist attacks that have occurred.

"Essentially, we have to establish not only a system of providing objective
operational information about terrorist attacks that are occurring, which can
and should be supplied to the mass media outlets for its transmission to the
public, but also to provide exhaustive information which is sufficiently open
and which could be put to use by looking at the website - let's say - of the
National Antiterrorist Committee," the chairman of the State Duma Security
Committee, Vladimir Vasilyev, said at a meeting of the One Russia clubs on
Wednesday [7 April].

He said that the existence of a sufficient amount of information "removes all
sorts of innuendos and a lack of understanding" in the public.

The deputy secretary of the presidium of the General Council of One Russia,
Yuriy Shuvalov, for his part, noted the importance of work of the public
relations centres of security agencies.

"At the moment, they are not 100 per cent coordinated and, as a result, we do
not always have objective and adequate information about the way the events are
unfolding after such inhumane crimes are committed," Shuvalov noted.

Vasilyev also touched upon the subject of coverage of terrorist attack in the
mass media.

He stressed that on the one side, there should be no infringement of the rights
of the mass media. But at the same time, in his opinion, journalists should work
out rules of self-regulation and should not forget about responsibility for the
form in which information is presented and the consequences which this could
entail.

"We all understand well that the effect of a terrorist attack is increased not
only by the number of bolts and nuts, which are put into an explosive device,
but also by subsequent reaction in the mass media - the extent to which it is
consistent, rich in content," Vasilyev noted.

He quoted the example of a report published in the mass media after the
terrorist attacks in Moscow metro. "A terrorist attack has occurred. Information
by one of the leaders of the bandit underground, who has claimed the
responsibility for this terrorist attack, is being provided. Then the idea about
the poor and the rich is being advanced. We have interethnic, inter-confessional
problems; it is in 1917 [during the Bolshevik Revolution] that the poor and the
rich were sorted out, but someone wants to play on these things again," the MP
said.

In this connection he believes that it is necessary "to define some norms
[governing] the reporting of information about terrorist attacks in the mass
media". "A fundamental question should be resolved: who should set such norms?
Either the journalistic community will do this itself by introducing a
self-regulation mechanism, or such norms should be put in place at the
legislative level," Vasilyev said.

He also recalled that a working group for the improvement of legislation to
counter terrorism has now been set up in the State Duma.

"Today, for example, the problem of ensuring transport security is very topical
because by law the burden of ensuring security is being put on commercial
structures which use the transport infrastructure. This is insufficient," the MP
said. In this connection he noted that there was a proposal to offer tax and
customs duties breaks to the structures which invest money into the system of
transport security. [Passage omitted: other statements by Vasilyev reported
earlier.]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1504 gmt 7 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

SWORD ATTACK TERROR IN PUB

BYLINE: CHLOE GRIFFITHS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 270 words


A MAN who broke his brother's arm with a two-foot samurai sword during a drink
and drug fuelled rampage was jailed indefinitely.

Jason Attah, 39, told how his brother Steven Attah, 32, was like a "crazed
animal" when he launched the terrifying attack.

Liverpool crown court heard Mr Attah desperately tried to protect himself with a
wooden stool at the Boundary pub in Wavertree, but was eventually slashed on the
arm. Attah used such force his brother's broken bone was exposed and he needed
surgery to insert a metal plate.

Steven Attah, of Granville Road, Wavertree, was out on licence at the time of
the October 31, 2009, attack after being released from a previous five-year
sentence for possessing a sawn-off shotgun. Philip Astbury, defending, told how
Attah, who has no recollection of the incident, suffers with post-traumatic
stress after being plagued by tragedies. In 2003 Attah saw his best friend
Eugene Ogunboro gunned down in the street and gave evidence in the trial against
Robert Davies who was convicted of manslaughter. The mother of Attah's children
was also killed.

Judge Brian Lewis said he accepted Attah had suffered, but told him: "I can only
view you as an extremely dangerous man."

Attah will serve a minimum of three years behind bars before being considered
for release.

Geoffrey Fryar, prosecuting, told how Jason Attah had been drinking with his
brother when he became increasingly aggressive and abusive, forcing him to push
him out of the pub. But Attah returned 15 minutes later brandishing the
ferocious weapon. He chopped and slashed at furniture in a bid to get to his
brother.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Steven Attah

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 8, 2010 Thursday

Two Algerian gendarmes reportedly killed in "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 128 words


Two gendarmes have been killed and two girls wounded in a "terrorist attack"
east of Algiers, the privately-owned, French-language daily newspaper Liberte
website reported on 8 April.

The paper said the attack took place the previous day in the municipality of
Tidjelabine, near Boumerdes (45 km, east of Algiers), when a remote-controlled
bomb exploded at the passage of a patrol of gendarmes which was escorting a
convoy transporting explosives. The loud deflagration had toppled over the
vehicle transporting four gendarmes and was followed by a clash with four or
five Islamist militants, the paper indicated, quoting witnesses.

The attackers escaped after the intervention of another gendarme patrol, the
paper said.

Source: Liberte, website, Algiers, in French 8 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Bury Times

                             April 8, 2010 Thursday

Boy, 8, in dog attack terror

SECTION: BURY NEWS (BURY NEWS)

LENGTH: 353 words


A DISTRAUGHT Bury dad bravely rescued his eight-year-old son when the
youngster's arm became locked in the jaws of a dog.

Mr Ali Shah told how he had to repeatedly hit the bull terrier type dog with a
stick before it finally released its grip on his screaming son, Mujtabi.

The youngster later underwent a four-hour operation in hospital to repair
damaged tissue and had 42 stitches inserted into arm and hip wounds.

Police have seized the animal which is being held in kennels to allow officers
to assess whether it is a prohibited dog.

Meanwhile, the schoolboy is recovering at his home in Shepherd Street following
his ordeal on Good Friday. He sustained numerous bites in the attack which
happened in Back South Cross Street, just yards from the boy's home.

Mr Ali Shah, aged 43, said: "Mujtabi was among a group of around a dozen
children who were playing outside. After one of the little ones came in to get
me, I went outside and heard Mujtabi cry, 'dad, help me.' He was being attacked
by a big dog which I thought was a pit bull.

"My son was trying to run away as the dog was following him. It went for his
throat and then got his right arm in its jaws. I grabbed a stick and tried to
hit the dog with it. I got it several times and it eventually let go and ran
off. But the attack must have lasted for five minutes."

He added: "There was a lot of blood and we immediately phoned for an ambulance.
My son was taken to Fairfield Hospital. He had 35 stitches put into his arm and
seven into his hip. On the Saturday, he had four hours of surgery to repair
tissue damage to his arm."

On Sunday, the Holy Trinity Primary School pupil was allowed home where he is
currently recovering from his injuries.

Mr Shah, who has two other sons, continued: "Mujtabi has been left very
traumatised by what happened. He's very scared and doesn't want to go outside at
the moment."

A spokesman for Bury Police said: "We can confirm that the dog was taken away
and it is currently in kennels. We believe it is a Staffordshire bull terrier.
But it's now being assessed to determine if it's a prohibited dog and this could
take up to a week."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 9, 2010 Friday

Saudi Al-Watan says "ideological terrorism" behind attack on paper's building

LENGTH: 621 words


Text of report by Saudi newspaper Al-Watan website on 8 April

[Report by Nasir Habtar in Abha: "Intimidating Bullets Fired At The Main
Buildiing Of Al-Watan Newspaper; Security Men Examine The Traces Of Bullets At
The Wall Of The Building"]

Bullets were fired at the main offices of the Al-Watan newspaper yesterday
afternoon from outside the building, causing only very slight damage. The
competent security agencies arrived at the scene and began investigation to find
out the ramifications surrounding the incident. It is believed that ideological
terrorism is behind the incident as the perpetrators aimed to intimidate
Al-Watan writers and employees and deter them from continuing to follow the line
they have chosen to promote press freedom and social enlightenment.

The bullets did not cause any damage to the steel wall surrounding Al-Watan
headquarters, and none of the editors and employees was hurt. The editorial and
administrative staff members continued their work as usual. An editor said that
at about 4:30, and while he was performing the afternoon prayers, he heard the
crackle of five bullets outside the building, three loud and two less loud.

The security authorities arrived at the scene to investigate and took the
necessary measures to learn the ramifications of the incident. The source of the
bullets and the direct target of the attack are not yet known. It is to be
recalled that a number of writers in Al-Watan had previously received threats.
In addition, threats were posted on extremist and militant websites against
Al-Watan.

Al-Watan Chief Editor Jamal Khashogji stressed that the paper will not change
its liberal line in response to intimidation and bullets and will continue its
march to perpetuate press freedom and ideological openness, and to boost the
plan endorsed by the custodian of the two holy mosques, King Abdallah, for
promoting press freedom, dialogue, and openness.

Col Abdallah al-Qarni, spokesman for the Asir Province's Police, said that so
far no evidence was found to prove that the Al-Watan newspaper building was hit
by bullets, and that the investigation into the incident was continuing.

It should be recalled that the Al-Watan building was the target of a storming
attempt on 18 March 2005 by a young man driving a double-cabin Hilux truck,
forcing the security men to kill him after several attempts to stop him by
firing warning shots and telling him through loud speakers to stop and get off
the vehicle. It transpired at the time that the driver of the truck was Abdallah
al-Qurban, a 25-year-old Saudi national. He was a student at the Vocational
Institute in Abha, the Plumbing Section, and had primary school education. He
tried to enter the Al-Watan complex through the main gate, but the security men
did not allow him in, so he reversed the vehicle and tried to drive in through
the adjacent exit driveway, prompting the security men to fire several bullets
into the air as a warning. They also spoke to him through loudspeakers to stop
and get off the vehicle. He did not head the orders, and the security men were
forced to open fire and kill him.

The vehicle was searched and a knife and a club were found but no explosives.
Brig Gen engineer Mansur al-Turki, official spokesman for the Interior Ministry,
said at the time that the attempt against the daily's building was not of
terrorist nature. He said that the investigation showed that the identity of the
perpetrator was known, that he had previously been involved in using drugs and
alcohol, and that the vehicle he used to storm the building was a stolen 2001
Hilux double-cabin truck. He also noted that the perpetrator was carrying a
knife and a club.

Source: Al-Watan website, Abha, in Arabic 8 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday
                                  1st Edition

ESCORT GIRL'S ATTACK TERROR;
Teen robbers locked up after brutal assault: ATTACKERS LOCKED UP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 630 words


A TEESSIDE escort girl was lured to a secluded car park and brutally attacked by
a gang of robbers.

The Middlesbrough escort was bound by duct tape after the three teenagers
hatched a plot to help themselves to her takings by tying her up and stealing
from her.

Khurum Rafi, Faisal Jabbar and a 17-year-old boy had made contact with the call
girl by responding toclassified adverts in a national newspaper. She travelled
to Newcastle from Middlesbrough thinking she was meeting a client who would pay
her pounds 1,000 a night for her services. But when she turned up at the car
park in Gosforth, balaclava-clad Rafi and Jabbar tried to tie her up with duct
tape and rob her. A senior judge at Newcastle Crown Court said he had never
encountered such a plan to target an escort in this way. Locking up Rafi and
Jabbar, both 19, for three years, Judge John Milford said: "The escort put up a
spirited resistance but, of course, to her it was a terrifying experience and
has had a significant psychological impact on her."

The trio decided to try to rob an escort last October and picked out their
target by ringing call girls advertising themselves in the newspaper, the court
heard. The 17-year-old was sent to buy the paper and within 20 minutes Rafi had
called five different escorts. The final call was made to the woman, who talked
about prices and agreed to meet up the following day. On October 28 last year
Rafi put money on a pay-as-you-go mobile phone and contacted the escort to
arrange where to meet and established she would be seeing another client first
and would therefore have money on her. At around 11.30pm she arrived at a car
park near shops at Kenton Park, Gosforth, and was attacked. KimParkin,
prosecuting, said:"When she arrived she was brutally attacked by Rafi and Jabbar
who were wearing balaclavas. "

A hand was put over her mouth to stop her from screaming and electricians' duct
tape was used to bind her and someone said 'get her down'. "She was able to
struggle free by screaming loudly to cause them to flee and this enabled her to
get back to her car and escape." The victim contacted police and alerted other
escorts about her ordeal. Then on November 2 another escort received a call from
the 17-year-old's pay-as-you-go phone but didn't answer it as she had marked the
number in her phone as dangerous after the warning. The 17-year-old, who cannot
be named, was then traced through his phone. When arrested on November 4 he went
on to name his accomplices. When Jabbar was searched a balaclava, tape and a
knuckleduster were found while Rafi had the phone used to contact the escorts in
his pocket. The court heard the incident has left the escort a shadow of her
former self. In a statement she said: "I used to be confident but now I hate to
be alone in the dark.

My character has completely changed, I'm now unable to trust people. "I feel
anger towards the men who did this to me and feel this will affect me being able
to start up new relationships." Rafi, of Montagu Avenue, Gosforth and Jabbar, of
Moorside North, Newcastle, both pleaded guilty to conspiracy to rob and were
sent to a young offenders' institute for three years. The 17-year-old, who had
denied the offence but was convicted by a jury, was only involved in the
planning and not the actual attack. He got a community rehabilitation order for
two years with a six-month curfew. Tim Gittins, for Rafi, said: "This has had a
devastating effect on him and his family, his father is in poor health because
of this." Ewan Duff, for Jabbar, said: "There is no doubt this is completely and
utterly out of character." Jane Foley, for the 17-year-old said: "He is still
but a child and is from an exceptionally respectable family." Teens get three
years for plot to rob call girl

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  LOCKED UP: Attackers Faisal Jabbar, above and Khurum Rafi, top

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2010 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                 April 11, 2010

The day homegrown terror hit America.When war veteran Timothy McVeigh bombed a
federal building killing 168 people, the US was stunned. Why did these Americans
hate their country?: Ed Vulliamy returns to Oklahoma 15 years after he reported
on the city's terror attack by rightwing extremists. He speaks to survivors and
the bereaved and asks why virulent anti-government feeling - and the militias -
are on the rise again

BYLINE: Ed Vulliamy

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 5105 words


Next Sunday, 18 April, will be Baylee Almon's 16th birthday. There will be a
party and cakes, and her younger half-sister Bella and half-brother Brooks will
be there. A place will be set for Baylee, but she will attend in spirit only,
not in body. The day after her first birthday, on 19 April 1995, six years
before 11 September 2001, Baylee was one of 168 people - including 19 children
and babies - who died in a bomb attack on American soil.

The Alfred P Murrah building in Oklahoma City was bombed at 9.01 in the morning,
as a normal working day on the Great Plains was getting under way - not by
Islamic fundamentalists plotting in Afghan caves, but by a paramilitary unit of
Americans who called themselves "patriots", led by a former serviceman and 1991
Gulf war veteran, Timothy McVeigh. McVeigh was executed in 2001, and his
principal accomplice, Terry Nichols, is serving life.

"McVeigh was one of us," says Baylee's mother, Aren Almon-Kok, now remarried to
a military veteran of Dutch descent who was wounded in that same Gulf war.
"McVeigh was an American, like me and Baylee," she says, "and he walked into the
building and saw the daycare centre where the children played - he knew they
were there. Why did he do it? What was the point? There is no answer, and I've
always said that the reason I wanted to see him die was nothing to do with
closure, because there ain't no closure. It was so I'd never have to hear him
explain himself, and justify what he'd done."

The fact that the 168 deaths at Oklahoma were the result of Americans killing
Americans in the name of America has made the incident in some ways harder for
the nation to process than 9/11 and the less complicated enemy, al-Qaida. "It
made a terrible difference that this was homegrown terrorism," says Almon-Kok.
"It left you with nothing to trust or believe in, apart from my faith that this
city did everything it could in the aftermath, and that we have a legal system
which, for the most part, works. But that doesn't answer why fellow Americans
wanted to come killing our kids."

Perhaps this is why the Oklahoma bomb is not as centre stage in America's
collective memory as it should be. When Al Gore was interviewed about the
extreme right by Larry King recently, there was no mention of Oklahoma. Coverage
of last month's arrests of militants belonging to an offshoot of the same
Michigan militia that McVeigh belonged to omitted to mention the bomb, days away
from its 15th anniversary. There is extreme awkwardness around this enemy
within, but also current concern about reverberations of McVeigh's cause: war
against the American government.

"What scares me," says Kari Watkins, executive director of the Oklahoma National
Memorial and museum, "is that society now is configured much as it was in 1995.
The militias are back, there's a language of extremism out there, of hatred
against the government, threats of violence." Monday 19 April will mark the 15th
anniversary of the bomb, but it is also the date chosen by the Tea Party, a
right-wing activist organisation, for national protest, in all state capitals,
against the current administration. In Oklahoma the Tea Party has bowed to the
solemnity of the date, so that two events will occur on different days: one on
15 April, howling abuse at the government, and another on 19 April solemnly
honouring the lost and the survivors. Nevertheless, there is local outrage. "I
don't know how they dare," says Keith Simonds, a police officer at the core of
the rescue operation in 1995, "spewing their hatred on a day of remembrance." No
one is saying that the Tea Parties or their protest are comparable to McVeigh,
"but all it takes is a few dangerous extremists out there to hear things the
wrong way," says Watkins.

The Great Plains of America's heartland are no strangers to disaster: tornados,
drought, prairie fires and of course the red plains turning to dust bowl in
1938, causing the "Okie" exodus west, registered into epic history by John
Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath and the songs of Oklahoma's greatest son, Woody
Guthrie.

But by 1995, Oklahoma City had become a reasonably but not ostentatiously
prosperous state capital with an economy based on natural energy, in which the
largest employers were the state and federal governments. So there was nothing
in the universe to prepare Almon-Kok, the day after Baylee's first birthday
party, for what followed. Nor Kathleen Treanor, who lost her four-year-old
daughter, Ashley Eckles, and both her parents, Luther and LeRue. Reporting on
the bombing for this newspaper, I met Treanor wandering beside the rubble on the
night of the explosion, holding a picture of little Ashley, in vain hope. There
was nothing to alarm Claude Medearis, a customs officer, as he popped by the
office to make a phone call - which he would never make - on his way to an
appointment elsewhere. Nothing to indicate that Florence Rogers' meeting with
her staff at the Federal Employees Credit Union savings co-operative would be
disturbed and 18 of her employees killed. The sky was deep blue above the
prairie, until contaminated by a plume of black smoke at 9.01am.

Something had been festering in the American undergrowth. Calling themselves a
militia, gatherings of extremely right-wing men (and some women) were crawling
around the backwoods in camouflage fatigues playing war games against a loosely
termed "federal government". Absurd, certainly, but the movement had a seriously
dangerous core. Back then I explored this group and some of its more
(preposterous) propositions: there should be an uprising against "The New World
Order", of which the US government was a puppet; there was a site in Nevada
where the militias believed a crashed UFO had been taken, the government
plotting with aliens. The movement's leadership in Indiana were apparently
preparing for armed insurrection, and a training compound in Arizona was headed
by a man Timothy McVeigh knew, William Cooper, who threatened me when I tried to
visit. In Cooper's 1991 book, Behold a Pale Horse, he insisted that the prison
transfer centre in Oklahoma City was a "concentration camp" for those resisting
the New World Order of the Antichrist. In November 1994, on his radio station,
Cooper issued a call to arms: the militias should be ready, he said, to "fight a
war" within six months. Closer to hand, at another compound called Elouhim City
- visited by McVeigh - the leader of the Oklahoma militia, Robert Millar, urged
his followers to "take whatever action necessary against the US government". A
few weeks later, McVeigh and Nichols parked a rented Ryder truck packed with
2.15 tonnes of ammonium nitrate and fuel oil outside the Murrah Building, lit a
fuse and walked away.

Baylee Almon had a smile like a spring daisy, and before she and the 167 others
were killed by the ensuing explosion, this city of the plain was wrapped in
glorious pear blossom, as it is this Eastertide, time of Resurrection in this
deeply religious city, and of birth on the land beyond. In 1995, 19 April
followed Easter Sunday by three days. But that smiling infant was not the child
the world came to know - it was the baby cradled in a fireman's arms, lifeless,
in what emerged as the enduring image of the attack. "That photo took on its own
life," says Almon-Kok in her official video-recording at the memorial, "which
was horrible for me, because after a while I couldn't ever remember Baylee being
alive." Now, says Almon-Kok, "we tried to get a handle on it in the courts, get
it off of T-shirts and things, but we were turned down because the judge said
Baylee was not a public figure before the attack" - thereby not protected by
privacy laws. "If she'd been Michael Jordan, we'd have been OK," says her
husband, Stan Kok. "That is not my child, in the picture," insists Almon-Kok.
"My child was a beautiful little girl who loved to play."

But the picture was not the only obstacle on Almon-Kok's road of reckoning.
"People kept saying: 'She's in paradise, a better place', and I said 'NO, she
should be here with me'. Others asked: 'Why were you a single mother? Who's the
father?'" There was even "a weirdo in California who became obsessed with
Baylee, sent letters to her grave and moved to Oklahoma to be 'near her'. He
knew where we lived". The family took a court injunction to ban the
grave-stalker from the state of Oklahoma. Aren Almon was lucky to meet a fine
man in Stan Kok, who says of these supplementary tribulations: "I've got to the
point when nothing surprises me any more, and that's a sad world, when nothing
surprises you."

But of all the endurances, says Almon-Kok, none struck harder than "people
asking me why I left my child in a nursery in a federal building. I said I
expected my daughter to be safe in a federal building." And it was this which
took Mrs Almon-Kok on a remarkable crusade: to ensure the installation of
reinforced, shatterproof glass in all federal nurseries and eventually all
federal buildings.

In September 2000, President Bill Clinton signed into law congressional bill
number HR 4159, better known as Baylee's Law, which ensured glass protection
that might have saved an incalculable number of lives on 19 April. "I suppose I
believe that bad things happen for a reason," says Almon-Kok, "and that my loss
could save other lives." So that "when 9/11 happened, I watched those people
carrying their pictures of their loved ones, looking, and thought: 'I've so been
there.'" But it was only later, visiting New York and Washington, that staff
from the Pentagon came to thank Almon-Kok for their lives: "Their section of the
Pentagon, near where the plane came in, was the only section where the new glass
had been installed."

But Almon-Kok's grief is now more private, at home near Choctaw, on open
prairie. "Things had to change for me and the children. Bella was used to being
with me on the road campaigning - eating at 2am meant nothing to her. She grew
up climbing all over furniture in the White House. But Brooks wanted to be in
bed at 8 o'clock, and that calmed things down for all of us. Some people kept
what happened from their children, but I wanted them to know. They feel her
presence: Brooks had a project at school called I Have a Dream, and he wrote:
'My wish is that Baylee didn't have to die.'"

By 1995, 23-year-old Catherine Alaniz had tried her level best to recover from
her husband's death in the 1991 Gulf War. When Andy Alaniz was killed by
"friendly fire" on the day of the ceasefire in Iraq (which the Pentagon
initially denied), Catherine, aged only 19, had been six months pregnant with
her daughter, whom she called Andee. Inevitably, her mother Sharon and father
Claude, a US customs agent, had been bedrocks of strength for the young widow.

On the morning of 19 April Catherine took a call: "Did you feel that?" There had
been an "explosion downtown": the caller mentioned the federal courthouse. "My
dad worked downtown," Catherine recalls thinking, with a shudder. "I called his
office number, but it was switched through to Houston, like happens at night,
even though it was after 9am." Catherine rushed to her parents' house, to find
"my mom sitting on the floor, rocking back and forth with the phone in her hand,
waiting for my dad to call. I sat down next to her, wrapped my arms around her
and I told her, 'Dad is going to be OK. God wouldn't do this to both of us.'"

It took several days for both women to learn that another husband and father,
aged only 41, had now been lost. "Evidence had to be collected," says Catherine.
"Then a woman in hospital who'd survived, her name was Priscilla, told us dad
had gone by the office to make a call. That he'd been there at the time of the
bomb. So we knew, but not officially. Next day, we went to the funeral of the
other customs officer killed, Paul Ice, and the pastor said, 'Hope for the
best', but we already knew, and next day it was confirmed."

"I've thought this through," says Catherine, "and I've decided that the only
reason God would take my husband would be so I could help when Mom lost hers.
Mom wanted to get involved immediately, in the committees, and the trial, to
separate herself, emotionally."

The trial of Timothy McVeigh in Denver, and the long road to his execution was a
Calvary for the victims and survivors. At one point, the judge ruled that
victims could not observe the proceedings if they wanted to make impact
statements in the event of a guilty verdict. As McVeigh neared his execution,
media developed a grotesque fascination with him. Gore Vidal corresponded with
the mass murderer, and a book came to be ghost-written in which McVeigh dubbed
the dead children "collateral damage" and those he had bereaved "the woe-is-me
crowd".

For Catherine Alaniz, the trial was at times too much: "McVeigh sitting there,
smirking at us, and we not being allowed to cry, show emotion or wear buttons
and ribbons", in guidance from the judge. "Sometimes I had to leave the
courtroom. But I stayed on in Denver with Mom and got involved in a local
Catholic church, making hundreds of ham and cheese sandwiches for the homeless.
And they had a programme visiting people dying of Aids, and I met a man, a
Hispanic man, who was dying and I hugged him and he said he hadn't been hugged
for years - it turned out he was from Oklahoma City." Of course, there was also
downtime for the bereaved families to talk: with each other, with survivors and
with those who had rescued them.

Police officer Keith Simonds was among them, anxious to give his impact
statement after the verdict. Officer Simonds of the Oklahoma Swat team had
clocked on for duty at 7am on 19 April 1995 and was answering a call north of
the city when he heard the explosion, saw the plume of smoke and rows of his
colleagues' cars parked near the federal building. He took a radio call "from
the east side of the building: 'We've got wounded here,' it said. 'I'm in the
basement. You need to shut off the water, it's flooding down here.'" After
failing to persuade a fireman to accompany him or give up a flashlight, Simonds
descended into the water: "It was a wreckage, the whole thing had come down, and
we were crawling over debris to our victim, a lady called Sharon Littlejohn,
trapped. Tyres were exploding, the water rising, and I said to my colleague, you
take the legs, I'll take the upper torso. The water had been ankle-deep, now it
was knee-deep. As we reached the surface I told her, 'Can you see the light,
ma'am? It's going to be OK', and her arm suddenly hit me - I'd been holding onto
exposed bone."

Officer Simonds' rescue of Ms Littlejohn became another iconic photo-image of
that day. "[But] I had to keep working, I had to keep going," says Simonds,
unaware then that the picture had been taken. "I was walking through the
children's playground, that'd become a morgue - it was real hard that where the
children played was where they were now laid out dead, in that biddy
playground." During his incursions into the building, he said, "I saw an officer
carrying a girl with a white dress with roses on it. I thought 'that's a good
omen', and that she was alive. Later, I realised it was a white dress with blood
on it, and she was dead."

Officer Simonds was told by prosecutors in the McVeigh trial that he should not
give his impact testimony: "The judge and jury had heard so much, it might have
backfired, they told me. As a police officer, I understood. As a man, I was
pissed. So I really wanted to give my statement in the Nichols trial."

Ready to do so, and on the plane back to Denver for the Nichols trial, a young
lady two rows ahead of Simonds was trying to get volunteers for a Christmas
party for the homeless being organised by a church near the courthouse. "I
thought she'd never stop," recalls Simonds. "What about some of you officers
helping out?" suggested the young woman. "Next day," recalls the police officer,
we went to a teahouse, and the same lady told me, 'We'll make sure you get to do
your testimony', and I did." There was something about her, thought Officer
Simonds, and the feeling was mutual. Her name was Catherine Alaniz, now Simonds:
the rescue cop had met the woman he would before long make his wife.

Home for the Simondses and their merged families is now a house in the Oklahoma
suburb of Noble - a household of chattering teenage girls and visiting older
brothers, grace before dinner, gazebo in the garden running down to a creek and
a cabinet in the sitting room in tribute to the lost men in Catherine's life,
and the officer's bravery that day. "We live in this world of quick fixes," says
Catherine, "but there's no such thing. You can't plan when the loss will get
you. There's no reason why the 15th anniversary should be any easier or harder
than the 5th, or the 14th."

Keith Simonds, when he is not on the beat, protecting dignitaries or riding his
Harley-Davidson, gives classes to children on the impact - and avoidance - of
violence. "I tell them my story and tell them to report violence: I tell them if
the third man in the plot, name of Fourrier, had told the police what McVeigh
and Nichols were up to, I wouldn't be here today. I tell 'em to watch for gangs,
to do sports or clubs or cheerleading instead; I tell even the baddest of them:
it's OK to have feelings." "The thing I cannot explain to myself," says
Catherine, "is that it was an American who did this, who had walked by the
children he killed. You lose your false hope that it cannot happen here. This
wasn't someone from the Middle East - an American did this to us, and it can
happen again."

There was something unique about Oklahoma City's response to the bombing, which
one sensed immediately at the time. The Okies love where they live with good
reason: theirs is probably the least pretentious city in the world. They have
down-to-earth decency, a rugged decorum, easy-going diligence. These
characteristics came into play in the hour of horror, loss and need. Ted Wilson,
chaplain to the fire department, recalls the rota of fast food chains and local
pizza joints providing endless free meals for rescue workers and the vigils of
those who hoped for news of loved ones, often in vain. He remembers round tables
of local business donating cash for all reasons. "If word went out that they
needed batteries at the site," he says, "a truckload of batteries would arrive."
Rescue workers from out of town would return to their camp beds to find their
clothes anonymously washed and ironed. People literally gave the shoes off their
feet; local TV became an emergency needs swap-shop, often having to appeal to
citizens to hold back as blood donation banks became saturated.

The aftermaths of outrages such as 9/11, Beslan or Srebrenica are characterised
by grating and grated nerves - friction, even - between the differently
traumatised bereaved, survivors and rescue workers. The different wounds cut so
deep, and so unforgivingly to the individuals affected, that often these
constituencies, though bonded by the same horror, are as divided as they are
united by raw emotion and grievous loss. "It wasn't easy at first," says
Catherine Simonds, "People would say to me, 'Well, I lost a child', and I'd
think, 'Well, my dad was my grandma's baby.'" Almost uniquely, Oklahoma has
suceeded in bringing these people together into what Rashell Hammons, the mother
of children who survived - faced by those whose children did not - calls "an
extended family". This is a far more formidable and singular achievement than it
will appear when the bereaved, survivors and rescue workers gather together
tomorrow week, and it did not happen by accident.

The anniversary commemorations are held at the Oklahoma National Memorial, a
place most of the bereaved and survivors say they love, and in which they feel
at home, helped, comforted if not healed. "I love it," says Catherine Simonds,
"it is very, very beautiful." In a time such as ours of much thought and debate
over what memorials and monuments should represent and achieve, this site sets a
gold standard. It is unrivalled anywhere. The Oklahoma memorial is in part set
on the gaping space left by the Murrah building, but includes some of its
jagged, incinerated walls. There are 168 empty bronze chairs set on a lawn, each
engraved with a name, their bases illuminated during darkness, so that the
chairs of the dead float on beacons of light. At either end are huge "Gates of
Time" marking 9.01, the last moment of the city's innocence, and 9.03, "the
moment we were changed forever", says the guidebook. This place is always open,
and the bereaved come often, as do survivors - there is always someone to tell
their story to a visitor. Passing teenagers instinctively switch off their boom
boxes; the 24-hour toilets are always clean. "It's not a cemetery, where people
come to mourn, it is a place to remember and to learn," says director Kari
Watkins. "A memorial should be beautiful, it should be a place that's always
open, 24 hours, at its best for anyone who lost a family member, or even just
those passing on I-40 who come by to look." The space is quite a lesson to
post-9/11 New York, whose memorial committees have serially visited.

Inside, the Oklahoma museum is a journey from the moment of normality at 9.01am,
through the explosion, chaos, claustrophobia of entrapment, the rescue
operation, arrests and aftermath - all narrated by the videotaped testimony of
living bereaved and survivors, and ending with redemptive light and a window
overlooking the chairs of the lost.

The driving forces behind the memorial, Watkins and her visitors' services
director Joanne Riley (who spends as much of her time coordinating the survivors
and bereaved), decided that their project would in itself become part of the
process that brought those people together. As a result, opposite the chairs
across a reflecting pool, the "Survivors' Tree", an American elm that
miraculously survived the bombing, remains, surrounded by the "Rescuers
Orchard", smaller trees literally rushing towards it.

Involved from the beginning was Florence Rogers, chief executive officer at the
Federal Employees Credit Union, a co-operative banking system. That morning, in
preparation for an audit of her bank, she called a meeting for 8.30 in her
office on the third floor. "I remember to this very day a girl called Claudette
Meek saying: 'Look at all the primary colours we're wearing today, we look like
a basket of Easter eggs.' So I remembered what they were wearing, and had no
idea how important that would be when it came to indentifying the bodies." One
of which was that of Claudette Meek. At 9.01, says Rogers, "I had just read an
item off the list and turned - and bang - I could see clearly through the far
wall. The floor had gone clean away, down into what we called the pit, leaving
me alone on 18in of floor that had held. I know it sounds stupid, but I thought
'Oh my God, this is like a bad movie, and when it's all over, I get out of
here.'"

Rogers was rescued, through a window, but that was the beginning of her grief.
"They would bring me the purses, a girl called Robin Huff's - it contained
ultrasound photographs of the baby she was going to have. Her little husband was
so sad to see them; he was a man who had grown up with my boys, since cub
scouts. I had 33 employees and I lost 18 of them. They were my girls, my family.
Every Christmas, they would come here for a party - champagne and presents.
That's when I miss them all, but I can't grieve for 18 people at once - each of
them has their day. Something will happen, like one day I found a Santa's sleigh
up there on the shelf, and that was Claudette's day. One day I saw a girl just
like Sonia, eating a donut like she did, and that was Sonia's day."

Also up on the third floor that morning, "where my bank was", was Ted Wilson,
pastor at Grand Boulevard Baptist church and part-time chaplain to the Oklahoma
Fire Department, now ministering full-time to fire officers who, he says, "are
still coming, after 15 years, suddenly traumatised, their brains finally
processing this information, after all this time". Wilson is also a qualified
intermediate paramedic, and objected to "the bodies of the children being laid
out in their playground - a bad omen for later. They said they had to be close
by the building, but we did move 'em to a parking lot." Before long, Wilson had
"gotten in through a skylight to be working to release a trapped woman, still
alive, on the third floor where my bank was. I was working with a tall state
trooper, and the scare came for a second bomb and for us to evacuate the
building. The trooper said he wasn't leaving the lady, and I said, 'Well, if
you're not going, I ain't either.' So we kind of had the place to ourselves -
and I located the lady's purse on top of the desk. Now there's two things a lady
needs to be accounting for, her hair and her purse. Well, her hair was pretty
messed up, but I said: "Ma'am, you needn't worry 'bout your purse, and you
needn't worry about yourself either.' We became friends after she was released
from hospital, Nancy Ingrams by name - she passed away just last year."

Wilson's job quickly changed to that of counselor and chaplain, and has not
changed since. "I'm treating guys now, 15 years on, who've been treading water
all that time and it suddenly hits. They were working for eight hours through
rubble to reach a victim who has died. And if you do that, you personalise them
on the way. You find their crucifix, their purse, pictures of their children,
personal items. You are spending time with that dead person. You're saying: 'I
must rescue the kids, but please don't let me be the one to find them.' You're
finding body parts, and what we are saying is you have to think of it as
reconstitution of a person, you're scraping body matter, but you're not a ditch
digger. We tell them they have done the best they can to restore as much of that
person back to their family as was possible."

On Monday week, 19 April, the national Tea Party protests will be held across
America, venting anger at the Federal government. In Oklahoma City, however,
their protest will be held four days earlier, so as not to coincide with the
memorial at what was the site of the federal government building - almost an
admission by the Tea Party that they are playing with fire. "They'll say they're
coming here to protest Obama's health care programme," says Keith Simonds, "but
that's not what it is. They're here to spew their hatred, vomiting their
political agenda. How dare they come here?"

"One purpose of this memorial," says Kari Watkins, "is to teach the impact of
violence. On Easter Monday, our biggest effort this year becomes law, against
considerable opposition: that the story of the bomb be entered into the school
curriculum for the state of Oklahoma. We need to teach this story, especially
right now, when in America there are a lot of the same movements that were
around in 1995, there's a similar mood, a polarisation. Look, no one wants the
government on their backs - who does? - but all this alarms me, and we must work
against it by teaching the consequences of violence against the language of
violence."

The day of Watkins' interview, nine people appeared in court in Detroit, members
of an offshoot of McVeigh's Michigan militia called Hutaree, charged with
"seditious conspiracy" to kill a police officer and then bomb the funeral
cortege, in order to spark insurrection akin to that sought by McVeigh. The
previous week, congresswoman Louise Slaughter, who voted for President Barack
Obama's health care reform, received one of many threats of violence to elected
representatives, this one pledging that snipers would "kill the children of the
members who voted for health care reform". Such language makes the blood run
cold in Oklahoma; and the fact that most people in Oklahoma are deeply
conservative makes the irony of both the bomb and their disgust at this language
all the more cogent.

A warm evening breeze strokes the garden of empty chairs, while a late sun
illuminates their bases against the opacity of oncoming dusk. As twilight falls,
so does a haunted serenity, and silence - but for evening birdsong and the hoot
and rattle of a freight train passing through town and out across the plains.
The memorial's lights come up in phases, so that first the great Gates of Time
shine out, reflected in the shallow pool between them, then the chairs of each
person killed appear to hover on lamplight.

In the second row of chairs, indicating the building's second floor, 15 chairs
are smaller than the others, commemorating the children. At the end, slightly
apart, is that inscribed "Miss Baylee Almon", whose mother Aren's lovely face
nevertheless wears the scars of grief until dispelled by a smile, at a joke by
Bella or Brooks, or a memory of Baylee alive. Recently, Bella choked on some
beef jerky and Aren was worried she'd been alone, but Bella said: "It's OK, Mom,
Baylee was here." On Monday week, Bella will, for the second time, read out the
names of the children killed in 1995, in reverse alphabetical order, so that the
sister she never met, but whose birthday she will have celebrated the previous
day, will come last.

And there, standing at a distance from the others, is the chair in honour of
customs agent Claude Arthur Medearis, for whose daughter the bomb was a very
different kind of fire from that which killed her first husband - though also
from an American military man. "My husband had driven a Bradley military vehicle
in the Gulf war," says Catherine Simonds. "Timothy McVeigh also drove a Bradley
vehicle in the Gulf war. My husband died, but McVeigh lived. Then he came to
Oklahoma City four years later and killed my dad. What am I supposed to think
about that?"

Continued overleaf

THE VICTIM. . .

THE BEREAVED. . .

Continued from page 11

AND THE SURVIVOR

Captions:

Timothy McVeigh leaving court on 21 April 1995. Photograph by David
Longstreath/AP

Above: Baylee Almon, who was among

the 19 children killed in the bombing. Left: the iconic picture of Oklahoma
fireman Chris Fields carrying the fatally injured Baylee from the scene.
(Baylee's mother,

Aren Almon-Kok, gave the Observer permission to use this image if we also showed
her daughter in vibrant life.)

Right: Catherine Simonds, holding a picture of her father, Claude Medearis, who
died in the attack. She married

police officer Keith Simonds, who is also pictured at the rescue scene.

Far right: credit union manager Florence Rogers, who was in a meeting when the
bombers struck, and lost many friends.

Photographs by Charles Porter/AP,

Sarah Phipps


LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             April 12, 2010 Monday
                                  City Edition

Ruthless terror attack coincides with the transfer of policing powers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 470 words


The story of this bomb is not just an attack on a military base -- but its
timing.

Not long after midnight, the explosion was heard and felt throughout Holywood --
shaking people out of their sleep and out of their homes.

Minutes earlier policing and justice powers had been transferred back to
Stormont, a move dissident republicans marked with this bomb at Palace Barracks,
which houses the Northern Ireland Headquarters of MI5.

Just a few days ago, the dissidents had warned that their actions would speak
louder than a thousand words.

This is the start of it. And for them, this is a big target and a big attack.

Holywood is my hometown, and I was at the scene within minutes -- recognising
many of the faces of the people gathered not far from the barracks and waiting
for the nearby Redburn Community Centre to be opened.

Some were standing in their pyjamas, parents with young children -- and one man
passed with his elderly mother in a wheelchair.

Those living close by described the shrapnel from the bomb scattered along the
road.

Within minutes of the bang, it had become clear that Palace Barracks had been
the target.

Police had been trying to get people out of their homes when the car bomb
exploded.

"All of a sudden there was just an almighty explosion," one man said, describing
how he pulled his wife into the shelter of trees "because there was stuff flying
everywhere".

The U105 radio presenter Jerry Lang also lives nearby and was being evacuated
from his home when the bomb exploded.

A short time later he was describing the scene in a news bulletin.

Locally, this attack will not have come as a complete shock.

There had been heightened security -- including police checks -- near the base
in recent days, and talk locally of fears of an attack.

Then, the dissidents struck.

Policing Board member Basil McCrea and Belfast Lord Mayor Naomi Long were among
politicians who came to the scene and who spoke to local people -- both part of
the new politics of Northern Ireland, and both reminded, as were many others, of
the threat that still exists.

The dissidents won't go away and are not going away, and that explosion after
midnight was their calling card, their way of placing themselves into today's
news.

More of what they are doing is working in their terms -- under car booby trap
devices, shooting attacks, the recent car bomb at Newry courthouse, and, now,
this attack on the doorstep of MI5.

All of this is their way of making themselves heard -- the actions that as far
as they are concerned speak louder than a thousand words.

Already they will be thinking about and planning their next attack.

As politics moves forward, the dissidents are a reminder of the old days and old
ways.

CAPTION: The scene at Palace Barracks in Holywood, Co Down, this morning after a
car bomb exploded around midnight Jonathan Porter

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 13, 2010 Tuesday

Finnish president warns terrorist attack possible "even in Finland"

LENGTH: 369 words


Text of report by Finish popular conservative newspaper Helsingin Sanomat
website, on 13 April

[Report by Pekka Mykkanen: "Obama Wants Weapons-Grade Nuclear Materials Locked
Up"]

Halonen: Terrorist attack is possible even on an "unpredictable target" like
Finland.

Washington: On Monday [12 April] US President Barack Obama launched a 47-nation
two-day summit with the main goal to keep nuclear weapons out of reach of
terrorists.

The US objective is to have the countries commit to a strong declaration, in
which they agree on specific measures to secure nuclear weapons-grade material
better than today within four years.

President Tarja Halonen, who is participating in the summit, told Helsingin
Sanomat that Finland supports the idea of a four-year schedule but says that it
is still unclear whether there will be an agreement on the issue and whether the
countries could stay on schedule.

On Sunday, Obama called nuclear weapons in wrong hands "the single biggest
threat to US security, both short-term, medium-term and long-term."

According to him, a nuclear explosion in a metropolis like New York or London
would be a shock that would have years of economic and political impact.

In a press conference, Halonen said that there could be a terrorist attack also
in Finland. "It is not excluded. One of the leading ideas in terrorism is that
it focuses on an unpredictable target."

Halonen will not have a bilateral meeting with Obama, which she thinks indicates
that, in the area of nuclear concerns, Finland belongs to the "respectable
countries."

Kazakhstan, which has given up its nuclear weapons, was made into a kind of a
model pupil of the summit, while the Obama administration is reportedly
disappointed with Pakistan.

Countries that are considered the worst troublemakers in regard to nuclear
weapons, such as North Korea, Iran, or Syria, were not invited to the summit.

This spring, nuclear weapons security has been put visibly on the agenda of US
foreign policy. On Thursday of last week, Obama signed a "new START Treaty," in
which the United States and Russia committed to reducing the number of strategic
nuclear warheads by about a third.

Source: Helsingin Sanomat website, Helsinki, in Finnish 13 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 13, 2010 Tuesday
                                  Eire Edition

NO FEAR;
NERVOUS OF THE DERBY? I'VE HAD RED CARDS, INJURIES AND A TERRORIST ATTACK THIS
YEAR ..NOTHING CAN FAZE ME NOW

BYLINE: MIKE WALTERS

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 58,59

LENGTH: 645 words


EMMANUEL ADEBAYOR has survived a terrorist attack and a hate mob this season -
so he will not crumble in the heat of a Manchester derby.

From the assassins who ambushed Togo's squad at the African Cup of Nations in
Angola to a shower of ripped-up seats, bottles and debris when he taunted
Arsenal fans after scoring against his old club, Adebayor has been through the
proverbial mill.

But as a blue moon rose over Eastlands last night, Manchester City's in-form
striker - four goals in his last two games - admitted he was relishing
Saturday's tiff over the garden fence with United, when the stakes will be
massive on both sides of the great divide.

United, with only one point and one goal to show for their last two league
games, must keep their title challenge alive in an atmosphere more highlycharged
than a set of jump leads.

City, on the other hand, have plundered 14 goals in their last three games after
Sunday's five-goal romp against Birmingham, where Adebayor and Carlos Tevez,
once a forces sweetheart among the Red Army but now disowned at Old Trafford,
each scored twice.

And for Adebayor, who has played only 18 minutes in City's three meetings with
United this season due to suspension and separatist gun maniacs in Angola, is
ready for another seismic tiff with the neighbours.

In fairness, United have been the better side in all three parts of the trilogy
to date.

But for Adebayor - who announced his international retirement today - the
rivalry will be almost humdrum after a campaign scarred by bullet-holes.

He said: "I'm delighted with my form at the moment, but this season has been the
worst of my life. I'm just enjoying myself - I could have been dead but I'm
still playing football. I just have to try to enjoy every minute and at least I
have my happi-ness back on the pitch. The fans know what I have been through -
I've had red cards, injuries, a terrorist attack.. what else could I get in one
season? "I'm really looking forward to the derby. We all know Manchester United
is one of the biggest clubs in the country and in Europe, and these are the
games we all want to play in.

"I didn't have the chance to play in the first leg of our Carling Cup
semi-final, and in the second I played maybe 20 minutes as a substitute.

"It's going to be a very important game for the club and for us players to
evaluate ourselves and show what we can do, but I know when we play at home with
our fans behind us there is no shirking.

"Now we have a lot of confidence and we have a lot of big games coming up, so we
are ready for them."

City's demolition of Birmingham made them hot favourites for the fourth
Champions League spot ahead of Liverpool, whose manager Rafa Benitez has all but
thrown in the towel, and Tottenham, who may not recover from losing an FA Cup
semi-final to no-hopers who were relegated 24 hours earlier.

Adebayor says they are in no mood to squander eight months of hard graft and an
oil dynasty's chequebook stubs.

He added: "We've worked hard to qualify for the Champions League and we now have
our destiny in our own hands. In the dressing room we all know it won't be easy
to stay in fourth as we've a lot of big games coming up - Spurs, Aston Villa
and, of course, United.

"In the last three games we've scored 14 goals and that can only be good f o r o
u r confidence and goal difference.

"We feel we have goals throughout our team.

"If it's not Carlos or me, there are players we can count on from other
positions.

"Vincent Kompany and Patrick Vieira scored at Burnley the other week and that
shows we're all fighting for the same thing."

Adebayor's optimism was shared by City skipper Kolo Toure, who said: "We have a
lot of experience, players who've won titles all over Europe and who've played
in World Cup and Champions League finals, so we won't fail on that score.

"We're confident, but not over-confident, and we're ready for it."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

3am terror as Polish family flee fire attack

BYLINE: RACHEL MCGOVERN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 255 words


A TERRIFIED Polish family were forced to flee their burning home in the middle
of the night after a suspected arson attack on an apartment block.

Anna Gorczynska, along with her two-year-old daughter and 64-year-old mother,
fled their flat in Cornmarket, Newry after it was engulfed in flames around 3am
on Tuesday morning.

Their neighbour, fellow Polish national Marek Walesk, carried Ms Gorczynska and
her daughter Patrizia to safety.

Ten foreign nationals were also rescued from the building as the fire took hold.
Two children were among the rescued and five of the victims were brought to
hospital to be treated for smoke inhalation.

The burned out apartment block was home to 16 immigrants, mainly of eastern
European extraction. Six of the residents escaped the flames before the fire
brigade arrived. Alarms installed in the building had failed to go off.

Police confirmed that they are treating the suspected arson as a potential hate
crime.

Speaking to UTV news Mr Walesk said: "Everywhere was smoke. I was coming down
and I saw fire everywhere. I called the fire station for help and I ran upstairs
to try and wake everyone. I knocked here at the door because I saw fire going
up."

Asked why he thought someone may have set fire to the building, Mr Walesk said:
"I don't know, maybe for fun."

Ms Gorczynska and her family have been contacted by the Housing Executive which
is working to find them a suitable home.

CAPTION: Escape: Fire engulfed this block of flats in Newry in the early hours
of Tuesday morning alan lewis/photopress

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Give us more firepower to stop terrorist attacks, says police chief

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 495 words


BRITAIN'S most senior counterterrorism officer has called for armed police to be
equipped with high-powered assault rifles to enable them to cope with a
Mumbaistyle terrorist attack.

Assistant Commissioner John Yates, of the Metropolitan Police, said there could
be "a lot of dead people" within the first hour of an attack if officers did not
respond quickly enough.

Speaking at an anti-terrorism conference in central London, Mr Yates referred to
the Mumbai massacre in 2008, when Islamic terrorists killed more than 200 people
and injured 700.

Two of the city's best-known hotels were targeted, as well as other buildings,
including a hospital and a café.

Mr Yates, the National Coordinator for Counter Terrorism, said more powerful
weapons were necessary to cope with the threat of armed terrorists trying to
stage a similar attack in Britain.

He warned that the risk to the "unarmed bobby on the street" meant that armed
officers should be given "heavier ballistic weaponry and heavier ballistic
ammunition".

Mr Yates added: "There has to be an understanding that in the first hour that
there will be a lot of challenges, a lot of dead people."

The Specialist Firearms Command of the Metropolitan Police, known as CO19, has
trained officers in armed response vehicles to use the Heckler and Koch G36
rifle.

A spokesman for the force said it was "only deployed in specific circumstances
based on a fast time assessment of the risk the officers are facing" and added:
"The decision has been taken based on information and learning from terrorist
attacks around the world." It is understood that senior officers at Scotland
Yard believe other forces should also have access to such weapons, as well as to
ammunition such as expanding hollow-point "dum dum" bullets which are better at
stopping targets.

Mr Yates, who was speaking at the Counter-Terrorism Expo in central London, said
al-Qaeda was "mutating" and there was now a greater risk from affiliates in
Somalia and Yemen than from the "core" in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

He told the conference that the attempted attack by London-based student Umar
Farouq Abdulmutallab on an airliner over Detroit on Christmas Day was a success
for the terrorist group.

"It failed, yes," Mr Yates said. "But it qualifies as a success for terrorists
in terms of the fear it caused and the economic impact."

The attack, in which Abdulmutallab tried to blow up a bomb in his underpants,
marked a move away from the carefully planned attacks of the London and Glasgow
car bombings of 2007 and previous plots such as the trans-Atlantic airlines plot
and the July 7 bombings, he said.

"We are looking at operations which are smaller and quickly pulled together.''
Stressing that he did not want to get into a debate on public sector finances,
Mr Yates said it was "inevitable" that counterterrorism funding would be
affected.

Nevertheless, he said, the "operational challenges remain huge" and the police
would have to be "flexible and nimble" to cope.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday

Racist father and son plotted terror attacks, court hears

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 470 words


A teenage milkman spent his spare time secretly preparing violent attacks
against the government, a court heard yesterday.

Nicky Davison, 19, joined his father in the creation of Aryan Strike Force, a
website demonstrating an apparent obsession with Zionist domination, a jury at
Newcastle crown court was told. Computers seized in a police raid on a house in
Annfield Plain, County Durham, last year yielded data showing that "ops"
involving bombs were in the early stage of planning.

Davison and his father, Ian, 41, were not simply "keyboard warriors", said
Andrew Edis, prosecuting. "They made a distinction between people who were
associated with the group they were forming - who were just supporters who might
hand out leaflets - and members, who were to be of a different category, more
interested in action," he said.

"They wanted to resist what they called ZOG, which stood for Zionist-occupied
government. They were fighting against the government because they believed it
has been taken over by Jews, so it had to be resisted by those interested in
white supremacy."

Ian Davison has already pleaded guilty to preparing for acts of terrorism and
producing a chemical weapon, using homemade ricin. The poison extracted from
castor beans is deadly and has been at the centre of several terrorism scares.

Nicky Davison denies three charges of possessing material useful to a terrorist
while helping to run the website. The jury was told that the group had been
established in January 2008 and at the time of the police raid last June was "in
the early stages of becoming active".

Edis said Davison's extreme racism was not the issue. He said: "Having white
supremacist opinions is not what Mr Davison is charged with. He is charged with
taking things a step further by having a document which contained information
likely to be of use to a terrorist. He was associated, with other people, as
part of an organisation, preparing to do ops, in other words paramilitary
activity."

The website was not merely a propaganda vehicle for supporters, who also called
themselves the Wolfpack and Legion 88. It showed interest in "violence in
different forms to advance the aims of white supremacy in these islands".

Shortly before the raid, Nicky Davison had posted messages on the site saying he
was "concerned about the risk of detection and arrest". Edis said: "He was
clearly associated with his father who has pleaded guilty to terrorist charges."

The raid at the house that Nicky Davison shared with his mother and younger
brother found online copies of manuals including the Poor Man's James Bond and
The Anarchist's Cookbook. "These tell the reader how to make letter bombs, how
to make explosives, how to make detonators, how to make grenades, how to make
silencers and how to make poisons," Edis said. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 16, 2010 Friday

Philippines rejects martial law for Basilan after terror attacks

LENGTH: 1044 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Philippine Star website on
16 April

[Report by Paolo Romero with reports from Evelyn Macairan, Roel Pareno, Reinir
Padua, Jaime Laude, Alexis Romero, John Unson and AP: "Palace rules out martial
law in Basilan"]

MANILA, Philippines -Malacanang yesterday ruled out the imposition of martial
law in Basilan amid increasing calls from some sectors to place the province
under full control of the military and the national government.

Deputy presidential spokesman Gary Olivar said the situation in Basilan did not
justify stronger measures like those adopted in Maguindanao, where the military
took full control following the massacre of 57 people in the province last
November.

Olivar said the situation in Maguindanao justified martial law since armed
militiamen supporting the Ampatuan family who are accused in the massacre
continued to defy the government.

"The situation, the level of concern we have in Basilan does not rise to the
level that needs martial law declaration," Olivar said.

But he said security officials would take the proposals of some groups,
including the Catholic Church, into consideration.

Caloocan City Bishop Deogracias Iniguez and Iligan City Bishop Elenito Galido
joined the mounting calls for stronger measures in Basilan.

Iniguez said he would support the position of the bishops in Mindanao to place
Basilan under martial law.

Galido, for his part, believes that placing Basilan under military control would
finally restore normalcy in the island province.

Suspected Abu Sayyaf gunmen set off bombs and opened fire on civilians and
troops in an apparent plan to seize Basilan's provincial capital Isabela on
Tuesday.

The attack faltered when government troops fought back, leaving three Marines, a
police officer and three suspected bandits among the 15 people killed in the
firefight.

The attackers fled but briefly seized several villagers to guide them away from
the massive military manhunt.

The bandits later freed their captives after they were led out of a rubber
plantation in Lamitan town, officials said.

Basilan Bishop Martin Jumoad, whose church was among the buildings that were
destroyed by the bombings, called on the government to undertake stronger
measures in dealing with the militants.

Galido sided with Jumoad in pointing out peace and order in Basilan would be
restored under martial law.

"The situation in Basilan is very tense and critical. Peace and order in the
province should be restored by all means," Galido said.

Cotabato Bishop Jose Colin Bagaforo, on the other hand, proposed the holding of
elections in the region earlier than May 10.

"In the past, the (region) has always been considered a hot area every time
there is an election. So it would be good if this year, the Commission on
Elections (Comelec), along with the military and the entire media, would focus
on the region," he said.

If Comelec could arrange an earlier voting for overseas Filipino workers,
Bagaforo argued there is no reason not to hold early elections in the Autonomous
Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM), including Basilan.

"By doing so, (it would) reduce the possibility of having a failure of
elections," he said.

Administration senatorial candidate Raul Lambino also called on the government
to consider placing Basilan under a state of emergency.

Lambino said a state of emergency in Basilan would allow security forces to
thwart further attempts to terrorize the civilian communities in the province.

"We have seen how the iron-hand rule became successful in maintaining peace and
order in Maguindanao and nearby areas. I believe that we will attain the same
success in Basilan if a state of emergency is declared," Lambino said.

He added a state of emergency would be helpful in ensuring the conduct of
peaceful and credible elections in the province next month.

"If the Abu Sayyaf was able to pull off such a daring attack amid the high alert
status in the province... there's no stopping them from sabotaging the coming
elections," he said.

Lambino warned the Abu Sayyaf is planning to attack on May 10 to disrupt the
elections.

Lambino proposed a state of emergency should be declared in the province until
after the election period.

The Commission on Human Rights (CHR), on the other hand, warned against imposing
military rule in Basilan, pointing out that the move would be unacceptable to
human rights standards.

While condemning last Tuesday's attacks "in the strongest terms," the CHR said
they wanted to remind security forces to respect human rights.

"In taking measures to restore peace and order in Basilan, only those in
accordance with human rights laws and humanitarian laws should be adopted," the
CHR said in a resolution.

Western Mindanao Command chief Lt. Gen. Benjamin Dolorfino yesterday declared
they have cleared Isabela of Abu Sayyaf.

"We have driven all Abu Sayyaf rebels from Isabela City. (Yesterday) morning,
the area of operation is already in Barangay (village) Santa Clara in Lamitan,"
Dolorfino said.

Dolorfino, however, advised residents to stay indoors and provide information to
troops if they see the bandits in or near their communities.

He said troops are pursuing a group of Abu Sayyaf gunmen led by Furuji Indama
that took part in the attack.

He said the gunmen might have lost contact with Indama while escaping pursuing
government troops.

Basilan Gov. Jum Akbar also declared the situation in Isabela had returned to
normal.

"The situation has gone back to normal but we ask the people to continue to be
vigilant and help out authorities to monitor these lawless elements who want to
make a scenario (of lawlessness) in the province," Akbar said.

Akbar called on the police and military to pursue the attackers.

Police said post-blast investigation revealed the attackers used plenty of TNT
in the bombings.

Basilan provincial police director Senior Superintendent Antonio Mendoza said
they are investigating how the attackers were able to purchase TNT.

Mendoza explained TNT is commonly used in mining operations and could not be
easily purchased without a permit from authorities.

He said the bombers had wrapped several glass marbles as shrapnel around the TNT
in the improvised explosive device.

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 16 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             April 19, 2010 Monday
                              North Wales Edition

'Making counter terror cuts would raise attack risk';
Wylfa and Prince are seen as potential targets

BYLINE: MARTIN WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 419 words


FUNDING cuts to North Wales' counter-terrorism operations have met with concern
from a police watchdog.

Police Authorities of Wales (PAW) wants the Wales Extremism and Counter
Terrorism Unit (WECTU) to keep 18 specialist officers currently facing
redeployment, including 11 from this region.

A PAW spokeswoman claimed reassigning the officers will have a "significant
impact" on the nation's security and put high-profiles events - notably this
autumn's Ryder Cup at the Celtic Manor Resort, Newport - at risk.

With, according to PAW, the Wylfa power plant on Anglesey and Prince William's
deployment to RAF Valley vulnerable targets, Maria Chapman said: "The loss of
funding will have a significant impact on the ability of the forces to protect
the west coast ports, and for WECTU to protect UK national security."

Formed in 2008, WECTU's remit is to respond to threats posed by international
terrorism, and the National policing plan 2008-2011 states: "There is every
possibility that an attack could occur in Wales without warning or early
intelligence."

Despite this, Wales' chief anti-terrorism officer Andrew Edwards has told Paw of
the intention to withdraw the 18 designated security posts over the next two
years, with North Wales Police losing Potential terror five anti-terrorism
officers this year and six next year.

All 18 seconded officers are returning to their own bases to aid regular
policing.

Ms Chapman added a decrease in funding for specific policing areas may be
"detrimental to our collective efforts".

Prince William She said: "A letter was sent on March 30 to David Hanson MP, the
Minister for Policing, expressing our concerns regarding the allocation of
Counter Terrorism Specific Grant Funding for Dedicated Security Posts for
2010-2012. This matter will also be brought to the attention of the Welsh
Assembly Government and Minister for Social Justice and Local Government, Carl
Sargeant AM."

A spokeswoman for the Welsh Assembly Government said the matter would be
addressed shortly: "Police authorities in Wales have not yet raised the matter
with the Social Justice Minister but it is on the agenda for their next meeting
with him."

With an annual budget of around pounds 3.5m, WECTU deploys officers from across
Wales to high-profile spots most likely to suffer a terrorist attack and works
in the community to steer vulnerable people away from extremist influences.

Nobody from North Wales Police was available for comment yesterday.

martin.williams@dailypost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Potential terror target Prince William

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2010 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             April 19, 2010 Monday

KP CONCERN AFTER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: STANDARD REPORTER

LENGTH: 227 words


KEVIN PIETERSEN'S continued participation in this season's Indian Premier League
is in major doubt after Saturday's terrorist attacks at Bangalore's stadium.

Two explosions injured 10 people before Pietersen's team, the Bangalore
Challengers, were defeated by Mumbai Indians. A third device was defused outside
the ground forcing the IPL to switch venues for the semi-finals.

Bangalore can still make the last four of the competition but Pietersen has
expressed his concerns about the situation to the Professional Cricketers'
Association.

PCA legal director Ian Smith said: "I've spoken to Kevin and it's perfectly
valid to say he's very anxious and upset about the way things were handled.

"He is waiting for a firm view from the security providers about whether or not
it is safe to continue."

Pietersen (right) and Bangalore team-mate Jacques Kallis were said to be
"massively unhappy" with how the incident was dealt with but Smith has wider
concerns.

The 2011 World Cup is due to take place in India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh and
Smith believes the tournament could now be relocated.

He said: "It's becoming a more and more dangerous place, the risk profile is
headed in only one direction.

"If it is not safe today, what makes us think it's going to be safe in a year's
time?

"What's going to change between now and the World Cup to make India a safe place
to be?"

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright  2010   Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday

Pakistan TV show on UN Bhutto report, terror attacks in northwest

LENGTH: 1567 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1700 GMT on 19 April relays live
regularly scheduled "Today with Kamran Khan" program. Noted Pakistani journalist
Kamran Khan reviews, discusses and analyzes major day-to-day developments with
government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and prominent analysts
in Geo TV's flagship program; Words within double slant lines are in English

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Today's program is hosted by Geo News TV Anchorperson Masood Raza due to Kamran
Khan's personal engagements.

Segment I

Masood Raza says: President Asif Ali Zardari has signed the Constitution 18th
Amendment bill following which it formally becomes a part of the Constitution.
Raza says: the powers to dissolve parliament, impose state of emergency and
appointment of judges and chiefs of three services now stand transferred from
the president to the prime minister, while the name of Northwest Frontier
province has been changed to Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. [Video clip shows President
Zardari as saying at the signing ceremony that the government must now focus
attention on solving the people's problems like power load shedding,
unemployment, inflation and law and order] Raza says: speaking on the signing
ceremony, Prime Minister Gilani also expressed the government's determination to
address the challenges facing the common man.

Masood Raza establishes video link with Shafqat Mahmud, prominent political and
national affairs analyst, and asks him: how important is this day in Pakistan's
history. Mahmud says there is no doubt today is a very important day because the
18th Amendment is a "very //comprehensive// constitutional amendment" which has
tried to abolish many changes introduced in the 1973 Constitution [by military
rulers Ziaul Haq and Pervez Musharraf]. Mahmud adds: the passage of the
amendment bill reflects "political unanimity of views and a //national
consensus//" which is also a welcome development. Continuing, Mahmud says: but
reservations have been expressed by certain quarters on some changes which they
think are "against the spirit of democracy." Mahmud adds: changes like
abolishing the constitutional provision to hold inner party elections and
increasing powers of the party president affects the spirit of democracy, but
overall the 18th Amendment is a welcome change and it is hoped that efforts are
now made to resolve the problems facing the people through national consensus.
When asked whether the presence of Nawaz Sharif at the bill signing ceremony
could lead to the reestablishment of contacts between the Pakistan People's
Party [PPP] and the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz Sharif [PML-N] and that both
parties could now work together, Mahmud says: it is difficult to predict whether
the two parties would work together because there are still many "distances"
between then, but it is quite clear that the 18th Amendment has the "blessings"
of both parties and if there is a reaction against the bill in courts or in the
public, both parties could come together to face it. Raza asks: whether the
impression that President Zardari will continue to be the "center of power" in
spite of the amendment [as he is still the head of ruling PPP] is true or not.
Mahmud says: the president cannot be a head of party in a real parliamentary
democracy, but Zardari is still the PPP head and, so, his "real power" will be
as a head of the ruling party and the 18th Amendment makes the party president's
position as "very //important//" because the ruling party leader can even
dismiss the prime minister. Mahmud says: Zardari remaining as the party
president is against the spirit of parliamentary democracy, but it is not
against the written constitution. When asked whether the government's entire
focus should now be on solving people's problems, Mahmjud says he wonders why
the government has waited for the passage of the amendment before working for
people's welfare. Mahmjud says: a democratic government should start serving the
people from the moment it comes to power, but better late than never, the
government should now devote all energies to address issues like load shedding
with consensus.

[Segment II passage on the reservations on constitution of Judicial Commission
under 18th Amendment to appoint judges omitted]

Segment III

Masood Raza says following its failure to fulfil pledges to end energy crisis,
the government is now strenuously trying to resolve the problem of load
shedding. Raza adds: various senior officials of the government, including water
and power minister, are finally holding brain storming sessions to understand
the problem and find its solution. Continuing, Raza says: Prime Minister Gillani
presided today an important meeting attended by all four chief ministers in this
connection and a 2-day national conference on energy crisis also started in
Islamabad today. Raza adds: it will take time to implement the recommendations,
but in the meantime the people ad industrial sector continue to suffer due to
load shedding and are protesting against the government's performance in this
connection.

Masood Raza establishes video link with Irfan Kaiser Sheikh, chairman of
Pakistan Industrial and Traders Association Front, and asks him how the
industrial sector has been affected by the load shedding. Sheikh says the trade
and industry has been "totally ruined" in Punjab, especially in Lahore, due to
the 8-hour announced and 5-hour unannounced load shedding. Sheikh adds: 40 to 50
percent of industrial units in Lahore and in adjacent areas have been closed
down in last 3 weeks rendering about 125,000 workers unemployed. Continuing,
Sheikh says he fails to understand that while there is no load shedding for
industrial units in Karachi, Lahore and other areas of Punjab are being denied
the power supply. When asked whether the load shedding might result in
industrial unrest, Sheikh says: there will be a lot of negative effects in the
coming weeks as 800,000 to one million families have been affected due to the
closing down of industrial units. Sheikh adds: industries are suffering a loss
of 500 to 600 million rupees on daily basis and they have no money to give
salaries.

Segment IV

Masood Raza says the Pakistan government now intends to take action against all
those persons whose names have been mentioned in the UN Commission's report on
assassination of Benazir Bhutto.

Masood Raza establishes video link with Shakil Anjum, author of book Who
Assassinated Benazir Bhutto? and asks him whether the UN report answers all
questions raised in connection with Bhutto's assassination. Anjum says: although
the report cannot be described as complete in many respects and it has many
shortcomings and many questions remain unanswered, but it has cleared many
between the lines points like for example it has strongly criticized the police
role and the agencies reluctance to provide most of evidence to the police
investigative agencies. When asked what will be the government's strategy to
implement the UN report, Anjum says initially six senior police officers have
been made officers on special duty [banning them from leaving the country], but
much more has to be done to unearth "//hidden hands//." Anjum adds: the problem
is that all investigative agencies are under the Ministry of Interior which is
being headed by Rehman Malik who himself is a "//suspect//" according to the UN
report. Anjum says: President Zardari has stated many times that he knows the
real killers and this is the best time to reveal their names.

Segment V

Masood Raza says: "the cowardly acts of terrorists against innocent people in
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa are continuing and while Kohat was the target recently, the
terrorists attacked Peshawar twice today."

Masood Raza establishes telephonic contact in Peshawar with Rahiummal Yusufzai,
noted tribal affairs analyst and resident editor of English daily the News in
Peshawar, and asks him: what are the reasons for the "new dangerous wave of
terrorism." Yusufzai says: whenever a military operation is launched against
Taleban in tribal areas, these types of terror attack take place. Yusufzai adds:
military operations are now taking place in Orakzai and Khyber agencies and many
civilians were killed in the recent aerial bombing [by Pakistan Air Force] in
Teerah valley and the new wave of terror attacks may be retaliation of these
military operations. Continuing, Yusufzai says: the Tehrik-e Taleban Pakistan
[TTP] also wants to convey a message that it is still capable to carry out such
types of attack and is able to retaliate against the military operations against
it. Yusufzai adds: but mostly civilians are being killed in the terrorists'
retaliatory attacks. When asked whether the attack on a school in Peshawar means
that the terrorists have become desperate, Yusufzai says: this was a police
public school and the attack was, perhaps, a message for the police. Yusufzai
adds: although the TTP has claimed the responsibility of most of the attacks,
but the Punjab militant groups allied to it like Lashkar-e Jhangvi may also be
behind the attacks. Continuing, Yusufzai says: the claim by officials that the
Taleban's strength has been depleted and that their back has been broken and
they are on run was "premature". Yusufzai adds: the TTP is still capable of
sniper attacks, carry out suicide attacks and use IED's.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1700gmt 19 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday

Russia's main party issues "ultimatum" over media coverage of terror attacks

LENGTH: 859 words


Text of report by the website of heavyweight Russian newspaper Nezavisimaya
Gazeta on 7 April

[Report by Ivan Rodin: "One Russia has given the press an ultimatum" - "Articles
in the mass media were compared to the bombs of terrorists".]

As NG predicted, One Russia has decided to work seriously on the mass media,
under the pretext that now the consolidation of society and its unity with the
government are needed. It was revealed that certain mass media are working
against these processes. Yesterday, the head of the State Duma Security
Committee, Vladimir Vasilyev, warned that either the mass media regulate the
problem itself or the party of power would do something about it.

Yesterday's plenary session of the State Duma, as is always the case now, began
with five-minute political statements by the factions. The chairman of the State
Duma Security Committee, Vladimir Vasilyev, took the podium for One Russia.
Without mentioning specific names, he called on all the country's opposition
parties to consolidate in the face of the threat of terrorism.

Vasilyev noted that political forces have always done this when the issue was
the security of the people. For example, votes have been unanimous for laws
called on to strengthen this security. However, judging by appearances, the main
goal of the speech by the committee head did not consist of this. Laws are laws,
he emphasized, but there is also an information component to opposing terrorism.
And right now, things are bad with this, Vasilyev believes. He compared articles
in the mass media with the bombs of terrorists; moreover, he made it understood
that the latter are not even as dangerous as the former. Indeed, the range of
fragments of a bomb is not that great, but the range of information reports is
much larger.

And it is exactly these that divide nations; moreover, Vasilyev noted, not only
along ethnic lines, to which we have become rather accustomed. No, the deputy
caught a new facet of division in the information flow after the metro terrorist
acts - a material facet. He indignantly recalled that now any DTP [traffic
accident] divides the public into the rich and the poor, and now it is the turn
of terrorist acts. Judging by appearances, Vasilyev had in mind several remarks
by a number of mass media that people of a certain income level travelled in the
subway, and therefore the government did not invest too much in their security.
Vasilyev suggested to the deputies to determine ultimately whether the press
should be allowed to get further out of hand. He further stated that along with
certain signs of internal improvements in the media sphere, there were also
opposite cases: "Look, sometimes there are simply sick people who have the
ability to broadcast to the entire country, but we cannot allow this."

Therefore, Vasilyev in fact gave the press an ultimatum: "Either definite
measures will be taken inside our information system, in the collectives, and
among the managers of these respected publications, or we truly will look at the
problems legislatively." The head of the committee noted that in comparison with
the United States and the European Union, in our country "we have a very free
system". Vasilyev called on the factions to consolidate with One Russia over
this disturbing behaviour by the mass media. We note that in truth the party of
power had come into conflict with those publications that had devoted much
attention to the relationship between State Duma speaker Boris Gryzlov and a
certain inventor of "magical" filters for cleaning water. When the One Russians
started to fight back, the opposition parties also joined in the attack. And
then came the turn of One Russia, which right after the terrorist acts tied the
disrespectfulness of some mass media towards the party itself with the mass
media's supposedly anti-state position as a whole. Thus again saying that to
speak against One Russia is to oppose the government. And supposedly the whole
country.

Yesterday State Duma first deputy speaker Oleg Morozov confirmed to NG that
Vasilyev was authorized by the One Russia faction to make his statements. And
that they truly could be considered to be an ultimatum of sorts. He denied any
connection between the concern of the One Russians about the bad behaviour of
the mass media and its investigation of the "Clean Water" project and noted
that, after the terrorist act in Dubrovka in 2004, when NTV showed the assault
on the theatre centre directly on air, which strongly upset Vladimir Putin in
particular, "the party had already made a political decision to amend the law on
the mass media". Morozov had in mind the amendment on a complete ban against
showing or publicizing any information on a terrorist act or on anti-terrorist
operations in progress. However, according to him, at a conference with the
leadership of the mass media, Putin himself asked One Russia not to pass such
amendments, stating that the media would solve all of these problems internally.
"But since no internal regulation has taken place, we will return to the
amendment," Morozov promised.

Source: Nezavisimaya Gazeta website, Moscow, in Russian 7 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

MILLWALL FAN'S ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: NEIL ATKINSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 274 words


95% of our supporters go to games purely for the football.

"The people on that coach were genuine Millwall supporters, many of them with
families, and it was frightening when the bottles and glasses started raining
down on us.

"The window by the driver was smashed and the windscreen was cracked. I saw a
bottle and two pint glasses hit the window beside me but luckily it did not
smash.

"I did not know about the other minibuses following us from the motorway and
certainly I heard nothing about any problems fans were expecting.

"It was very frightening and I hope the police catch all those responsible, from
whichever side they follow."

A MILLWALL fan today told of his terror after violence flared in Huddersfield.

Robert Coleman was on a coach which was "ambushed" by yobs at Wakefield Road,
Waterloo, an hour before Friday night's game against Town.

He told how a hail of glasses and bottles rained down on the double-decker
coach, which had stopped at traffic lights on the way from the M1 to the
Galpharm Stadium.

More than 100 fans fought in the road after three minibuses filled with Millwall
supporters also stopped at the scene.

It took a huge number of police to quell the violence and officers from the West
Yorkshire Homicide and Major Enquiry team have now joined a specialist team
investigating the violence.

They are trawling through dozens of CCTV images and films to identify those
responsible for the violence.

Mr Coleman, of Kent, who was on the coach with his 14-year-old son and nephew,
said: "We never thought of Huddersfield being a place we could expect trouble.

"I know Millwall has a poor reputation but

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WORLD CUP FANS' RING OF STEEL;
Jets and choppers ready for terror attack

BYLINE: EMILY MILLER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 211 words


FOOTBALL fans in South Africa will be protected from the air by a World Cup ring
of steel.

Fighter jets and 39 army helicopters will patrol the skies to prevent possible
terror attacks.

Warships and 27 separate teams of detectives will also boost security, it was
revealed yesterday.

Defence chiefs said the host nation's police and military forces will help keep
fans safe during the tournament, which kicks off in June. A spokesman said: "The
security forces are fully confident of our expert ability in securing major
events."

Major

South Africa's police chief Bheki Cele confirmed 44,000 frontline police
officers would be deployed in the nine host cities.

Each competing nation will also send a team of at least six liaison officers to
help local police.

Armed fighter jets will patrol the skies above every match, with nearby airspace
closed completely during major games.

An air force spokesman said: "Any aircraft observed entering the temporary
restricted airspace without the prescribed authority will be subjected to
interception and interrogation."

All of South Africa's defence plans are to be tested this weekend in a major sea
and air exercise.

Dozens of heads of state are expected to attend the tournament, including US
President Barack Obama.

new@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                 Ulster Edition

DISSIDENT CAR BOMB ATTACK AT PSNI BASE;
TERROR

BYLINE: VICTORIA MCMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,11

LENGTH: 143 words


A CAR bomb exploded at a border police station late last night as dissident
republicans stepped up their terror campaign.

There were reports a gang fired on Newtownhamilton police station, South Armagh,
before abandoning the vehicle. The explosion at 11.25pm shook houses while
firefighters tried to evacuate residents.

An elderly woman collapsed and was taken to hospital.

Another resident said: "One minute I was on the phone and the next I heard this
almighty bang. The whole house shook. A fireman came to the doot and told me to
get out immediately.

"I went out into the street in my pyjamas and everyone was standing there in
shock.

"The firemen have cordoned off the area but I couldn't see any police and it's
half an hour after the blast. They probably think there is a trap."

A PSNI spokeswoman said a Belfast hospital had received a phone warning at
10.30pm.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday

North-east'less ready' to deal with terror attack

BYLINE: Calum Ross

SECTION: NEWS; POLITICS; Local Government; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 350 words


The north-east is less prepared for a terrorist attack than the rest of
Scotland, according to national fire brigade regulators.

Officials from the Chief Inspector of Fire and Rescue Authorities (Cifra) have
hit back in the row over Grampian fire service's decision not to instal a
two-way radio system in senior officers' cars.

North-east communities would find themselves less "resilient" and in a "worse
position" than the rest of Scotland during a terrorist attack or other major
incident, said senior Cifra adviser Andrew Shuttleworth.

He also suggested the Grampian service's decision to exempt its officers from
the UK-wide radio scheme would "impact" on the resilience of the entire country
during a major incident.

Mr Shuttleworth was speaking at yesterday's meeting of Grampian Joint Fire and
Rescue Board, where members agreed fresh talks should be held to find a
resolution between the service, Cifra and the team behind the Firelink radio
system.

Grampian's chief fire officer, David Dalziel, had previously issued a
strongly-worded response to a Cifra investigation into the decision, which he
branded a "contradictory, subjective and selective inquiry that is so absent of
any balance or factual accuracy as to lack credibility".

The Cifra inquiry had been ordered by Community Safety Minister Fergus Ewing to
establish why Grampian was the only brigade in Scotland not to instal the
equipment in senior officers' cars.

Mr Shuttleworth said he found Mr Dalziel's dismissal of the report's findings
"wholly unfounded" and "completely unjustified".

"I believe the report is objective, balanced and factual," he said. "The system
currently operated by Grampian Fire and Rescue Service does have an impact on
national resilience during a major incident, including those of a terrorist
nature."

In January, Mr Dalziel claimed he was the victim of a campaign of "bullying" and
"state-sponsored harassment" by the government, after the prospect of the
investigation was raised.

Board members agreed that fresh talks should be held between all parties, with
an update to be presented at their next meeting.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2010 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday

Terror attack readiness queried

BYLINE: Calum Ross

SECTION: NEWS; POLITICS; Local Government; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 456 words


The north-east is less prepared for a terrorist attack than the rest of
Scotland, according to national fire brigade regulators.

Officials from the Chief Inspector of Fire and Rescue Authorities (Cifra) have
hit back in the row over Grampian fire service's decision not to instal a
two-way radio system in senior officers' cars.

North-east communities would find themselves less "resilient" and in a "worse
position" than the rest of Scotland during a terrorist attack or other major
incident, said senior Cifra adviser Andrew Shuttleworth.

He also suggested the Grampian service's decision to exempt its officers from
the UK-wide radio scheme would "impact" on the resilience of the entire country
during a major incident.

Mr Shuttleworth was speaking at yesterday's meeting of Grampian Joint Fire and
Rescue Board, where members agreed fresh talks should be held to find a
resolution between the service, Cifra and the team behind the Firelink radio
system.

David Dalziel, Grampian's chief fire officer, had previously issued a
strongly-worded response to a Cifra investigation into the decision, which he
branded a "contradictory, subjective and selective inquiry that is so absent of
any balance or factual accuracy as to lack credibility".

The Cifra inquiry had been ordered by Community Safety Minister Fergus Ewing to
establish why Grampian was the only brigade in Scotland not to instal the
equipment in senior officers' cars.

Mr Shuttleworth said he found Mr Dalziel's dismissal of the report's findings
"wholly unfounded" and "completely unjustified".

"I believe the report is objective, balanced and factual," he said.

"The system currently operated by Grampian Fire and Rescue Service does have an
impact on national resilience during a major incident, including those of a
terrorist nature.

"If Grampian Fire and Rescue Service continues to adopt its present stance then
the service and the communities it serves will be in a worse position than every
other service in Scotland.

"The current system doesn't provide the same degree of resilience in major
incidents, including terrorist attacks."

In January, Mr Dalziel claimed he was the victim of a campaign of "bullying" and
"state-sponsored harassment" by the government, after the prospect of the
investigation was raised.

Cifra's findings included a recommendation that Mr Ewing use powers to order the
system's installation, unless an agreement can be reached.

Mr Dalziel said yesterday: "I remain sad that members of the board have been
drawn into what is essentially an operational matter.

"This is now about who runs local authority fire and rescue services."

Board members agreed fresh talks should be held between all parties, with an
update to be presented at their next meeting.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2010 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday

"Terrorist" attack claims five in northern Ethiopia, Eritrea blamed

LENGTH: 196 words


Text of report by state-owned Ethiopian TV on 24 April

Five people have died and 20 others sustained light and major injuries after a
terrorist bomb attack today by an Eritrean mercenary group on the town of Adi
Aro in Laelai Adiyabo District, Northwestern Zone, Tigray Regional State
[northern Ethiopia].

The attack took place today at 10:30 a.m. [0730 gmt] during the town's market
day. The attack took place at a tea room where people were resting.

Adi Aro town is located near the border with Eritrea.

The administrator of the Northwestern Zone, Mr Mikael Abraha, told the Ethiopian
Radio and Television Agency by phone that sha'abiyyah [Eritrean] mercenaries
were behind the attack in a bid to disrupt the forthcoming elections. He said
today's attack has a direct connection with this week's terrorist campaigns
broadcast by the Eritrean state-owned radio and television.

On his part, Mr Tsegaye Berhe, the administrator of Tigray Regional State,
expressed his sympathies over those who died during the terrorist attack. He
said the terrorists should know that perpetrators of evil will not disrupt the
elections.

Source: Ethiopian TV, Addis Ababa, in Amharic 1700 gmt 24 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday
                                 Ulster Edition

POLICE UNDER ATTACK;
DISSIDENT TERROR BOMBERS STRIKE AGAIN: TERRORISTS BLAST BORDER STATION:
FIREFIGHTERS EVACUATE RESIDENTS: PSNI OFFICERS DEFEND ACTIONS

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE; DAVID YOUNG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1043 words


POLICE were criticised yesterday after firemen were left to clear a bomb scene
minutes before a blast wrecked the centre of a border town.

Locals in Newtownhamilton, Co Armagh, said they felt "vulnerable" after off-duty
firefighters had to evacuate the area around the town's unmanned police station
when a car bomb was left there late on Thursday night.

Terrorists dumped the car before firing shots in the air at around 10.20pm,
around one hour before the device exploded.

It showered the area with debris and knocked an 80-year-old woman off her feet
as firemen tried to bring her to safety.

The PSNI were finally deployed around 10 minutes after the bomb - believed to
weigh several hundred pounds - had gone off.

One Fire Service source told the Daily Mirror: "We were doing our duty down
there to make people and our firefighters safe, but it's not our job to be
dealing with situations like this.

"If these Dissidents consider pizza boys as collaborators and targets they
aren't going to think twice about us.

"The cops have a fear of secondary devices and gun attacks, which is fair
enough.

"But we don't want to get caught up in that kind of carry-on either. At the same
time we did what we had to do."

One local said people were furious the attack came 10 days after dissidents
abandoned another bomb outside the same police station - though it failed to
detonate.

The resident added: "Only for the firemen people would not have got out at all.
Thank God for them, but it's a disgrace it was all left up to them."

Newtownhamilton First Presbyterian Minister Ken Graham said people in the town
felt abandoned.

He added: "I was up in the town this morning and there's considerable anger
among the community as well as fear and a feeling of vulnerability.

"The fact these guys can come in, just over a week later, and attack the same
target. It's just crazy."

The bomb in a Toyota Corolla detonated 50 minutes after a hospital received a
telephone warning from the bombers - who also fired a volley of shots as they
abandoned the vehicle.

A Lithuanian man and the elderly woman suffered non-life-threatening injuries in
the explosion.

Police commanders said they had to proceed with caution due to the threat of
secondary booby trap or gun attacks.

The bomb, which damaged a number of homes, a pub and a community centre, came
just hours after security chiefs warned the terrorist threat level in Northern
Ireland was as high as any time since the Omagh bombing of 12 years ago.

The failed attack in Newtownhamilton 10 days ago came 24 hours after a Real IRA
car bomb exploded outside the regional headquarters of MI5 in Holywood, Co Down,
minutes after justice powers were devolved to Stormont from London.

Rev Graham added: "This is the second attack in the town in just over a week and
it comes as we're told the threat is the highest since the Omagh bomb. Surely
police ought to have been in vulnerable areas with officers on the ground trying
to defend them?" Nationalist and unionist politicians from the area have also
hit out at the police response. SDLP Assembly member Dominic Bradley said locals
in South Armagh felt vulnerable. He added: "People feel unprotected. Given there
was an attack only a week ago you would have thought commanders would have
reviewed the situation and placed more police on the ground to protect the area.

"They haven't learned those lessons." Ulster Unionist deputy leader Danny
Kennedy contrasted the response of the police and fire services. He said: "The
police were still not present at that time [when the bomb exploded] and had it
not been for the excellent and very prompt work of local firemen, then we could
have had a very serious situation.

"Clearly those [police] response times are not appropriate.

"They are not in line with responses that should be given, given the overall
security situation."

But senior police chiefs and Justice Minister David Ford defended the handling
of the incident.

Speaking at Newry police station, Assistant Chief Constable Dave Jones, who said
the dissidents' prime objective was to kill police officers, claimed local
commanders had undertaken a risk assessment after receiving reports of gunfire
in the area.

He added: "Our response to certain incidents is always going to be based on
certain risk assessments and the reason why we are having to review the way in
which we do these things is because there are people out there who are trying to
kill.

"There are various examples of where we have responded appropriately at certain
times and sometimes probably as not as quickly as we would want - that's
constantly under review."

The senior commander acknowledged that police had to effectively convey to local
people why there were sometimes delays.

He added: "I think we will always learn lessons from incidents and I think we
need to make sure that we are constantly engaging with the community to make
sure they understand why we respond in the way that we do."

A Department of Justice spokesman denied Mr Ford did not go to Newtownhamilton
for security reasons.

First Minister Peter Robinson, Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness and
acting chair of the NI Policing Board Brian Rea all condemned the bomb.

Protestant and Catholic Church leaders roundly condemned the bombers.

In a joint statement, Church of Ireland Archbishop of Armagh Alan Harper and
Catholic Auxiliary Bishop of Armagh Gerard Clifford said dissidents would not
thwart efforts to build a more peaceful society.

They added: "Last night's attack on the community of Newtownhamilton and the
police serving that community was a futile attempt to drag us back to a conflict
that people on both sides of the border have intentionally and definitively left
behind for ever.

"However, no one should downplay the distress for the local community caused by
the fear, disruption and injury which is the outcome of these actions.

"Our sympathy and prayers for a full recovery go to the people injured in
Newtownhamilton last night.

"We call upon all political representatives and electoral candidates at this
time to stand together in solidarity with the people of Newtownhamilton and the
PSNI and to reaffirm a cross community commitment to the primacy of the ballot
box as the only legitimate way of determining the future for all citizens."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AFTERMATH JNewtownhamilton, Co Armagh, yesterday FEAR nUpset locals
GRIM VIEW Officer looks at wreckage CLOSE Z LOOK Army soldier gathers evidence
MANGLED JCharred remains

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 26, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

Mumbai terror attack hotel reopens;
INDIA

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe ASIA CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 155 words


Eighteen months after militants terrorised the city of Mumbai and left more than
160 people dead, one of the luxury hotels seized by the gunmen has reopened.

Around 40 guests checked in at the five-star Oberoi hotel on the seafront, which
reopened with a low-key ceremony. The hotel, popular with business travellers
and VIPs, was reduced to a shell during a three-day siege, with 22 guests and 10
members of staff killed.

Ashok Chavan, chief minister of Maharashtra state, said: "I congratulate hotel
staff and other people on this occasion and hope that we all forget the past.
Today we also remember the families who have lost their members but life should
move on."

The adjoining Trident hotel and nearby Taj Mahal Palace reopened within a month
of the attacks.

The reopening came as Pakistan announced it will formally seek the extradition
from India of the suspected lone surviving gunman from the 2008 attacks,
Mohammad Ajmal Kasab.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             April 26, 2010 Monday
                                  2ND Edition

Woman flees house in arson attack terror;
Accelerant found at blaze house

BYLINE: ALAN WESTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 211 words


A WOMAN was forced to escape through a kitchen window after fire engulfed her
home in a suspected arson attack.

Firefighters were called to reports of people trapped in the blazing property in
Sherwood's Lane, Fazakerley, at 12.35am.

On arrival they found the front of the semi-detached house well alight and a
number of people outside.

The 51-year-old woman who was still inside escaped by jumping through a
ground-floor kitchen window.

She suffered a twisted ankle but refused hospital treatment and was treated at
the scene by paramedics.

Three fire crews from Croxteth, Kirkby and Aintree attended the fire which
caused severe damage to the front of the property.

The lounge, front porch and the rest of the house were also damaged by fire and
smoke.

Following a search of the house, a number of plastic bottles were recovered from
the scene, which officers believe to have contained accelerant.

Aintree station watch manager Phil Hart said: "The front of the house was well
alight and there was thick, black, toxic smoke.

"The woman was very lucky to get out."

Merseyside Police is now working with Mersey Fire and Rescue service to
establish the cause of the fire.

Any witnesses or anyone with information is asked to contact police on (0151)
777 4566.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  BURNT: The house on Sherwood's Lane Fazakerley

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday

Pakistan-based terror group planning attacks in India - minister

LENGTH: 371 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 27 April: Pakistan-based terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) is
making concerted efforts to carry out attacks in India and to develop links in
Maldives and other neighbours, Government said Tuesday [27 April].

"Available inputs indicate that Pakistan-based terrorist groups primarily the
Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) are making concerted efforts to organise terrorist attacks
in various parts of the country, inter-alia, including iconic institutions,
prominent industrial installations and tourist locations among others," Minister
of State for Home Affairs Ajay Maken told Lower House Lok Sabha Tuesday in a
written reply.

The minister said some of the prominent groups which pose a serious threat
include LeT, Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Hizbul-Mujahideen (HM),
Harkat-ul-Jehad-e-Islami (HuJI), Harkat-ul-Mujahideen (HuM), Al Badr, Babbar
Khalsa International (BKI), Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF), Khalistan Commando
force, International Sikh Youth federation (ISYF), United Liberation Front of
Assam (ULFA) and Communist party of India (Maoist).

"There is also another organization, the Indian Mujahideen," the minister said.

Maken said: "the government continues to be alert to these threats and
re-calibrates its measures to combat terrorism by way of reviewing threat
perception and a number of important decisions and measures have been taken."

Government has constituted National Investigation Agency (NIA).The Multi-Agency
centre has been strengthened and reorganised to enable it to function on 24x7
basis for real time collection and sharing of intelligence with other
intelligence and security agencies."

In reply to another question, Maken said, "available input indicated that
Lashkar-e-Taiba endeavours to develop links in India's neighbouring countries
including the Maldives.

"India and Maldives continue to work closely in strengthening bilateral security
cooperation. Our security concerns are conveyed through bilateral channels or
mechanisms, with the concerned authorities," he said.

Government also denied any proposal to create the post of National Intelligence
Coordinator to strengthen intelligence system.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1034gmt 27 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday

Comment: Keep calm and carry on: The lack of proportion in America's response to
the threat of terrorist attacks has been self-defeating

BYLINE: Nigel Inkster and Alexander Nicoll

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 823 words


On Christmas Day in 2009, a small fire broke out on a flight from Amsterdam to
Detroit. The crew put it out with an extinguisher and blankets. The plane landed
safely. Two people were injured: a Nigerian who had caused the fire by trying to
detonate 80g of explosive hidden in his underpants, and a Dutch passenger who
tackled him. Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab failed in his objective of bringing down
the aircraft. But he succeeded in part of his al-Qaida inspired mission: the
unnerving of America. By the next morning, new ritual humiliations awaited those
wishing to fly to the US. TV news channels fuelled the panic with
round-the-clock coverage - yet all the important facts are in the paragraph
above.

America's frenzied, alarmist response is hardly becoming for the most powerful
nation on earth. The lack of any sense of proportion simply serves to enhance
the status of a terrorist group which is dispersed, quite small and cannot
possibly threaten US sovereignty unless Americans connive in their own defeat.
With a panicked, politicised response to an event that killed no one, they are
doing precisely that.

The threat from terrorism is serious - not only because of the physical damage
it can do but also because it challenges the authority and competence of
government. Governments rightly place high demands on intelligence and security
services to guard citizens against that threat.

But the threat must also be kept in perspective. According to the US National
Counterterrorism Centre, during 2008 33 US citizens were killed around the world
in terrorist attacks, including 21 in Iraq. Since 2004, four have died in the US
as a result of terrorism. Since the 2001 attacks, other extremist plots have
been uncovered. If they had come to fruition, they would have killed Americans.
If the "shoe bomber", Richard Reid, had been successful in 2001, 197 people
would probably have been killed. Abdulmutallab could have killed 289 people.
However, none succeeded.

By contrast, in 2006 alone, 18,573 people were victims of homicide in the US.
Traffic-related injuries resulted in 43,664 deaths. Firearms accounted for
30,896, while 21,647 died as a result of falls.

No doubt al-Qaida would like to cause deaths on this scale. The many failed
plots show that this kind of success is very difficult for terrorists to
achieve. But success can be achieved in other ways as well: the response is in a
sense more important than the attack. We should never forget that terrorism is
as much as anything an act of theatre.

Bringing down the World Trade Centre did not destroy the US economy. But it did
provoke George Bush to declare a "global war on terror". The huge expense
incurred in pursuing this effort has arguably done more damage to the economy
than Osama bin Laden could have hoped for. Nobody can forget the horror of 9/11,
and it was inevitable that a government faced with such an outrage would respond
in extreme fashion. Hindsight is easy, but if Bush had placed more emphasis on
bringing those responsible to justice rather than on declaring an unwinnable
"war" against an undefined enemy, things might have turned out very differently.

The most important consideration here should be what will be most effective in
combating extremist terrorism in the long term. It is surely not inspiring for
radicalised people with the potential for violent action to see terrorists tried
in ordinary criminal courts and sentenced to long prison terms. This was
definitely not the martyrdom they had in mind. But it surely is inspiring to
them to see terrorists treated as a special class of prisoners to be held by the
military, imprisoned without trial and tortured. This is the kind of treatment
that makes jihadists believe that they can indeed be the fighters for a cause
they aspire to be.

The abandonment of ordinary standards of criminal justice in cases of terrorism
can thus be argued to be counterproductive. On top of this, there is the
argument that democratic values of freedom and justice are the western world's
best advertisement. Departures from such values have damaged America's
international reputation. The oft-quoted saying of Benjamin Franklin is worth
repeating: "They who can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary
safety, deserve neither liberty nor safety."

People in the UK have recently been sporting bags, mugs and clothing bearing the
phrase Keep Calm and Carry On, from rediscovered posters produced by the British
government in 1939 for use in the event of German invasion. While this is now
almost a caricature of the famed stiff-upper-lip approach, it is a message that
holds a lesson in the face of inevitable terrorist attacks. Some resilience is
needed. In its absence, terrorists achieve their objective.

Nigel Inkster was assistant chief of MI6. Alexander Nicoll is editorial director
at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. A longer version of this
article appears in Survival

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Terror attack on UK envoy;
Al-Qaeda blamed for suicide blast in Yemen Ambassador survives Yemen suicide
blast

BYLINE: James Hider

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,3

LENGTH: 1077 words


The British ambassador to Yemen narrowly escaped assassination yesterday when a
suicide bomber attacked his convoy as it travelled through the capital, Sanaa.

Tim Torlot, a 52-year-old career diplomat who has served in the volatile Arab
state since July 2007, was being driven in his armour-plated vehicle close to
the British Embassy when the suspected al-Qaeda militant threw himself at the
two-vehicle convoy and detonated his explosives belt, officials said. The
ambassador was not hurt in the attack, which will heighten concerns about
security in Yemen, where the terror organisation has been gaining strength over
the past year. Three other people were wounded.

"The failed terrorist attack that targeted the British ambassador in Sanaa
carries the fingerprints of al-Qaeda," the Yemeni interior ministry said.

It identified the would-be assassin as 22-year-old Othman Ali al-Salwi, adding
that the bomber's head was found 50 yards from the blast site.

The British Embassy was closed in January after Yemeni intelligence sources said
that an al-Qaeda cell close to the capital was planning to target it and the US
Embassy. The Yemeni army later attacked the cell and killed several of its
members but the threat has remained high.

Britain's Foreign Office confirmed that the ambassador escaped an explosion.

"We can confirm that there was an incident in Sanaa this morning. There was a
small explosion beside the British ambassador's car. He was unhurt.

No other embassy staff or British nationals were injured," it said.

"The embassy will remain closed to the public for the time being.Weadvise all
British nationals in Yemen to keep a low profile and remain vigilant."

Those hurt included two Mr Torlot's Yemeni police escorts, but the bomber, who
witnesses said was disguised in a school uniform, was the only fatality.

Mr Torlot was reportedly about 600 yards from the British embassy in the new
part of Sanaa, close to the heavily fortified US mission, when the attack came.
He usually travels in an armoured car followed by an escort vehicle of armed
Yemeni police.

The embassy itself is protected by razor wire and sandbagged machinegun posts
manned by Yemeni forces. Witnesses said the police vehicle had been damaged in
the explosion.

The embassy stands on top of a hill with only one approach route. The ambassador
always travels under heavy guard and lives in a well-protected residence set
back from the main road in another part of the city.

A similar attack in March 2009 targeted a convoy carrying South Korean officials
investigating a bombing that killed four Korean tourists.

There are increasing fears that Yemen is becoming a haven for insurgents, with a
new generation of terrorists forming a group called al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula.

The organisation has launched attacks both inside Yemen and abroad, including a
failed suicide attack on a Saudi prince in charge of fighting terrorism.

The group came to prominence last December when a 23-year-old Nigerian man who
allegedly tried to blow up a US airliner bound for Detroit on Christmas Day
admitted that he had been trained in Yemen.

Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab said that he had been given an explosives device,
which was sewn into his underpants, after going into hiding last year while at
an Arabic-language school in Sanaa and attending an al-Qaeda training camp.

But even before that, Yemen had been the scene of many attacks, including the
boat-borne explosion launched by suicide bombers against the USS Cole in the
port of Aden in 2000, which killed 17 sailors. The group also launched a frontal
attack ontargeted the US Embassy in 2008, killing more than a dozen people,
including an American student.

The Yemeni Government, under US and British pressure, has launched an offensive
against al-Qaeda, and the US has ramped up the amount of military aid it
supplies to the country, fearing it could become a new front in the war on
terror. But senior clerics have threatened to declare a jihad, or holy war, if
foreign troops are deployed inside the country, forcing the US to concentrate
its efforts on training Yemeni special forces and providing intelligence from
unmanned aerial drones.

Meanwhile, the government of longtime President Ali Abdullah Saleh appears more
concerned with fighting a Shia rebellion in the north, which has already dragged
Saudi forces into the fray, and with combating a resurgent secessionist movement
in the south, once a British colony, than it is with tackling the terrorists.

Before being dispatched to Yemen, MrTorlot served as deputy head of mission in
Baghdad, as well as dealing with counter-terrorism policy for the Foreign
Office. Trained in Arabic, his first posting was in nearby Oman in 1984.

Online

Behind the headlines

timesonline.co.uk/worldagenda

Dirt-poor country could become a haven for terrorists

Analysis James Hider

The attack on the ambassador underscores how far the Yemeni Government and its
Western backers have to go in countering terrorism at home.

It has been described as a mark of al-Qaeda's frustration at raids on its
hideouts, but it also showed that militants can strike in the capital, despite
increased US training of Yemeni troops. The Yemeni Government, which has often
pledged to tackle al-Qaeda, has been distracted by "more pressing concerns". An
uneasy truce with Shia rebels in the north is plagued by claims that neither
side honours the pact. In the once-independent south there is resentment that
the Government benefits from its natural resources but invests little in its
infrastructure.

Yemen sits at the crossroads of major oil routes, and the Shia rebellion has
sparked tensions between oil producers.

Many of al-Qaeda's hard-core fighters were recruited in the dirt-poor country
that is the ancestral homeland of Osama bin Laden. South of Saudi Arabia, with
its holy sites for Islam, and north of the lawless Horn of Africa, into which
al-Qaeda has begun to move, Yemen could become a terrorists' haven.

Unrest is also stoked by its dwindling oil, booming young population living in
poverty, and fear that it could run out of fresh water. The clerics' threat of
jihad deters the West from military intervention. When that happened in Saudi
Arabia after the first Gulf War in 1991 al-Qaeda recruitment boomed.

Tim Torlot, a career diplomat, had also served in Baghdad

Spanish Embassy S A N A A UK Embassy One mile Airport (Four miles) Old Sanaa
Saleh Mosque S Sanaa Aden SOMALIA YEMEN Suicide bomb attack US Embassy Shoob

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: YAHYA ARHAB / EPA
Yemeni forensic science officers, above, examine the blast scene in Sanaa
yesterday as locals look on, left
AFP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Mid Devon Gazette

                                 April 29, 2010

Traders are warned of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Steph Cockroft

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 421  words


The threat of a terrorist attack in North Devon is "very real", Barnstaple
traders were told last week.

Shopkeepers and security staff at Green Lanes shopping centre were given an
exclusive talk by Devon and Cornwall police, named Project Argus, about the
risks of bombings in the district.

DC Kevin Bowen, counter-terrorism security advisor for the force, told
businesses any area could be the focus of an attack.

"Crowded places are targets for   terrorism attacks and this is as real in the
West Country as anywhere," he said.

"In airports and stadiums there are security measures in place to help this, but
in an open shopping centre, this is not so easy."

DC John Bromidge, also an advisor, told the meeting it was the community's job
to protect the country from terrorism and we had to make sure "freedom did not
make us vulnerable".

"We are under threat," he said. "We have to understand we are not going to stop
a terrorism attack in this country, which means we have to mitigate and be
prepared."

Preparations include having evacuation plans in place and reporting any
suspicious behaviour to the police.

DC Bowen said reporting one suspicious act could help to interrupt a bigger
plan.

"You do not need to know there is going to be a bomb before you report
something, it is anything suspicious going on at that time," he said.

"Through this sort of community intelligence, people have been prevented from
terrorism bombings."

DC Bromidge also said 95 per cent of injuries in a blast were due to flying
glass. All business should therefore have an area where they are away from this
risk, he said.

The pair also said a grab bag, full of things such as money, first aid kits, a
phone, a radio and other essential items,  had saved lives in attacks.

Ensuring next-of-kin numbers are stored in an individual's mobile phone
preceeded by ICE - standing for In Case of Emergency - was also   encouraged by
the officers.

And although Mr Bowen said he was "not there to scaremonger", he highlighted the
incident in Exeter's Princesshay shopping centre in 2008 to show such attacks
were close to home.

DC Bowen said: "This is about awareness and having plans in place.

"A lot of these plans are applicable for natural disasters, so if you are
prepared for a terrorism attack, you are ready for anything."

The officers warned we had to almost get "inside the mind" of terrorists  to
work out what their next step might be.

Barnstaple Sgt Paul Tarr said reporting suspicious behaviour might also lead to
solving other crimes, such as shoplifting.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 198


                        Copyright 2010 Mid Devon Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Response to terrorist attacks defended by Baggott

BYLINE: KATHRYN TORNEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 273 words


CHIEF Constable Matt Baggott has defended the PSNI's response to terrorist
attacks -- while conceding that the recent bomb attack in Newtownhamilton was "a
regrettable exception".

In a letter to the Belfast Telegraph, Mr Baggott said he was "relentlessly"
putting more officers on the ground, adding that tens of millions of pounds have
been secured and invested into tackling the heightened security threat.

Addressing criticism of the PSNI response in Newtownhamilton, he said: "We are
providing where possible a quick and effective response to terrorist attacks.

"Newtownhamilton was a regrettable exception. But it was an exception caused by
an obligation to assess the risks to everyone.

"I understand people's concern that officers should have responded sooner. But
my colleagues need to assess the risk to all concerned ... before responding.

"There was a real possibility that more people could have been injured or even
killed if police had rushed into a waiting trap. Our response in Newtownhamilton
was not dictated by a lack of officer numbers, but by the necessity to make
careful judgments about safety."

Mr Baggott hit out at claims his recent visit to Crossmaglen was a "stunt" and
said it was sensible to consider retaining the remaining full-time Reserve
officers for nine months.

He concluded: "In the midst of all these challenges we have continued to get on
with the job. Monthly crime levels in December, January and February were the
lowest for 12 years. We have increased our detection rate and reduced crime and
anti-social behaviour. These are achievements that should not be undervalued."

CAPTION: Criticism: Matt Baggott

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland

                                 April 30, 2010

IN BRIEF: Mumbai's Oberoi reopens after terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 52  words


The Oberoi Hotel in Mumbai, which was badly damaged in the terrorist attacks of
November 2008, has reopened. It has undergone a £ 23 million refurbishment and
now features a new marble lobby, 287 suites, a champagne lounge, cocktail bar,
heated pool, a spa and a new fitness centre.

Copyright: UBM Information Ltd.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                      Copyright 2010 CMP Information Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

US warns of "imminent" terror attacks in Indian capital - agency

LENGTH: 246 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 1 May: In a fresh advisory, the US on Saturday [1 May] warned of
"imminent" terror attacks in New Delhi, particularly in market places like
Connaught Place, Greater Kailash and Chandni Chowk, which are "attractive
targets" for terrorist groups.

"This Warden Message provides updated information related to the 21 April 2010
Warden Message and additional information related to the Travel Alert issued for
India on 16 April 2010," said the renewed advisory primarily intended for
American citizens in India.

It said there are "increased indications that terrorists are planning imminent
attacks in New Delhi."

The advisory noted that terrorists have targeted places in the past where US
citizens or Westerners are known to congregate or visit.

"Markets such as those located in Chandni Chowk, Connaught Place, Greater
Kailash, Karol Bagh, Mehrauli, and Sarojini Nagar, can be especially attractive
targets for terrorist groups," the advisory said.

It advised American citizens that if they are in an area where unattended
packages are spotted, they should immediately exit the area and report the
packages to authorities.

"Americans travelling or residing in India are strongly encouraged to maintain a
high level of vigilance, remain aware of their surroundings, monitor local news
reports, and take appropriate steps to bolster their personal security," it
said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0744gmt 01 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MOMENT DUMBBELL TEACHER ATTACKED;
1st pics of school terror

BYLINE: JERRY LAWTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 323 words


THESE pictures show pupils fleeing in terror moments after teacher Peter Harvey
battered a boy with a dumbbell.

Harvey, 50, who had been off work with stress and depression, snapped as
students secretly filmed themselves baiting him.

They had hoped to broadcast his fury on video sharing website YouTube.

When a 14-year-old boy with a history of bad behaviour told him to "f*** off'',
the teacher hauled him across the corridor and hit him over the head with the
3kg weight.

CCTV footage released yesterday showed the teacher running into the corridor
yelling moments after the attack, as pupils flee. On the floor is the weapon he
had used on the boy while shouting: "Die, die, die.'' Another teacher rushed to
the scene and tried to regain control.

Harvey was arrested in the headteacher's office at All Saints' Roman Catholic
School in Mansfield, Notts.

His victim spent five days in hospital after suffering a fractured skull.

Problems

On Thursday, the teacher was allowed to walk free from Nottingham Crown Court
after a jury cleared him of attempted murder and causing grievous bodily harm
with intent.

The dad-of-two, whose wife Samantha, 44, was suffering depression and whose
daughter has Asperger's syndrome, had pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of GBH.

Sentencing was adjourned to a later date, but the judge told Harvey the eight
months he had spent in jail on remand awaiting trial was long enough behind bars
for a "fundamentally decent" man.

Judge Michael Stokes QC told him: "I am already looking to a community order
with a view to assisting you in view of your recent problems.'' Harvey had told
a pal: "Something just went 'ping' in my brain. Everything became too much."

He refused to apply for bail because he "deserved to be in jail" and said: "I
know I need to be punished for what I did.

"I just can't believe that I've caused so much pain."

Unions say the case highlights how teachers need more support.

jerry.lawton@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BAITED: Peter Harvey snapped
HORROR: Harvey and weapon on floor and below, pupils flee storeroom where the
attack took place

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday

Yemeni minister says several "terrorist attacks" foiled

LENGTH: 282 words


Excerpt from report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sanaa, 2 May: The security forces have foiled several terrorist attacks and
arrested a number of dangerous suspects, Yemeni Interior Minister Rashad
al-Masri said.

Al-Masri unveiled the terrorist who targeted last Monday [26 April] the convoy
of the British ambassador in Sanaa was carrying an explosives-filled school bag.

In an interview with the Yemen Satellite Channel aired on Saturday evening [1
May], the minister of interior said that the failed suicide bomb had revealed
that Al-Qaeda in the country suffers a deep state of despair and isolation,
adding that the failed attack was a response to recent strikes by the Yemen air
forces on Al-Qaeda.

Yemen's air forces have carried out strikes on suspected Al-Qaeda hideouts and a
training camp, killing several suspected local Al-Qaeda leaders.

Al-Masri also said that all suspects involved in the suicide attack have been
arrested, confirming that among the arrested were masterminds and financiers of
the failed suicide bomb carried out by Othman Ali Noman al-Selwi. The Yemeni
minister pointed out that Al-Selwi, 22, had been set in advance within a
terrorist cell.

Urging security services to increase efforts and take preventive measures to
foil crimes, Al-Masri affirmed that the security situation in the provinces of
Yemen has been strengthened through displaying a number of highly-skilled
security personnel.

The ministry will build this year three police stations in the capital Sanaa,
where 190 highly-skilled staffs supplied with necessary equipment will work.
[Passage omitted]

Source: Saba news agency website, Sanaa, in English 2145 gmt 1 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Gunman faces the gallows for Mumbai terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 236 words


PROSECUTORS will today make their case that Ajmal Kasab, the young Pakistani
militant notoriously captured on film during the Mumbai attacks, should be put
to death after a court found him guilty of 86 charges relating to the assault on
the city.

Prosecutors have said they believe the sole surviving militant from the group of
10 Pakistani gunmen who carried out the attacks that left more than 160 people
dead, should be hanged.

"It was not a simple act of murder. It was war," trial judge M L Tahiliyani said
in a summary of the 1,522-page judgment. "This type of preparation is not made
by ordinary criminals. This type of preparation is made by those waging war."

The attacks, in November 2008, triggered a worsening of relations between India
and Pakistan, with formal peace talks put on hold. During the attack on India's
financial capital, Kasab (22), from a village in the south of Pakistan's Punjab
province, was caught on film as he walked through the city's main train station.

"The judgment itself is a message to Pakistan that they should not export
terrorism to India," India's Home Minister, Palaniappan Chidambaram, later told
reporters.

India has said that the attacks were planned and carried out by the banned,
Pakistan-based militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).

And it has has demanded the authorities in Islamabad take action, especially
against the organisation's alleged leader, Hafiz Muhammad Saeed.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

Gunman found guilty of Mumbai terrorist attack faces death penalty: Mohammed
Kasab likely to appeal to supreme court Prosecution says Pakistani military
behind operation

BYLINE: Gethin Chamberlain, Panaji

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 671 words


The surviving gunman from the Mumbai terrorist attacks of 2008 was yesterday
convicted of murder and waging war against India.

Mohammed Ajmal Amir Kasab, a Pakistani national, is due to be sentenced in the
next couple of days. He is expected to receive the death penalty.

The court accepted the prosecution argument that the plot was hatched in
Pakistan. Speaking before the verdict was announced, the prosecutor, Ujwal
Nikam, said there was irrefutable evidence that members of the Pakistani
military were involved, describing it as a "classic case of state-sponsored
terrorism".

Once Kasab has been sentenced, the case - which has been heard by a special
court sitting in Mumbai's Arthur Road jail - must go to the high court for
ratification. Kasab can then appeal to India's supreme court and if that is
unsuccessful, he can appeal to the president for clemency.

Kasab was one of 10 gunmen who travelled from Pakistan to Mumbai, landing on 26
November 2008 before launching an attack that killed 166 people at the main
railway station, two luxury hotels and a Jewish centre. He was the only gunman
to survive.

Families of the victims yesterday welcomed the verdict but expressed concern
that the legal process could be dragged out for years. Although the trial was
concluded in an unusually swift 11 months, India's legal system is notoriously
protracted.

The widow of the counter-terrorism police chief, Hemant Karkare, who was shot
dead as he tried to confront the gunmen, said Kasab should be executed without
delay. "He should not be given the chance to go to the supreme court. He should
be punished immediately," said Kavita Karkare.

Other relatives vented their anger at Pakistan, expressing concern that the
country remains a haven for terrorist training camps.

The philanthropist Sevanti Parekh, who lost his son Sunil and daughter-in-law
Reshma in the attacks, said Kasab was a pawn in a bigger game. "Our country
should destroy those camps. They (those in the camps) are being turned into
animals, they don't know what they are doing, they are just brainwashed. We are
civilised people but we are dealing with uncivilised people," he said.

Kasab, who faced a total of 86 charges, was brought to the courtroom for the
verdict. During the trial he repeatedly changed his story, claiming at one point
to have travelled to Mumbai 20 days before the attacks to try to break into the
Bollywood film industry.

Two Indian nationals, Faheem Ansari and Sabauddin Shaikh, were acquitted. They
had been accused of being members of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a Pakistani militant
group which is blamed for the attacks, and of carrying out reconnaissance and
supplying maps to the gunmen. But the judge, ML Tahaliyani, ruled that there was
no evidence to support the charges.

The court also convicted another 20 people (out of 35) who were listed on the
charge sheet. All 20 are in Pakistan.

The home minister, P Chidambaram, warned after the hearing: "The judgment is
itself a message to Pakistan that they should not export terror to India. If
they do, and if the terrorists are apprehended, we will be able to give them
exemplary punishment."

The prosecution and defence must now make representations to the judge before he
passes sentence later this week.

Security outside the court was heavy, a reminder that the terrorism threat in
India remains severe. Delhi is on high alert after specific warnings of imminent
attacks on areas of the city popular with westerners. But there are also raised
security levels in other parts of the country.

Seven members of LeT are on trial in Pakistan for their alleged role in the
Mumbai attacks. Pakistan has requested Kasab's extradition to give evidence in
the trial, a request which India has rejected.

India wants to question David Headley, a US national who is alleged to have been
involved in carrying out scouting missions ahead of the attacks. The US has
agreed to grant access but has refused an extradition request.

Captions:

Protesters in Ahmadabad call for the execution of Mohammed Ajmal Kasab

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

Pakistani found guilty for Mumbai terror attack

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 395 words


Two Indians accused of helping plot the attacks were acquitted.

Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, the lone survivor of the attack's 10 gunmen, sat
impassively with his head bowed as the verdicts were read. He was convicted in
one of the siege's bloodiest episodes, when he and an accomplice killed and
wounded dozens of people at one of Mumbai's busiest train stations. Photos of
Kasab striding through the station, an assault rifle in his hand, became iconic
images of the attacks.

Kasab was convicted on nearly all the 86 charges against him, including murder
and waging war against India. While an exact total of the convictions was not
immediately available, the handful of acquittals appear to have been for
relatively minor charges, such as forging an identification card. Sentencing is
expected today. He faces a possible death sentence.

The siege deeply shook India, despite the country's long history of terror
attacks. The violence stretched over three days and left corpses scattered
through some of the city's best-known places.

The siege sparked calls for a wholesale restructuring in the country's poorly
trained and underfunded security forces, though few major changes ever took
place.

The attacks and the subsequent investigation also added enormous pressure to
India and Pakistan's already tense relations. The two countries' formal peace
process was suspended in the wake of the violence.

India's home minister, Palaniappan Chidambaram, said "the judgment in itself is
a message to Pakistan that they should not export terror to India".

"If they do and if the terrorists are apprehended, we will be able to bring them
to justice and give them an exemplary punishment."

In Pakistan, though, the ruling appeared to reinforce the cross-border mistrust.

"The verdict well fit Indian designs to malign Pakistan. It was expected that
Kasab would be found guilty, falsely though," said Abdul Qayum a street vendor
in Karachi.

Judge ML Tahiliyani said the gunmen came ready for sustained urban combat,
bringing with them everything from machine guns to a GPS device.

"These types of preparations are not normally made by ordinary criminals. These
are made in an organised type of war," he said.

Tahiliyani acquitted Fahim Ansari and Sabauddin Ahmed, two Indians who had been
accused of helping plot the attacks, saying the evidence against them "doesn't
inspire confidence in my mind".

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Gunman faces death for Mumbai terror attack;
IN THE NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 42 words


The sole gunman captured alive in the Mumbai terror attack was found guilty for
his role in an atrocity that left 166 people dead. Mohammad Ajmal Kasab, 22,
convicted of murder and waging war against India, faces a probable death
sentence. News, page 3

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

Bad post-terrorist-attack ideas department

BYLINE: Michael Tomaskyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 445 words

ABSTRACT

Joe Lieberman (surprise) is the first to jump on the "we must do something"
bandwagon.

FULL TEXT

It's hardly a surprise but nevertheless worth noting that the first .

He wants the State Department to have the power to strip US citizens of their
citizenship if they are found to have associated with terrorist groups. This is
for the purpose of denying them their constitutional rights (so they can't be
read their , for example) and making sure they are tried in military tribunals
rather than civilian courts.

This sounds alluring on the surface and possibly even sensible. But it
establishes some bleak precedents that put some serious chips in the
constitution.

American citizens enjoy the presumption of innocence. That's a pretty important
thing going back to the dawn of the republic. Lieberman's measure would really
presume guilt on the part of the people fingered under his scheme. That flips
230 years of bedrock jurisprudential theory on its head. I'm not denying that
many and maybe even a slight majority of Americans would say go ahead. But that
still doesn't make it a great idea and we'd better think through the
consequences.

Also, conservatives who might be tempted to cheer this on should remember that
the only terrorist groups out there aren't Muslim ones. There are many
natural-born US citizens out there who are good old fashioned white males whom
(gasp) Hillary Clinton at her most excessive,  could designate as someone who
"pals around" with terrorist groups and thus should be denuded of citizenship.

Finally, as I've said many times. These . The US has since 9-11 convicted more
than 500 people on terrorism-related charges in civilian courts. In the military
courts, we've convicted three. Not 300. Three. Two of them have already been
released.

Provisions already exist for stripping people of citizenship, of course, after
their conviction. If Lieberman wants to try to write a serious law that will
actually pass constitutional muster (as this one probably would not, according
to some experts) that could permit military trials for persons in Faisal
Shahzad's position, that would be one thing, and maybe worth taking seriously.

Also worth taking seriously, of course, is toughening up the citizenship
requirements, trying to ascertain more about a person's beliefs and
associations. Better to try to know up front than to wait for a bomb, which next
time might work and go off.

So there may be prudent steps worth taking on this front. But Lieberman's idea
is just bluster, with actual potential to do some harm.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

Afghan minister warns of wave of terror attacks in capital

LENGTH: 338 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 6 May

[Presenter] The interior minister has said that they [his ministry] have adopted
serious measures to ensure security in the city of Kabul. The opponents are
trying to disrupt the situation in Kabul and other parts of the country, but the
security forces will work hard to prevent this, he noted.

Meanwhile, the visiting French interior minister in Kabul said that his country
would expand cooperation in training and enlarging the Afghan police force. Wali
Aryan has more:

[Correspondent] Speaking at a ceremony on the occasion of the graduation of 50
gendarme police officers, who had been trained for 22 weeks by French
instructors, the interior minister said the French role in training and
enlarging the Afghan police was quite valuable.

He said that the government's armed opponents were trying to sabotage security
in Kabul and other parts of the country, but the security forces would take
special steps to prevent this.

[Interior Minister Mohammad Hanif Atmar, captioned, talking to camera] The
enemies of our country will try to carry out terrorist attacks, but we will take
steps, alongside other security bodies, to defend Kabul and other parts of the
country with all our power and strength.

[Correspondent] Meanwhile, the French interior minister said in Kabul that his
country would send 40 French instructors to train the Afghan gendarme police in
Maydan Wardag Province.

[French Interior Minister Brice Hortefeux, captioned, talking to camera in
French superimposed with Dari] We will increase our cooperation in training and
enlarging the Afghan national police. Therefore, we will send 40 instructors to
Maydan Wardag Province to train Afghan gendarme police.

[Correspondent] This comes at a time when the Interior Ministry says that it
will set up an academy to train the public order police among the gendarme
forces.

[Video shows Afghan, French interior ministers talking to camera, a military
function, policemen]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 6 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

"Arab group" threatens terror attacks in Belgium over veil ban

LENGTH: 247 words


Text of report by Belgian leading privately-owned newspaper De Standaard
website, on 6 May; subheading as published

[Belga report by "kld": "Arab Group Threatens Attacks in Belgium"]

A film of an Arab group that threatens to perpetrate attacks in our country is
circulating on the internet, VTM [Flemish Television Corporation] reported on
Wednesday [5 May] evening.

The images show Taleban fighters in battledress and [chanting] slogans. They
threaten to perpetrate attacks in Belgium "because our country approved a burqa
[full face veil] ban last week". They say this constitutes a violation of the
rights of Muslims.

The OCAD [Threat Coordination and Analysis Organ] is investigating the threat.

Bill

The bill involves persons wearing cloths in public places "that totally or
partially conceal the face" in such a way that they are no longer identifiable.
The bill does not literally involve a burqa ban; it does not even mention the
word burqa.

The text also provides for exceptions during festivities like carnival and the
like.

The chamber approved the bill almost unanimously, but the ban is not yet
definitive. The bill still needs to be passed by the Senate, where Open VLD
[Free Liberal Democrats] and CD&V [Christian Democratic and Flemish] want to
take another close look at the text.

Since the Parliament is about to be dissolved, the bill is not yet definitive
and it will have to be taken up by the next Parliament.

Source: De Standaard website, Groot-Bijgaarden, in Dutch 6 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

Times Square suspect tells of dry-run for terror attack

BYLINE: David Usborne in New York

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 682 words


The suspect in the bungled Times Square car bombing is still giving "useful
information" to federal investigators, the US Attorney General, Eric Holder,
assured members of Congress in Washington yesterday.

Faisal Shahzad has allegedly been supplying information since being snatched
from an Emirates airliner bound for Dubai on Monday night, two days after a
smouldering Nissan Pathfinder caused a hurried evacuation of the heart of
Manhattan and triggered the most serious terror scare in America since the 9/11
attacks.

"We will continue to pursue a number of leads as we gather intelligence relating
to this attempted attack," Mr Holder told members of a Senate committee. He
arrived on Capitol Hill as some lawmakers continued to question why Mr Shahzad,
who attained US citizenship last year, had been given the usual legal
protections, including his so-called Miranda Rights, allowing him to remain
silent and avail himself of a lawyer, in a case involving terror.

Saying Mr Shahzad's conversations with federal agents were "ongoing", Mr Holder
insisted "there is simply no higher priority than disrupting potential attacks
and bringing those who plot them to justice". Disaster was averted on the night
of 1 May when a T-shirt vendor spotted smoke seeping from the Nissan and alerted
police.

Meanwhile, law enforcement officials in New York revealed that Mr Shahzad had
conducted a dry-run of his plot before carrying it out for real. They said he
drove the Pathfinder to Times Square on 28 April, seemingly to scope the area
out and decide where he might best park the car on the day it was meant to
explode. Two days later, he came back to New York in a different car that he
parked nearby. It was to be his getaway vehicle.

Most immediately, investigators are focusing on whether Mr Shahzad was acting
alone or was supported by foreign groups intent on inflicting fresh wounds on
America. When he was taken off the plane at JFK, he was headed, via Dubai, to
Pakistan, the country of his birth.

Police in New York have said they have no evidence to support a claim of
responsibility by a Taliban group in Pakistan. But the Pakistani Interior
Minister, Rehman Malik, told Reuters last night that he was not convinced by
reports that the suspect had acted alone. "According to the available
information he says it was his individual act," he noted, before averring: "I
would not tend to believe that."

For its part, the Taliban, through a spokesman, said in a statement it had had
no contacts with the 30-year-old . "We have nothing to do with him," said Azam
Tariq. "We never imparted any training to him."

The US has lodged a formal request for assistance in its investigations from the
Pakistani authorities. Officials in Pakistan have already voiced the suggestion
that Mr Shahzad may have had ties with Jaish-e-Mohammad, a group fighting Indian
forces in Kashmir with ties to al-Qa'ida and the Pakistani Taliban.

Also being investigated by both the Americans and their Pakistani counterparts
are possible links between the suspect and the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan.

Mr Holder's appearance on Capitol Hill was designed to quell criticism of the
Justice Department for the decision to inform Mr Shahzad of his constitutional
rights as a US citizen. Some prominent figures on Capitol Hill, including
Senator Joe Lieberman, have argued that in cases involving terror attacks
suspects should be denied all such rights.

The president of Emirates airlines struck back angrily at criticism meanwhile
that the carrier had failed properly to follow security procedures meant to
block anyone on no-fly lists from buying tickets, let alone taking a seat on
board an aircraft.

"We're not a security agency," Tim Clark told the Dow Jones news wire. "For the
Obama administration to say that we dropped the ball on this, it's a bit much."
He went on: "Perhaps the US needs to reexamine the flow of information between
all the different authorities and also take a look at exit controls. The US
government must also be asking itself why it doesn't have tighter exit controls
when entry controls are so strict."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 10, 2010 Monday

Article says Pakistan, India must try to quiz US terror suspect on Mumbai attack

LENGTH: 615 words


Excerpt from article by Bassam Javed headlined "Should Pakistan be aboard on
quizzing David Headley" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 10
May

The Mumbai 26/11 terror incident would remain as the world's largest unresolved
mystery wherein 10 terrorists so effortlessly navigated through the bustling
city of Mumbai which they had never visited before. Amongst the terrorists that
went on the killing rampage, Indian authorities managed to capture one Ajmal
Kasab alive. After a year long trial by a special court, Ajmal Kasab was finally
convicted by the court as guilty.

Some reputed Indian analysts have sheepishly commented on the verdict and the
conduct of the trial. The trial court judge's 1,500 page verdict does not
mention any count of the US citizen David Headley's relevance in the crime.

The public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam told the media men that he was not given any
mandate to include David Headley's involvement in the case by the Indian
government casting doubts on the case as having been declared 'complete'. The
police despite in possession of the latest material on Headley's investigation
did not produce in the court during trial. Amongst the facilitators of 26/11
massacre was one US citizen David Headley, who often visited India on a five
year multiple visa granted by the Indian Consulate in Chicago in July 2007.
[passages omitted]

David Headley was first arrested in the US for heroin smuggling in 1997 in New
York for heroin smuggling but earned a reduced sentence by working for American
Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) wherein he was facilitated to have ingress into
Pakistan-Afghanistan linked narcotics gang.

There are speculations that he might have worked for CIA also and hence a
possible double agent.

He was arrested again in Chicago on October 3 2009 on charges related to 26/11
terror attacks in Mumbai. He entered plea agreement with the Justice Department
as he pleaded guilty on twelve charges out of which ten specifically were
related to 26/11.

David Coleman Headley was born in US and grew in both Pakistan and the US. What
contacts did he make here in Pakistan with respect to his assignment by the DEA
and possibly the CIA need to be known by Pakistani authorities to tackle drug
cartels and the Jihadi outfits, their modus operandi in terror activities and
their future plans? In case of India there is all the likelihood that they may
get access to David Headley soon.

The Indian solicitor general, Gopal Subramanium, visited US recently and said
that all hurdles have been cleared to enable quizzing of Headley by a special
team of Indian investigators. The information extracted from him may be
negatively utilized if the other affected party of Mumbai attacks (Pakistan) is
not aboard.

The joint quizzing of Headley by India and Pakistan may help create a thaw in
trust deficit relationship that only spiraled after Mumbai attacks and may even
help both the countries resurrect CBMs besides cooperation the prevalent terror
environment in the region.

The information provided by Headley may even reveal names of local handlers and
other information on how this mysterious attack was planned and executed. The
26/11 issue continues to mar the mutual relationship even today.

Since the American establishment is already working towards creating space that
may allow foreign interrogation on US soil, both India and Pakistan either
jointly or separately must try to quiz Headley on Mumbai attacks. Pakistan on
its part should try to separately quiz Headley on his activities in Pakistan.

The same can be done physically in the presence of US authorities in the US or
teleconferencing.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 10 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 10, 2010 Monday

Pakistan: "Terrorist" may attack law enforcement agencies in Punjab

LENGTH: 163 words


Text of report by staff reporter headlined "Agencies warn terrorist may attack
LEAs in Punjab" published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 10 May

Lahore: Intelligence agencies have revealed that a terrorist, Abu Bakr, is
planning to attack law enforcement agencies (LEAs) on the orders of his
commander Qari Zalzla, adding that two stolen vehicles are likely be used for
carrying out the attacks.

Sources told Daily Times on Sunday that copies of the reports have been sent to
the Punjab police so that they can take appropriate action.

The agencies said the terrorist, Abu Bakar, belongs to Kohat and advised the
LEAs to immediately beef up security at their installations across the province.

According to the threat alert-223/224 registered on April 28, a white Suzuki
Mehran bearing registration number STP-9199, engine number B-274362 and chassis
number B-12919, was stolen from the CMH Rawalpindi car parking.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 10 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                              May 10, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

A new approach may help to thwart terrorist attacks;
Whoever is Prime Minister, Chief Constable Matt Baggott's priority remains the
dissident threat, writes Brian Rowan

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 617 words


Once the horse-trading over a hung Parliament is finally settled, the focus
locally will quickly return to the big questions and challenges -- one of them
security.

Governments and political leaders come and go and, in all the re-working of the
political landscape here, the on-the-ground issue is still the dissident threat.

Irrespective of the political structure, Chief Constable Matt Baggott still has
what is called 'operational responsibility'. That means the job of shaping the
security response to that threat posed by groups such as the Real and Continuity
IRA and Oglaigh na hEireann -- and doing so without political interference.

It is a response that has to be worked within financial realities. And, in the
current economic climate, new money for new or more resources will be hard to
find.

Recently, the PSNI has been somewhat battered and bruised, criticised for its
responses to the bombs at Newtownhamilton PSNI station and the Palace Barracks
military base in Holywood, which houses MI5's Northern Ireland headquarters.

On the latter attack, I read the criticism in a leaked military document. That
does not mean a security crisis -- it means a need to get better in those
responses to alerts and attacks.

Nor does it mean going back to the old book and the old ways of security.

In the period of the election, I had a chance to speak with Matt Baggott and
some of his senior colleagues. I got no sense of panic, no sense that they
wanted to bring soldiers back onto the streets here.

What is also important is that they are not swayed in their thinking by those
voices from the past, those who argue that the RUC did it better. Those who make
those arguments forget, or ignore, much of the reality of that period of
policing.

They forget the mortar-bombs driven into London for an attack on Downing Street,
the other bombs that were used in an attack on the Army's Thiepval Barracks
headquarters in Lisburn and forget the theft of intelligence secrets from the
offices of the Special Branch at Castlereagh -- a break-in blamed on the IRA.

There is no such thing as perfect security, perfect policing, or perfect
intelligence -- not when the RUC was in charge, and not now.

In the period of the election, I also heard others speak of the need to think
about an approach to the dissidents that goes wider than policing and security.

That means a dialogue of some description; the sort of thing that usually begins
with quiet and deniable conversations.

This is about trying to reach the dissidents and their leaderships -- trying
behind the scenes to make them think and do differently.

It has been done before, both here and elsewhere. The Government communicated
with the IRA in a secret 'back channel'.

It is about trying to talk your way out of conflict rather than fight your way
out of it and it is an acceptance that there is no such thing as a security
solution in these situations.

Yes, you can contain the threat in security approaches, but you cannot remove
it. So the purpose of a dialogue has to be to try to persuade the dissidents
along a different path; take them away from a whole range of activities, from
so-called 'punishment' attacks inside their own communities, up to the bombs
that have been headline news recently.

This means taking risks. And if it is to be tried, it means finding people whom
the dissidents might listen to.

It could lead to long conversations with no guarantees. The dissidents could
decide to fight on -- and might continue to suck more young people into a
conflict they know little about.

Post-election, one of the big challenges is to try to get them to stop. That
means thinking outside the security box -- taking those risks and doing things
differently.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday

Triple terror attack kills 55, injures 220 in Iraq's Al-Hillah textile factory

LENGTH: 155 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Aswat al-Iraq news agency website

["55 Killed And 220 Others Wounded in Triple Attack on Hilla Textile Factory" -
Aswat al-Iraq]

May 10, 2010 - BABIL / Aswat al-Iraq: Two car bombs and a suicide bomber with
explosive belt were hit on Monday the al-Hillah Textile factory, leaving at
least 55 people killed and 220 others wounded.

"Two car bombs hit the factory's staff while they were leaving the facility's
compound today afternoon," a local police source told Aswat al-Iraq news agency.

When people gathered at the attacks location, a suicide bomber hit them.

"The bomber had an explosive belt around him," a source explained.

A preliminary record of casualties show that at least 55 people were killed and
220 others were wounded in this triple bombing.

Al-Hillah, the capital city of Babil province, lies 100 km south of Baghdad.

Source: Aswat al-Iraq, Arbil, in English 1238 gmt 10 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday

Terror suspect Kastari planned attacks in Malaysia - Singapore paper

LENGTH: 204 words


Text of report by Singapore newspaper The Sunday Times website on 10 May

[Article by Sujin Thomas: 'Mas Selamat planned attack']

Terrorist suspect [and leader of the Singaporean branch of Jemaah Islamiyah
(JI)] Mas Selamat [bin] Kastari hatched plans to bomb targets in Malaysia as
soon as he fled Singapore, according to the Royal Malaysian Police's
Inspector-General of Police, Tan Sri Musa Hassan.

Speaking with Berita Minggu, the Sunday edition of Malay daily Berita Harian,
Hassan added that Kastari was waiting for his Indonesian allies to enter
Malaysia before carrying out his plans.

However, his plans did not materialise because his allies, who were from the
Indonesian city of Solo, backed out for fear of being captured, and Kastari was
captured by the Malaysian police soon after.

Hassan did not reveal the group's specific targets for security reasons.

"He (Kastari) was waiting for this chance. If they had entered Malaysia, it
would have been very dangerous for us," said Hassan.

However, a raid by the Malaysian authorities at Kastari's hideout at a village
in Johor did not uncover any tools or bombs, as his plans were at an early
stage, said Hassan.

Source: The Sunday Times website, Singapore, in English 10 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday

Three detained on suspicion of preparing terrorist attack in southern Russia

LENGTH: 206 words


Police have detained three men suspected of preparing a terrorist attack near
the building of a police station in Rostov-na-Donu, RIA Novosti reported on 12
May quoting a source in the press service of the investigations directorate of
the Investigations Committee under the prosecutor's office of the Russian
Federation [SKP] for the region.

A cardboard box containing a home-made explosive device was found near the
building of police station No 4 of the Rostov-na-Donu interior directorate on
Ulitsa Tekucheva [Street]. The device was detected and destroyed in good time,
the report said. Searches conducted at the places of residence of the detained
men revealed components that could be used in making and activating explosive
devices.

"An officer of the Russian Federal Migration Service directorate for Rostov
region, aged 30, a student of a Rostov university, aged 21 and an employee of a
commercial organization, aged 28, have been detained on suspicion of committing
a crime," a source in the Investigations Committee said as quoted by the report.

A court ruled for all the detained men to be kept in custody, they face up to 12
years in prison, the source said.

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1046 gmt 12 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Derry Edition

North West terror attacks double

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 173 words


ATTACKS by dissident republicans in the North West have doubled to more than 100
in the past 12 months, according to disturbing new figures released by the PSNI.

The statistics for the Londonderry, Strabane and Limavady areas of the PSNI's G
District were released yesterday as a bomb scare took place at the Templemore
Sports Complex on the Buncrana Road in Derry.

Schoolchildren had to be evacuated from the swimming pool following a security
alert in the centre, the same sports complex targeted just five days ago during
the General Election count.

Foyle area commander Chief Inspector Chris Yates revealed there were 116
incidents compared to 51 the previous year. These have included pipe bomb
attacks, punishment-style shootings and the murder of local man Kieran Doherty.

Several dissident and vigilante-style republican groups are now known to be have
stepped up their campaigns in Derry and the wider North West over the past 12
months.

Mr Yates said: "We have seen a rise in offences against the state -- an increase
of 65 incidents."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday

Unhappy national service that was ended by a terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 316  words


Private John Turner had already turned down the chance to follow in his father's
footsteps and become a butcher by the time he was conscripted to join the Army
in 1947.

Born and bred in Ilkeston, he had also started and given up an apprenticeship at
Rolls-Royce in Derby and a job selling furniture.

Tragically, just three months into his National Service he was killed in a
terrorist attack in Palestine, while serving with the 2nd Battalion the Royal
Lincolnshire Regiment.

Yesterday, as she collected the Elizabeth Cross, his sister, Ann Clifford, of
Chaddesden, recalled the day she was told her older brother had died.

The 77-year-old, of Edward Avenue, said: "I was only 15 and was at St Mary's
Convent School, in Long Eaton.

"The Mother Superior called me into her office and said she had some bad news
for me, that my brother had been killed.

"I remember I had to walk to the bus stop  and then sit on the bus all the way
to Ilkeston.

"When I walked in the door my mum and dad were there.

"It was havoc, the whole house was in turmoil."

Yesterday's ceremony heard how Private Turner, who was raised in St Andrew's
Drive in Ilkeston, travelled by sea to Palestine and was  being moved to
Jerusalem when the attack took place.

He was 18.

Mrs Clifford said: "John was the eldest and my mother never saw his grave
because in those days you did not repatriate the bodies like you do now, so he
was buried in Palestine.

"I have all his letters that he sent home to my mother and the telegram
informing us of his death.

"The letters kept saying how unhappy he was being out there on his National
Service.

"In one, he said, 'Tell Dad I'm sorry I didn't follow him and become a butcher'.

"They are heart-wrenching."

Mrs Clifford was accompanied to yesterday's ceremony in Matlock by  daughter
Emma Priest, 43, of  Chaddesden.

Mrs Priest said: "Hopefully the families can get some comfort from receiving the
medals."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 42


                     Copyright 2010 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Ulster Edition

POLICE STATS REVEAL RISE IN NUMBER OF ATTACKS BY TERRORISTS;
NUMBERS

BYLINE: MICHAEL MCHUGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 274 words


PARAMILITARY attacks more than doubled last year as dissident republicans became
more active, police statistics revealed yesterday.

There were 127 casualties of terrorist shootings and assaults compared to 61 the
previous year.

And the number of sectarian crimes in Northern Ireland increased by a quarter.

Dissidents have launched a string of attacks on army bases, court buildings,
soldiers and police officers and the PSNI has warned they pose a severe threat.

However, loyalists were also responsible for 69 assaults.

DUP Assembly member Jeffrey Donaldson said: "We are very much aware of the
increased dissident activity in recent times and over the past year.

"There is no doubt that dissidents have increased their capacity to carry out
such attacks, be they gun or bomb attacks.

"There is a real need for vigilance on the part of all of us in the aftermath of
the General Election, we can expect further attacks."

According to statistics for the financial year which ended at the start of last
month, there were 45 dissident republican shootings and 12 assaults.

The figures recorded one shooting and 69 assaults by loyalists.

There were 77 firearms and 34,962 rounds of ammunition found during 2009-2010
and 2.2kg of explosives were recovered.

Sinn Fein Policing Board member Alex Maskey said: "We need to keep this in
perspective.

"Ultimately we are aware there is a very small degree of public support for
these activities and it is important that police responsibilities are carried
out in a way that does not alienate things.

"The police have a job to do to apprehend the perpetrators but they need to do
this so they don't alienate the public."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday

Sister of Ilkeston soldier awarded Elizabeth cross;
The sister of an Ilkeston soldier who died in a terrorist attack in Palestine in
1947 has received the Elizabeth Cross.

BYLINE: Rqw wdddw

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 369  words


Private John Turner had already turned down the chance to follow in his father's
footsteps and become a butcher by the time he was conscripted to join the Army
in 1947.

Born and bred in Ilkeston, he had also started and given up an apprenticeship at
Rolls Royce in Derby and a job selling furniture.

Tragically, just three months into his national service, he was killed in a
terrorist attack in Palestine, while serving with the 2nd Battalion The Royal
Lincolnshire Regiment.

Yesterday, as she collected the Elizabeth Cross, his sister Ann Clifford, of
Chaddesden, Derby, remembered the day she was told her older brother had died.

The 77-year-old said: "I was only 15 at the time and was at St Mary's Convent
School, in Long Eaton.

"The Mother Superior called me into her office and said she had some bad news
for me, that my brother had been killed.

"I remember I had to walk to the bus stops and then sit on the bus all the way
to Ilkeston.

"When I walked in the door my mum and dad were there. It was havoc - the whole
house was in turmoil."

Yesterday's ceremony heard how Private Turner, who was raised in St Andrew's
Drive , travelled by sea to Palestine and was in the process of being moved to
Jerusalem when the fatal attack took place.

He was 18.

Mrs Clifford said: "John was the eldest and my mother never saw his grave
because in those days you did not repatriate the bodies back home like you do
now, so he was buried in Palestine.

"I have all his letters that he sent home to my mother and the telegram
informing us of his death.

"The letters kept saying how unhappy he was being out there on his National
Service.

"In one, he said 'tell Dad I'm sorry I didn't follow him and become a butcher'.
They are heart-wrenching."

Mrs Clifford was accompanied to the ceremony at the offices of Derbyshire Dales
District Council  in Matlock by her daughter, Emma Priest, 43, also of
Chaddesden.

Mrs Priest said: "It was a wonderful ceremony, moving, but not too sentimental."

And she added: "When you hear how young those that died all were, regardless of
whether it was in the 1940s or just a couple of years ago, it really makes you
feel for the families.

"Hopefully the families can get some comfort from receiving the medals."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2010 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday

Indonesia analyst: Maulana-led terror group planned "armed attacks"

LENGTH: 350 words


Text of report by Indonesian commercial news website Detikcom on 13 May

[Report by Aprizal Rahmatullah: "Al Chaidar Believes Maulana, Friends Prepared
New Acts of Terrorism"]

Jakarta - The Republic of Indonesia Police believe that terrorist groups raided
in Cawang and Cikampek planned to commit acts of terrorism in the near future.
They are believed to have planned armed attacks rather than bombings.

"Indeed, they planned armed attacks as a new method," terrorism expert Al
Chaidar said when contacted by detikcom on Wednesday evening (12 May 2010).

Chaidar attributed the change to several factors such as difficulties in
obtaining raw materials to make bombs.

"It is now difficult to get (explosive) materials into Indonesia," he added.

Armed attacks had been chosen to target special locations such as activities
regarded as indecent and prohibited by Shari'ah.

"Armed attacks had been planned on certain celebrations," he added.

However, Al Chaidar regarded the Maulana group as being different from the
Saptono group. Saptono is known to have shifted from terror to propagation in
his struggle, while Maulana remains faithful to the terrorist ideology.

As reported earlier, Police Inspector General Edward Aritonang, chief of the
Republic of Indonesia Police Public Relations Division, said the terrorist
groups raided in Cawang and Cikampek were planning new acts of terrorism.
However, Special Detachment 88 conducted the raids after detecting the plans.

"The targets of (terrorism) cannot be revealed now. Certainly, they are in
Indonesia," Aritonang said.

The Republic of Indonesia Police have announced that two of the six suspected
terrorists are Maulana and Saptono. The two had been fugitives and wanted by
Special Detachment 88 for their involvement with the Aceh terror network.
Saptono is the younger brother of Jaja alias Pura Sudarman, a member of the Aceh
network who was shot during a shootout in Aceh. Jaja is known as a teacher of
Imam Samudera [who was executed in November in 2008 for his role in the first
Bali bombings in 2002).

Source: Detikcom website, Jakarta, in Indonesian 13 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday

Russian interior minister concerned about rise in terrorist attacks in Caucasus

LENGTH: 223 words


Text of report by Russian state news agency RIA Novosti

Pyatigorsk, 13 May: Russian Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev said he was
concerned about growing manifestations of terrorism in the North Caucasus.

The situation in the region is affecting the domestic political situation in
Russia, Nurgaliyev said as he was introducing the new head of the Russian
Interior Ministry Main Directorate for the North Caucasus, police Lt Gen Sergey
Chenchik, to heads of law enforcement agencies in Pyatigorsk.

"The economic development of the North Caucasian region requires ensuring
people's safety in the district. The situation in the North Caucasus strongly
affects the domestic political situation in Russia," Nurgaliyev said.

Of special concern are continuing terrorist attacks in the North Caucasus, he
said. "Manifestations of terrorism are growing. This causes certain concern,"
Nurgaliyev said.

He said that following Chenchik's appointment, tasks to ensure security in the
North Caucasian District should be resolved at a higher qualitative level.

Chenchik is well aware of traditions and customs of the people of the North
Caucasus, so his appointment to the post was not accidental, Nurgaliyev told the
staff of the Interior Ministry Main Directorate for the North Caucasus.

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1025 gmt 13 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             May 15, 2010 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Family in home attack terror

BYLINE: TOMDUFFY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 235 words


A MASKED gang attacked a Mersey family in their own home with a baseball bat,
crowbar and sledgehammer.

The ordeal began on Wednesday night when a 47-year-old woman opened her front
door in Cedar Avenue,Widnes, to be confronted by five masked men.

After forcing her back inside the house, the men went in and tied up her
16-year-old son in his bedroom. The gang then turned on the woman's 41-year-old
partner, beating him with the baseball bat, crowbar and sledgehammer.

He suffered a broken arm in the attack, as well as cuts and bruises, and remains
under observation in hospital.

The woman suffered bruising and swelling to her face and body.

The gang demanded money and fled with a quantity of cash.

The raiders all wore black, disguised their faces with balaclavas and some of
them wore latex gloves.

One of them spoke with a soft Irish accent. Police said the violent burglary had
left the family shocked and shaken.

A spokesman for Cheshire police said: "We are appealing for anyone who may have
any information which could identify the attackers to make contact.

"We want to speak to anyone who saw anything suspicious in the Cedar Avenue area
of Widnes prior to the attack at around 10.25pm on Wednesday or following the
attack as the offenders fled with the stolen money."

Contact DC Tina Jackson at Widnes CID on 0845 458 0000 or call Crimestoppers on
0800 555111.

email news@liverpool.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                        May 17, 2010 Monday 06:56 PM GMT

Al-Qaida militant 'planned World Cup terror attack'

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 93 words


An al-Qaida militant suspected of planning an attack targeting the World Cup in
South Africa next month has been detained by Iraqi security forces.

The militant was an officer in the Saudi army, Baghdad security services
spokesman Major General Qassim al-Moussawi said.

Abdullah Azam Saleh al-Qahtani is suspected of planning a "terrorist act" in
South Africa during the World Cup, beginning June 11, Gen al-Moussawi said.

He added that al-Qahtani entered Iraq in 2004 and is suspected of carrying out
several attacks in the capital and elsewhere in the country.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday

US embassy condemns northwest Pakistan terror attack

LENGTH: 90 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 18 May: The United States embassy in Pakistan condemned the terrorist
attack on Tuesday [18 May] in Dera Ismail Khan targeting Pakistan's brave law
enforcement personnel. A US embassy spokesman said such brutal acts demonstrate
the terrorists' agenda of fear and intimidation. "We extend our condolences to
the victims' families and friends and to the people of Pakistan."

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1131gmt
18 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

MY BROTHER'S SACRIFICE WAS NOT FORGOTTEN;
Medal for soldier killed in 1956 terror attack

BYLINE: Nick McCarthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 446 words


THE family of a teenage Birmingham soldier who was killed in Cyprus in 1956 and
was the focus of a Birmingham Mail campaign l have been awarded the Elizabeth
Cross.

Frederick John Downing was just 19 when he was shot dead by terrorists in a riot
during the Cyprus crisis.

The 19-year-old, from Nechells, was serving with the Royal Warwickshire Regiment
and was buried immediately after his death.

But his family were desperate to have his body returned to the UK and two
housewives who lived next door to Frederick's mom, Marion, started collecting
cash in the local neighbourhood.

Ivy Corfield and Nancy Ward contacted contacted the Birmingham Mail and it
launched a campaign, which raised more than pounds 300 in just one month to pay
for the expensive repatriation of Frederick's body.

Frederick was buried in Witton Cemetery in May 1956 and hundreds attended his
funeral.

Now his family have been awarded the medal, which is a new award recognising
soldiers who have died on operations or as a result of terrorism.

Frederick's surviving sister, Margaret Curtis, aged 69, now lives near Tamworth.
She collected the award with her brother, Christopher, at a special service in
Derbyshire with the families of eight soldiers who died at the hands of
terrorists in Palestine, Northern Ireland, Iraq and Afghanistan.

Christopher, who was just five years old when Frederick died, and is now 59, was
also handed a scroll signed by the Queen.

Margaret said: "I loved him to bits.

"At the time it cost pounds 150 to have his body repatriated back to Britain by
sea and we did not have that kind of money.

"So the Mail got the community and l all of the neighbours to club together to
get his body home.

"Without the help of the media we just would not have been able to do it.

"There were pensioners coming to the door and we even had one chap turn up with
a bundle of pounds 5 notes, which was a lot of money back then.

"It would have broken my heart if we could not have brought him back. A funeral
director in Gravelly Hill even said that if we got him back they would conduct
the burial for free.

"I miss him every day. There is not a day that goes by when I do not think about
him.

"It is a very proud day to get the Elizabeth Cross on his behalf. It's just nice
to have that recognition.

"I will wear it with pride. It's such a beautiful award.

"He was so popular, everybody loved him. Even now his friends visit his grave
side and we get people leaving notes who knew him."

Jayne Higgins, Margaret's 43-yearold daughter who also lives in Tamworth, said:
"I never had the chance to meet my uncle, but I am so pleased that he has been
honoured in this way."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Collection: The Mail covers the appeal l for cash to bring Frederick
home. Sister's pride: Curtis and her daughter Higgins with the medal and
Frederick John Downing. Picture: Tim Easthope

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2010 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday

Iraqis claim Saudi plotted World Cup terrorist attack

BYLINE: Muhanad Mohammed

LENGTH: 299 words



HIGHLIGHT: IRAQI security forces have arrested a Saudi al-Qaeda member, who they
claim was involved in a plot to attack next month's World Cup in South Africa.


Baghdad security spokesman Major-General Qassim al-Moussawi gave no details and
offered no evidence for the claim.

The detention of the Saudi national brings additional strain to already frosty
relations between Sunni-dominated Saudi Arabia and Shi'ite-led Iraq.

Maj-Gen Moussawi's allegation against the Saudi  comes after former Saudi
intelligence chief Prince Turki al-Faisal accused Iraq's prime minister of
hijacking the country's March election.

Maj-Gen Moussawi, who reports to the prime minister's office, said Abdullah
Azzam al-Qahtani was a former Saudi army lieutenant. "He was planning to bomb
the holy shrines in Najaf and Kerbala," he told a news conference in Baghdad
yesterday. "And he was planning a terrorist act in South Africa during the World
Cup based on plans issued by the central al-Qaeda terrorist organisation in
co-ordination with Osama bin Laden's first assistant, Ayman al-Zawahri."

In South Africa, police spokesman Colonel Vishnu Naidoo said the first that
police heard about the claims was in media reports out of Iraq. "The police will
investigate the allegations and we will check with the authorities that
apprehended the suspect," Col Naidoo said.

Maj-Gen Moussawi did not say why it took more than two weeks to announce
Qahtani's capture, but it came two days after the Saudi criticism of his boss.

According to reports,  in a speech on Saturday, Prince Turki al-Faisal
reproached Iraq's  prime minister, Nuri al-Maliki, warning of spiralling
violence as US troops prepare to leave before 2012. "Adding to the brutal mayhem
taking place there, we are watching a deliberate effort on the part of the
incumbent prime minister, Mr Maliki, to hijack the results of the elections and
deny the Iraqi people their legitimately elected government," he is quoted as
saying.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 19, 2010 Wednesday

Minister says role of Indians "suspected" in Mumbai terror attacks - agency

LENGTH: 460 words


Text of report published by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi: Home Minister of India P Chidambaram Tuesday said though there is no
absolute evidence about the role of Indians in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks
there is suspicion about the involvement of some locals.

"Apart from Fahim Ansari and Sahabudin, who were charged in that case, there is
no concrete evidence of any Indian or local person. However, there is a
suspicion because among the handlers was one person who used Hindi or Urdu,
which will only be known by somebody who lived in India," Chidambaram said in an
interview to CNN-IBN.

He said an appeal process was still open for prosecution in the case of Fahim
Ansari and Sahabudin, who were acquitted by the special trial court in Mumbai
for want of evidence.

"This is still the judgment of the trial court which has given them the benefit
of doubt. Now the prosecutor believes he has enough evidence against them but
the judge said may be but I am giving them the benefit of doubt," he said,
adding, "There is still an appeal process."

On the issue of convicts awaiting death sentence, the Home Minister said, "I
have re-examined four cases so far and have re-submitted to the President. I can
re-submit the fifth, sixth, seventh. No one, I am afraid, can or should comment
on what the President will do. Every convict on death row will be treated alike.
To be a convict on death row is a punishment worse than hanging."

Chidambaram said death sentence should remain in the statute book because the
debate whether death sentence is a deterrent or not is not a settled debate.

"The death sentence should be awarded only in rarest of the rare cases. I
totally subscribe to the judgment of the Supreme Court there. We can show mercy
only where mercy is deserved and not all cases deserve mercy," he said.

The Home Minister speaking on the caste census said Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh has assured to take the matter back to the Cabinet.

"I am going by the letter of the PM's statement. I am awaiting the Cabinet
decision," he said.

Chidambaram, when asked about the permission given to National Socialist Council
of Nagaland - Isak-Muivah leader Muivah to travel to Manipur, said, "We gave no
permission to anyone. The government did the right thing in telling Mr T
Muivah... yes we understand your desire to visit your village... we will try to
facilitate it in consultation with the Government of Manipur... We tell the
government of Manipur... please can you find a way whereas he can visit his
village."

"We are not able to bring a meeting point. Therefore, that is where it stands.
But hopefully, if not today, but someday in future we can find a way for him to
visit his village," he said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1317gmt 18 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 19, 2010 Wednesday

Thai official says protest leader "behind terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 198 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper The Nation website on 18 May

[Unattributed report: "Nuttawut accused"]

Reds leader Nuttawut Saikua has been behind the terrorist attacks in Bangkok,
Centre for the Resolution of Emergency Situation (CRES) spokesman Col Sansern
Kaewkamnerd said Tuesday.

"It is not possible that Nuttawut, a core leader of red shirts, does not know
about the ongoing attacks in Bangkok. Yet he has repeatedly denied his
involvement in the attacks," Sansern told reporters.

Sansern said Nuttawut is "a major terrorist leader".

PM's secretary general Korbsak Sabhavasu, a main negotiator, earlier said
Nuttawut had offered a ceasefire on the condition that the government withdrew
the troops and stopped firing at people.

Nuttawut told Korbsak that if the government agreed to meet his demands, he
would remove the red shirts protesters outside the Rajprasong rally site.

Korbsak said his statement clearly showed he is a core leader of the reds and
involved in the terrorist attacks in Bangkok.

Sansern told reporters that Korbsak's statement provided proof of his labelling
of Nuttawut as a major terrorist leader.

Source: The Nation website, Bangkok, in English 18 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 20, 2010 Thursday

Serbian minister labels attack on Kosovo Serb returnees "terrorism"

LENGTH: 305 words


Text of report in English by Serbian pro-western Belgrade-based Radio B92
website, on 20 May

BELGRADE, 20 May: Ministry for Kosovo State Secretary Oliver Ivanovic has
condemned last night's shooting incident near a Serb returnee camp in Kosovo.

Ivanovic described the shooting as an act of terrorism, and called on the EU
mission in the province, EULEX, "to act at last".

"This is a textbook act of terrorism and the very fact that it has repeated
twice, while there was no efficient action on the part of police, must worry
everyone. EULEX must get involved and start doing its job at last," he told
FoNet news agency in Belgrade on Thursday.

Ivanovic explained that EULEX stood back "expecting that local police can handle
it".

"I spoke to KFOR too. They too ought to start an investigation, because their
members were involved in the previous incident. Slovenian contingent soldiers
were in the tent when the shooting occurred," said he.

Ivanovic warned that the returnees in the village of Zac [Zhaq or Zallq in
Albanian], who now live in tents next to their destroyed homes, came under
attack late on Wednesday despite the fact that a Kosovo police, KPS, patrol was
deployed there 24 hours a day.

"One wonders how that's possible? If Kosovo police are not providing protection
and safety for Serbs, if they did not discover the perpetrators of the previous
attack, then it's quite justified to ask whether they have been, through their
inaction, protecting the assailants," Ivanovic was quoted as saying.

The state secretary added that with all the incidents, "there can certainly be
no return of Serbs to speak of", and once again rejected claims by ethnic
Albanians that war criminals were among those who earlier this year decided to
return to their homes in Zac.

Source: Radio B92 text website, Belgrade, in English 1026 gmt 20 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 20, 2010 Thursday

Turkish planes attack "terrorists" in northern Iraq

LENGTH: 75 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 20 May: Turkish Air Force's operation against terrorists in north of
Iraq ended on Thursday [20 May].

The Air Force performed the operation today after spotting a group of terrorists
approaching Turkish border.

Officials said that nearly 20 planes participated in the operation and hit
targets effectively.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1735 gmt 20 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                             May 22, 2010 Saturday

Town council has shelled out more than £700 for insurance against terrorist
attack

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 157  words


A town has decided to renew its insurance against terrorist attack, despite it
never being subject to any kind of threat.

The policy, taken out by North Hykeham Town Council for £105 a year, protects
public buildings against acts of violence aimed at overthrowing the Government.

North Hykeham appears to be the only council in the county to still be paying
for such protection from groups such as Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda organisation.

Despite never having made a claim using the policy, the decision was recently
taken by the town council to renew it.

Councillor John Marriott said: "Personally, I think this is sensible. You never
know what is around the corner."

However, Conservative councillor Ross Little felt the money was not being put to
good use.

He said: "North Hykeham doesn't strike me as a place that would be under threat
from terrorism.

"I live there and I have always perceived it to be very safe."

The town council refused to comment.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 90


                        Copyright 2010 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             May 22, 2010 Saturday

Separate inquests confirmed for the July 7 bombings;
Inquests into the deaths of the victims and instigators of the July 7 terrorist
attacks will not be held jointly.

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 100  words


The coroner, Lady Justice Hallett,  announced the format of the inquests at the
Royal Courts of Justice in London yesterday.

The inquests will investigate alleged failings by MI5.

The family of ringleader Mohammed Sidique Khan are from Beeston, Notts. He lived
in Beeston, Leeds.

One of the 52 victims of the bombings was 37-year-old  Adrian Johnson, of
Sutton-in-Ashfield, who was killed on a tube train as he travelled to work.

Lawyers for many of the bereaved families say the hearings should include a
broad-ranging investigation of whether the authorities could have prevented the
2005 London bombings.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2010 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 23, 2010 Sunday

Suspected organizer of terrorist attacks in Russia's Dagestan detained

LENGTH: 273 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Makhachkala, 23 May: Pakhrutdin Akhmedov, a resident of Dagestan suspected of
organizing terrorist attacks in the town of Kizlyar on 31 March which killed 10
police officers and two suicide bombers, has been detained in the republic's
Kizlyarskiy District.

A Lada car with a driver and two passengers inside was stopped the day before
[22 May] as operational and search measures were being taken in the village of
Zhdanovka in Kizlyarskiy District, a source in the press service of Dagestan's
Interior Ministry told Interfax on Sunday [23 May].

One of the passengers was Akhmedov, who had been put on the federal wanted list
as an organizer in the terrorist attacks in Kizlyar, the source said.

A gas pistol, remade for shooting with live ammunition, a home-made grenade,
several dozen rifle and pistol cartridges were found during the search of the
car and the passengers.

"Investigative measures are being carried out with those detained," the source
said.

On 31 March, two terrorist attacks took place in Kizlyar. The first explosion
occurred in Moskovskaya Ulitsa [street] as a traffic police patrol tried to stop
a Lada car for a check. The driver, who was a suicide bomber, detonated an
explosive device. Fifteen minutes later, after an investigative group and other
services arrived at the scene, another suicide bomber dressed in a police
uniform blew himself up in the crowd that had gathered there. Twelve people
including the two terrorists were killed and 37 others were wounded in those
terrorist attacks.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1209 gmt 23 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday

Afghanistan: Militant sentenced to death for launching terror attacks

LENGTH: 236 words


Text of report entitled "Famous terrorist leader was sentenced to death", by
state-owned Afghan newspaper Etefaq-e Eslam on 26 May

Mullah Isa, brother of Mullah Ramazan and a famous militant leader in Herat
Province, was pronounced death sentence by Herat court yesterday.

Mullah Isa was accused of launching terror attacks against the former security
commander of Enjil District Khaja Isa and also against the convoy of Water and
Energy Minister Mohammad Esmail Khan in Herat. Tens of civilians were killed and
injured in these the attacks. He is also accused of planning terror attacks and
implementing programmes of opposition bands.

In an official meeting, the public security court pronounced death sentence to
Mullah Isa yesterday. The meeting was chaired by Mawlawi Mohammad Rahim Karimi.
The attorneys discussed crimes committed by Mullah Isa.

Mawlawi Karimi said the accused person has the right to appeal against the
sentence. He added that based on article 5 and 15 of criminal law, the accused
person has been pronounced death sentence.

Mawlawi Ghawsoddin Ghuri, head of the public security court, said that Mullah
Isa's case has been investigated in several meetings and finally he received
death sentence at the recent court session.

Some time ago, Mullah Isa was arrested in Enjil District by counterterrorism
department personnel of Herat security command.

Source: Etefaq-e Eslam, Herat in Dari 26 May 10, p4

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 28, 2010 Friday

Thai army says "real possibility" of terror attacks after red shirt crackdown

LENGTH: 529 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 28 May

[Report by Wassana Nanuam from the "News" section: "Army Fears Outbreak of
Terrorism"]

CRES says it favours early end to curfew

The army is stepping up its surveillance in fear armed men allied to hard-core
protesters could launch terror attacks in Bangkok and other provinces in revenge
for the May 19 crackdown, an army source says.

Intelligence reports and an assessment of the situation in the wake of the rally
have concluded there is a real possibility of violent retaliation by groups who
fled the protest site at Ratchaprasong intersection after the military
operation, the source said yesterday.

The revenge could be in the form of car and motorcycle bombs, taking the lives
of soldiers and government figures, and arson attacks at locations which are
symbols of the government and armed forces. They could take place in the capital
or the provinces.

Some red shirt politicians who have connections in the three southern border
provinces could hire insurgents from the lower South to launch attacks in
Bangkok, the source said.

The concerns have prompted intelligence authorities to monitor the movements of
suspected insurgents, especially those who are already in Bangkok.

One incident which led the army to fear possible terror attacks was a car bomb
at the Poseidon massage parlour car park on Ratchadaphisek Road in Bangkok on
April 4, the source said.

While the army is preparing for the possibility of violence, the Centre for the
Resolution of the Emergency Situation favours ending the curfew in Bangkok and
other provinces tomorrow.

The government will decide today whether to extend the curfew.

Security agencies held talks yesterday to evaluate the situation, consulting
with army leaders in other regions and provincial governors.

Many were of the view that the situation in the wake of the red shirt rally was
improving and the curfew therefore should be lifted, CRES spokesman Sansern
Kaewkamnerd said.

But the armed forces needed to be deployed in some key places, while security
duty in other areas of the capital should be returned to police if they were
ready to take over, Col Sansern said.

Bangkok and 23 other provinces are under curfew from midnight tonight to 4am
tomorrow.

Defence Minister Prawit Wongsuwon said earlier that although the curfew might
end, the state of emergency law was still necessary to allow security
authorities to arrest so-called terrorists.

"What can be lifted is the curfew but the executive decree will continue," Gen
Prawit said after meeting the Defence Council yesterday which was attended by
all armed forces leaders.

Defence Ministry spokesman Thanathip Sawangsaeng said Gen Prawit had ordered
soldiers to secure their units and local government offices and to stay alert
despite the end of the riots.

The minister ordered continuous surveillance and protection at arsenals and fuel
yards of the armed forces, he said.

Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva has plans to reconcile the country's political
divisions but he has vowed there would be no compromise with terrorists, the
defence minister said.

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 28 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 28, 2010 Friday

Suspected "terrorist" involved in Pakistan's Lahore attacks arrested

LENGTH: 74 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Lahore, 28 May: The police have arrested a suspected terrorist involved in
attacking a mosque of minority group (Qadianis) [Ahmadiyya] at Garhi Shahu.

The police have started initial investigation of the arrested 25 years old
terrorist, the police sources said here on Friday [28 May].

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1341gmt
28 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 28, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Obama changes focus to end the Bush war on terror;
Cyber attacks and climate change are added to danger list, write Catherine Philp
and Michael Evans

BYLINE: Catherine Philp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 607 words


President Obama highlighted the danger posed by home-grown terrorism in his
first national security strategy, a sweeping repudiation of the Bush doctrine of
pre-emptive military action.

The "Obama doctrine" released yesterday departs from past practice, laying out
an agenda of global engagement but also the threats of cyberterrorism, economic
collapse and climate change. It seeks to rewrite the confrontational narrative
of the Bush years, arguing against a narrow focus on battling "Islamofascism" or
terrorism.

The warnings on home-grown terrorism, weeks after the failed Times Square
bombing, reflect the White House's revised thinking on the relationship between
threats from home and abroad.

Faisal Shahzad, the alleged failed bomber, was a naturalised American citizen
who allegedly received his paramilitary training from al-Qaeda in his homeland,
Pakistan.

"We are now moving beyond traditional distinctions between homeland and national
security," Mr Obama wrote. "This includes a determination to prevent terrorist
attacks against the American people by co-ordinating the actions that we take
abroad with the actions that we take at home."

While acknowledging the global threat from terrorists, General James Jones, the
National Security Adviser, said that the Obama Administration was not engaged in
a war on terror - the phrase adopted by President George W Bush - but was
focusing its main efforts on challenging al-Qaeda.

That threat was underlined in Dallas this week when a Jordanian illegal
immigrant pleaded guilty to attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction to
bomb a skyscraper. David Kris, the Assistant Attorney-General for National
Security, said that the case "underscored the continuing threat we face from
lone actors who, although not members of any international terrorist
organisation, are willing to carry out acts of violence".

Washington's efforts to counter domestic radicalism have been scattershot to
date, with no national strategy and no single agency in the fractured security
and intelligence bureaucracy dedicated to the home-grown threat.

Resistance to a government role in combating radicalisation springs in part from
painful memories of official abuses in the McCarthy era of anticommunist
witch-hunts.

The National Security Strategy, a requirement for any incoming president, lays
out broad goals and priorities for keeping America safe with far-reaching
implications for defence and security spending and strategy. George W. Bush
issued two, the first of which in 2002 was used to codify the "Bush doctrine"
enshrining the belief in America's right to strike first at enemies abroad.

In contrast, Mr Obama laid out how he aims to eliminate the need for America to
act alone through the strengthening of global institutions and partnerships with
international players such as Russia and China - an approach likely to draw
criticism from those who say his multilateral, pro-engagement approach has done
little to neutralise threats from Iran and North Korea.

John Brennan, Mr Obama's counterterrorism adviser, who previewed the strategy
with a speech on Wednesday, made it clear there would be no let-up in the fight
against al-Qaeda although he dismissed the last Administration's narrow focus on
the War on Terror.

"Our enemy is not terrorism because terrorism is but a tactic," he said.

The release was overshadowed, however, by the departure of the White House's
sacked national intelligence adviser, Dennis Blair- despite a plea from
President Obama for him to delay his departure for three months to give him time
to find a successor.

'Our enemy is not terrorism because terrorism is but a tactic'

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Bush doctrine laid out by the former President enshrined the belief
in America's right to strike first at enemies abroad
STEPHEN JAFFE / AFP / GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday

Pakistan: Lahore terror attack kills 82, PM orders high-level inquiry

LENGTH: 1488 words


Text of report by Karachi-based private Pakistani channel Geo TV website on 29
May

Lahore: Eighty-two people were killed and over 120 others injured when armed men
launched simultaneous attacks on worship places of Ahmedis in Garhi Shahu and
Model Town areas here on Friday.

The assailants made the worshippers hostages after making their way to both the
worship places, hurling hand grenades and spraying volleys of bullets.

In Model Town, the people fought with the terrorists and overpowered them after
the two terrorists had killed many worshippers. However, in Garhi Shahu, many
people were rescued after the police launched an operation.

Among the dead were former sessions judge Ameer Ahmad Sheikh, also the Ameer of
the Ahmedis Lahore Chapter, Ejazul Haq, a reporter of a private TV channel, and
Major General (retd) Nasir Ahmad.

SP Qila Gujjar Singh Lines Babar Bukht Qureshi said both the worship places were
packed for the Friday prayers. In the first incident, seven gunmen made the
worshippers hostage in the heavily built-up Garhi Shahu building at 1:40 pm,
eyewitnesses said.

The assailants wearing explosive vests and carrying arms and ammunition hurled
three grenades after an interval of 10 minutes and took positions at different
points. Gunfire and explosions continued for a long time at the worship place.
The attackers hurled the fourth grenade at 2:09 pm, the fifth one at 2:23 pm,
the sixth at 2:40 pm and the next three after an interval of two minutes each.

One attacker was atop a minaret, firing with an assault rifle and throwing
grenades as the police were engaged in a fierce gunbattle with the armed men
below.At least, 500-600 worshippers, including children, were trapped in the
building. Around 10 cars parked outside the building were damaged.

The attackers again started firing at 2:30 pm. Jawans of the Elite Force
launched the operation. A police team, led by SP Babar Bukht Qureshi, managed to
break open the back door of the building and rescued the trapped worshippers.
Three attackers apparently blew themselves up while no details were available
about the other attackers, a police officer said.

The attackers also fired shots and hurled a hand grenade at the mosque of
Ahl-e-Hadees, adjacent to the City Law College. Indiscriminate firing by the
assailants smashed the windowpanes of nearby buildings.

A police official said there were only two attackers inside who eventually blew
themselves up. Police recovered two damaged AK-47 rifles and four hand grenades
from them, he added. People gathered outside the building raised slogans of
Allah-ho-Akbar when police launched the operation. Two armoured vehicles were
arranged to rescue the hostages.

ASP Civil Lines Maroof was wounded. He got an injury on his leg when his gun
went off accidentally. SP Cantt Haider Ashraf and his gunman also received minor
injuries in firing by terrorists.

Many could sense the frustration of SP VVIP Captain (retd) Romeel Akram, who
stood in the corner of the building, puffing away at cigarettes, not being able
to hunt down the attackers. The police placed barbed wires and barricades to
keep the people away from the spot. But people, including women and children,
assembled near the building to watch the rescue operation. Many families
witnessed the police operation from the rooftop of their buildings.

Families of the worshippers rushed to the site to inquire about their children
studying in the City Law College. Agony painted on the face of a woman running
barefoot alongside the road depressed many, as she did not find her son in the
stampede. The locals said security was not sufficient on Friday as compared to
the past.

A group of armed policemen created panic among the already terrified people by
opening indiscriminate firing in the air as a mark of jubilation. Later, they
raised slogans of Allah-o-Akbar and dispersed.

A dozen ambulances took the dead and injured to hospitals. The process of
shifting the dead and injured to the hospitals continued till 7:30 pm.

Jaffar, a Class VIII student, who was rescued by the police from the building,
said two gunmen on the rooftop and one on a minaret were firing at the
worshippers. The boy's father, Farid, had also been trapped inside Baitul Noor
in Model Town.

As gunfire rattled around him, Jaffar made a call to his mother by cell-phone,
telling her he was hiding in a room adjacent to the building. All people are
trying to save their lives, he told his mother.

A middle-aged man said he was too scared to leave, even after the firing had
stopped. I just pretended dead and kept lying among the dead in a pool of blood,
he recalled.

A man rescued by the police said he went upstairs and found a room where he hid
under a table. I was too afraid to leave, even after the firing had stopped, he
maintained.

Aqeel Ahmad, a UET student, who hailed from DG Khan, said he had been visiting
the said building for the last three years for worship. He was worried as his
two friends were trapped in the building.

In the second attack, two men wearing explosive vests reached Baitul Noor at
87-C Model Town at around 1:41 pm on a bike and shot dead two guards, one
performing duty 20 yards away from the building, and the other on the main
entrance.

Later, they parked their bike in which a time device was planted near a picket,
set up by the administration of the building and rushed inside the three-storey
building. The two opened indiscriminate fire at the worshippers present inside
the building and hurled two hand grenades at the people, as a result of which
dozens of people, including children, sustained severe wounds.

One attacker stayed in the main hall while the other rushed to the other hall.
Meanwhile, one of the two assailants was overpowered by some worshippers, who
snatched his gun before he could blow himself up. We grabbed his arms so that he
could not pull the pin of explosive vest he had worn, said a youth, who declined
to be named.

The worshippers gave a good thrashing to him and the men on security fired shots
at him and, as a result, he received around nine wounds in both legs.

He tried to fire shots from his AK-47 rifle, but fortunately the bullet stuck in
the chamber and we managed to grab his arms to stop him from making another
move, Rizwan said and added the jackets they had snatched from the assailants
contained around 2-kg of explosive. The explosive in the jackets containing
ball-bearings was attached with a detonator.

The other attacker, who was in the second hall, could not timely reach the spot
to save his accomplice. The worshippers encircled him when he was reloading his
weapon.

Physical brawl between the attackers and the worshippers was going on when the
area echoed with the sounds of a huge explosion. The time device planted in the
bike parked a few yards away from the building exploded with a big bang. As a
result, a cameramen and a reporter received injuries. A car and a bike were
partially damaged. A DSNG of a private channel was attacked by a bike rider, who
fired at least seven shots at the vehicle. Luckily all travelling in the vehicle
escaped unhurt. Both the attackers, one of whom was identified as Mohammad, were
handed over to the police. They were aged 16-18 and were clad in Shalwar Kameez.
One had trimmed his beard while the other had a long beard, the building inmates
said.

The injured attacker was shifted to the Jinnah Hospital under tight security,
while the other was removed to an undisclosed location for questioning.

Inspector General Police Tariq Saleem Dogar, along with heavy contingent of
police, reached the spot. An eyewitness, Farid, an engineer by profession, said
the attackers had started firing indiscriminately. People were running, trying
to find a place to hide, he added.

Another eyewitness said the terrorists had a beard and were clad in Shalwar
Kameez and looked like from the tribal area.

Many eyewitnesses said the police reached the site when they had already
captured the attackers.

The Bomb Disposal Squad defused almost 18 hand grenades and four detonators,
besides collecting the remains of the explosive devices for forensic
examination.

A violent mob attempted to snatch official weapons from DSP Model Town Nasar
Bajwa. The locals of the area expressed concern over the string of militant
attacks and condemned the government for not taking concrete measures to protect
the lives of innocent citizens.

Agencies add: Lahore Commissioner Khusro Pervez has claimed the Indian
intelligence agency, RAW, had been backing terror elements to sabotage peace in
Pakistan. He said terrorists in Model Town and Garhi Shahu used AK-47 rifles,
Russian-made hand grenades and suicide jackets.

President Asif Ali Zardari, Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani and Punjab Chief
Minister Shahbaz Sharif have ordered an inquiry into the deadly incident in
Lahore. They have condemned the incidents in strongest terms.

Source: Geo News TV website, Karachi, in English 29 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday

India strongly condemns Lahore terror attacks - agency

LENGTH: 113 words


Text of report published by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi: India Friday strongly condemned the terror attacks in Lahore in which
scores of people were

killed and injured.

"Government strongly condemns the terrorist attacks in Lahore that claimed the
lives of scores of innocent people and injured many more," External Affairs
Ministry said in a statement.

"Our condolences go out to the families of those killed by these acts of
terrorism," it said.

Heavily-armed terrorists stormed two mosques in Lahore packed with Friday
worshippers from minority Ahmadi sect, killing at least 70 people and injuring
several others.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1600gmt 28 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

MOSQUE MASSACRE;
70 DIE, 2,000 HELD HOSTAGE IN PAKISTAN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: ADRIAN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 200 words


A COMMANDO urgently carries a bloodied victim to safety after terrorists
slaughtered worshippers in two packed mosques yesterday.

At least 70 were killed and up to 2,000 held hostage when gunmen with
handgrenades launched the attacks in Pakistan. One group took control of a
mosque in the Garhi Shahu area of Lahore.

At a second, in the Model Town suburb of the city, about 20 worshippers were
shot dead before the attackers fought a gun battle with police then fled.

Student Fateh Sharif, 19, said: "The prayer leader was giving a sermon when we
heard firing and blasts. Everybody stood up and then two gunmen barged into the
mosque and sprayed bullets."

Irfan Chudhary witnessed the Garhi Shahu attack and said: "I heard a loud
explosion then saw people running everywhere. I also saw a terrorist on the
mosque's minaret firing indiscriminately at people on the ground.

"He must have seen me because he started firing at me. Then he threw a grenade
at me."

Punjab's chief minister, Shahbaz Sharif, called the violence barbaric. Officials
have blamed the Pakistan Taliban for the atrocity.

The victims were Ahmadi Muslims, who are discriminated against for believing
Mohammed wasn't the last Islamic prophet.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRIMED Commandos set to close in ATROCITY Cops under fire DASH TO
SAFETY Soldier with gun victim yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 30, 2010 Sunday

Paper details terrorists' plan to attack World Cup

LENGTH: 1072 words


Text of report by privately-owned, widely-read South African weekly The Sunday
Times website on 30 May

South African intelligence services have been accused of being slow to react to
warnings of terror threats to the 2010 World Cup.

This week, the US Congress counter-terror caucus was briefed on threats to the
tournament.

This corroborates what local intelligence sources have told the Sunday Times.

Ronald Sandee, director of the NEFA Foundation, warned the US Congress that:

o Pakistani and Somali militants are running terror training camps in northern
Mozambique;

o Trainees from these camps may have crossed into South Africa to join or form
cells planning World Cup attacks;

o Surveillance and strike teams planning attacks are well established in South
Africa. Terror groups involved include al-Qaeda and their Somalian allies,
al-Shahaab; and

o Simultaneous and random attacks are being planned during the World Cup.

Furious efforts are under way to recover lost ground, but some warn these may be
too little, too late.

On Wednesday, the National Joint Operational Centre was activated at an
undisclosed military base in Pretoria. It is coordinating the deployment of all
South African security and intelligence structures to ensure a safe World Cup,
including 24-hour protection of teams and officials.

According to two insiders, a watch-list of 40 terror suspects has been drawn up.

The Sunday Times has also received two separate accounts of at least one arrest
linked to World Cup threats.

Police have neither confirmed nor denied the arrest or watch-list.

Intelligence chiefs contacted, including secret service and crime intelligence
bosses Moe Shaik and Mark Hankel, declined to be interviewed. "If you comment
too much about intelligence, you undermine it," said Hankel.

This month, a Saudi army colonel was arrested in Iraq for allegedly plotting
with al-Qaeda to attack the World Cup, but, on Wednesday, Fifa secretary-general
Jerome Valcke said an Interpol investigation had exposed the plot as a hoax. The
day before, al-Qaeda posted a Web notice denying any involvement in the alleged
plot.

But several intelligence sources -as well as briefing papers seen by the Sunday
Times -and extensive interviews with security experts and counter-terror
analysts suggest that local authorities may be instilling "a false sense of
security", as one analyst put it.

The existence of operational militant training camps in several provinces in
South Africa, and of established terror strike cells planning to target the
World Cup, was confirmed independently by three sources with direct or indirect
access to active intelligence operations.

Two sources separately confirmed the Mozambique camps and presence of both
al-Qaeda and al-Shabaab operatives.

One conceded: "It's impossible to tell. It's simply unknown if capabilities for
large-scale, orchestrated attacks exist."

But all agreed that concrete plans for attempted attacks exist. "There is no
doubt about that."

Sandee is more forthright. He told the US congress that numerous references were
made to World Cup attacks in closed-frequency radio broadcasts and telephone
intercepts this month in Mauritania, Algeria, Mali, Pakistan and Yemen.

"Information confirms that several venues will be targeted, some simultaneously,
others at random. Reference is also made to the possibility of a kamikaze-type
attack."

NEFA bills itself as an apolitical, non-partisan institute whose researchers
include investigative journalists, academics and former intelligence analysts
who have worked for the FBI and US Defence Department. Sandee worked as a senior
analyst for the Dutch Ministry of Defence's counter-intelligence section.

He said an al-Qaeda spokesman also warned in a communication intercepted in
mid-April that "the South African people should get away, not only from the
contest between the US and Britain, but also from those who mocked the prophet
Muhammad -Denmark and the Netherlands".

His briefing notes, seen by the Sunday Times, contained details of three
training camps in Nampula and Tete provinces in Mozambique run by Somalis,
Pakistanis, Indians and Bangladeshis.

He identifies a Pakistani national suspected of running an al-Qaeda coordinating
cell that instructs trainees when to move across the border, using a seafood
restaurant in South Africa as a front.

Sandee told the Sunday Times on Friday the information he had presented was
derived from several intelligence agency sources, as well as NEFA's own
informants on the ground. "I believe there is an 80 per cent chance of an
attack," he concluded.

He agrees with several analysts who believe that until recently South African
intelligence bosses were in denial about the level of threat posed to the World
Cup.

"Since late last week, there seems to be a change within the leadership of (SA
intelligence services)," says Sandee. "But I am afraid that it is too late. How
many terror cells can you pick up now, even if you work 25 hours a day?"

Intelligence operatives close to the investigation confirmed that the government
started taking threats seriously only earlier this year, after an ad-hoc task
team comprising dormant counter-terror experts, military and police intelligence
officers and National Intelligence Agency operatives provided briefings on
active terror cells.

These cells involved Somalians, granted refugee status, suspected of belonging
to al-Shahaab, which the US has confirmed is funded by al-Qaeda.

But mid and lower-ranking operatives complain that their tip-offs and warnings
are either being ignored or not being relayed to the top brass.

A source with links to police and crime intelligence said: "All leads by
operatives and across agencies, SA and foreign, should be followed vigorously,
if only to send the right message, along with much stronger visible security
measures. None of this is happening right now, which makes the World Cup more
vulnerable than it should be."

This view is supported by academics and terror analysts. "We will be excellent
at reaction, but counter-intelligence is their Achilles' heal, because there are
too many political appointees," says former naval officer and senior researcher
at the SA Institute for International Affairs Frank van Rooyen.

"We are definitely vulnerable to suicide bombers and car bombs. All the signs
are there that al-Qaeda is planning one of these attacks on the World Cup."

Source: Sunday Times website, Johannesburg, in English 30 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Londonderry Sentinel

                              May 30, 2010 Sunday

Terror attack on police station

LENGTH: 209 words



HIGHLIGHT: DISSIDENT republican terrorists have launched an attack on a
Londonderry police station.


Rwere evacuated from their homes after an explosion outside Strand Road police
station.

There were no reports of injuries in the incident outside Strand Road station at
12.15am early on Saturday morning.

The attack has been widely condemned.

Police said army technical officers were examining a car on Queen Street
reported to be on fire shortly after the explosion was heard.

Brian Rea, acting chairman of the Northern Ireland Policing Board,said
afterwards:

"This latest attack on a police station has caused inconvenience and stress to
those residents who had to be evacuated from their homes in the early hours of
this morning.

"Thankfully there were no injuries to members of the public or police officers
and I would urge anyone with information to pass it on to the police."

Elderly people from a nearby housing fold were among the evacuees.

Londonderry SDLP councillor Helen Quigley said:

"Yet again undue distress has been inflicted upon our elderly people as they
have been forced to leave their homes in the middle of the night due to another
terrorist attack in Derry."

Earlier in the month, when terrorists tried to disrupt the general election
count at Templemore sports complex, elderly people in sheltered accommodation
had to be moved from their homes.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LOND


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                  May 30, 2010

Observer Magazine: First person: MY 15 MINUTES OF FAME: What happens to the
people who unwittingly find themselves at the centre of a media scrum? From the
blogger who inspired a "web hate frenzy" to the Glasgow baggage handler who
thwarted a terrorist attack, five people talk about fleeting fame and what
happens when the spotlight is turned off: MICHELLE DEWBERRY

BYLINE: Eva Wiseman

SECTION: OBSERVER MAGAZINE PAGES; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 719 words


Michelle (right, in Piccadilly, London) won The Apprentice in 2006. She became a
fixture in the tabloids after she discussed growing up in care and the violent
death of her sister, as well as revealing her relationship with fellow
contestant Syed Ahmed

If you want a job, you go to the appointments section of a newspaper, but what I
wanted was an experience. The media attention following The Apprentice took
everyone by surprise, so there was no thought of preparing us for it. When you
go on a reality TV show today, contestants expect a certain level of intrusion,
but I really had no idea it would be like this. I was quite naive, but I can't
complain. It opens doors - I can get business meetings with whoever I want, and
I wrote my book, Anything is Possible, which I'd always wanted to do.

I found it difficult at first. Once, a journalist asked me a question I didn't
want to answer, and I said: "Is that really your business?" And he replied: "I
think you'll find it's the nation's business." When I reflect on it, I think he
was probably right. I don't think celebrities should be able to say they can
only be photographed when they're promoting their perfume line. You become a
brand. You can't put yourself on a public platform and then try to keep things
private. It's impossible.

Syed was a fellow contestant, so when I had a relationship with him and then
lost his baby, people saw it as a natural extension of the story they'd seen
unfolding on telly. I had days where the media intrusion was very upsetting. It
didn't make me angry, but it made me quite scared, and having to go through
these traumatic things in public increased the feelings 10-millionfold. I used
to have days where I didn't want to get out of bed, let alone read what the
papers were saying about me.

The most difficult thing for me in all of this was that people I felt close to
betrayed me, selling stories. Someone told the papers about my miscarriage. It
broke my heart. I never found out who it was, but I became suspicious, which led
to frictions in my relationships. I was feeling emotional, but didn't know who I
could confide in, and for a long period I couldn't trust people. I still
question why people want to be my friend. While I have lost friendships though,
the remaining ones have become stronger as a result.

When my sister passed away just after my 17th birthday, I made a commitment to
her memory that I'd live a life that was enough for two, to do things that were
extraordinary. The baby and the show are intrinsically linked for me, and as a
whole the experience ticks the extraordinary box. It's made me more balanced,
certainly. Before the show I was a crazy powerhouse. The baby made me reflect on
what's important. Now I'd choose happiness over riches, which sounds so obvious,
but it was the opposite of my earlier mentality.

I worked for Sir Alan for four months after the show, but the great thing to
come out of it is that I now get paid to inspire people, which is unbelievable.
I've developed a programme for schools, teaching self-empowerment. It sounds
dead cheesy, but the feeling I get from that is bloody brilliant. It's not about
blagging free nail varnish, it's about putting my profile to good use. And on a
business level I've built an amazing network of people who support and advise
me, and I feel really blessed by that.

This morning, crossing the road, I narrowly avoided being hit by a bus, but the
chap next to me was knocked down. It was awful. But it made me think about how
I'd like to be remembered. I'd like someone to go to my family and say I'd
helped them. Let's face it: in my life I've experienced domestic violence, my
sister dying, my mum having brain surgery, I've lived in social care, I've
dropped out of school, been in abusive relationships - and I think: if I can get
over that then anyone can. When things were written about my family and personal
life,

I eventually came to the realisation that it must have helped people who
identified with my situation - that's my life, and I'm not ashamed of it.

The Apprentice was part of the pact I made for my sister. So when there were
tragedies, like losing my baby, I had to keep going, in the spotlight. I
wouldn't wish that on my worst enemy but there was a point to it, a reason.
Life's too short to be angry. EVA WISEMAN


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                  May 30, 2010

Observer Magazine: First person: MY 15 MINUTES OF FAME: What happens to the
people who unwittingly find themselves at the centre of a media scrum? From the
blogger who inspired a "web hate frenzy" to the Glasgow baggage handler who
thwarted a terrorist attack, five people talk about fleeting fame and what
happens when the spotlight is turned off: CAI YUAN AND JIAN JUN (JJ) XI

BYLINE: Shahesta Shaitly

SECTION: OBSERVER MAGAZINE PAGES; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 479 words


Chinese artists Cai Yuan (left) and Jian Jun Xi gained fame and notoriety in
1999 after jumping on Tracey Emin's Turner

Prize-shortlisted My Bed at Tate Britain in London. One year later, they
returned to perform a further work - urinating on Marcel Duchamp's urinal
sculpture. They continue to collaborate, and are based in Oxford and China. Cai
Yuan recalls what happened

It was pretty much a snap decision for us - we had only planned it two days
before. JJ and I had two motivations: we wanted to produce a work of art and we
wanted to publicly criticise the art establishment. It was our manifesto piece.

I remember the police arriving. They took us to Belgravia Police Station where
we were questioned and checked over by doctors, as the security guards at the
Tate had been somewhat heavy-handed with us, and we were told that we might be
charged with criminal damage. The White Cube gallery [Emin's dealer] and the
Tate were contacted, and when they decided not to press charges we were
released. I didn't feel relief when we were released - I felt nothing. Relief
had come to me earlier, when we were performing our piece on the bed.

The media attention worked in our favour. We were approached by several
galleries to show our work. We were also invited to give lectures at art schools
such as Goldsmiths. Tate Modern - which initially banned us - invited us back to
show our work and to give talks in 2007 and 2009. Our act gave us a name and
credibility. Our work wasn't simply a reaction to Tracey's piece - what we did
represented the struggle of a Chinese artist living in Britain.

My life was totally changed by the experience. It changed my way of thinking and
my practice as an artist. It freed me from my thoughts on the art establishment
and from material culture. As an art student you are taught that becoming a
great artist will enable you to sell your work in a gallery. In reality it's not
true. The experience also gave me a bigger imagination - now I feel the world is
my stage. I don't have to worry about whether a museum or a gallery will show my
work. I'm currently performing my One Man Demo - 100 days of performance at
various locations in Oxford - and it's going very well.

We never heard from Tracey, but I read her reactions in the newspapers and
interviews. I think she regarded us as terrorists. It made me laugh - I thought
her anger revealed more about her somewhat limited understanding of art than
anything else.

I am very, very happy with what we did. And I believe it is our best work to
date, but there is always more to come. The only thing I'm unhappy about is that
our act was not recognised as a piece of art in itself by the public. To me, art
is not about money - I don't just want to create objects that sell. Art is a
tool to make political statements - in many ways it's almost shameful to ask for
money in return. SHAHESTA SHAITLY


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                  May 30, 2010

Observer Magazine: First person: MY 15 MINUTES OF FAME: What happens to the
people who unwittingly find themselves at the centre of a media scrum? From the
blogger who inspired a "web hate frenzy" to the Glasgow baggage handler who
thwarted a terrorist attack, five people talk about fleeting fame and what
happens when the spotlight is turned off: JOHN SMEATON

BYLINE: Alice Fisher

SECTION: OBSERVER MAGAZINE PAGES; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 500 words


Baggage handler John Smeaton (above, at home in Glasgow), became an
international hero when he helped thwart the terrorist attack on Glasgow Airport
in June 2007. His much repeated quote, "Don't come to Glasgow - we'll set aboot
you" became an internet phenomenon and that year the accolades he received
included the Queen's Gallantry Medal and being voted third most eligible male in
Scotland

Dealing with the media was one of the scariest things that ever happened to me.
I said my piece after the attack and thought that would be the end of it. I
couldn't believe what happened - I was on front pages around the world.

There are some things I'll always hold dearly from that time. I've been a
Rangers fan since I was knee-high to a grasshopper and the team asked if they
could introduce me to the supporters, so I lived that dream of walking out at
Ibrox Park and having the whole place shout my name. I also met Gordon Brown and
that made a massive impression on me.

I worked at the airport for six months after the attack and that kept my feet on
the ground. The first day back my mate said: "All right, get your backside over
there and lift some bags." I knew my place.

In September 2007 I was invited to New York to the 9/11 ceremony, and that
opened my eyes to the world. I met the most inspirational men in my life, and I
met my wife, Christy. All the firefighters who'd been lost, 343 in one day: that
humbled me. That is unimaginable. While

I was there I also went to a Scottish American Society function. Christy walked
in that night in a Scotland top and it was love at first sight for me. I'm 33
now, I'd never even been on holiday during my 20s, and going to America was like
walking on to a movie set. I realised that life's not just going down the pub
and having a fag. I wanted to try other things.

I went back to college in 2008 so I could further myself. I studied for a
national certificate in fishery studies and absolutely loved it - fish farming
is my passion in life. One morning while I was there I woke up and I didn't feel
great. I'm asthmatic and I was a heavy smoker and my chest felt tight, so I
drove home to Erskine to be with my mum and dad. That evening I couldn't
breathe. I asked my mum to call an ambulance. The ambulance was there in eight
minutes, and they got me to hospital and into intensive care and on to a
ventilator. But I kept getting worse: one lung collapsed and my kidneys were
failing. They managed to stabilise me and I woke from a coma 12 days later. It
made me realise I'm lucky to be on the planet, and I keep that with me every
day.

I did a show at the Edinburgh Festival in 2009 and I also stood as an
independent candidate in the Glasgow North East by-election. It didn't come off,
but I learnt an awful lot from it. I felt if you want to comment on things, if
you talk the talk, you should walk the walk. But I realised

I was good at talking and not good at walking. If I want to have my say I've got
my column in the Scottish Sun for that. ALICE FISHER


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                  May 30, 2010

Observer Magazine: First person: MY 15 MINUTES OF FAME: What happens to the
people who unwittingly find themselves at the centre of a media scrum? From the
blogger who inspired a "web hate frenzy" to the Glasgow baggage handler who
thwarted a terrorist attack, five people talk about fleeting fame and what
happens when the spotlight is turned off: MAX GOGARTY

BYLINE: MAX GOGARTY

SECTION: OBSERVER MAGAZINE PAGES; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 488 words


Max (pictured above, at home in London) became the subject of cyber-bullying in
2008 following his debut blog about a gap-year trip to India. Gogarty was
pilloried in the comments section, and the blog went viral, becoming a global
media event in its own right. Here, he gives his side of the story

In Valentine's Day 2008, aged 19, I set off to travel India on my own. As we
refuelled at Dubai airport, I turned my mobile on, and it didn't stop beeping
and buzzing throughout the entire two-hour stopover. A friend recently gave me
an A-board newsagent sign that reads GAP YEAR BLOGGER SPARKS WEB HATE FRENZY. It
sums up what happened perfectly.

I had written a blog for The Guardian travel website. In the space of 24 hours
it became one of the most controversial and highest-hit blogs in the history of
e-journalism. I was 19, a junior writer on Skins, and had written a "Skinsy"
piece on the wrong platform. Admittedly it was cocky and provocative, not a
piece of writing I was proud of, but getting round the cliche of a middle-class
kid heading to India on his gap year was never going to be easy. Someone had
discovered that my dad had contributed travel features to The Guardian, sparking
accusations of

nepotism, even inciting one person to put my name next to Kim Jong-il under the
"nepotism" pages of Wikipedia.

The internet warriors no doubt claimed victory when my second blog didn't appear
the following week. The Guardian was in fact keen for me to continue, and other
offers of work flooded in. As soon as I realised the extent of the hate,
however, I decided nothing good could come from keeping it going, so I bowed
out, tail firmly between legs.

It took three months' travelling to replace the relentless belly-fear that was
the legacy of my blog. There was a part of me that wanted to answer all those
critics. I would go on lengthy rants in my journal about how I did not go to
private school, how I was not wearing skinny bloody jeans in India, how I was
not getting the trip paid for by The Guardian or my parents. But I realised none
of these answers mattered. The mob had written the "Max Gogarty" script and it
had already aired.

Fortunately, I was falling in love with India. Meeting so many people who gave
me so much and had so little started clearing my head. The fact that something I
spent an hour or so writing had caused such a controversy alerted me to the
darker traits in web culture.

On my return to the UK I won a Bafta for my writing on Skins. The Bafta feting
was as absurd as the blog carnage, and somewhere in between I had to find a real
perspective on myself. I wasn't the greatest writer in the world, but neither
was I the worst.

Since the blog, I've gone to university, written a couple of short films and
worked for some production companies. Perhaps the whole thing has stunted my
career, made me less proactive and willing to put myself out there. But I hope
it's made me a stronger person.


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                  May 30, 2010

Observer Magazine: First person: MY 15 MINUTES OF FAME: What happens to the
people who unwittingly find themselves at the centre of a media scrum? From the
blogger who inspired a "web hate frenzy" to the Glasgow baggage handler who
thwarted a terrorist attack, five people talk about fleeting fame and what
happens when the spotlight is turned off: ANDREW CAREY

BYLINE: Alice Fisher

SECTION: OBSERVER MAGAZINE PAGES; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 455 words


Andrew (above, in his north London pub) became a regular on

Chris Evans's Channel 4 talk show TFI Friday, appearing as Andrew the Barman in
every episode from 1996-2000. He was also the landlord of Evans's local, the
Haverstock Arms, in Belsize Park

The Havers is a famous pub in a famous area and famous

people used to come in. I always find out who they are, what they are and if
they live locally. Chris had an effect on the pub from the days when he was a
radio presenter on GLR. He used to finish his show at 1pm on the Saturday by
saying he was going to the Havers if anyone wanted to come in to buy him a pint.

I'd got friendly with Chris and Danny Baker before TFI, and I used to go and
watch the mocks of the show. It wasn't working and they invited a guy in to
redesign the set. They came into the pub with a cardboard box and used one of
the tables to look at the set model. They were chatting away for hours and I
served drinks, then Chris says: "We've got it. There's going to be an upstairs
bar and we want someone to run it. Do you want the job?" Yes, please.

I never had to physically work the bar; I controlled it, like a manager. Andrew
the Barman was a break from what I was doing. Even when I got out of my car at
Riverside Studios [where the show was filmed], people would ask for autographs.
I've been recognised in Spain, France and up and down the UK, and once in New
York on St Patrick's Day

I ended up having to pull a pint in a bar off Fifth Avenue because I'd been
spotted. It was unbelievable how many people recognised me. Even now, 14 years
down the line, they do a double-take.

One of the nicest people I met was Paul McCartney. They brought some clothes
down from the Cavern for me to wear on the show and he autographed my tie.
Michael Hutchence was lovely and Robbie Williams was my idol.

In the end, though, it was five years down the line and I was still behind that
blinkin' bar. I was getting bored. I wonder how these boys and girls in
Coronation Street do when they're on there for a bloody lifetime. I don't miss
the TFI days - as far as I'm concerned it was great while it lasted, but it had
run its course.

We got loads of phone calls when Chris's friend and the landlord of his new
local died in a yachting accident in 2002 - that was a shock: everyone thought
it was me. But I don't see Chris now he lives down in Surrey, he's overdue a
visit.

I've had a great life: the pub trade has been good to me and I have done a lot
for charity over the years, giving a little back. I own the Havers now and I'm
hoping my son will take over the business and give father a quieter life. I hope
to retire, but I've bought a house two doors away, so even if I'm on a Zimmer
frame I'll be able to make it in. AF


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                  May 30, 2010

Observer Magazine: First person: MY 15 MINUTES OF FAME: What happens to the
people who unwittingly find themselves at the centre of a media scrum? From the
blogger who inspired a "web hate frenzy" to the Glasgow baggage handler who
thwarted a terrorist attack, five people talk about fleeting fame and what
happens when the spotlight is turned off: RACHAEL FOUNTAIN

BYLINE: Shahesta Shaitly

SECTION: OBSERVER MAGAZINE PAGES; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 491 words


Call-centre employee Rachael Fountain (above, in Chamonix) found herself in the
public eye in 2002 when she sent an email invitation for a "porno"-themed party
to friends, accidentally inviting the finance director at American Express, her
employer, and was promptly sacked

The day I got sacked, I went on a Brighton online forum to have a whinge about
my day. A local journalist picked up on what I'd written and asked if he could
interview me for

a story. It appeared on the front page of the Argus the next day. The Evening
Standard ran a story that evening, and the day after that I got a phone call
from the News of the World, which offered me £ 3,000 for an exclusive. They put
my boyfriend and me up in the Hilton. Part of the deal I struck with them was to
pose for a series of photographs, the first photoshoot I'd ever done, in my
underwear. It all happened within two days, and was head-turning, to say the
least.

I was fine with all the press attention and I learnt a lot from the experience
about effectively becoming public property. The Sunday Sport ran my story,
publishing a copy of the invitation in its entirety. All my personal
information, including my mobile phone number, appeared in the paper. I got
quite a few prank phone calls. When I tried to get in touch with the Sunday
Sport for an apology, they weren't interested. The story in the News of the
World was never published, but the photoshoot I did with them, in a way, was the
catalyst for my future career choices.

The experience kicked me out of the frying pan, and it turns out the fire wasn't
so bad. Within two weeks of losing my job I'd signed up to a course to become an
outdoor-pursuits instructor, and within six months I was qualified to teach
survival skills, archery, climbing and kayaking. After that I fell into
promotional work and ended up working for a club in Brighton that wanted to take
on Torture Garden, the world's largest fetish club night. It was a great
experience, working with all the misfits of society, and I became a fetish
model, too.

I'd always wanted to be a dancer, but was never quite sure how to make that
leap. In 2004 I was spotted by some dancers at a festival - I was there as a
punter, but they thought I looked amazing and asked if I wanted to be a
showgirl, and the next thing I knew I was in a cancan troupe. From there I moved
into what is my real love: burlesque dancing. My first burlesque performance was
in front of an audience of 10,000 in Spain. Since then I've travelled the world,
and I'm now living in Chamonix.

I have no regrets about what happened at AmEx. I remember once that I'd told my
supervisor that I felt like "just a number". She laughed at me and said: "Of
course you're just a number - you work in a bloody call centre." There's still
lots of things I want to do - I'd like to travel more, I want to get into
theatre production, and I'd like to get better at knife-throwing - but overall
I'm very happy. SS


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              May 31, 2010 Monday

Firms told to learn airport terror attack lesson

BYLINE: Catriona Webster

SECTION: NEWS; BUSINESS; Others; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 168 words


A CRISIS expert has relived the moment when terrorists struck at the heart of
one of Scotland's busiest airports.

Glasgow Airport's former public relations chief, Donald Morrison, gave a
first-hand account of the attack at an event organised by Moray Chamber of
Commerce.

Mr Morrison co-ordinated the media response following the terrorist attack on
the terminal in June 2007.

Lesley Ann Parker, Moray Chamber of Commerce's chief executive, said:
"Reputations can be won or lost during a crisis event, and our members found
this aspect of the conference extremely enlightening.

"I'm certain that the many businesses that attended the event left with a
greater understanding of the importance of effective communication during a
crisis."

Mr Morrison, who is now director of New Horizon Media, said: "Crisis situations
can emerge at any time, and can take many different forms.

"It is vital that businesses plan effectively for the worst so that, if it does
happen, they can withstand whatever challenge comes their way."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2010 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                                  May 31, 2010

Condemnation of Israeli terror attack on peace ship

SECTION: UK NEWS (UK)

LENGTH: 379 words


British campaign groups have condemned the killing of up to 15 people after
Israeli commandos intercepted a flotilla of ships taking aid to the Gaza strip.

The ships, carrying about 10,000 tonnes of aid and up to 700 passengers on six
vessels, were warned not to pass an Israeli sea blockade.

Among those travelling on the aid ships were eight Irish citiizens.

Michael Martin, Irish Foreign Affairs Minister, said: "I am gravely concerned at
the reports emerging of the storming of a Turkish ship this morning by Israeli
commandos.

"My department is seeking to establish the full facts of what has occurred and
confirm the safety of the eight Irish nationals who sailed with the Turkish-led
flotilla.

"The reports of up to 15 people killed and 50 injured, if confirmed, would
constitute a totally unacceptable response by the Israeli military to what was a
humanitarian mission attempting to deliver much needed supplies to the people of
Gaza."

The Stop The War Coalition (STWC) said the action "should see Israel condemned
under international law".

An STWC spokesman said: "The 600 protesters were on a peaceful mission and
unarmed.

"Israel has repeatedly flouted law and public opinion worldwide in its treatment
of the Palestinians.

"Its bombing of Gaza in 2009 and its continued blockade has caused outrage round
the world. The flotilla was an attempt to bring aid to the blockaded population
of Gaza. It was supported by many organisations and individuals internationally.

"The decision by Israel to attack the flotilla with such loss of human life
shows its arrogant and deadly intent in opposing any aid to the Palestinians."

It said it would be among several groups demonstrating outside Downing Street
today.

A reporter on one of the aid ships claimed Israelis fired before boarding. The
Israelis argued that they were attacked first with sticks, knives and live fire,
leading them to retaliate.

The activists were headed to Gaza on a mission designed to draw attention to a
three-year-old Israeli blockade of the coastal territory. Israel imposed the
blockade after Hamas militants took power there.

Greta Berlin, spokeswoman for the Free Gaza movement, which co-ordinated the
flotilla said: "It's disgusting that they have come on board and attacked
civilians. We are civilians."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 31, 2010 Monday

Planners of Kenyan 2002 terror attack had capacity to print identity cards - UN

LENGTH: 811 words


Text of report by Patrick Mayoyo entitled ''Terrorists equipped to make Kenyan
Ids'' published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 31
May; subheadings inserted editorially

Terrorists behind the 2002 attack at the Paradise Hotel in Mombasa [Kenyan
coast] had equipment and materials for printing fake Kenya national identity
cards, a UN report has revealed.

Fifteen people, 12 of them Kenyans, died during the 28 November 2002 attack on
the Israeli-owned hotel in Kikambala. The ''Digest of Terrorist Cases'' report
by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) says the terrorists used
the fake documents to rent an apartment where a cache of arms was found.

Among the weapons found concealed in a sofa set were six automatic guns,
magazines, bullets and five anti-tank missiles. Also seized were a saw, hammer
and pliers, a hand grenade, training materials and manuals on the use of the
weapons.

"A laminating machine and materials suitable for making identity cards were also
found," the report says. The revelations raise fears that foreigners have found
their way into the country with fake identification documents.

In February, the government mounted a countrywide crackdown on illegal
immigrants following reports that foreigners acquire Kenyan citizenship through
an intricate syndicate involving government officials. The operation, which was
spearheaded by regular and Administration Police, was however, called off
following an uproar from Kenyan Somalis who said it amounted to ethnic profiling
and discrimination.

North Eastern Provincial Commissioner James ole Seriani recently cautioned local
administrators that they face the sack following reports that some of them were
involved in the syndicate.

Sealing legal loopholes

The report recommends measures that need to be put in place by governments
around the world in the fight against terrorism. They include sealing legal
loopholes that have seen many terror suspects evade conviction. Governments
around the world have also been asked to use the Suppression of the Financing of
Terrorism to bring offenders to justice.

The United Nations Security Council resolutions 1267 and 1373 require all member
states to freeze the funds of designated persons and of terrorists generally.
The report adds that countries should use collateral offences committed by
terrorists, particularly weapons offences and frauds, to trace terrorist
movements and activities.

Governments have also been asked to use Interpol's Stolen and Lost Travel
Documents (SLTD) database to report stolen passports to make it easy to trace
them. As of June 2009, the database contained information on over 18 million
documents, over 10 million of which were passports, from approximately 150
countries.

The latest developments come at a time when both local and international
security agencies are on high alert after recent discovery of an arms cache in
the sea off Malindi and the attack against a village in Wajir by the Somali
militia Al-Shabab, which is linked to the Al-Qa'idah terror group.

Arms cache

Last week, a Malindi fisherman chanced upon a cache of arms, triggering a major
security operation in the coastal town. The weapons packed in sacks, included
436 bullets, four rockets, one rocket launcher, five AK-47 rifles, one Ceska
pistol, 10 gun holsters, 18 magazines and four para lights used for illuminating
a security operation zone at night.

Malindi deputy police boss Willy Simba said officers were exploring a theory
that the find is linked to five suspected pirates arrested in Kenyan waters at
the local Marine Park. The discovery of the arms was followed by the arrest of
two men in Diani, Kwale District, over allegations of recruiting and training
Kenyan youth for militant groups outside the country.

The men were arrested during an operation by anti-terrorism police at
Maganyakulo Village, where detectives found a jihad (holy war) training manual,
several national identity cards and a list of names of people believed to have
undergone training.

The list had names against the ID card numbers and signatures of their owners.
Police suspect those appearing on the list had been smuggled out of the country
after the training. The report says terrorists are moving from one country to
another either using fake passports or by evading immigration checks.

Terror mastermind Fazul Mohammed, blamed for both the 1998 US bombing in Nairobi
and the 2002 Paradise hotel attack in Kikambala, is said to be an expert in
using fake passports. In the recent past, 20,000 passports have been stolen from
three countries only.

Key suspects in the Kikambala attack remain Fazul, who is from Comoros, and Abu
Taha al-Sudan a Sudanese national. Another suspect Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan, a
Kenyan, was killed by American forces in Somalia last year.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 31 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 31, 2010 Monday

Indian investigators to question US terror suspect on Mumbai attack soon- agency

LENGTH: 575 words


Text of report published by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi: The questioning of American Lashker-i-Toiba [LeT] terrorist David
Headley is going to revolve around the places he had visited after the Mumbai
terror attacks and the people he had remained in touch with during his stay in
India.

A three-member team of National Investigation Agency, which along with a public
prosecutor is expected to leave for the United States in the wee hours Monday,
has prepared questions about his stay in the country especially during March
2009, his last visit to India.

The travel details of Headley, the globe-trotting prized asset of the LeT, are
being sought mainly as investigators believe that this visit may have been to
finalise the synchronised terror strikes on Jewish houses located in five
cities, sources said.

They said the Indian Government has kept 'backup staff' in readiness if the
team, that was visiting the US, needed any assistance.

This will be for the first time that 49-year-old Headley, who was born to a
Pakistani father and whose earlier name was Daood Gilani, will be facing direct
questions from Indian investigators.

The statement of Headley would be recorded by the Special Law Officer of India
after which the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which has registered a case
against Headley and Pakistani-Canadian national Tahawwur Rana under the Unlawful
Activities Prevention (Act) for waging war against the country, may file a
charge sheet against him.

Besides the Indian team, those expected to be present during the questioning
would be Headley's lawyer and an officer of the FBI.

Piecing together the travel trail of Headley during his visit to India in March
last year, the investigators of a central security agency were of the opinion
that the US terror suspect was scouting only Jewish targets, including the
office of Israeli airlines El Al in Mumbai.

Headley had carried out reconnaissance of the office of El AI located at Cuffe
Parade in Mumbai in March before moving to the national capital, where he chose
to stay in a small hotel in Paharganj area.

The security agencies found a Chabad House barely 300 metres from the hotel.
From Delhi, Headley travelled to Pushkar in the outskirts of Ajmer in the
north-western Indian state of Rajasthan, where he insisted on a room opposite a
Jewish prayer centre, claiming he was a Jew and wanted 'holy sight'.

After staying there for three days, Headley moved to the western Indian coastal
state of Goa, where he stayed at a guest house located in Anjuna village along
the coast of Arabian Sea before proceeding towards Pune city, where he scouted
the area around Koregaon Park.

The visit of the NIA team comes after Solicitor General Gopal Subramanium held a
meeting with US Attorney General Eric Holder to discuss modalities in April this
year.

"The two partners agreed to take suitable steps to bring about direct access by
Indian authorities to David Headley as soon as possible," the Indian embassy had
said.

Headley, who was arrested by the FBI in October last year, has pleaded guilty
before a Chicago court in the US to his involvement in the Mumbai attacks.

In his plea bargaining, he had agreed "that, when directed by the United States
Attorney's Office, he will fully and truthfully testify in any foreign judicial
proceedings held in the United States by way of deposition, videoconferencing or
letters rogatory."

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1230gmt 30 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 31, 2010 Monday

Pakistan TV show discusses terror attacks on places of worship in Lahore

LENGTH: 707 words


Karachi Geo News in Urdu at 1430 GMT on 28 May relays daily current affairs
program "Crisis Cell" hosted by Sana Bucha, a working journalist. The program
features an expert analysis on major issues; Words within double slant lines are
in English

Reception: Poor

Duration: 30 minutes

Bucha begins the program by saying that more than 60 people have been killed in
terrorist attacks today on two places of worship of Qadianis in Lahore. The
Punjab Government has announced to take stern action against this incident.

Bucha shows a video of Punjab Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif who says that
terrorism is the biggest threat to the country and its elimination is the
government's foremost priority. Bucha says: The chief minister has sought report
to be submitted tonight after which further action will be taken.

Bucha establishes a video link with Geo News correspondent Zahid Sherwani and
asks him to update her about arrangements at the hospitals and the official
death toll. Sherwani says: More than 70 people have been killed and more than 78
injured, while three bodies have been identified as terrorists. However, the
total number of terrorists will be known once the investigations are completed.
Emergency has been enforced in all big hospitals of Lahore. Bucha asks: What
kinds of injuries have been sustained by those injured? Sherwani says: Most of
the bodies have marks of bullets on chests; this shows that they have been shot
from //close proximity//.

Bucha establishes telephone link with religious scholar Ibtesam Ilahi Zaheer and
asks him to comment on the terrorist attacks in Lahore. Zaheer says: It is the
government's responsibility to protect lives and property of its people. We
condemn violence against minorities. Bucha asks: Are such incidents not a source
of embarrassment to the Muslim nation. Ilahi says: Certainly they are. Violence
cannot help achieve any goal.

Bucha establishes a link with Zain Sheikh, advocate of the Supreme Court and
constitutional expert, and asks him if Qadianis are a minority in light of the
constitution. Sheikh says: The constitution provides religious freedom to
minorities, allowing them to follow religious practices and maintain their
places of worship. Bucha asks: Have Qadianis been //singled out// as a less
important minority at any point in the constitution? Sheikh says: No, all
minorities have been treated as equal in the constitution. Buch asks: If
minorities are not allowed to practice their religion, who is responsible?
Sheikh says: The state is responsible to provide them with security. Bucha asks:
If they are not provided with the security demanded by them, is it possible for
them to raise voice against the lack of security? Sheikh says: Certainly, they
can. The Article 9 of the constitution obligates the government to provide them
with //adequate security//.

Bucha establishes a telephone link with Senator Pervez Rashid of the PML-N
[Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz] and asks him to comment on this incident. Rashid
says: This incident has hurt Pakistan's reputation. On the anniversary of
nuclear tests [28 May], it has given a wrong message to the world that Pakistan,
in spite of being a nuclear power, is helpless before the monster of terrorism.
Bucha asks: Could the security arrangements have been better? Rashid says:
Security was present there and that was why the terrorists could not inflict as
much damage as they intended to do? It was due to the presence of security
personnel that two of the terrorists were arrested alive. Bucha says: Do you
think //minorities// are kept lower on the //priority list// as far as provision
of security is concerned? Rashid says: The PML-N does not view Pakistanis as
//minority// or //majority//. We all are Pakistanis are there can be no division
on the basis of belief or language. It is a terrorist incident and should not be
viewed from the perspective of minority or majority. I do not think that those
who have committed this heinous act have anything to do with Islam, which
equates killing one person with killing the entire humanity.

Bucha says: Terrorism has no religion, faith, or justified reason. Terrorism is
just terrorism and action against it is imperative.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1430gmt 28 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 31, 2010 Monday

Israel attack on Gaza aid convoy "terrorist banditry" - Iran security chief

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of report by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News Agency website

Tehran, 31 May: The secretary of the Supreme National Security Council has said
that the Zionist regime's attack on the Gaza aid convoy was a barbaric act and
showed the extreme desperation of this regime.

As a reaction to the Zionist regime's attack on the Gaza civil aid convoy,
Secretary of the Supreme National Security Council Sa'id Jalili said that the
attack was a "terrorist banditry", Fars News Agency reported quoting the
secretariat of the Supreme National Security Council. He said: "The criminal and
terrorist Zionist regime, which is facing increasing public opinion pressure,
has now resorted to `sea murder'".

The secretary of the Supreme National Security Council said that such actions of
the Zionist regime show the 60-year old hostility of the regime and its main
supporter, America, against the freedom of other nations. He emphasized: "The
Zionist regime's behaviour during the past year, especially its terrorist action
this morning, showed that the Obama's peace plan is a deception and it just
aimed at giving more opportunity to the Zionist regime."

Jalili said that for the world public opinion, the Zionist regime's attack on
the freedom fleet is a big test for the West that claims to be a supporter of
freedom and human rights. He said: "Now America, and the criminal Zionist
regime's international and regional supporters should be responsible before the
world public opinion for their support for this regime."

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 0832 gmt 31 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 31, 2010 Monday

Terrorist attack prevented in Groznyy - Chechen president

LENGTH: 183 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Groznyy, 31 May: A militant wearing an improvised explosive device on his waist
has been destroyed in Groznyy, Chechen President Ramzan Kadyrov has told
journalists.

"A tip-off was received about a member of an illegal armed group planning to use
an improvised explosive device in a terrorist act of sabotage in Groznyy's
Oktyabrskiy district," Kadyrov said. "The destroyed militant was found to be
wearing a powerful improvised explosive device on his waist."

According to him, the militant was destroyed at the entrance of a high-rise
block of flats in Khankalskaya ulitsa [street].

The young man offered armed resistance to officers of Chechen police, FSB
[Federal Security Service] officers and servicemen of the Sever [North]
battalion of the Russian Interior Ministry. "He was destroyed by accurate return
fire," Kadyrov said.

The militant's identity is being established.

Kadyrov stressed that the situation in Groznyy and in Chechnya in general was
stable and peaceful.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0940 gmt 31 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 31, 2010 Monday

Turkey's PM calls attack on convoy "inhuman state terror"

LENGTH: 93 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Santiago, 31 May 2010: Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on
Monday [31 May] that Turkey would not remain silent to this inhuman state
terror.

Erdogan cut short his visit to Chile and left for Turkey after Israel's attack
on ships carrying humanitarian aid to Gaza.

Erdogan said: "Everyone should know that we will not remain silent to this state
terror."

Israel's attack violated the international law, he said.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1538 gmt 31 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 31, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

Briton was killed in mosque attack;
TERROR

BYLINE: Tom Peck

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 151 words


A British businessman was among 93 people killed in a terrorist attack on two
mosques in Pakistan on Friday.

Muhammad Bilal, 58, of Southfields, south-west London, was visiting the Darul
Zikr mosque in Lahore when terrorists burst in and opened fire.

The married father-of-three was with business colleagues at the time.

His family has paid tribute to his humanitarian work setting up a medical clinic
and providing financial help to Pakistan's poor.

His nephew Sardar Fareed said: "His loss will not only be felt by his direct
family members but also by many more."

His family flew to Pakistan yesterday for his funeral.

Some 93 victims died in the attacks on two mosques of the minority Ahmadi sect
in neighbouring areas of the city.

The terrorists burst into the mosques, opened fire, and hurled grenades at the
prostrate worshippers during Friday prayers.

Police have blamed the Pakistani Taliban for the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        May 31, 2010 Monday 2:46 AM BST

TRIBUTE TO BUSINESSMAN KILLED IN PAKISTAN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Liam Creedon, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 420 words


The family of a businessman killed in a terrorist attack in Pakistan paid
tribute to his humanitarian work.

Muhammad Bilal, 58, of Southfields, south-west London, died after gunmen burst
into the Darul Zikr mosque in Lahore on Friday and opened fire.

Some 93 victims died in the co-ordinated attacks on two mosques of the minority
Ahmadi sect in neighbouring areas of the city, in the north east of the country.

Married father-of-three Mr Bilal was in Lahore on a business trip and was
visiting the Darul Zikr mosque with colleagues. He had set up a medical clinic
and provided financial help to the poor of Lahore.

His nephew Sardar Fareed, said: ``His loss will not only be felt by his direct
family members but also by many more.

``He was a true servant of humanity''. Muhammad was a living example of the
Ahmadi Muslim motto 'Love for All, Hatred for None'.``

His family flew to Pakistan yesterday for his funeral.

The terrorists burst into the mosques, opened fire, and hurled grenades at the
prostrate worshippers during Friday prayers.

Police have blamed the Pakistani Taliban for the attacks.

They said the militants involved had trained in an Afghan border region where
the US wants Islamabad to mount an army operation.

Two teams of gunmen, including some in suicide vests, stormed the mosques and
sprayed bullets at worshippers while holding off police.

At least two of the seven attackers were captured, while some died in the
stand-off.

Local TV channels had been reporting that the Pakistani Taliban, or one of their
affiliates, had claimed responsibility for the attack.

Senior police officer Akram Naeem, in Lahore, said their interrogation of one of
the arrested suspects revealed that the gunmen were involved with the Pakistani
Taliban, which has staged attacks across the country for years.

The 17-year-old suspect told police that the men had trained in the North
Waziristan tribal region.

``Our initial investigation has found that they all belong to Tehrik-e-Taliban
Pakistan, or Pakistani Taliban movement,'' Mr Naeem said.

He said the suspect, ``Abdullah alias Mohammad, was given terrorism training in
Miran Shah'' - the main city in the North Waziristan tribal region.

North Waziristan has long been filled with militant groups focused on battling
US and Nato forces across the border in Afghanistan.

But as the army has mounted operations against the Pakistani Taliban elsewhere
in the lawless tribal belt, many in the group - which has focused on attacking
Pakistan - have since set up shop in North Waziristan.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 1, 2010 Tuesday

PM condemns terror attack in Pakistan's Lahore hospital

LENGTH: 176 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 31 May: Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gillani has strongly condemned
the attack by terrorists at Jinnah Hospital Lahore.

Such inhuman act of brutality could only be conducted by those who neither
believe in humanity nor any religion, he added. The prime minister said the
government would not spare such elements who want to create panic and disrupt
our social fabric.

The prime minister directed the law enforcement agencies to crack down upon the
criminals involved in such heinous crimes and bring them to book. The prime
minister condoled with the families of those who lost lives and sympathies for
the injured. He prayed that may Almighty Allah bless the departed souls and give
courage and fortitude to the bereaved families to bear the irreparable loss. The
prime minister asked the concerned authorities to take care of the injured and
extend best possible medical assistance.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 2010gmt
31 May 10

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 1, 2010 Tuesday

Report seeks answers behind terror attack on minorities in Pakistan's Lahore

LENGTH: 594 words


Text of report by Ashraf Javed headlined "Why Ahmadis this time?" published by
Pakistani newspaper The Nation website on 30 May

Lahore: Why the terrorists targeted two leading worship places of Ahmadis here
in the heart of the Punjab amidst Friday prayers by carrying out brazen,
well-organized and synchronized attacks?

One answer is the totemic importance of Ahmadis in this country, as they are
considered a well-to-do, highly qualified and worldwide well-connected minority,
serving on top slots in different departments in Pakistan.

As well as being two leading worship places of Ahmadis in Pakistan, Baitul Zikr
Garhi Shahu and Model Town, where they attended religious gatherings in a great
number, the sites are also situated in the heart of Lahore - Model Town, a posh
residential locality and Garhi Shahu - an area near Mall Road, City's leading
artery where Governor's House, CM Secretariat and other several government
installations are located.

Attacking Ahmadis worship places achieves two things in this regard; being an
important community in Pakistan it attracts a lot of media coverage worldwide
and bad name to Pakistan and secondly it creates the impression (rightly or
wrongly) that the terrorists are everywhere, ready and willing to attack despite
the successful military offensive in Swat and South Waziristan and arrests and
killings of their leadership has broken their back.

The attack came days after the reports that top Taliban commander Maulana
Fazlullah was killed during gunfight in Afghanistan, a sever set back to the
Taliban already on the run in FATA [Federally Administered Tribal Areas] and
border areas, as Pakistan's armed forces have stepped up offensive to flush out
militants from its soil.

Another explanation is said to be publicity. The terrorists have become highly
skilled in the dark-arts of propaganda; so much so that international media
leave no stone unturned to defame Pakistan. For example, the leading American
newspaper The New York Times published the incident as lead story with the
headline, "Sectarian Attacks Hit Two Pakistani Mosques." Apparently, it was an
attempt to misguide its worldwide readers by converting the terrorist attack
into sectarian violence.

In fact, the desperate terrorists are targeting the security agencies, innocent
people, minorities, and even schoolchildren across Pakistan, irrespective of
their religious connection and casts, as they are real enemies of this country.

Defense pundits believe that the attacks on Ahmadis worship places were
identical to militant's strikes carried out in the past including on the FIA
building, Manawan police training center, Elite force Headquarters Badian Road
and Navy War College in Lahore.

This was the first major attack on Ahmadis since Pakistan launched successful
military operation against the terrorists, who are on the run, otherwise.
Ironically at a time when Pakistan's armed forces are tightening their screw
against the militants the enemies of this country particularly New Delhi has
launched proxy war in Afghanistan to destabilize Islamabad by feeding cash,
ammunition and other support to terrorists groups fighting against NATO and
Pakistan Army. At this crucial time, the political leadership should come
forward to tell the truth to the world and expose Indian designs against
Pakistan while the Obama Administration should reconsider its double standard
approach towards South Asia and avoid preferring New Delhi over Islamabad, a
trusted ally of the Americans.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 30 May 10

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                              June 1, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

New terror fears after spate of attacks

BYLINE: VICTORIA O'HARA, vo'hara@belfasttelegraph.co

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 286 words


FEARS have mounted that a fresh campaign of attacks could erupt across Northern
Ireland this summer following an upsurge in both loyalist and dissident
republican violence.

The concern comes after a mortar was fired at a PSNI station in Londonderry and
a top loyalist was murdered in Belfast within 24 hours of each other.

Reports had suggested that the failed mortar bid on Strand Road police station
on Friday night could lead to heightened security across the province.

Oglaigh na hEireann was reported to have claimed responsibility for the attack.

A Vauxhall Cavalier car was parked in Queen Street and what police described as
"a mortar- type device" was fired from the rear of the car towards the police
station shortly after midnight.

Nobody was injured in the incident but nearby residents, including a number of
elderly people, were evacuated from their homes.

And just hours before top loyalist Bobby Moffett was shot dead on the Shankill
Road. Dozens of shoppers and bystanders were left shocked as Moffett (43) was
shot a number of times in the face by two masked gunmen.

The murder has been blamed on renegade elements within the UVF. It is understood
the murder was linked to a personal dispute.

Police described the shooting as "a cold-blooded, ruthless killing".

A number of separate attacks have also raised concern of an escalation in
dissident activity.

On Sunday a pipe-bomb was thrown into a house in Dungannon, Co Tyrone. A window
was smashed and the device thrown inside, causing substantial damage to the
kitchen.

Meanwhile two men, aged 29 and 30, were arrested in connection with an explosion
in Strabane, Co Tyrone, last Thursday.

A pipe-bomb was thrown at a house in Springhill Park late that evening.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 1, 2010 Tuesday
                                  Eire Edition

RUBY STAR'S SECRET SEX ATTACK TERROR;
BRAVE RAI: I'LL PUT THE ORDEAL BEHIND ME TONIGHT

BYLINE: STEVE MYALL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 263 words


BRAVE Rai Quartley will try to hide her pain tonight as she leads out The Ruby
Girls on BGT.

The founder of the raunchy dance troupe has been left in fear after being
pounced on by a pervert.

Rai, 22, was walking from a train station to see a friend when she was assaulted
by a man three weeks ago.

She revealed yesterday: "It was so scary. I couldn't get away.

"This guy was touching me and saying what he wanted to do.

"I was walking from the station and he followed.

"I told him I was meeting my boyfriend but he said I was lying, grabbed my arm
and started touching.

"He was saying he wanted to have sex and I screamed for him to let go.

"There were people walking past and they ran over and he ran off. Now I'm
paranoid when a man looks at me - which is not ideal bearing in mind the kind of
routine we do."

But Rai, of Welywn, Herts, will try to forget the ordeal tonight as The Ruby
Girls bid to make Saturday's live final.

The girls are up against another great mover - ballet dancing border collie
Chandi.

Her owner, violin and piano teacher Tina Humphrey, from Shrewsbury, said of
Chandi: "She picked up everything I taught her immediately."

Also in tonight's semi-final are boyband Connected, Lady Gaga clone Maxxie
Oliver, dancers Taboo, variety act Kev Orkian, singing doorman Neil Fullard and
father and son act Michael Senior and Michael Junior.

Among acts in last night's TV3 show was 14-year-old singing sensation Olivia
Archbold.

Meanwhile, Susan Boyle says that she would pick Elaine C Smith, who plays the
long-suffering wife of TV slob Rab C Nesbitt, to portray her in a film.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SENSATION Singer Olivia HOT DOG Chandi the ballet dancing collie with
owner Tina HOT STEPPERS The Ruby Girls, with leader Rai Quartley third from the
left

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 2, 2010 Wednesday

Chechen rebel website denies reports on terrorist attack prevented in Groznyy

LENGTH: 126 words


The Chechen rebel website Kavkaz-Tsentr has denied reports that a man killed in
Groznyy on 31 May was a rebel.

The website quoted its unnamed sources as saying that the unarmed man had been
detained "on suspicion of being loyal to mojahedin", beaten up and killed.
"After that a show with 'a militant being blocked, exchange of fire and a
suicide bomber belt' was staged," the website said.

BBCM note: Chechnya's pro-Moscow leader Ramzan Kadyrov said on 31 May that a
terrorist attack had been prevented in Groznyy. He said a militant wearing an
improvised explosive device on his waist had been killed in the city after
security services received a  tip-off about plans to commit a terror attack.

Source: Kavkaz-Tsentr news agency website, in Russian 2 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 2, 2010 Wednesday

Turkish "security summit" discusses terrorism, Israeli attack on Gaza ships

LENGTH: 385 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 2 June: The Turkish Prime Minister's Office said on Wednesday [2 June]
that the recent terrorist attack in Turkey's southern Iskenderun town and the
Israeli attack on ships carrying humanitarian aid for Gaza had been on the
agenda of the "Security summit" held in the Turkish capital today.

Security summit was held [on] Wednesday [2 June] under the chairmanship of Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Ankara. Ministers that are members of the
National Security Council, the chief of the General Staff, Gen Ilker Basbug, and
force commanders attended the summit.

Releasing a statement following the gathering, the Turkish Prime Minister's
Office said both Monday's terrorist attack on a military unit in Iskenderun and
the Israeli attack on an aid flotilla the same day had been discussed in detail
during the Security summit.

Participants assessed the terrorist attacks that took place in the recent term,
counter-terrorism activities and measures to be taken on the issue during the
summit, the statement noted.

Expressing determination to carry on with a multi-dimensional fight against
terrorism, the summit also assessed the developments after Israel's attack, the
latest situation concerning the incident and the steps to be taken on the issue,
the statement added.

"Political, military, economic and legal aspects of the matter were discussed,"
the statement said, adding international efforts displayed on the matter had
also been assessed at the summit.

"As a result of the activities carried out by our government, the transfer
process of the wounded, deceased and all the volunteers back to Turkey has been
initiated. Our military and civilian ambulance planes sent to Israel will bring
the wounded to Turkey," the Turkish Prime Minister's Office said.

A total of six Turkish soldiers were killed and nine were wounded when
terrorists attacked with rockets on a military command in southern town of
Iskenderun early on Monday.

On the same day, Israeli naval forces stormed a convoy of ships of Humanitarian
Relief Foundation (IHH) carrying humanitarian aid for Gaza, killing at least
nine people and injuring 30 others. Four of the dead were Turkish citizens.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1450 gmt 2 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       June 2, 2010 Wednesday 9:21 AM BST

ACTIVIST DESCRIBES TERROR OF FLOTILLA ATTACK

BYLINE: Lucinda Cameron and Cordelia O'Neill, Press Association Scotland

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 742 words


An activist caught up in the storming of the Gaza aid flotilla by Israeli
soldiers described the attack today after arriving home in Scotland.

Glasgow resident Hasan Nowarah was one of at least four Scots with the convoy
when it was taken by commandos.

Theresa McDermott, from Edinburgh, Hassan Ghani, from Glasgow, and Ali
El-Awaisi, from Dundee, were also onboard.

Mr Nowarah, chair of the Justice for Palestine Centre in Glasgow, was deported
from Israel last night after the flotilla was intercepted.

He flew into London and then made his way home to Glasgow last night.

He said Israeli ships surrounded the convoy on Saturday night before the attack,
playing ``cat and mouse games'' with the Mavi Marmara ship.

He told BBC Good Morning Scotland: ``The warships and their zodiacs were
approaching us slowly, slowly, but no confrontation. They were communicating
with our captains through the radios, warning us to turn back.

``But we explained to them we are in the international water. We are not
attacking Israel, we are humanitarian aid, we are sailing to Gaza.''

Mr Nowarah then saw Israeli soldiers storm the Mavi Marmara ship before they
boarded the ship he was on.

He told the programme: ``At 4 o'clock local time it was prayer time and as we
finish our prayer all we can hear is people screaming.

``We looked at the Marmara ship, we can see the Israeli helicopters dropping
soldiers and screaming and shouting, bullets firing all over the place.

``Within seconds we can hear 'tick tick tick' around our ship. It turned out
they were using paintballing guns they were shooting at us. We all went up,
running to prevent them in a peaceful manner from entering the ship.

``I had an ambassador sitting beside me, he was pushed by Israeli soldiers, I
went and I stood between them and he pushed me with his M16, he smacked me in
the back of my back and I fall down. He hit me with his rifle to my ligament.''

Mr Nowarah said he suffered a ligament injury to his leg, and believes that is
why he was deported so quickly.

He added: ``Our mission is to deliver human and medical aid to the people who
have been under the blockade for the last four years.

``The aim from our flotilla was to help these people and to break the siege.''

Israeli officials said the death toll was nine, but some reports put it as high
as 19.

Israel insists its forces retaliated against an attack by people on board the
aid flotilla, who it says were armed with weapons including knives and guns.

The Foreign Office said several British nationals were detained by Israeli
authorities following the incident, but it was not aware of any British
nationals being killed in the raid.

Scottish woman Jane Hanley's brother Clifford is one of those detained and still
in the Middle East.

She told the programme: ``I've heard nothing from Clifford himself. But I did
hear this morning from the Foreign and Commonwealth staff that the embassy staff
have been in Be'er Sheva prison and spoken to all the British detainees and, as
far as we know, he's safe and well and is being deported as soon as possible.''

She said she had feared for the safety of her brother on this trip, adding:
``Particularly knowing the actions of the Israelis, it certainly wasn't a
Mediterranean cruise he was going on.''

Mr Hanley took part in the overland aid to Gaza mission at Christmas, and she
said he is not likely to be deterred from further missions.

She said: ``One of his friends wishes he would just stay at home and grow
petunias but that ain't Clifford, I'm afraid.''

The expulsion of activists - including more than 40 Britons - was under way
today.

Haq Ghani, 60, from Glasgow, said he has been told his 25-year-old son Hassan is
on his way out of Israel.

``I phoned the Foreign Office at about 12.50 today and I learned that he was on
a bus on its way to Ben Gurion airport in Israel, from which he would be taken
by Turkish aeroplane to Turkey, and then he would be able to make his way back
to the UK.

``I don't know anything about his condition and that is still a worrying factor.
I'm hoping to get in touch with him when he arrives in Turkey and assert that he
is okay.

``I'm feeling a little relieved knowing he is on a bus. The only worrying thing
is what his condition is and I'm hoping that physically and mentally he is
okay.''

He said his son may want to stay on in Turkey for a few days to attend the
funerals of some of those killed.

Hassan Ghani is a journalist who was covering the flotilla for Press TV.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 3, 2010 Thursday

Pakistan TV show discusses recent terror attacks in Punjab

LENGTH: 686 words


Karachi Geo News in Urdu at 1405 GMT on 1 June relays daily current affairs
program "Crisis Cell" hosted by Sana Bucha, a working journalist. The program
features an expert analysis on major issues; Words within double slant lines are
in English.

Reception: Good

Duration: 30 minutes

Bucha begins the program by saying: According to an intelligence report released
in Washington, 7000 persons lost lives to terrorism in 2009 in Afghanistan;
while, 8,600 Pakistanis died because of terrorism in the same year. The
disconcerting fact is that the war theatre is rapidly shifting from the
erstwhile epicenter of terrorism, FATA [Federally Administered Tribal Areas] to
the heart of Pakistan, Lahore that came under two major terrorist attacks on 28
May and 31 May. First, it were the two worship places of Ahmedis that when
targeted left at least 100 people dead; then, on 31 May, it was the Jinnah
Hospital, Lahore that was targeted by the terrorists to free or kill their
comrade who was injured in the attacks on Ahmedis and is under treatment at the
ICU [Intensive Care Unit] of the hospital. Although the terrorists failed to
reach their accomplice and take him along with them but the incident ended up
with five more people dead.

Bucha plays a video showing Provincial Law Minister Rana Sanaullah

[Begin recording] [Sanaullah] They are six in number and they had come from
Waziristan. [end recording]

Bucha says: Sanaullah avoided mentioning that the detained terrorist is from the
southern Punjab, and not Waziristan.

Bucha plays a video showing Nazar Muhammad Gondal, federal minister for food and
agriculture.

[Begin recording] [Gondal] It is time to come out of the //state of denial// and
commence a //military operation// in the southern Punjab; it is as clear as
black and white. [end recording]

Bucha establishes a video link with Ali Dayan Hassan of Human Rights Watch in
Islamabad and asks him if the heavy number of casualties was a result of
security lapse on part of the Punjab Government? Hassan says: Ahmedis had
informed the security officials about threats to their worship places and they
were already in constant demand of a high-level protection. According to
Ahmedis, they had long been receiving threats from the extremists but the Punjab
Government took it very lightly and did not take any measures beforehand. The
Punjab Government dithers to take stern action against the extremists. When the
extremists had the roads of Lahore decorated with banners spreading hatred
against NGOs and minorities, the government overlooked as according to Zaheen
Qadri, adviser to the Punjab chief minister, an action against the banners could
have led to repercussions for the government.

Bucha asks Hassan: What measures do you recommend for the Punjab Government to
take? Hassan says: The government should launch a //crackdown// on these
extremist groups. Revising the Blasphemy Act is as much important as crackdown
on militants if we want to do away with sectarian violence. There are extremist
groups in Punjab that the PML-N used to be in alliance with but now is the time
for the Punjab Government to shed the evasive stance and make the choice.

Bucha establishes a telephonic link with senior political analyst Kamran Shafi
and asks him to comment on the Punjab Government's level of willingness to
taking stringent and straight action against extremists. Shafi says: I agree
with Gondal that the Punjab Government is in the state of denial. Although the
nurseries of terrorism exist in every province; but the southern Punjab is
undisputedly a center of Talebanization in the making. The Punjab Government
must acknowledge the presence of the extremist infrastructure in the southern
Punjab. We must take action as a //last resort// if we want to save the country.

Bucha asks Hassan: Do agree with Shafi that there is no way out but action?
Hassan says: Yes, we must take action and get rid of the militants before it is
too late. If we do not act today, the entire country will submerge in the marsh
of terrorism and violence.

Bucha concludes the program.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1400gmt 01 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 4, 2010 Friday

Georgia: rebel leader says "terrorist attacks" may destabilize whole district

LENGTH: 311 words


Text of report by Russian state news agency ITAR-TASS

Sukhumi, 4 June: The situation in [predominantly ethnic Georgian-populated]
frontier Gali District [of Georgia's breakaway] Abkhazia, which has become more
complicated over the past few days, has been discussed at the consultations
attended by members of Abkhazia's security council and chaired by president
Sergey Bagapsh.

The power-wielding agencies are investigating recent incidents that took place
on 1 and 3 June in Gali District, the leader of the republic said. At the same
time, he stressed that "the Georgian trace is evident". In this connection,
Bagapsh instructed appropriate services "to monitor the situation in Gali
District in the most careful manner".

The president said that "power-wielding agencies have necessary technical
equipment". Special detachments of the interior ministry, state security council
and others have been tasked to promptly "submit a plan for joint actions in the
region aimed at stabilizing the situation".

The president tasked the foreign ministry to raise the problem of terrorist
attacks in Abkhazia's Gali District at the coming 8 June round of the Geneva
negotiations on security in the South Caucasus and regular pentilateral meetings
on preventing and reacting to incidents held in the town of Gali once in three
weeks. "The organizers of terrorist attacks should realize that the
destabilization of the situation locally can lead to tensions in the whole
district, where [Georgian] refugees, who have returned [to their homes], live.
They are the people, who are tired for constant tensions," Bagapsh said.

On 1 June, a representative of the state customs committee, Gennadiy Kvitsinia,
was killed in a subversive act in Gali District and on 3 June, the head of a
village administration, Dmitriy Katsia.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1008gmt 04 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 4, 2010 Friday

Egypt radio denounces as "terrorist aggression" Israel's attack on aid flotilla

LENGTH: 204 words


A commentary on Egyptian radio on 4 June by Mamduh Isma'il has denounced as
"terrorist aggression" Israel's attack on Gaza-bound "Freedom Flotilla" on 31
May. "This crime reflects an Israeli policy based on terrorism," it said of the
attack.

The commentary said the attack coincided with the first anniversary of US
President Barack Obama's speech to the Muslim world, which he delivered from
Cairo last year.

The commentary said there was a big difference between the content of Obama's
speech, in which he stressed the USA's impartiality towards the Arab-Israeli
conflict, and the USA's statement regarding the Israeli attack on the flotilla.

The commentary hailed Egypt's decision to open Rafah crossing along Gaza border
for Palestinian humanitarian cases. It also hailed the international community's
reaction to what it called "the Israeli terrorism".

"[Israeli premier] Netanyahu's government has stuck into a political impasse, as
it lost all its friends in the Middle East and the world by carrying out its
attack," the commentary said.

In conclusion, the commentary said the Israeli attack on the flotilla would not
serve the Middle East peace process.

Source: Arab Republic of Egypt Radio, Cairo, in Arabic 1145gmt 04 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 4, 2010 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

TERROR ATTACK FEARED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 127 words


EMERGENCY services initially feared Bird's murder spree was a terrorist attack.

Councillor for Seascale and fireman David Moore, 57, said: "Because we are so
near the Sellafield nuclear plant there was the thought that it could be a
terrorist incident so they took down the mobile network.

"People were panicking, about 35 children were playing football in Gosforth and
nobody could get in touch to see if they were safe." The kids were being guarded
by armed cops.

He also told how he and his colleagues thought a 999 call was to a car crash,
but found carnage.

He added: "I have never seen anything like it in 38 years in the fire service.

"People here are just in a daze, they thought they would wake up today and it
hadn't happened. But we're here, this is real."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 4, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Returning activists tell of 'gas bomb' terror in aid ship attack;
Turkey

BYLINE: Alexander Christie-Miller ; Helen Nugent; Laura Pitel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 559 words


Freed British activists arrived in Istanbul early yesterday to a heroes'
welcome, as up to 20,000 people gathered for the funerals of those killed in
Israel's raid on an aid ship.

The bodies of eight Turks and a Turkish-born American - shot dead in Monday's
attack on the Mavi Marmara - were flown into Atatürk airport at about 3am along
with 520 passengers from the ship.

Sarah Colborne, 43, of the Palestine Solidarity Movement, and one of 34 Britons,
told The Times: "Everyone's just in shock. It was a massacre that took place
there."

Ms Colborne, from Hackney, East London, later flew back to Britain. Still
wearing her prison outfit she described the run-up to the raid. "Israeli boats
were detected on the radar at 11pm on Sunday evening," she said in London. "The
decision was made to move farther back into international waters. An emergency
medical room was assembled and we put our lifejackets on.

"I went to sleep at 2am and woke up again at 4.10am. I went up on to the deck
and saw boats and dinghies, bristling with guns and military, speeding towards
the ship. There were helicopters above us, and gas and sound bombs were being
used.

"There were then gunshots and the first passenger was fatally wounded. He was
brought to the back of the deck but he'd been shot in the head."

Ms Colborne said that the captain then announced that live ammunition was being
used, and that the passengers should stop resisting. At 5.15am he broadcast a
request for help with the critically injured, and at 7am the Israelis started
letting the wounded off.

"Then four dead bodies were laid out on the floor and all the passengers were
moved out. We were cuffed with cable ties, our phones were removed and we were
made to sit or kneel on the deck in the hot sun.

"After some hours we were moved back to the saloon, and we left the boat some
time between 10am and 10.30am." Ms Colborne and the others were then taken to
Ashdod in Israel, and then Beersheba prison, where they remained until being
deported.

Hundreds turned up at Istanbul airport to cheer the activists and burn Israeli
flags. Some of the Britons immediately looked for flights home, while others
stayed in the city at the expense of Turkish Airlines, Istanbul's city council,
and the Islamic IHH charity, which owned the ship. The group has come under
scrutiny over its alleged links with militant organisations.

Alexandra Lort-Phillips, 37, also from Hackney, stayed on to attend the funerals
and offer help to the charity. She said that no one aboard had expected the
bloodbath. "In my mind, before, I thought one person might get killed if there
was a really bad fight. I had no concept that live ammunition would be fired by
forces normally used against resistance fighters," she said.

Yesterday afternoon vast crowds who flocked to Istanbul's Fatih Mosque to mark
the activists' funerals waved Turkish and Palestinian flags and chanted: "Damn
Israel. Israel is the Angel of Death."

Ms Lort-Phillips refused to blame the Israeli commandos for the killings. "They
got on board the ship and behaved like soldiers behave. It's not their fault
that they were put in that situation by someone in charge of military strategy,"
she said.

TheUSState Department said that it was investigating the circumstances of the
American's death, though a spokesman said that the FBI would not be involved in
the inquiry.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cigdem Topcuoglu with the coffin of her husband, Cetin, who died in the
raid
MUSTAFA OZER / AFP/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                                  June 4, 2010

Thousands gather to mourn terrorist attack victims

BYLINE: Omar Oakes

SECTION: UPLOAD NEWS ARTICLES

LENGTH: 332  words


Thousands of worshippers gathered at western Europe's biggest mosque this
afternoon, to pay respect to victims of last Friday's terrorist attacks in
Pakistan, under the watchful eye of police and security guards.

More than 6,000 Ahmadi Muslims visited the Bait-ul-Futuh in London Road, Morden,
where their spiritual leader told them to remain vigilant in the face of hatred
and extremism.

Ahmadi Muslims are a minority sect within Islamic communities and are regarded
as non-Muslims in Pakistan, where their forms of worship are criminalised.

Last Friday, armed gunmen stormed two Ahmadi mosques with AK-47s and grenades,
killing 93 worshippers and wounding dozens more as they prayed.

Among the dead was Southfields businessman Muhammad Ashraf Bilal, whose high
profile as a philanthropist made him target for assassins after he had built a
medical dispensary in Lahore.

Kingston resident Lutfur Rahman, 32, who lives in Fairfield Road, narrowly
survived the attacks by hiding behind a pillar as the terrorists sprayed gunfire
at the worshippers.

Mr Rahman said: "They hurled three hand grenades and shot dead the imam. I hid
behind a pillar and feared for my life as people to my left and right were hit
and fell to the ground. They stopped moving."

Amid fears of further violence by extremists, Merton police provided extra
officers to patrol to check each incoming car's boot and bonnet as they entered
the grounds.

Each visitor had to pass through airport-style scanners and the mosque was
patrolled by Merton Police's Safer Neighbourhood Teams from St Helier and Morden
Park wards.

Imran Uddin, the mosque's external relations manager, said they had mutually
agreed with the Metropolitan Police to crack down on security in the aftermath
of last week's attacks.

He said: "We have had good co-operation with the police and the safer
neighbourhood teams, who are very familiar with the mosque.

"We have also had discussions with Scotland Yard about providing support from
the anti-terrorism division."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 5, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

When life or death is simply a matter of luck;
As with dangerous dogs, terrorist attacks or child murders, we cannot legislate
away random atrocities

BYLINE: Janice Turner

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1074 words


It was the randomness that was so hard to compute about Cumbria. How could death
snatch you up as you returned from the village shops or because you'd agreed to
help your uncle to trim a hedge or chosen just the worst moment to deliver
Betterware catalogues? Why did Derrick Bird aim his shotgun at a street-full of
targets then train it upon a cyclist? Why did these people die, not the girl who
ducked in time and felt the bullet whizz through her hair? Our innate human
desire to distinguish patterns, to process a rare atrocity within the scheme of
our existing knowledge, to understand then allocate blame, is confounded here.
It makes no sense. There was no sane way those victims could have organised
their lives that might have forestalled their deaths. Twelve people may have
been blasted away without any "lessons to be learnt".

Last year, I listened to David Cameron deliver the Hugo Young lecture in which
he called for a type of government whose heartbeat isn't wired up to the 24-hour
news cycle. Well, good luck with that, I thought, since it was axiomatic that
sudden tragedies required ministers to spring up calling for dynamic
intervention. How, I wondered, could a PM stand there, while the media bayed,
hold up his hands and say: "Sometimes bad stuff just happens." Well, this week
he did. And whatever ideological worries one harbours about the coalition, his
measured response to the West Cumbria killings - that there is not always "an
instant legislative or regulatory answer", was karmically refreshing. A decade
of governing as if Britain is in a constant state of emergency has been wearing
on the national nerves.

Although it is not wholly inexplicable. Faced with relatives, propelled by the
burning, righteous energy of the bereaved, it is hard to stymie their desire to
rewind history, to put in place measures that just might have prevented their
loss. And so out of a spate of mauled children the clunky, unworkable Dangerous
Dogs Act was born. From the 7/7 bombings came a battery of security measures and
uglifying barriers that have made Parliament Square resemble Iraq's Green Zone.
Sarah Payne's murder by a convicted paedophile generated attempts to bring a
readily available register of sex offenders' addresses, regardless of the risk
that it might drive them further underground. From the Soham murders came the
Independent Safeguarding Authority, to vet all adults in contact with children.

The efficacy of these measures seldom seems properly measured against the
intrusion into our lives and psyches. The ISA might not even have stopped Ian
Huntley killing, since it was not he but the teaching assistant Maxine Carr (who
would have passed such a vetting) the Soham girls were calling upon that night.

Nonetheless it has led towards a grim and insulting insistence that a parent who
helps out at a rugby club must prove they are not a paedophile and, worse than
that, a tonal shift in our thinking - seen in the no-photo rules at swimming
pools and school assemblies -that evil lurks everywhere watching our children,
waiting for our momentary inattention. All this effortful fretting, although the
number of child-murders by strangers is around a dozen a year and has not risen
in decades.

So if, as seems apparent, Derrick Bird was licensed to keep his guns for typical
country purposes - his conviction for theft amounted to no more than ripping off
building materials from his employer, not a crime against the person - there may
be little the Government can do to assuage the Something Must Be Done lobby,
short of a total gun ban which (like fox-hunting) would split opinion along
city-rural lines.

Maybe it is enough that bored PCs, filling in the labyrinthine shotgun licensing
forms, will now be a percentile point more alert. But that may not avert another
tragedy either.

If random horror is hard to legislate against, it is yet harder to accommodate
in everyday life. I once interviewed Patricia Cornwell who, although we were
meeting for lunch on the Harvard campus, was accompanied by an armed bodyguard.
Even walking her dogs near her home, she carries a weapon. If she sleeps with an
open balcony door she puts a chair in the threshold lest she sleep-walk over the
edge to her death. Her friends call her Ms Worst Case Scenario.

Cornwell has a crime writer's macabre imagination -and the resultant wealth that
made her paranoid about kidnap - but her thought processes are hardly less
extreme than some of my friends'. Since 9/11 several have refused to fly, while
others only do so well-relaxed by pills. Since the London bombings, some have
stopped travelling by Tube and, I confess, I never board a carriage now without
scanning for potential bombers or ownerless bags or being troubled by a quickly
suppressed slo-mo vision of flying body parts, the carnage of a blast.

And while I love to cycle, some days in London I don't feel brave enough to play
the odds, can't handle the possiblity of a carelessly opened car door, a
slippery man-hole cover in a bus lane.

The death of actress Natasha Richardson while skiing affected me and my friends
deeply. Here was a middle-aged woman, on a perfect day. On a pathetic green run,
for goodness sake! One minor tumble, a banged head and game over. Just the type
of random death it is hardest to pre-empt. Yet still there was a mass ordering
of ski helmets that winter and nagging of children to wear them.

The randomness of life is harder to bear with age, that gathering anxiety about
mortality that leads to a more cautious, duller life.

Where is that carefree girl who rode a motorbike across Greek islands without a
helmet, I wonder, or who jumped into a taxi with drunken Afghanistan veterans in
Leningrad? Now she worries about falling off a kitchen counter changing a
lightbulb or electrocuting herself with the power-hose. It becomes increasingly
tricky to shut up your inner health and safety executive, boring your children
about marginal potential hazards like choking on gum just as your parents bored
you.

It takes courage to live in the face of arbitrary horror, without, for most of
us, a religion that can attribute the cruel and unpreventable to the acts of an
unknowable but wise God. But we must: as a nation and as individuals. There is
no sanity, no fun, nothing to be gained from being Ms Worst Case Scenario.

Relatives want action that might have prevented their loss

I'm struggling to shut up my inner health and safety executive

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday

Pakistan author calls US drone attacks "acts of state terrorism"

LENGTH: 1025 words


Text of article by Mir Adnan Aziz headlined "Drones fuelling the fire" published
by Pakistani newspaper The Frontier Post website on 5 June


In 'The Strategies of War', Robert Greene writes: Rommel once made a distinction
between a gamble and a risk. Both cases involve an action with only a chance of
success, a chance that is heightened by acting with boldness. The difference is
that with a risk if you lose, you can recover. Your reputation will suffer no
long-term damage and your resources will not be depleted.

You can return to your original position with acceptable losses. With a gamble,
on the other hand, defeat can lead to a slew of problems that are likely to
spiral out of control. If you encounter difficulties in a gamble, it becomes
harder to pull out. You realise that the stakes are too high; you cannot afford
to lose. So you try harder to rescue the situation, often making it worse and
sinking deeper into the hole that you cannot get out of. Taking risks is
essential; gambling is foolhardy. The United States occupation of Iraq and
Afghanistan, initially deemed not even a risk has become a gamble and that too
is spiralling out of control. Drones are the latest card seen as an ace, that
the deck is well stacked against them figures nowhere on their video monitors.
The Brookings Institution, one of the most powerful and influential think tanks
in the United States, published an analysis by Daniel Byman on the US drone
policy in Pakistan. It stated that more than 600 civilians (till June 2009) have
been killed by US attacks. It also went on to say that for every militant killed
more than 10 civilians also died. This assessment is highly significant as a
very influential US think tank has gone on record saying that 90 per cent of
those killed in US drone attacks in Pakistan have been innocent civilians. The
percentage may significantly increase given the higher number of civilian
casualties quoted by local sources. Using Pakistani tribal areas as a testing
ground, the US industrial-military complex has elevated robotic warfare to its
appealing best but for the common man here, to the highest levels of cynicism.
Operated through video screens from Creech and Hancock air force bases in the
US, drones slaughter indiscriminately great swaths of the civilian population.
Obama's presidency brought a significant (more than a 100per cent) rise in these
attacks, the first four months this year alone seeing 34 of them. Joe Biden
announced at the onset that he favoured fewer troops on ground as opposed to a
significant increase in the use of assassination drones. Last October, UN
Special Rapporteur on Extrajudicial Executions Philip Alston warned: "My concern
is that these drones, these Predators, are being operated in a framework which
may well violate international humanitarian law and international human rights
law. The onus is really on the government of the United States to reveal more
about the ways in which it makes sure that arbitrary executions, extrajudicial
executions, are not in fact being carried out through the use of these weapons."
The US responded by greatly intensifying the attacks. On January 13, 2006, one
of the earliest drone attacks saw 10missiles fired on Damadola. The purported
target was Ayman al Zawahiri at a dinner on Eidul Azha. US officials declared
that up to four al-Qaeda members were killed. ABC News gloated over the killings
and described the gathering as a "terror summit". When their euphoria subsided
it was learnt that 22people, including five children and five women, had been
killed. Fourteen of the dead were from the same family gathered for an Eid
dinner. US officials later admitted that no al-Qaeda leader was amongst the dead
and those who perished were local villagers. On September 8, 2008 drones fired
five missiles on the madressah of Jalaluddin Haqqani. At least 23people,
including eight children and Haqqani's wife, sister, perished. Haqqani himself
was not present in the madressah at that time. On June 23, 2009, hundreds of
Pakistanis attended a funeral in the Makeen district of South Waziristan for a
suspected Taliban leader. Two US drones fired at least three missiles directly
into the funeral gathering. The death toll was put at 80,including 10 children
between the ages of five to 10. Subsequent reports were unanimous that no
militant leader was harmed in the attack. The drone attacks violate
international laws and conventions and as a strategy, extremely
counter-productive. It lacks both in terms of technical efficiency and the human
Intel it depends upon. Western media sources such as the Time magazine, the
Guardian and even people within the CIA admit this fact. The Wall Street Journal
reported: "Militants in Iraq have used $26 off the shelf software to intercept
live video feeds from US Predator drones, potentially providing them with
information they need to evade or monitor US military operations". Hired local
people, out for a quick dollar, drop micro-chips randomly and at compounds and
abodes housing their tribal rivals. The drones then lock onto these chips to
fire their missiles. The thermal cameras on which drone operators rely to verify
their targets are notoriously imperfect. Even under ideal conditions, images can
be blurry. In a chilling revelation, Time wrote that "in one of several stills
from drone video seen by Time, it is hard to tell if a group of men are kneeling
in prayer or they are militants in battle formation". To tell the United States
that the drone strikes violate the UN Charter, the Geneva Convention and the
principles of the Nuremburg Tribunal and a plethora of international laws would
be a futile exercise. We have seen the US flout these laws and conventions with
utter disdain. Its unequivocal support for Israel and India, both perpetrators
of state terrorism, shows an anomaly used by the "enemy" to further its own
cause. That these strikes, acts of state terrorism itself, add fuel to fire and
are detrimental to their own security would be a narrative easier for them to
understand and hopefully digest.

Source: The Frontier Post website, Peshawar, in English 05 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday

Terrorist attack prevented, arms cache found in Russia's Caucasus republic

LENGTH: 287 words


Policemen of the interior department of the Kabarda-Balkaria's Elbrusskiy
District prevented a terrorist attack in the town of Tyrnyauz on 4 June, Russian
news agency Interfax-South reported on 5 June.

A home-made explosive device was found in the Elbrusskaya Ulitsa (street) at
1630 gmt, a source in the press service of the Russian Interior Ministry in
Kabarda-Balkaria told Interfax.

"The home-made explosive device was planted in an area where dozens of
residential houses are located; the federal motorway Prokhladniy-Azau leading to
the Elbrus (mountain) area is nearby. As it was dangerous to move the device, it
was decided to blow it up on the spot. People were evacuated, the scene of the
incident was closed off," the source said.

The explosive device was shot at from automatic guns. There were no casualties
among civilians or the police, the source said.

The device was 2.5 kg in TNT equivalent, the source added. An investigation is
under way.

The source went on to say that the centre for countering extremism of the
Russian Interior Ministry in Kabarda-Balkaria found a cache with arms in Nalchik
on 4 June.

"The arms cache found in the south-west of Nalchik was a plastic drain pipe 1.5
m in diameter laid in the ground. It contained a Kalashnikov automatic gun of
the 7.62-mm calibre, an RGN hand grenade with a fuse, a 400 g TNT block, a
Midland radio station with two battery chargers, a charger for a Kenwood radio
station, two pieces of wire with portfires at one end, headphones with a
microphone, a grenade pouch, and a raincoat. There were also 60 cartridges of
the 5.54-mm calibre and 65 cartridges of the 7.62-mm calibre," the source said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0653 gmt 5 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday

Russian security service stages drill to stop terror attack on nuclear reactor

LENGTH: 260 words


Text of report by Russian state news agency ITAR-TASS

Ulyanovsk, 6 June: A special tactical FSB [Federal Security Service] exercise in
stopping a simulated terrorist act at a nuclear facility was staged in Ulyanovsk
Region today, chief of the press service of the regional FSB directorate Faina
Safiullina has told ITAR-TASS.

"According to the exercise scenario, a group of terrorists armed with firearms
and grenade launchers entered the compound of the atomic reactor research
institute in the town of Dimitrovgrad," Faina Safiullina said.

The "terrorists" seized the checkpoint, shooting dead the guards on duty, and
went on to plant a bomb in the reactor and to take five staff members hostage,
putting forward political demands.

The criminals threatened to kill the hostages and set off the improvised
explosive device attached to the reactor vessel if their demands were not met.

A counterterrorism operation regime was notionally imposed on Dimitrovgrad
during the exercise. In addition to FSB forces, subunits of the Interior
Ministry, the Emergencies Ministry, the Defence Ministry and the Centre for the
Disaster Medicine were used. As a result of a special operation, the hostages
were freed and the "terrorists" destroyed. A total of about 1,000 people took
part in the exercise.

"In the course of the exercise, the level of antiterrorist protection of a
radiation-hazard facility was tested, and practical actions to avert the threat
of a terrorist act were practised," Safiullina said.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1654 gmt 6 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 7, 2010 Monday

Israel radio says commandos foil terror attack off Gaza

LENGTH: 115 words


Text of report by Israeli public radio station Voice of Israel Network B on 7
June

Israeli naval commandos thwarted an attempted terrorist attack in the Nahal Azza
area. Sources in the Gaza Strip report that four Palestinians were killed and
three others are missing.

Our army affairs correspondent Karmela Menashe reports that a commando unit
opposite the central Gaza Strip shores opened fire at a terrorist squad whose
members, dressed in diving suits, were on their way to perpetrate an attack. Our
Palestinian affairs correspondent Gal Berger reports that at this point it's not
clear who is responsible for the attempted attack.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 0400 gmt 7 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday

Russia: Killed rebels in Ingushetia reportedly planned terror attacks

LENGTH: 291 words


Text of report by Russian internet news agency Regnum, specializing in regional
reporting

8 June: State security agencies possess information [suggesting] that Umar
Sakalov, who was killed on 8 June, and his retinue planned and organized acts of
sabotage and terror [to be carried out] during the celebration of Day of Russia
[on 12 June], the Federal Security Service Directorate for Ingushetia has told
Regnum.

"Sakalov made several improvised explosive devices, which members of the bandit
underground set off in Ingushetia's Malgobekskiy District on Ingushetia's
Republic Day, 4 June 2010. It cannot be ruled out that he was directly involved
in the planting of explosive devices in the cafe Uzbekskaya Kukhnya in the
village of Ordzhonikidzevskaya in Sunzhenskiy District on 31 May, as a result of
which [blast] two members of the Interior Ministry were injured, and also on 1
June on an electricity pylon near the village of Yandare in the republic's
Nazranovskiy District andthe Kavkaz federal highway," the report by the press
service says.

The Federal Security Service directorate noted that "an end has been put to the
operation of one of the active bandit groups on the territory of Ingushetia".

We should remind you that police officers tried to stop a by-passing car on a
road between the villages of Pliyevo and Achaluki at about 0100 [8 June - 2100
gmt 7 June]. However, the people that were in the car opened fire. As a result
of the shoot-out, an unidentified explosive device went off in the car. The
power of the explosive device was equivalent to 4 kg of TNT. The blast killed
two people - Umar Sakalov and Ibragim Arselgov. They were in the car and died on
the spot.

Source: Regnum news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1053 gmt 8 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday

Turkish PM condemns Israeli "state terrorism", PKK attacks

LENGTH: 2991 words


Excerpt from report y Adem Kadam headlined "Prime Minister Erdogan in Konya",
published by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia; subheadings as
published

Konya, 4 June: Quoting [13th century Sufi philosopher] Mevlana's counsel, "be
like a stream in generosity and help, like the sun in clemency and compassion,
like the night in veiling flaws, like the dead in violence and temper, like the
soil in modesty and humility, like the sea in tolerance; look like you are and
be like you look", Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said: "However, there are
traitors and cowards, like the terrorist organization in our midst, who cannot
or do not want to hear these words."

Speaking at the World Environment Day Celebration and General Opening ceremony
at the Culture Park, Erdogan said that Mevlana opened his arms to the world,
offered his heart to humanity, and embraced all faiths by saying "come again,
our lodge is not a lodge of despair".

Noting that Konya is Mevlana's city, Erdogan quoted Mevlana's exhortation: "Be
like a stream in generosity and help, like the sun in clemency and compassion,
like the night in veiling flaws, like the dead in violence and temper, like the
soil in modesty and humility, like the sea in tolerance; look like you are and
be like you look." He continued: "This approach, this tolerance, this sincerity
are the core and fuel of our soul. These words are a map of Anatolia and the
conscience of the 73 million people of Anatolia."

Erdogan recalled that he conveyed Mevlana's words to the whole world at the
Alliance of Civilizations Summit in Brazil. He continued:

"However, there are traitors and cowards, like the terrorist organization in our
midst, who cannot or do not want to hear these words. There are those who want
to divide our beautiful homeland. There are those who have no sense of basic
rights and freedoms. There are those who pester children and women. They are
willing to harass [women] and assault children. Unfortunately, there are also
circles who dare to defend such people. We know what happened in Iskenderun. We
know who attacked with rocket launchers and bombs our Mehmets and soldiers who
were performing their duty of defending our homeland. These are their final
quivers. We fill fight them until the end. However, my nation must be vigilant
against those who defend them; my people, my brothers, and my citizens must be
vigilant against them. When the funerals of our martyrs come home, when they are
laid on the funeral stone, they need prayers, not slogans. I am certain that my
people and my brothers will teach the best lesson to those who want to use [the
martyr funerals] as a means of political exploitation. Our martyrs belong to all
of us, not just their families. They are not dead, they are alive. This is how
we know and remember them and this is how we will remember them."

Citizens frequently shouted "martyrs do not die, the homeland cannot be divided"
[rhymes in Turkish] throughout Erdogan's speech.

Prime Minister Erdogan said that the global perception of associating the
Zionist star with the swastika, a perception caused by the Israeli government,
vexes the Israeli people also. He continued: "I call upon the Israeli people to
be more cautious towards these thoughtless, shortsighted, ruthless, and
unscrupulous administrators and to take a more careful look at the course on
which they want to set Israel."

Speaking at the World Environment Day Celebration and General Opening ceremony
at the Culture Park, Erdogan said that an unlawful assault was staged in
international waters on ships that were carrying humanitarian aid and only
civilian passengers.

Recalling that yesterday he visited the wounded persons brought from Israel,
Erdogan said: "They attacked our unarmed brothers with firearms. They apparently
used plastic bullets as well as steel balls and real ammunition. We saw all of
them. We saw the condition of our brothers coming out of surgery and those being
treated in intensive care. They told us what happened. Furthermore, the
passengers of these ships were not only from Turkey. They were [citizens of] 32
countries. After listening to all of them, we realized that this was an act of
great cruelty and a full-fledged act of piracy."

Describing the Israeli attack as an instance of "flagrant state terrorism,
disregard for the law, and belligerence," Erdogan said that the attack was "a
manifestation of the sick state of mind, paranoia, and trauma gripping the
Israeli government."

Recalling complaints by the Israeli government to the effect that "the world is
being hypocritical," the prime minister continued:

"No. It is you who are hypocritical. It is you who are proud of those who
perpetrate massacre. It is you who has said that you stand behind them. I say
this once again: You know how to kill well. I speak to them in their own
language. The sixth of the ten commandments in the Torah says: 'You shall not
kill.' Do you not understand? Look, I will say it again in English: 'You shall
not kill.' Do you still not understand? Then I will say it in your own language:
'Lo tir'tsach.'

"I would also like to underscore one point here: The bullying posture of the
Israeli government puts not only Palestine, not only the region, but also the
Israeli people in a difficult position; it upsets the Israeli people. The
vicious policies of the Israeli government sequesters the Israeli people,
isolates them from the rest of the world, harms their image in the eyes of the
world, and puts Israeli citizens in a difficult position. I am sure that the
global perception of associating the Zionist star with the swastika, a
perception caused by the Israeli government, vexes the Israeli people also. I
call upon the Israeli people to be more cautious towards these thoughtless,
shortsighted, ruthless, and unscrupulous administrators and to take a more
careful look at the course on which they want to set Israel."

"Matter not over"

Erdogan explained the diplomatic steps Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu took
after the Israeli attack and noted that parties with groups in the Turkish Grand
National Assembly issued a unanimous and united declaration to tie Israel's
attack on ships taking humanitarian aid to Gaza to a new process.

Disclosing that the last two of the wounded persons remaining in Israel were
brought to Turkey in a Ministry of Health plane, Erdogan said that no Turkish
citizens now remain in Israeli hospitals.

Erdogan recalled that Turkey's foreign, interior, and justice ministries; the
Turkish Armed Forces; the state; and NGO's took steps together after the attack.
He continued:

"We worked to complete this work quickly step by step. On my own behalf and on
behalf of my nation, I thank all my brothers and all officials who contributed
their labour and who participated in this endeavour sincerely. We used all of
our means. We deployed our international power. However, we are not done. We
will continue these efforts in the coming days also. This matter is not over.
This has a sequel. We continue and we will continue. We will continue to do
whatever is necessary in the international community. This will continue until
justice is done."

"Subcontractor organization"

The prime minister underscored that the terrorist organization that has shed
blood for the last 30 years has now clearly demonstrated that it is a
subcontractor organization and that the nation must see this well. Erdogan said:

"These people are never and can never be the representatives of my citizens of
Kurdish ancestry. Everyone should know this. These people do not care about
rights and freedoms. You should know this well. It is we who care. This is why
we launched the National Unity and Brotherhood Project and are working on it
intensively.

"Who opposed national unity and brotherhood and the democratic process in this
country? Take a look: the Republican People's Party, the Nationalist Action
Party, the Peace and Democracy Party [BDP] opposed them. We saw how they stood
together in the constitutional amendment process also. They complain that their
party keeps getting shut down, but they refuse to come to parliament and sit
outside when there is a vote on an amendment that blocks or impedes the closure
of parties.

"There is another group that does not trust them. Their general chairman does
not trust them and tells them: 'None of you should enter the voting booth.' Why?
Because he does not trust them. He thinks that if they enter the voting booth a
different vote may materialize. We experienced all this. For what? We went
through all this for democracy. How can we have democracy with such attitudes
for God's sake? Can democracy within parties work this way? Can we have
democracy with such people? Are these people going to be the indispensable
elements of political life or the democratic parliamentary system? No." [passage
omitted on domestic issues]

Prime Minister Erdogan said: "First of all, there is no similarity between Hamas
and the terrorist organization PKK. Hamas is an organization of resistance
fighters who are waging a struggle to defend their lands. They are Palestinians.
They have won elections in Palestine, but they remain in Israeli jails even
though they have won elections."

The prime minister said: "I made these comments to US officials also. I said
these everywhere. I said: 'I do not consider or accept Hamas as a terrorist
organization.' I think the same way today. This is my opinion."

Speaking at the World Environment Day Celebration and General Opening ceremony
at the Culture Park, Erdogan said that Turkey must not be compared to others. He
added: "No one should try to test Turkey's patience. No one should make the
mistake of viewing Turkey as just another country. No one should try to treat
this country as a tribal state."

Erdogan then quoted lines from a Mehmet Akif Ersoy poem: "I cannot applaud
tyranny, and I can never like the tyrant/I cannot condemn the past to appease
anyone who comes along/I may be meek, perhaps I am a docile lamb/My throat may
be slit, but my neck cannot tolerate burdens/My heart burns when I see a
bleeding wound/I may be whipped and kicked to stop the burning/I cannot just
ignore, I do care/I may tread and be trod upon/I stand by and uphold justice/I
am the adversary of the tyrant, but I love the aggrieved."

The prime minister said that the fate of Jerusalem cannot be separated from the
fate of Istanbul, that the fate of Gaza cannot be separated from the fate of
Ankara, and that the fates of Ramallah, Refah, Hanyunus, and Beytullahim cannot
be separated from the fate of Konya.

Declaring that "we will not keep quiet even if the world keeps quiet," Erdogan
continued:

"Even if the world turns a blind eye to massacres, we cannot and will not close
our eyes. Even if the world watches the bloodshed from the sidelines, we will
not say 'our arms and hands are tied' in the face of what is happening. Even if
the world turns its back on Palestine, we will not turn our back on Palestine,
the Palestinian people, Gaza, or Jerusalem. As you see, they view even the
innocent babies in their cradles as threats. They murdered those innocent babies
in the laps of their mothers - just like the terrorists in our country. As if
this was not enough, now they treat baby food as a threat. They view children as
threats. They consider children's parks and playgrounds as threats. They
murdered innocent children on their bicycles. As if that was not enough, now
they are afraid of children's toys. They see young people and students as
threats. They attacked students in schools and universities. When those youths
hurled stones at them, they dropped phosphorus bombs on them. Unfortunately, the
world still stands with those who dropped phosphorus bombs on youths hurling
stones. Consequently, we condemn those who take such stands and we wage and will
wage this str uggle together with those who refuse to stand with them. We do
this because this is what becomes the reputation of the Turkish nation.

"They are afraid of innocent civilians, women, the elderly, and even patients in
hospitals. Indeed, they bombed their hospitals. They shelled them with tanks and
artillery guns. As if that was not enough, they are now afraid of walking
sticks, wheelchairs, bandages, serum bottles, and medications. They used to be
afraid of tunnels and quarries. They did not leave anything standing in Gaza.
Now they are even afraid of construction steel, bricks, and cement. They engage
in every form of .., every form... They engage in every form of disgrace, every
form of cowardice, every form of bullying, banditry, and piracy. Then they say
'it is because of Hamas, Al-Qa'idah, anti-Semitism.' However, their actions can
no longer be covered up. This is not a matter of Hamas, Al-Qa'idah, or
anti-Semitism. You should not deceive anyone. Be truthful and honest. If we are
going to find peace in this world, this can only happen in a world that is built
on justice. This is how everyone must look at this, no matter who they are."

"You killed, martyred Furkan Dogan"

Underscoring that he does not have any problems with Jews or the Israeli people,
Erdogan said: "Our problem is with Israel's present government, which oppresses
and which keeps perpetrating state terrorism. We have state terrorism before
us."

Expressing the hope that humanity will learn a lesson from this incident, the
prime minister said:

"After all, this is not just an incident between Israel and Turkey. This is an
incident between Israel and 32 countries. Among those volunteers were citizens
of 32 countries. [The Israelis] were merciless and cowardly. Pirates in Somalia
used to engage in such acts, now they have done the same. I call upon all
permanent members [of the UN Security Council] and chiefly the United States. I
call upon Russia, China, Britain, France, Germany, all of them: If you are fair,
you have to apply justice. Such intervention is unacceptable not just against
civilian ships but even military vessels in international waters. Now these
[ships] have been attacked. Naturally, Turkey will seek its full rights at the
national and international level together with other countries. We will pursue
this matter to the end. We will express these positions in every international
meeting. We will do whatever is necessary. Anti-Semitism is a crime against
humanity, but so is terrorism. I have said this everywhere. I keep saying it and
will continue to say it. The time of committing crimes against humanity,
breaching the law, and perpetrating state terrorism by exploiting anti-Semitism
and using the excuse of war on terrorism is now over."

Underscoring that even war is subject to laws and rules, Erdogan said:

"There are untouchables even in war. For God's sake, you attacked ships carrying
humanitarian aid and flying white flags. You savagely killed 19-year-old Furkan
Dogan - you martyred him. Did Furkan carry arms or bombs? Was 'terrorist'
written on his forehead? What legal system, religion, faith, which holy book can
be an excuse for your act of piracy, your executions without trial, or your
massacres? International media are no longer able to cover up their acts of
piracy. The columnists, cartoonists, pundits, and collaborators they have
enlisted as accomplices in their bloody acts can no longer conceal their inhuman
acts of terrorism. They have their partners among us also. There are those among
us who speak that way too. Unfortunately, there are people among us who compare
this attack by Israel and the posture taken against it with PKK attacks on our
soldiers and attacks by Hamas [sentence as published]."

"Oh columnists writing in Turkey's newspapers"

Erdogan said: "First of all, there is no similarity between Hamas and the
terrorist organization PKK." He continued: "We find passports of the Turkish
Republic on members of the terrorist organization PKK. They have the status of
citizens of this country. Theirs are not attacks from outside. Hamas is an
organization of resistance fighters who are waging a struggle to defend their
lands. They are Palestinians. They have won elections in Palestine, but they
remain in Israeli jails even though they have won elections. I made these
comments to US officials also. I said these everywhere. I said: 'I do not
consider or accept Hamas as a terrorist organization.' I think the same way
today. This is my opinion. They are defending their land. They won elections but
they were not even given a chance to run a government. So what happened to
democracy? Where are those who speak up for democracy? Why did you not allow
them? Allow them to wage a democratic struggle. They won an election. Let them
run a government so that you can see what they will do. However, they could not
take it. They could not tolerate it. They applied economic pressure. They cut
their taxes [as published]. Is this justice?

"Consequently, you cannot compare this to the PKK in good conscience. Oh
columnists writing in Turkey's newspapers: I know that you will now write about
me. You will write, but you can no longer hide what is happening. After all, we
know your past. We know their dispositions. We know very well what they are
doing. We are on the side of the righteous, the forthright, and the just, and we
will continue to stand with them.

"My dear brothers, you can see that this happened in international waters in the
Mediterranean. An unlawful attack was launched on ships laden with humanitarian
materials and carrying only civilian passengers and aid volunteers. These cannot
be justified by any excuses. I visited the hospital yesterday and saw our 19
wounded brothers or citizens there. My dear brothers, they attacked these
unarmed brothers with firearms. They apparently used plastic bullets as well as
steel balls and real ammunition. I saw all of these. I saw the condition of our
brothers coming out of surgery. I saw the condition of our brothers in intensive
care."

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in Turkish 4 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                              June 11, 2010 Friday

Race Attack Terror

BYLINE: Sophie Doughty

SECTION: A; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 382 words


CRUEL racist yobs attacked and humiliated a teenage girl  in an assault that has
stunned police.

The 15-year-old was  allegedly kicked, punched and had beer poured over her by a
gang of yobs who pushed her to the ground after hurling racist abuse at her.

The attack, which a local police officer described as the most shocking he had
come across in the area, happened  around 9pm last Friday, in Heaton Park,
Newcastle.

Police are now appealing for a Good Samaritan, who helped the girl, to get in
touch.

The victim was approached by the group who shouted racial abuse at her before
grabbing her from behind and forcing her to the ground.

She was kicked and punched while she was on the ground and had beer poured over
her before she was able to run off.

The teenager sustained a number of cuts and bruises in the attack but did not
need hospital treatment.

A 14-year-old girl and a 13-year-old boy have been arrested on suspicion of
racially aggravated assault in connection with the incident and have been
released on police bail.

Neighbourhood beat manager PC Alan Clark, who is leading the investigation, said
the incident is the most  disturbing he has come across in his time working in
Heaton.

"This was a disturbing assault in which the attackers appear to have set out to
humiliate their victim," he said.

"Her attackers directed derogatory language about people of Asian origin towards
her."

"This incident is all the more shocking because attacks like this one are
completely out of character in this community.

"During my time as a member of the Heaton and Jesmond Neighbourhood Policing
Team, I have never come across an attack of this nature and myself and the whole
team are determined to apprehend those responsible and prevent any such
happening again.

PC Clark would now like to hear from a man who helped the victim after the
attack and may have vital information.

"During the attack the victim's shoes were either taken or fell off and were
handed back to her by an adult man who appears to have been passing by at the
time of the assault," he said.

"As well as speaking to anyone who was in the area at the time of the attack we
would very much like to speak to this man as he may be a valuable witness."

Anyone with any information should call Northumbria Police on 03456 043 043.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 12, 2010 Saturday

Turkish soldier killed in "terrorist" attack in southeast

LENGTH: 97 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, One Turkish soldier was killed and one was wounded in a terrorist attack
waged in Semdinli town of the southeastern Hakkari province on Friday [11 June].

PKK [Kurdistan Workers' Party] terrorists opened fire on Turkish soldiers on
mission in the mountainous area of Semdinli, killing one soldier and wounding
another, Turkey's General Staff aired on its web-site.

The injured soldier was hospitalized, General Staff's statement also said.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1607 gmt 11 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 12, 2010 Saturday

Pakistan court adjourns trial on Mumbai terror attack case till 26 June - PTI

LENGTH: 298 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Islamabad, 12 June: A Pakistani anti-terrorism court conducting the trial of LeT
commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi and six other suspects linked to the Mumbai
attacks Saturday [12 June] adjourned the proceedings for two weeks after the
prosecution sought time to appoint a new prosecutor.

Special Public Prosecutor Malik Rab Nawaz Noon, who was heading the prosecution
team, recently died of a heart attack.

Public Prosecutor Zulfiqar Ahmed appeared in the anti-terrorism court of Judge
Malik Muhammad Akram Awan and asked for time so that the government could
appoint a replacement for Noon.

Defence lawyers Shahbaz Rajput and Khwaja Sultan told PTI that the judge
adjourned the trial of the seven suspects till 26 June.

"There were no other proceedings today (Saturday)," Rajput said.

He said proceedings were also affected by some "security concerns."

The proceedings were conducted in the office of the Deputy Superintendent of
Adiala Jail in Rawalpindi instead of a makeshift courtroom within the prison.

Sources said security in Adiala Jail had been tightened after two men were
recently arrested while trying to supply weapons to prisoners.

It could not immediately be ascertained whom the two men had tried to provide
weapons to.

Lakhvi and the other suspects have been charged under the Anti-Terrorism Act,
Pakistan Penal Code and a cyber crimes law for planning and facilitating the
2008 Mumbai attacks that killed 166 people.

The trial has been mired in controversy and numerous delays since last year.

Sources said the federal Law Ministry had recommended that a deputy attorney
general should be appointed to head the prosecution team as part of efforts to
speed up the trial.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1025gmt 12 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 13, 2010 Sunday

Four people killed in "terrorist" attack in Algerian province of Boumerdes

LENGTH: 516 words


Excerpt from report by Sofiane A. and A. Khattaf, headlined: "Parallel with the
elimination of terrorists in Bouira, four victims in a terrorist attack in
Boumerdes", published by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El-Khabar website on
12 June

Four people were killed and others wounded in a terrorist attack that targeted
the night before yesterday [10 June] a barrack of the national gendarmerie,
located along the national road No. 5 in the region of Timizar in the
municipality of Ammal in the province of Boumerdes.

During the attack, the elements of the national gendarmerie were able to
eliminate two terrorists. The operation was carried out at 23:45. Accounts had
varied on the implementation of the attack .While sources said that the attack
was carried out with a truck, full of explosives of Hyundai type, which was
driven by a suicide bomber, other sources reported that the truck had been mined
before rolling it without a driver towards the entrance of the barrack that is
located in front Beni Amran quarry. Two gendarmes, who were staying at fixed
security roadblock near the place, were killed in addition to the killing of two
citizens who were passing by the place, one of them, a Chinese worker. Some
gendarmes and six civilians had been also injured during the attack. They were
crossing the road. Some of them were transferred to El thenia hospital; others
were taken to the capital.

On the other hand the security forces eliminated on Thursday night to Friday [10
June] two terrorists and arrested a third one at around 10:30 in the area of
Rafor , municipality of Amchadela in the province of Bouira. According to
security sources, the clash with the terrorists took place in front of Prafur
restaurant when the three terrorists tried to flee. During this successful
operation of the security forces, various weapons that were in the possession of
terrorists had been seized.

According to El Khabar sources, this operation was carried out on the basis
information that had been conveyed to the security services which followed the
route of this terrorist group, which was on board a light car of gray colour,
which was coming from the province of Bejaia towards the capital.

Reliable sources indicated that after security forces had spotted three
terrorists on board a car of Peugeot 206 type, they followed them and when they
arrived at the eastern entrance of Ahnif village, located in the municipality of
Amechedela, the terrorists stopped their car, got down in order to take their
dinner at a restaurant in the region that remains open late at night. There they
became aware of the presence of the elements of the security forces who were in
civilian clothes. They entered into a clash with them in which an officer was
shot dead, before killing two of the bloody elements and arresting a third one
who was injured while trying to escape towards the mosque of the village.

[Passage omitted: Details of a search operation conducted by the army troops in
Bouira and elimination of two terrorists in Tikejeda last week]

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 12 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 14, 2010 Monday

Rail track blast in south Indian state "attempted terrorist attack" - minister

LENGTH: 244 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Track Blast an Attempted Terrorist Act:
Chidambaram" published by Indian newspaper The Hindu website on 14 June

Chennai: Union [federal] Home Minister P. Chidambaram has described as "an
attempted terrorist act" the railway track blast at Sithani near Villupuram on
Saturday [12 June], while rejecting suggestions that he might have been the
target of the attack.

Talking to reporters after meeting Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi at his
Gopalapuram residence on Sunday, Mr. Chidambaram was hopeful that those behind
the blast would be secured soon.

"The police and the intelligence department are in pursuit of the culprits. They
have already arrested a few persons on suspicion and are interrogating them," he
said.

Rejects suggestion

Mr. Chidambaram, however, rejected the suggestion that he was the target, saying
that though he was scheduled to travel by train to Tiruchi, he had cancelled the
trip after realising that he could not catch the train.

"It is not important whether I was a target or not. The lives of all the two
thousand people are just as important. I am confident that the police will soon
secure those behind the blast," he said.

The minister said that a major accident had been averted because of the presence
of mind of railway employees.

Asked what action he was expecting from the Tamil Nadu government, he said it
was for the State government to decide.

Source: The Hindu website, Chennai, in English 14 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Thurrock Gazette

                              June 14, 2010 Monday

Grandmother's terror at brick attack

SECTION: THURROCK NEWS (THURROCK NEWS)

LENGTH: 350 words


A GRANDMOTHER says she hasn't stopped crying since yobs threw bricks at her.

Rosie Martin was out walking her dog Pugsy in Southend Road in Corringham on
Sunday morning when she passed two boys who were trying to break the branches
off a tree.

The 70-year-old decided not to take her normal route right past the boys, and
tried to give them a wide berth instead, but as her back was turned she was hit
twice on the back of her head.

When she turned round she saw the boys laughing and realised they had thrown two
pieces of brick at her.

She said: "I shouted at them and they ran away laughing their heads off. They
didn't cut my head, but it did give me a bad headache.

"I was more shaken up than anything else."

Mrs Martin, who lives in Corringham herself, made her way to her sister's house
nearby where they called the police.

She added: "The police said I should go to hospital but I didn't want to, but as
I still have a headache I may go and see my doctor.

"I've been really tearful since it happened, I can't stop crying.

"My daughter has taken my dog to her house because I'm too scared to walk him at
the minute."

Mrs Martin decided to speak out as she wants the parents of the boys who did
this to take action so it doesn't happen again.

Police were called at 10.15am on Sunday, June 13 after reports of a 70-year-old
woman being assaulted in Southend Road, Corringham.

A spokesman for Essex Police said: "At 10am two boys approached the victim from
behind and threw a stone at her head, causing a bump on the back of her head.

"The suspects were described as two white boys, aged between 9 and 10. One was
wearing a red top.

"It is disgusting that anyone would throw stones at anyone, particularly a more
mature member of society. I urge anyone that knows who did this to come forward
to police.

"These boys might of though it was a bit of fun, but the woman could have
received much serious injuries, and it is lucky that it didn't turn out that
way."

Anyone with any information is asked to contact police at Corringham police
station on 0300 333 4444 or call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday

Organizers of Moscow metro terror attack established, most killed - FSB director

LENGTH: 155 words


Excerpt from report by Russian official state television channel Rossiya 1 on 15
June

[Presenter] Russian special services have prevented several major terrorist
attacks in the last two months, the head of the National Antiterrorist Committee
and Federal Security Service director, Aleksandr Bortnikov, said at a
committee's sitting today. [Passage omitted]

Almost all the organizers of terrorist attacks in the Moscow metro and at the
Derbent railway station have been eliminated.

[Bortnikov] As a result of joint work with the Investigations Committee under
the prosecutor's office, we have promptly established concrete persons who took
part in the organization, preparation and execution of terrorist attacks in the
Moscow metro and at the railway station in the town of Derbent. Timely measures
have made it possible to prevent further criminal activities of most of them.

Source: Rossiya 1 TV, Moscow, in Russian 0700 gmt 15 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

CHERYL COLE ATTACKED IN STREET;
Terror at hands of crazed mob.. EXCLUSIVE

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 21 words


CHERYL Cole was left terrified and shaken after a crazed fan attacked her as she
left the X Factor auditions.

Full story: Page 9

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture: WENN.COM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday
                                  1st Edition

Pair tell of terror attack on holiday;
Rock thown through bus window

BYLINE: IAN McNEAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 333 words


A MUM and daughter have warned of the dangers on South African roads after they
were caught up in a shocking bus attack.

Eileen and Catherine Hewitt, from Moreland Close, Wolviston, were enjoying a
touring holiday in the World Cup host nation, when a brick was thrown at their
coach, smashing the windscreen and showering terrified passengers with glass.

The ordeal comes as the shocking safety record of South African roads is thrown
into the spotlight by several fatal crashes ahead of the tournament.

Zenani Mandela, the 13-year-old great-grandaughter of former South African
president Nelson Mandela was killed on Thursday in Johannesburg.

Meanwhile, three UK students from Leicestershire died after a crash on the
African country's roads last week.

Eileen, a retired civil servant, and her barrister daughter were sitting four
seats from the front of the bus when the attack took place near George Airport,
in the Western Cape.

She said: A brick was thrown from an overhead bridge and just missed the
driver's head by about six inches.

"There was a great big smash -like a bomb going off -and we were showered with
glass. It was terrifying.

"The driver was very good and managed to control the vehicle, but if he hadn't
we could have been killed.

Eileen suffered a cut to her head and got shards of glass in her eye. She later
suffered flashbacks of the attack.

Catherine, 32, said initially she believed the incident was a one-off but was
later informed by a local journalist that it had happened before.

She said: "It was horrendous and very frightening. We were told it had never
happened before and did not think much about it.

"But then we got talking to a South African Times journalist who said it the
third time he had heard about this happening.

"South Africa has come so far and is such a beautiful country but I don't know
how people can realistically protect themselves when things like this happen."

¦ For more stories from Wolviston, visit www.gazettelive.co.uk/ts22

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  WARNING: From left, Catherine and Eileen Hewitt, left, were shocked
when a rock was thrown at their bus in South Africa, where three people were
killed in a separate accident, below SMASHED: The windscreen of the bus, above,
and the stone that hit it, below

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2010 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 16, 2010 Wednesday

Terrorists attack police mobile van with hand grenade in northwest Pakistan

LENGTH: 97 words


Text of report headlined "Police van attacked" published by Pakistani newspaper
The Frontier Post website on 16 June

Dera Ismail Khan: One person sustained injuries when miscreants threw a hand
grenade on police mobile van on DI Khan-DG Khan road here on Tuesday [15 June],
district police said.

Two alleged attackers were arrested by police after the failed attempt in the
limits of Parwa police station. The mobile party of Parwa police station was on
routine patrolling when miscreants hurdled hand grenade on the van.

Source: The Frontier Post website, Peshawar, in English 16 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 18, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Why I was wary of a 7/7 drama;
Brenda Blethyn talks to John Hiscock about her latest film, in which she plays a
mother searching for her daughter in the aftermath of the 2005 terrorist attacks

BYLINE: John Hiscock

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1045 words


Brenda Blethyn is recalling the time, many years ago, when she was appearing at
the National Theatre in London and was hurrying to meet her mother one day.

She was recognised in the street and surrounded by a group of students who
wanted to have their photographs taken with her. When she finally got away she
was late for her mother. "I said, 'I'm ever so sorry I'm late, Mum,' and told
her what had happened. She said, 'Oh, that's nice, dear. Who did they think you
were?'" She bursts into laughter as she tells the story, as she probably has
done many times before. It typifies the actress's down-toearth normality and
total absence of star pretensions, despite two Oscar nominations and many
critics' awards.

We meet in a crowded Italian restaurant during the Toronto Film Festival and
talk over the lunchtime noise. Blethyn has a busy schedule and already that
morning has attended a press conference and a reception given by the UK Film
Council. She is elegantly dressed in a dark suit with a silver brooch and her
reddish-brown hair is cut short. She looks at least a decade younger than her 64
years. "I'm blessed to have good skin, I drink a lot of water and I moisturise a
lot, but I don't sunbathe, so that's why my skin stays nice," she explains.
"Nice" is a word she uses a lot and it could equally well be applied to her;
although she is childless, she has an endearing Everymum way about her that
makes her so easy and comfortable to talk with.

Having flown in the day before, she seems genuinely surprised that she had been
met by a car and booked into a "nice" hotel. She was due to spend three days in
Toronto before flying back to London for a day and then moving on to Paris, all
in the cause of promoting London River, in which she gives a powerful and moving
performance as a woman searching for her daughter in the aftermath of the July 7
2005 London bombings.

London River, which was screened at the London Film Festival last year, is due
to be released next month and Blethyn is championing it alone because the
director, the Algerian Rachid Bouchareb, speaks little English.

Her co-star, the African actor Sotigui Kouyaté, who portrays a Muslim father
looking for his missing son, won the Silver Bear Award for best actor at the
Berlin festival but died in April, aged 73. "His generosity and warmth were
quite overwhelming," she says. "He was such a lovely, lovely man and his English
was probably worse than my French, which isn't good by any means, but we found a
way to communicate."

Brenda had to learn French for the role, as her character lives in Guernsey and
can only communicate in that language with Kouyaté's Muslim, whom she initially
views with great suspicion when they meet in London looking for their children.

"I'm so proud of this film, I really am," she says. "Everybody was making
sacrifices to get it made. I was at the Telluride film festival, and a lady
hugged me and hung on to me, saying she lost her daughter 12 years ago. She said
she loved the movie, I don't know why, but she did, and I didn't pry into how
she had lost her daughter, but it was kind of humbling." Initially, when her
agent told her Rachid Bouchareb wanted to meet her to talk about making a film
that takes place at the time of the London bombings, in which 56 people were
killed and 700 injured, she was reluctant to go.

"I was a bit nervous of it, to tell the truth," she recalls. "The event was
still quite recent, and, if it was going to be a sensationalist movie, I wasn't
at all interested. But I thought I'd go and meet him anyway, and of course I
found that wasn't the case at all. He was passionate about the idea of bringing
two people of different religions and different cultures from different ends of
the earth together to see how they interact and to discover their similarities
rather than their differences."

As usual with Blethyn's films, London River was made on a low budget, and she
received very little money for it. The "biggest" film she has made, she thinks,
is probably Atonement, and the nearest she has come to a Hollywood movie is
Pride and Prejudice.

"It's not because I don't want to make Hollywood movies, it's just that I've
never been asked," she laughs.

She and her companion of 35 years, Michael Mayhew, the art director at the
National Theatre, have homes in south-east London and Ramsgate, where Brenda was
born the youngest of nine children in a poor, working-class family.

"Growing up just after the war, we had nothing," she says. "Sometimes, I didn't
have shoes. There wasn't any television, and often we didn't have a radio
because Mum couldn't afford to pay the electricity bill and it was disconnected,
but we'd make our own fun.

"Every summer there'd be a carnival parade through the town and my dad used to
drive one of the floats that went past the house," she recalls. "I have a mental
image of my dad going by on that float and my mum standing on the pavement
making fun of him."

The house was demolished long ago and the home she has now overlooks Ramsgate's
harbour.

She looks at my scribbled shorthand notes. "Is that Pitman's? I did Pitman's,
too. I worked for British Rail as a secretary for 10 years, and I got into
acting by default."

She was persuaded by friends to join an amateur dramatic group, discovered she
enjoyed the camaraderie and moved on to the National Theatre for three years,
before making her screen debut in the 1980 television play Grown-Ups. It was
directed by Mike Leigh who, 16 years later, directed her to an Oscar nomination
in Secrets and Lies. She won her second nomination for Little Voice and has
appeared in almost 50 films.

Last year she returned to the stage in Manchester in Edna O'Brien's new play,
Haunted. She will soon be seen starring in an ITV murder mystery series, Hidden
Depths, in which she plays a lonely detective inspector investigating the deaths
of two young people found floating in water.

We have plenty more to talk about, but she has a screening to attend, another
interview to do and a party to go to. She looks at me and shrugs helplessly as
she gets up to go, leaving her unfinished drink on the table.

"I just do what I'm told and go where I'm taken," she says.

One has the feeling she is quite enjoying the experience. 'London River' is
released on July 9.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Indie queen: Brenda Blethyn. Left: with the late Sotigui Kouyaté in
'London River'
HENNY GARFUNKEL/RETNA/CORBIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 18, 2010 Friday
                                  Eire Edition

CANADA BLASTED OVER PLANE TERROR ATTACK;
CRASH THAT KILLED 329 OFF IRISH COAST COULD HAVE BEEN AVERTED

BYLINE: RORY TEVLIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 386 words


AN inquiry into the air crash that killed 329 people off the coast of Ireland
said yesterday authorities should have known it was a terrorist target.

Air India Flight 182 exploded in June 1985 and remains one of the world's
deadliest terrorist strikes.

The report comes as relatives of the dead are due to commemorate the 25th
anniversary of the atrocity on Sheep's Head peninsula West Cork on Wednesday.

The Canadian public inquiry yesterday found the authorities should have known
the flight from Montreal to London was a likely target.

An hour before the massive explosion on the plane a bomb intended for another
Air India flight exploded in Tokyo airport, killing two baggage handlers.

Former Supreme Court Justice John Major said yesterday a series of errors
contributed to the failure of Canada's police and security forces to prevent the
atrocity.

He said: "The level of error, incompetence, and inattention which took place
before the flight was sadly mirrored in many ways for many years, in how
authorities, governments, and institutions dealt with the aftermath of the
murder of so many innocents." The attacks were blamed on Sikh militants based in
British Columbia in retaliation for the 1984 raid by Indian forces on the Golden
Temple in Amritsar.

Before the blasts, Canadian intelligence officials had reportedly learned of the
plot by Sikh separatists in Canada and India.

Justice Major slammed the authorities for engaging in turf wars rather than
saving the victims.

He said: "There were individuals in the Sikh community who claimed to have
knowledge about the bombing.

"The agencies failed to obtain that information, to preserve for it use as
evidence or to offer adequate protection to those individuals.

Instead they engaged in turf wars."

Inderit Singh Reyat, who was convicted of manslaughter, is the only person
convicted for the attacks. Two others were brought to trial but were acquitted.

Air transport experts told the inquiry of security lapses by Air India and
Canadian airport officials.

Mr justice Major said holes in the country's security systems still need to be
fixed.

The report recommended compensation for the families whom he said were often
treated as adversaries.

Major added: "For too long the greatest loss of Canadian lives by terrorists has
been relegated outside our consciousness."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEBRIS Fuselage of aircraft DESTROYED Wreckage of Air India flight in
Co Cork in 1985

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 20, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

AL-QAEDA TERRORISTS KILL 13 IN ATTACK ON YEMEN JAIL;
WORLD WATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 72 words


Al-Qaeda terrorists stormed a jail run by the Yemeni intelligence services
yesterday, killing at least 13 people and freeing several prisoners.

Attackers threw grenades and fired automatic weapons during the attack on the
jail in Aden, a port city in the south of the country.

Yemen's American-backed government faces a growing threat from Islamist
insurgents, who have found refuge in lawless regions of the impoverished Arabian
country.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Burnley Express

                                 June 21, 2010

Man jailed after terror attack on Burnley couple

LENGTH: 390 words



HIGHLIGHT: ONE of three people involved in a violent confrontation in which a
couple were attacked in their home in the early hours is behind bars while his
accomplices escaped jail.


Burnley Crown Court heard how Sean Wilkinson (24) who bore a grudge against
victim Scott Branick and had gone to confront him, assaulted both him and his
partner, Sarah Heywood.

Wilkinson, of Colne Road, Burnley, said to be the main man in the trouble, has
been jailed for two years. Miss Heywood was attacked by all three defendants.

Ashley Davidson (20), of Bank Grove Little Hulton, was given eight months in
prison, suspended for a year with 100 hours' unpaid work and must pay £250
compensation.

Bobby-Jo Shackleton (19), of Dean Street, Burnley, got 10 months in custody,
suspended for a year, with supervision. She must pay £330 compensation.

Wilkinson and Davidson admitted affray. Wilkinson, who has 22 previous
convictions, also admitted wounding and damage and Davidson common assault.
Shackleton admitted theft and assault causing actual bodily harm.

Mr Adam Watkins (prosecuting) said about 2 a.m. the victims were in bed when
they heard loud banging and shouts of: "Open the door." Mr Branick saw a gang of
six youths by the door and recognised Wilkinson.

The victim was going to answer the door when it was kicked in and he was
confronted in his bedroom by Wilkinson and Davidson. He was attacked by
Wilkinson and fled into the lodger's room, locking the door. Wilkinson made a
hole in the door and stamped on a television.

Mr Watkins said Miss Heywood had gone downstairs to call police but Shackleton,
who was there with another girl, pushed her to the floor, pulled her hair, took
her phone and told the operator officers were not needed. Shackleton left with
the phone. The victim went back upstairs, met Davidson on the way and he pushed
her down the four final steps and hit her in the ribs.

Wilkinson then started smashing up the lounge and threw crockery at Miss
Heywood. She put up her arms to protect herself and was hit on the elbow. The
intruders eventually left, leaving Miss Heywood very upset.

The prosecutor said police arrived and arrested Shackleton, who was about to
leave in a taxi. She declined to answer questions. The two other defendants were
arrested days later.

Wilkinson told officers he had been drinking and had a limited memory of what
happened. Davidson claimed he had entered the house to stop Wilkinson and kept
trying to get him to leave. He said he may have pushed Miss Heywood but it was
an accident.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE:

JOURNAL-CODE: BURN


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 22, 2010 Tuesday

Pakistan agencies says terrorists may launch more attacks

LENGTH: 177 words


Text of Online report headlined "Terrorists 'plot' massive attack on Parliament"
published by Pakistani newspaper The Nation website on 21 June

Islamabad: The intelligence agencies have warned the federal and provincial
governments that extremists are planning a massive attack similar to those
carried out on Jinnah Hospital Lahore and City Courts Karachi to secure release
of their colleagues.

Sources have informed Online that all provincial governments and other concerned
agencies have been warned to ensure security because the terrorists were
planning a massive attack on important personalities and sites after attack on
Ahmadis. Their possible targets might be religious sites belonging to minorities
as well as Parliament House. In this connection, it is learnt that the attacks
would be a coordinated group activity possibly in Lahore, Rawalpindi, Islamabad,
Karachi and Multan.

The report also recommends that hearings of arrested terrorists would be held in
the jail premises to ensure security.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 21 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 22, 2010 Tuesday

Spokesman denies Turkish note to Iraq "after terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 210 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Istanbul, 22 June: A spokesman of the Turkish Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday
[22 June] that Turkey did not give a diplomatic note to Iraq after terrorist
attacks.

Speaking to reporters within the scope of the summit of the Southeast European
Cooperation Process (SEECP) in Istanbul, Spokesman Burak Ozugergin said the
summit focused on all problems of the region.

Ozugergin said SEECP was an important platform to ease tension in the region and
regional countries needed such platforms.

The final declaration of the summit of the SEECP should include that Kosovo
should be accepted as a part of the region and the issue should be solved
through diplomatic ways, he said.

Asked whether Turkey gave a diplomatic note to Iraq after terrorist attacks,
Ozugergin said, "No, a note was not given to Iraq for this issue." Turkey had
relationship with the north of Iraq, as well as Baghdad, and there was no need
to give note every time, he said.

Asked whether the head of the regional administration in the north of Iraq
Mas'ud Barzani was warned, Ozugergin said they had a cooperation with Barzani
and a progress has been recorded.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1854 gmt 22 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 23, 2010 Wednesday

India demands "credible" action from Pakistan on Mumbai terror attack case

LENGTH: 344 words


Text of report published by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi: Ahead of a series of bilateral meetings, India Tuesday demanded
"credible" action by Pakistan in the 26/11 terror attack case, saying the core
issue of addressing the country's concerns on the issue will be part of these
parleys.

Asserting that India has been stressing for "credible" action by Pakistan on
evidence provided by New Delhi on those involved in the 26/11 Mumbai terror
attacks, Indian Foreign Secretary Nirupama Rao said it has been conveyed to the
other side.

"We have underlined to Pakistan to take this evidence and additional evidence on
board seriously and take substantive action in response to what we have
conveyed.

"Obviously, this issue will form part of the discussions with Pakistani
government during the forthcomings visits when I will meet Foreign secretary
Salman Bashir and Home Minister P Chidambaram meets his counterpart Rahman
Malik. Obviously, our concerns on this core issue will be conveyed and
discussed," Rao said.

Rao is leaving Wednesday for her parleys with Bashir on Thursday while
Chidambaram will leave on Friday for SAARC Interior Ministers conference on
Saturday.

India recently gave eleventh dossier to Pakistan containing additional
information on those involved in the terror attacks in 2008, including
Jamaat-Ud-Dawa Chief Hafiz Saeed. It also provided a copy of the court judgement
sentencing Ajmal Kasab, the lone captured terrorist in the terror attacks, to
death.

To a question on increasing incidents of ceasefire violations from across the
border, she termed them as

"unfortunate" and "serious".

"Our concerns have been conveyed to Pakistan on the rising incidents of
infiltrations and firing. These incidents of unprovoked firing do not contribute
to a positive atmosphere," she said.

In the second ceasefire violation in as many days, Pakistani troops yesterday
fired at a forward outpost along the International Border (IB) in Jammu where
the BSF foiled an infiltration bid by militants.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1735gmt 22 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             June 24, 2010 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Air India terror attack remembered 25 years on

BYLINE: cork

SECTION: WOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 458 words


MOURNERS and dignitaries observed a minute s silence yesterday at an Irish
memorial garden honouring the 329 people killed when a terrorist bomb destroyed
an Air India transatlantic jet 25 years ago.

Politicians from Ireland, Canada and India joined relatives of the dead at the
annual service at the Air India Memorial Garden in the remote Sheep s Head
peninsula on the West Cork coast.

They fell silent at 0713GMT, the exact moment when a suitcase bomb hidden in the
luggage hold of Air India Flight 182 detonated and the aircraft disappeared from
radar.

All those aboard   mainly  Canadian citizens of Indian heritage bound for New
Delhi and Mumbai   died as the Boeing 747 disintegrated and plunged 31,000 feet
into the ocean about 120 miles off the Cork coast. Only 131 bodies were
recovered from the crash site.

Those who use terrorism and violence in pursuit of their misguided objectives
seek to divide people and communities with their agenda of hate and intolerance,
said Irish Foreign Minister Micheal Martin.

But looking at those gathered here today I see only unity, common purpose and a
shared grief. This feeling of grief and loss transcends all boundaries. It joins
us as one people.

Also taking part in the memorial service were Canada s immigration minister,
Jason Kenney, and India s minister for minority affairs, Salman Khurshid.

The bombing, blamed on Canadian-based members of India s Sikh minority, remains
the biggest mass murder in Canadian legal history.

The alleged bomb-maker was convicted of manslaughter in 1991 and received a
10-year prison sentence, but two Sikh men living in Vancouver, British Columbia,
were acquitted in 2005 on 329 counts of murder.

Canadian prosecutors said Sikh extremists had sought revenge for the Indian
military s 1984 assault on the Golden Temple in Amritsar, the holiest site of
their religion. About 800 Sikhs, including militants taking refuge in the
temple, were killed.

The alleged bombmaker was convicted of manslaughter in 1991 and received a
10-year sentence, but two Sikh men living in Vancouver, British Columbia, were
acquitted in 2005 on 329 counts of murder.

Last week, a four-year probe into Canada s anti-terrorist intelligence lapses,
airport security gaps and investigatory failures following the Air India bombing
published five volumes of damning findings. Its lead author, retired Canadian
Supreme Court Justice John Major, said his nation had unfairly treated Flight
182 s destruction as a foreign tragedy.

For too long the greatest loss of Canadian lives at the hands of terrorists has
somehow been relegated outside the Canadian consciousness,  Major wrote.

Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper is expected to make a statement on the
Air India atrocity later Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MOURNING: Relatives share their grief alongside Canadian, Indian and
Irish politicians at the memorial site off the Cork coast. Picture: Julien Behal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 25, 2010 Friday

Greek PM condemns ministry bomb attack as "terrorist" act

LENGTH: 209 words


Text of report in English by government-affiliated Greek news agency ANA-MPA
website

Prime Minister George [Yeoryios] Papandreou expressed his grief and abhorrence
over the attack at the Citizen's Protection ministry on Thursday [24 June] night
that cost the life of the minister's adjutant.

"I express my grief and indignation, the grief and indignation that every Greek
citizen feels over today's terrorist attack, that resulted in the loss of a
human life.

"In a period when the country and our people are waging a daily struggle for the
exit from the crisis, cowardly murderers want to deal a blow at normalcy and our
democracy, Greek society, the interests of the Greek citizens and the sacrifices
that they are making today for the country to stand on its feet.

"Those investing in illegality and force will receive their reply not only from
the state, but from our society as well in its entirety. The aim of the
terrorists will not be achieved. The government, society, the citizens will not
be terrorized. I express personally and on behalf of the government my warm
condolences and our support to the family of dead police officer George
[Yeoryios] Vassilakis."

Source: Athens News Agency-Macedonian Press Agency website, Athens, in English
24 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 25, 2010 Friday

Two sentenced in abstentia over terrorist attack in Djibouti

LENGTH: 171 words


The Djibouti Criminal Court, on Wednesday [25 June], sentenced in absentia
Abdurahman Charles Boreh and Mohamed Ahmed Abdillahi, alias Boss, to jail terms
of 15 years and 5 years respectively, for "planning of terrorist acts and
association with criminals with intention to commit a terrorist act ", the
Djibouti attorney general told ADI today,

The sentencing is the culmination of a criminal investigation following two
consecutive grenade attacks perpetrated on 4 March 2009 against downtown
Nougaprix supermarket and against Sheikh Moussa Balbala Gendarmerie Brigade on 8
March 2009.

The Criminal Court, composed of three professional judges and four jurors, took
into account the various evidence materials presented by the prosecution against
the accused, including telephone conversation between Abdurahman Boreh and
Mohamed Ahmed Abdillahi alias Boss on one side and between Boreh and late Mahdi
Ahmed Abdillahi, the brother of Mohamed Ahmed. [passage omitted]

Source: ADI news agency website, Djibouti, in French 23 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              June 25, 2010 Friday

Pakistan court jails Americans for plotting terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Declan Walsh, Islamabad

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 332 words


Five Americans accused of plotting terrorist acts with militants in Pakistan
whom they had met via the internet were each sentenced to 10 years in jail by a
Pakistani court yesterday.

The US nationals, aged between 19 and 25, come from Alexandria, Virginia, and
were arrested in Sargodha, Punjab province, in December after their families
reported them missing.

Prosecutors said they had found extremist groups from the US using Facebook and
YouTube with the intention of travelling to Pakistan and crossing into
Afghanistan to fight western soldiers.

A judge convicted each defendant on charges carrying prison terms of five and 10
years, to be served concurrently, and imposed fines totalling £550. Their lawyer
said they would appeal.

The case is one of several involving "homegrown" American militants, but is the
only one to be tried in a Pakistani court. Journalists and members of the public
were barred from the trial, which was heard by a single judge under heavy
security in a special anti-terrorism court.

The men are all Muslims. One, Ramy Zamzam, is of Egyptian descent and was a
dental student at Washington's Howard University. Two others, Umer Farooq and
Waqar Hussain, are of Pakistani origin, while Ahmed Minni and Aman Hassan Yemer
are from Eritrea and Yemen.

Pakistani police alleged that the men had contacted Taliban-linked extremists
with the intention of attacking the Chashma barrage, a hydroelectric power plant
near sensitive nuclear facilities.

They also accused them of seeking to travel to Afghanistan. One of the five
allegedly left a farewell video in the US that featured war footage and said
Muslims must be defended.

The Americans said they had gone to Sargodha for a wedding, and were on their
way to Afghanistan to provide humanitarian assistance. They accused Pakistani
police of fabricating evidence. As they were transported to a court hearing last
February, they tossed a scrap of toilet paper to journalists on which they
claimed to have been tortured in custody.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             June 26, 2010 Saturday

25th anniversary of terrorists attacking passengers at two airports

SECTION: NEWS; Historical; Anniversaries

LENGTH: 47 words


25th anniversary of a a breakaway Palestinian liberation group, believed to be
masterminded by Abu Nidal, attacking Israeli passengers at Rome and Vienna
airports in simultaneous gun and grenade attacks. A total of 18 died

Event Start Date: 2010-12-27

Event End Date: 2010-12-27

Event URL:

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2010 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 27, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WHY MY LIFE IS BETTER SINCE 7/7;
Martine Wright, who lost her legs five years ago in the London terror attacks,
talks to Gareth A Davies about having a baby - and setting her sights on the
Paralympics

BYLINE: Gareth A Davies

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1064 words


'The last thing I remember at work the day before the bomb," recalls Paralympic
hopeful Martine Wright, "was jumping up and down with my colleagues because
London had won the bid for the Games."

The following morning - July 7, 2005 - Martine found herself sitting near
Shehzad Tanweer, the suicide bomber on the Aldgate train. "I was 20 minutes late
getting up that morning," she says, "and because of signal failures on the
Northern line, I decided to take the Circle line instead. And I'd never liked
the Circle line because there was always a wait for a train."

It proved a fateful decision. In the blast, Martine was thrown to the floor and
caught in the metal casing of the carriage as it twisted and bent. Her legs were
still intact when she was taken to hospital - she was the last person in the
carriage to be evacuated - but they had been trapped in metal, and both had to
be amputated above the knee. At the Royal Hospital, London, she was revived
several times from death and lost ten pints of blood before undergoing ten
operations in ten weeks.

Five years on, and Martine is hoping to become a Paralympian in the 2012 Games
as a member of the British women's sitting volleyball team.

"I feel lucky that I survived, and now have a duty to get out there and do
things," says the 37-year-old. "Fifty-two people died in London that day [eight
on the Aldgate train], so now I take every opportunity that presents itself."

Originally from London ("I was born within earshot of Bow Bells"), Martine moved
out of the capital soon after the attacks. "I got blown up on a London Tube and
didn't want to live there any more." But, with the forthcoming Games, she is
looking forward to returning. "I want to go back in 2012, represent my country,
and see the nation waving their flags in the Olympic stadium."

This upbeat, high-spirited and inspirational woman believes that her life today
is "fuller and more fulfilling" than it was before 7/7. "I wasn't born without
legs, so I have to deal with it, with the memories of how I did things before.
Like when I see someone running for a bus, seeing them run naturally. Something
I would have done. Also, I liked my shoes and my clothes, and I used to wear
skirts. Now I've lost both knees, I can't wear a heel."

Following the double amputation, Martine learned how to walk using prosthetic
"c-legs", each weighing a stone. "They're the best on the market, but,
unfortunately, they don't walk for you. I didn't use crutches; I used a stick.
It was like teaching a baby; I kept falling down.

"At the start, just doing physiotherapy for 15 minutes a day was exhausting, and
it was more psychological than anything else - dealing with the sight of myself
in hospital with no legs. I would just burst into tears randomly."

Her family and her boyfriend, Nick, were a huge support. "They kept saying, 'You
might not have your legs, but you will always be Martine.' It motivated me to
fight back."

Still, despite the tears and struggles, the self-confessed "careerdriven woman"
was determined to return to her job as a marketing executive. "I went back in
2006, sat at my desk and thought 'My God, what am I doing here?' I had to leave
- I wanted to do things in my life that have real meaning."

New opportunities were awaiting her. In 2007, Martine was offered a scholarship
to go to South Africa to learn how to fly small planes. She qualified in six
weeks. Next, she learnt to ski again on a Paralympic mono-bob, a single-ski
vehicle for amputees. Then, 20 months ago, she established a new ambition: to
become a 2012 Paralympian. "I went to a fast-track try-out day for Paralympic
sports at Stoke Mandeville. I tried wheelchair tennis, but I liked sitting
volleyball because it's not in the chair [contestants sit on the floor], and
it's a team sport and I'm a sociable person. I like the camaraderie."

Martine is set to fly to the Sitting Volleyball World Championships in Oklahoma
with the women's team on July 7. It is a date that follows, rather than haunts,
her. Indeed, her son, Oscar, was due to be born on that date last year. In the
end, he was a week late.

"It wasn't a difficult decision," she says of having a baby. "I only lost my
legs. Otherwise, I'm the same as everyone else - and I'd always wanted
children."

She met Nick, a photographer, in 2003 at a mutual friend's birthday party. They
married in 2008 after a surprise proposal. "It was on our very first holiday
after the accident and we went to Spain, to the Costa Blanca. Nick told me he
wanted to go and photograph the salt lakes but was planning to propose."

The couple now live in a fully adapted open-plan bungalow in Tring,
Hertfordshire, with the kitchen re-designed ergonomically to Martine's height.
The only doors are in the bedroom and bathroom.

"I've never pushed a pram," she says. "Instead, I put Oscar on to the wheelchair
with me. Otherwise, I'm exactly the same as any other mother; it just takes me
longer to do things."

Given the horrific events Martine experienced on that dark day in London, you
would be hard pushed to find a human being with a greater zest for life. The
most recent addition to her burgeoning CV is as an ambassador for Typhoo Sport
for All.

"It was thrilling to be asked," she says. "I played county hockey when I had my
legs, and now I'm fully committed to sitting volleyball. I've seen sport on both
sides, before and after what happened to me, and I know from the last couple of
years that sport gives disabled people so much more.

"Now I'm meeting other potential Paralympians, and sport can help you through
trauma. I'm doing something I never dreamed of doing. I'm not a negative person,
and I've worked damned hard to make sure I'm there in 2012. I want to make sure
I'm part of that time."

Still, even with her optimistic nature, she finds it hard to believe all the
twists and turns her life has taken.

"My God, if you'd told me when I woke up with no legs that I was going to have
babies, I'd have thought you were mad.

"And if you told me I'd be going to represent my country in a sport I love, I'd
have thought you were completely off your rocker."

The Typhoo Sports for All campaign aims to increase disabled participation in
sport. Visit www.typhootea.co.uk

DARK ART

Andrew Graham-Dixon illuminates Caravaggio's troubled life

IN SEVEN PAGES 12-15

"If you'd said when I woke up with no legs that I'd have a baby, I'd have said
you were mad

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Inspirational: Martine Wright. Inset: at her wedding to Nick in 2008.
Left: with her prosthetic legs
DAVID ROSE; TONY WARD/SCOPEFEATURES.COM; ITV/REX FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 28, 2010 Monday

Police officer killed in terrorist attack in central Bosnia

LENGTH: 474 words


Excerpt from report by Bosnian Serb public Television (Banja Luka) on 27 June

[Presenter] A terrorist attack in Bugojno. Police officer Tarik Ljubuskic was
killed, six of his colleagues injured. Doctors are fighting for Edina Hindic's
life. The attack was planned by a group of Wahhabis and committed by Haris
Causevic, already known to the police for his radical religious beliefs.
Causevic, Dzemal Tojagic, and another person whose identity was not revealed are
under arrest. The motives for the attack are still unknown. The investigation is
conducted by the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia-Hercegovina. The Federation-based
media say Causevic is linked with the Rustempasic group, who are on trial before
the Court of Bosnia-Hercegovina under charges of terrorism.

[Reporter] Police officer Tarik Ljubuskic has fallen as a victim of this
morning's terrorist attack in Bugojno [video footage shows a number of destroyed
vehicles at a parking lot].

Five more persons were injured in the explosion of the so-far unknown explosive
device, which was planted by the side entrance to the police station by 26
years' old Haris Causevic, as he confessed himself. Huge material damage was
caused at the objects in the area of at least one hundred metres in diameter.

[Witness Hikmeta Juveta] I was asleep and was woken up by a strong explosion, I
did not know what it was - perhaps a thunder. I saw big light and the widows
suddenly opened up, as they were not shut. [Passage omitted]

[Witness Sabahudin Tabak] I was lying on my bed, I heard the [Islamic] morning
prayer. There was a big explosion, lightening, smoke, moaning, people killed and
injured. See, everything is destroyed. It is as if I am in Baghdad, not in
Bosnia.

[Reporter] Immediately after the terrorist act, the police arrested Haris
Causevic, a follower of the Wahhabi movement, and two of his fellows. Police are
searching for another person suspected of links with this act.

[Hasan Ajkunic, mayor of Bugojno] This town, which was a town of peace and
quiet, is very upset today. I believe every native of Bugojno is sad today.

[Sedzad Milanovic, Minister of Interior of Central Bosnia Canton] The situation
is under control, there is no need for citizens to fear. I believe all law
enforcement agencies in Bosnia-Hercegovina will do everything in their power to
bring the perpetrators of this act before justice as soon as possible.

[Reporter] Tarik Ljubuskic is the third police officer killed in terrorist
attacks in the Central Bosnia Canton. In the period from June 1998 to February
1999, Perica Bilic and Anto Valjan had been killed in three terrorist attacks in
Travnik, in explosions caused by unknown devices, while four persons had been
injured. These cases, unlike today's in Bugojno, have not been resolved.

Source: Bosnian Serb Television, Banja Luka, in Serbian 1730 gmt 27 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          BBC SUMMARY WORLD BROADCAST

                              June 28, 2010 Monday

Serb leader says Bosnian involved in terror attacks abroad

LENGTH: 174 words


Text of report by Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA

East Sarajevo, 28 June: [Bosnian] Serb Republic Prime Minister Milorad Dodik has
told SRNA that Europe's fear of Bosnia-Hercegovina [B-H] has caused a delay in
the process of introducing a visa-free regime, with the Serb Republic and the
Serb people ending up as "collateral damage".

"It is well known that the [Muslim-Croat] Federation of B-H is a transit region
for this kind of  threat against Europe and there has not been a single
terrorist attack in the world without someone from B-H being involved", he
added.

Dodik expressed his regret over the Bugojno Wahhabi terrorist attack, saying
that it strikes fear among all citizens of B-H.

For the first time, Dodik confirmed reports by security agencies that he was
being monitored by Wahhabi groups in B-H, adding that he was "taking appropriate
security measures".

He reiterated the Serb Republic was a part of the global counter-terrorism
network.

Source: SRNA news agency, Bijeljina, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 1600 gmt 28 Jun
10

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 28, 2010 Monday

Muslim officials condemn terrorist attack in Bosnian town

LENGTH: 187 words


Text of report by Bosnian Serb public Television (Banja Luka) on 27 June

[Presenter] The chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia-Hercegovina, Haris
Silajdzic, has said the terrorist attack in Bugojno was a direct attack on the
security, constitution and the international status of Bosnia-Hercegovina.

High Representative [to Bosnia-Hercegovina] Valentin Inzko also strongly
condemned the bomb attack. The chairman of SDA [Party of Democratic Action,
leading Bosnian Muslim party] Sulejman Tihic, who had been verbally assaulted by
the arrested Haris Causevic several years ago, condemned the attack. He said
that the fight against terror is not only an issue for the institutions, but the
whole society. The Minister of Security of Bosnia-Hercegovina Sadik Ahmetovic
reacted too.

[Security Minister Sadik Ahmetovic] This was a terrorist act, a classic attack
against the state and the law enforcement agency. As a country and a society as
a whole, we must send clear messages that we are determined to fight this evil
and work on prevention to save lives.

Source: Bosnian Serb Television, Banja Luka, in Serbian 1730 gmt 27 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          BBC SUMMARY WORLD BROADCAST

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday

Peace envoy says terror attack directed against Bosnia

LENGTH: 230 words


Text of report by Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation official news agency FENA

Bugojno, 29 June: High Representative Valentin Inzko today visited the family of
the police officer Tarik Ljubuskic (41) who was killed in the terrorist attack
on the police station in Bugojno.

He expressed condolences to the family, father Sulejman and mother Aisa and
stated that he regretted that he could not attend the funeral due to his
obligations to attend the Peace Implementation Council meeting in Sarajevo.

The funeral will be held at Jaklic cemetery in Bugojno this afternoon.

"This terrorist act is not only an attack on Bugojno but attack against the
country, civilization values and this must not be tolerated. I am glad that the
authorities have done their job and it is up to the prosecution and judiciary to
do the rest. Today, our sympathies are with Tarik's family and this is a
priority," said Inzko.

Tarik Ljubuskic leaves behind a wife Mersiha, also a police officer, son Anes
(10) and daughter Amna (5).

During his visit to Bugojno, Inzko visited the family of severely injured Edina
Hindic, still fighting for her life in the hospital in Sarajevo, as well as
police officer Sanel Hodzic, who is recovering in Bugojno hospital. He also
visited the location of Sunday's terrorist attack in Bugojno

Source: Federation News Agency, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 1051 gmt
29 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday

Expert expects more terrorists attacks in Bosnia

LENGTH: 249 words


Excerpt from report by Bosnian Serb public Television (Banja Luka) on 28 June

[Presenter] After the Bugojno terrorist attack, the [Bosnian] Serb Republic
Ministry of Interior has stepped up security measures for all important
institutions and individuals in the Serb Republic. [passage omitted]

[Reporter] Terror expert Dzevad Galijasevic says that the Bugojno attack shows
that the European Union will have problems with Bosnia-Hercegovina. Galijasevic
says that seven terrorist organizations are operating in Bosnia-Hercegovina .
[passage omitted]

[Dzevad Galijasevic] There are no coincidences here. The period of building of
terrorist infrastructure in Bosnia-Hercegovina is over and actions are now to
follow. Unfortunately, this will not be the only action. We are facing, I would
say, a very upsetting period. [Passage omitted]

[Reporter] The responsibility for Bugojno is two-sided, experts say.

[Predrag Ceranic, terror expert] The political responsibility lies with the
Islamic Community, primarily Grand Mufti Mustafa Ceric and Bosniak [Bosnian
Muslim] political leaders. Another type of responsibility lies with the state
security institutions, primarily OSA [Intelligence Security Agency] and SIPA
[State Information and Protection Agency]

[Reporter] Bugojno was a warning, experts say, urging greater cooperation among
security agencies in Bosnia-Hercegovina, as well as cooperation between citizens
and police.

Source: Bosnian Serb Television, Banja Luka, in Serbian 1730 gmt 28 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday

Bosnian Islamic Community slams Bugojno terror attack

LENGTH: 209 words


Text of report by Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA

Sarajevo, 29 June: The Rijaset [head office] of the Islamic Community in
Bosnia-Hercegovina has most vehemently condemned the brutal terrorist act of
planting an explosive device outside the police station in Bugojno.

"Threatening human lives and property and undermining security is unacceptable,
so the perpetrators of such acts must be prosecuted to the full extent of the
law," the public relations service of the Rijaset of the Islamic Community in
Bosnia-Hercegovina has said in a statement.

The Rijaset of the Islamic Community in Bosnia-Hercegovina recalled that the
authorities were under the obligation to ensure security of citizens and their
property on the entire territory of Bosnia-Hercegovina.

The head of the Islamic Community in Bosnia-Hercegovina, Mustafa Ceric, will
today visit Bugojno and perform the religious rites at the funeral of the police
officer killed in the attack on the police station, Tarik Ljubuskic.

The explosion at the police station in Bugojno on Sunday morning killed
Ljubuskic, while his colleague Edina Hindic was seriously injured.

Extensive material damage was also caused to a large area.

Source: SRNA news agency, Bijeljina, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 0720 gmt 29 Jun
10

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday

Ex-CIA officials say "outsiders" not behind US terror attack - Iran paper

LENGTH: 405 words


Text of report headlined "CIA agents and 9/11 events" published by Iranian
newspaper Keyhan on 23 June

Seven former agents of US's secret services have clearly said the 9/11 terror
attack was not executed by "outsiders", but it was "them" who planned those
events.

For instance, one of these former agents is Raymond McGovern, who served in the
Central Intelligence Agency [CIA] for 27 years and used to send intelligence
messages to Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations through telex
during that period. On his retirement, McGovern was given the Intelligence
Commendation Medal and a letter of appreciation by George H.W. Bush. McGovern
has said: "We all clearly know that Bush-Cheney administration took advantage of
9/11 attacks in order to advance their imperialistic goals. Available evidence
also suggests that Bush-Cheney administration had faced 11 September events and
exploited it to the maximum level."

William [Bill] Christison is another former senior CIA official. He served in
the CIA for 29 years and was a National Intelligence Officer and the Director of
the CIA's Office of Regional and Political Analysis. He called the report of
9/11 Commission a "joke" and has written in an article: "I think that there are
persuasive evidence that the events of September did not unfold as the Bush
administration and the 9/11 Commission would have us believe. Undoubtedly, no
tourist plane has stricken Pentagon and north and south towers of the World
Trade Centre almost certainly did not collapse and fall to earth because
hijacked aircraft hit them."

Former CIA Analyst Melvin Goodman has stated that the 9/11 Commission report was
just aimed at "covering the truth". Goodman expressed his views before the US
Congress in 2005. Goodman was a top official in Soviet Union Affairs department
and served as CIA analyst from 1966 to 1990. In 1986-1990, Goodman was a
professor of national security at the National War College and at present, he is
a senior fellow at the Centre for International Policy. Goodman is an adjunct
professor at John Hopkins University as well.

[Name omitted] another former CIA official and expert for Middle and Near East
affairs. He served the CIA for 21 years and was even awarded a medal upon
retirement. He also believes that 9/11 events were organized by the Bush
administration in order to legitimize his regretful presidency.

Source: Keyhan website, Tehran, in Persian 23 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday

Bosnian political parties condemn terrorist attack on police station

LENGTH: 438 words


Text of report by Bosnian wide-circulation privately-owned daily Dnevni avaz, on
28 June

[Unattributed report: "Reactions From Political Parties"]

SBB B-H: Attempt To Destabilize B-H's Pro-European Path

The Alliance for a Better Future of Bosnia-Hercegovina (SBB B-H) condemns in the
harshest possible terms the terrorist act committed in Bugojno. It urges all
state bodies and responsible institutions to take vigorous action and punish the
perpetrators and identify those who ordered this act of insanity.

"This is an extremely serious attempt to destabilize Bosnia-Hercegovina's
pro-European path; in this context everyone must understand that democratic
principles, coexistence, and this path will not be stopped." So reads the
statement from the SBB B-H's Press Office.

SB-H: Increase Citizens' Security

The Party for Bosnia-Hercegovina (SB-H) condemned in the harshest possible terms
the criminal attack on the police station in Bugojno, which resulted in the
death of one innocent police officer and injury of several others. Responsible
bodies are expected to conduct as soon as possible a complete investigation and
examine all circumstances that led to this case, as well as to do everything to
increase the level of security of all citizens and officers.

NSRzB: Country's Stability Threatened

The Work for Progress People's Party (NSRzB) requested the responsible
institutions to detain and convict those who ordered this attack, the
ideologues, and everyone else who was linked to the attack. The NSRzB stated
that these attacks threatened Bosnia-Hercegovina's entire stability in all its
segments, as well as the entire region, and they must not be allowed.

HDZ 1990: Reaction Should Have Come Sooner

HDZ 1990 [Croat Democratic Union 1990], in its press statement, condemned the
attack and emphasized "that security agencies should have reacted sooner and
prevented through preemptive measures this attack and all possible future
attacks from happening, especially because the perpetrators were already known
to the police."

BOSS: Ensure Peaceful Co-Existence

The Bosnian Party (BOSS) condemned in the harshest possible terms the terrorist
attack on the police station in Bugojno, which it saw as an attack on the safety
of all citizens in Bugojno. This party urged the authorities to take measures
finally to ensure for the citizens of Bugojno a peaceful co-existence. It called
on the Bugojno police station chief and the minister of interior of the SBK
[Central Bosnian Canton] to resign and assume their share of the responsibility
for this terrible event.

Source: Dnevni avaz, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 28 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday

Chilling â€˜terror attackâ€[TM] all part of the training

BYLINE: Raymond Brown

LENGTH: 362 words


Pub landlords and shopkeepers in Cambridge will be put through a "chilling" fake
terror attack in a bid to help them cope if a bomb goes off in the city centre.

Traders in the city have been invited to a simulated "terrorist attack".
The training session is being led by Project Argus, which is backed by the
Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo).
Some 30 members of Cambridge Business Against Crime (Cambac) have already signed
up for the event with 30 more places up for grabs.
Vicky Hornsby, Cambac manager, said: "This is the third year we have done this
and it's certainly thought provoking.
"It is good to be prepared and not just for a terrorist attack but for any
disaster in the city centre.
"Many large companies have this training but some of the small shops and pubs
that we represent just cannot afford it so it is good for them.
"The training is certainly chilling and very useful in learning how to cope with
difficult situations you may face as a trader."
Members of the organisation listed on Cambac's website include most of the
city's major retailers in the Grand Arcade and Grafton shopping centres as well
as McDonald's, John Lewis and King's College.
Project Argus, an Acpo National Counter Terrorism Security Office initiative,
was launched in early 2007. It teaches businesses how to respond to a terrorist
attack.
The free training consists of workshops featuring a tabletop, multi-media
simulation of an attack and attendees will be faced with a series of questions
and dilemmas to resolve.
The event will be held on Tuesday, September 7 at the Guildhall from 10am-1pm.

The head of the counter-terrorism security office, Det Chief Insp Chris
Phillips, said: "The threat to the UK from terrorism is real and serious and we
all have a role to play in helping to prevent it. Communities are the key to
this process, and business communities in our cities and towns can play a vital
role in assisting the police to effectively combat this threat.
"Project Argus offers businesses a unique opportunity to comprehend the threat
we face and to learn ways to help prevent, handle and recover from a terrorist
attack."


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2010 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Sex attack terror of teen victim

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 282 words


A SEX attacker who snatched a 14-year-old girl in broad  daylight marched his
victim for 200 yards at knifepoint past a number of passers-by to his car, it
emerged yesterday.

He then drove the terrified girl eight miles to a remote farm track where he
sexually assaulted her before ordering her out of the vehicle.

The details emerged as police continued a  manhunt for the  maniac  who carried
out the attack last Monday morning in Dollar, Clackmannanshire.

The girl was walking down a narrow lane at 8.20am when she heard footsteps
behind her. A man, who had been following her, then approached and threatened
her.

He marched her past rows of houses and several other people   thought to include
schoolchildren and parents   to his green-coloured car before driving her to the
remote location.

After he let her go, the girl raised the alarm by flagging down a passing car at
9am.

Detective Chief Inspector Brian Johnston, leading the investigation, said:  We
have traced several witnesses who saw these events, but did not appreciate what
was happening.

A team of 20 detectives and other specialist officers are hunting for her
attacker.

Mr Johnston added:  We are desperate to catch this offender and we are doing
everything we can to reassure people of that.

The girl s abductor is believed to be in his mid-30s and around 5ft 8in tall,
with short, receding brown hair and had bad skin. He is thought to have been
wearing a light-coloured hooded top and jogging bottoms.

One parent from the village said:  It s terrifying to think that there is a
maniac around who can be just so brazen.

Anyone with information should contact Central Scotland Police on 01786 456000
or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 30, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan provincial minister says terrorists regrouping to attack Peshawar

LENGTH: 399 words


Text of report on private Pakistani TV channel Dawn News on 28 June

Provincial Information Minister Mian Iftikhar Hussain has said that after the
operation in tribal areas, terrorists are now assembling around Peshawar and
preparing for a full scale attack. While talking to media in Peshawar, he said
that terrorists possibly thousands in number, are assembling in areas adjoining
Peshawar such as Dara Adam Khel, Mohmand Agency, and Khyber Agency. They are
arranging themselves in small groups. The provincial government and army will
soon take steps against the terrorists assembling around Peshawar. Afrasiyab
Khattak, provincial president of Awami National Party [ANP], also said that
provinces will get more than 60 percent share in the next National Finance
Commission [NFC] Award. It will be impossible not to increase the share because
of the ministries transferred to the provinces.

[Begin Hussain recording] We know that their [terrorists] hideouts had been
completely wiped off in places close to the// tribal built// and they had lost
their courage. When a limited //operation// in South Waziristan and a
wide-ranging //operation// in Orakzai was launched against them [terrorists],
their veteran terrorists reached the places, including Dara Adam Khel, Khyber
Agency, and Mohmand Agency, where their hold had weakened. The [terrorists]
managed to activate their hideouts to a certain extent and are getting united.
It is not as if we are unaware of it. We are aware of all this. We have started
our work to put a stop to it. We will fight terrorism in our way. We understand
that they [terrorists] think that, like Orakzai, an attack will be launched in
Waziristan which is their capital so they should narrow their circle around
Peshawar and attack it. It will force the government to agree to a //bargaining
position.// We will do our work there but here too we have launched everything
in a very secretive manner so that the terrorists can do no harm to us. They are
few in number or if I say they are around thousand. They are around us present
in small groups. As compared to past, they are weak now. There is no strong
party. They had been finished but are now re-assembling, so it is an //alarming
situation// and we want to take people into our confidence so they do not remain
unaware of the situation. [end recording]

Source: Dawn News TV, Karachi, in English 0400gmt 28 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 30, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan ministry warns of terror attacks at government, foreign offices

LENGTH: 192 words


Text of report by Arshad Dogar headlined "Interior ministry warns of terror
attacks in Lahore" published by Pakistan newspaper The News website on 30 June

Lahore: The National Crisis Management Cell, Ministry of Interior, has intimated
Punjab Home Secretary, IGP [Inspector General of Police] and DG [Director
General] Rangers about possible terrorist activities at nine important
government installations and foreign offices, including US Consulate, here in
the near future.

A letter No 3/9/2009-(O&I)-1368 dated June 28, 2010, has been forwarded to the
aforementioned officials with a subject 'Threat Alert-310. The letter available
with The News reads: "Reportedly, miscreants have carried out detailed
reconnaissance of following places in Lahore for conducting terrorist activities
in the near future; a) US Consulate, b) Canadian Consulate, c) Khana-e-Farhang
Iran, d) Royal Palm Golf Club, e) Hotel Pearl Continental, f) CIA Police
Stations in Model Town and Kotwali, g) FIA (SIG) office at Raiwind Road, h) IB
Office, and i) Detachment Section-133 located at Asad Jan Road, Lahore
Cantonment.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 30 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 30, 2010 Wednesday

Bosnian analyst blames poor surveillance of extremist groups for terror attack

LENGTH: 909 words


Text of report by Bosnian wide-circulation privately-owned daily Dnevni avaz, on
30 June

[Interview with terrorism expert Vlado Azinovic by Tarik Lazovic; place and date
not given: "I Believe That Attack in Bugojno Is an Isolated Incident" - first
three paragraphs are Dnevni Avaz introduction]

"I believe that the terrorist attack in Bugojno is an isolated incident that
proves nothing except that Bosnia-Hercegovina is also faced with the global
threat of terrorism," terrorism expert Vlado Azinovic said in an interview for
Dnevni Avaz.

Surveillance of Groups

Azinovic is an assistant professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences in
Sarajevo, where he teaches the subject of Terrorism in Modern World.

"This is a terrible loss of human lives, but it could serve as an eye opener
because there are structures that for various reasons, political and other,
showed excessive justification and understanding for individuals whose primary
interest is not Bosnia-Hercegovina, or the Bosniaks, or the Muslims," Azinovic
said.

[Lazovic] Following this kind of a terrorist attack, all B-H citizens are
worried the most about whether this is an isolated incident, or if there is a
threat of this becoming a trend, turning cities in Bosnia-Hercegovina into
Baghdad or Kabul?

[Azinovic] I have no insight into the findings of the investigation or into
intelligence, but I want to believe that this is an isolated incident that
happened because of, among other things, the failure in the surveillance of such
groups. In the indictment against Rustempasic [convicted terrorist] there are 30
references to one of the persons suspected of committing this terrorist act.

Also mentioned is another person (Haris Causevic), who allegedly made a
confession. Obviously, these are people against whom some operative action
should have been taken. I do not know why this was not done, but I am surprised
that this was a failure on the part of domestic agencies, whose job it is to do
this, and international elements as well.

[Lazovic] Should this be a reason for a final showdown of sorts with the radical
elements that are evidently present in various forms in Bosnia-Hercegovina?

[Azinovic] There are radical elements, but it is difficult to tell what kind of
radicalism this is. You and I can be radical, but our radicalism does not need
to have a physical manifestation. It is difficult to discern who actually has an
inclination towards the type of action that these people had taken. Looking at
them, all of them have criminal records and previous convictions. There is a
profile of people that can be much more easily radicalized and engaged. We are
talking about dysfunctional families and people living on social margins.

One of them is also quite confused in terms of his identity. He posted quotes
from Azra's [Croatian rock band] songs on Facebook, but he claims to be a strict
believer. I do not think that all of this should be a signal for some raids
where anyone who thinks and believes differently and manifests this becomes a
target of some operative processing and repression. On the other hand, it is
time for us to understand that we had opened our doors to the people and ideas
that are behind these acts, and that we must observe these occurrences with
increased attention.

Reports of Foreign Media

[Lazovic] To what extent could this event harm Bosnia-Hercegovina, especially
considering the fact that we previously had also been at the receiving end of
criticism, particularly by the foreign media?

[Azinovic] I am encouraged to see that foreign media - even the media in the
region that can hardly wait to "whip" us and tell us that everything they had
been saying for years was true - reported about this very cautiously. Foreign
media almost made no reports. Many outside Bosnia-Hercegovina understood the
proper context and no longer want to exploit this more than is objectively true.
This case proves nothing expect that there is a security threat in
Bosnia-Hercegovina the same as in other countries, and many finally understand
this.

[Box] I Do Not Think That Religious Community Is Address That Should Be
Criticized

[Lazovic] Although the society and politics as a whole bear responsibility for
this because poverty, unemployment, and lack of prospects encourage radicalism,
some also criticize the religious communities. Are there grounds to criticize
them?

[Azinovic] I do not know how religious communities could deal with this. I do
not know whether this is their responsibility in the first place. Reis ul Ulema
[Grand Mufti of B-H Islamic Community] once said that the Islamic Community was
not religious police, and he was right. I do not think that the religious
community is the address that should be criticized. They perhaps should have
distanced themselves in a more explicit fashion, but this is a reflection of the
society and the failing state.

Extremist ideologies and people with criminal records are not peculiar to
Bosnia-Hercegovina, but they define Bosnia-Hercegovina as a terrorist threat.
What defines us is that we are a failed state; we have an erosion of the state,
corruption, and all around incompetence. Appointment of some people in security
bodies is a matter of political compromise, and these people become executioners
of political orders. On the other hand, you have a fact that there are vast
quantities of arms and explosives left behind from the war.

Source: Dnevni avaz, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 30 Jun 10 p 5

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 30, 2010 Wednesday

Bosnian official says terror attack revenge for arrest of Rustempasic brothers

LENGTH: 209 words


Text of report by Bosnian national public broadcaster BHTV1, on 30 June

[Announcer] The investigation into the terrorist attack in Bugojno continues.
The Federation Police Administration has confirmed for BHT1 that Haris Causevic,
aka Oks, and Naser Palislamovic were today handed over to the Bosnia-Hercegovina
Prosecutor's Office for further proceedings. We have learnt that three other
suspects have been handed over to the Prosecutor's Office: ?Emin Osmanagic,
?Nedzad Kjeskoj and ?Haris Spago [names as heard].

According to the hitherto information of investigators of the Federal Police
Administration and the State Investigation and Protection Agency [SIPA], the
motive for committing the tragic terrorist attack in Bugojno is, judging by
everything, revenge for the arrest and indictment of brothers Rijad and Muhamed
Rustempasic who are being tried before the [state] Court of Bosnia-Hercegovina
for terrorism. This was today confirmed in the B-H Parliament also by Deputy
Security Minister Mijo Kresic.

We have had confirmation from the Sarajevo Clinical Centre that wounded [police]
employee Edina Hindic's condition is still unchanged and will undergo surgery
again tomorrow.

Source: BHTV1, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 1700 gmt 30 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 1, 2010 Thursday

Indonesian police say terrorists plan to use car bomb attack on Danish embassy

LENGTH: 201 words


Text of report by Indonesian newspaper Kompas Cyber Media website
(www.kompas.com) on 1 July

[Unattributed report: "Terorrist Plans To Use Car Bomb".]

Indonesian Police Chief Bambang Hendarso Danuri has revealed terrorists' plan to
launch a car bomb attack on the Danish Embassy on the 64th anniversary of the
Indonesian Police on 1 July.

"They were planning to use a car bomb based on seven ready-to-use circuits along
with other elements," said the Indonesian police chief at the Police Mobile
Brigade Headquarters in Depok. The police chief has also stated that the
terrorists were targeting the Danish Embassy because of the Prophet Muhammad
cartoon incident, while the timing of the attack coincides with the birthday of
the police force, and is been seen as revenge after the Police Anti-Terror Unit
Detachment 88 arrested and killed their members.

As previously reported, the police had captured Shogir, Budianto, Abullah
Sonata, Agus Mahmudi, and Bintang Juliardhi. One suspected terrorist - Yuli
Karsono - was also killed during the raid. The police chief also mentioned that
Sogir's expertise in bomb making is better than Dr Azahari."

Source: Kompas Cyber Media website, Jakarta, in Indonesian 1 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 1, 2010 Thursday

Serb MP urges resignations of security chiefs over Bosnian terrorist attack

LENGTH: 213 words


Excerpt from report by Bosnian Serb public Television (Banja Luka) on 29 June

[Presenter] Tensions surrounding the terrorist attack in Bugojno have not
decreased yet. While intelligence bodies are rejecting any responsibility for
the event, many remind of previous warnings about the existence of terrorist
organizations in Bosnia-Hercegovina. [Passage omitted, Bugojno residents mourn
killed police officer; police apprehend five persons, search number of locations
in Sarajevo, Konjic.]

[Reporter] Only some 10 days ago, the Bosnian [parliamentary] committee for
defence and security discussed the information on security, signed by Minister
of Security Sadik Ahmetovic. The report said, among other things, that Bosnian
institutions did not have information on deterioration of the security situation
in Bosnia-Hercegovina.

[Slobodan Saraba, Serb MP, member of the Parliamentary Committee for Defence and
Security] I personally think that the relevant individuals in Bosnia-Hercegovina
should have resigned. I am referring primarily to Minister of Security Sadik
Ahmetovic, Almir Dzuvo [head of the Intelligence Agency], and Mirko Lujic [head
of the State Information and Protection Agency]. [Passage omitted]

Source: Bosnian Serb Television, Banja Luka, in Serbian 1730 gmt 29 Jun 10

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             July 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

WOMAN HURT IN SAMURAI SWORD TERROR ATTACK;
Gun cops rush to East End street

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 316 words


ARMED police swooped on a tenement block in a Paisley street after a terrified
woman was attacked by a man wielding a samurai sword.

Officers carrying automatic guns raced to the scene in the town's East End
following a 999 telephone call from the panic-stricken victim.

It is understood she suffered bruising to her arms as she tried to protect
herself from the blows raining down on her.

The night-time drama took place at a block of flats in McKerrell Street, which
is near to Paisley Grammar School.

The 36-year-old victim was walking into the tenement close at around 6pm on
Monday when a man brandishing a samurai sword ran at her.

In the moments that followed, he lashed out at her with the blade.

One woman who lives in the street told the Paisley Daily Express: "It's
frightening that something like this has happened so close to home.

"The victim must have been scared out of her wits. I've been told that she was
struck with the flat sides of the samurai sword, rather than the sharp edges.

"I didn't see any ambulance arriving in the street, so I don't think she needed
hospital treatment.

"Armed police turned up in the street but, thankfully, no shots were fired."

It's understood that police negotiators who were sent to McKerrell Street began
talking to a man who was inside a flat there and he gave himself up a short time
later.

A man aged in his early 20s was then taken into custody.

A police spokesperson said: "I can confirm that we attended an incident in the
East End of Paisley on Monday night and, as a result of that incident, a man is
facing charges."

The drama in McKerrell Street was the second time in a matter of days that a
Strathclyde Police armed response unit had been called to an emergency in
Paisley.

On Saturday night, officers were sent to deal with a crossbow incident at a
house in the Brediland Road area of Foxbar and an arrest was made.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ARMED SWOOP: Police carrying automatic guns rushed to this Paisley
street after a woman was attacked

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          BBC SUMMARY WORLD BROADCAST

                              July 2, 2010 Friday

Bosnian court wants security stepped-up after terror attack

LENGTH: 191 words


Text of report by Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA

Sarajevo, 2 July: The Bosnia-Hercegovina [B-H] Court and the Prosecution have
requested from the B-H Council of Ministers to take adequate measures to ensure
safety of the complex of buildings housing B-H judicial institutions and declare
the complex of national importance.

The Court and the Prosecution want the Council of Ministers to make a decision
by urgent procedure to ensure protection in keeping with the Law on the State
Investigation and Protection Agency and for the agency to provide adequate
security.

Due to the latest events in B-H [Islamist terror attack on a police station],
the Court and the Prosecution believe it is necessary to increase security of
the complex, bearing in mind that the jurisdiction of the B-H Justice Ministry
judicial police is restricted to the interior of the building only.

The Court and the Prosecution believe that the chairperson of the B-H Council of
Ministers, Nikola Spiric, will appreciate the seriousness of the situation and
take urgent measures within his competencies.

Source: SRNA news agency, Bijeljina, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 1122 gmt 2 Jul
10

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                        July 2, 2010 Friday 05:37 PM GMT

Man faces terror charge after cartoonist attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 104 words


Denmark's top prosecutor has charged a Somali man with terrorism for allegedly
trying to kill a cartoonist who caricatured the Prophet Muhammad.

Joergen Steen Soerensen said the man, who cannot be named under a court order,
wanted to "seriously frighten the population" and destabilise Denmark by
targeting cartoonist Kurt Westergaard.

The 28-year-old allegedly broke into Mr Westergaard's home in January, armed
with a knife and an axe.

Police shot him in the arm and leg. Mr Westergaard was not injured.

The suspect has claimed he only wanted to frighten Mr Westergaard and has denied
all charges except the possession of weapons.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                              July 2, 2010 Friday
                                  1st Edition

Cuts will increase attack risk, warns anti-terror chief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 125 words


BRITAIN'S most senior anti-terrorist officer warned Government spending cuts
cannot be delivered without increasing the risk of a terrorist attack.

Scotland Yard's Assistant Commissioner John Yates said counter-terrorism
officers would have to make savings of about pounds 150m as part of
"eye-watering" Treasury cuts.

But he said shaving 25% from the police budget risked weakening defences against
al Qaida. The Metropolitan Police would see pounds 87m wiped from its
anti-terror budget, while units across the country would lose pounds 62m, Mr
Yates said. And he suggested a review of security legislation, including control
orders, surveillance powers and 28-day detention, would have significant
implications s on the fight against terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2010 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                              July 2, 2010 Friday

Woman in pepper spray attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 367  words


A woman aged 19 has described the terrifying moment she was shoved to the ground
and attacked with suspected pepper spray in a violent robbery attempt, writes
Diana Prince.

The teenager fears her sight may permanently affected due to the prolonged
assault.

She was walking home in Prince Maurice Road, Lipson, at 3.50am yesterday  when a
man appeared suddenly at her side.

He blinded her with incapacitant spray, pushed her to the pavement and sprayed
her in the face for a second time.

The attacker tried to yank her handbag but let go when she screamed loudly.

Police are urgently appealing for witnesses.

The young woman, who wishes to remain anonymous, said she was returning from a
night out with friends when she was approached less than 20 metres from her
front door.

"I should have got a taxi but I only moved to Plymouth four days ago and always
lived in Millbrook - it's so safe there," she said. "I'd been on the phone to a
friend all the way from Cuba on North Hill, where I left my friends.

"I hung up because I wasn't far from my front door, went to get my keys from my
bag and he came at me.

"He sprayed me in the face, grabbed my left shoulder and pushed me on to my
back. I don't know how I got away from him because I was blind and in so much
pain. He was right over me, continuously spraying it in my face, grabbing me all
over and tried to take my bag. I just held on to my phone and purse so tight."

She said she ran, screaming as loudly as she could, and managed to make it to
her front door where a housemate let her inside. The woman added that she was
not drunk as she had stopped drinking earlier in the night.

It was half an hour before her sight began to return, and her left eye has
remained sore with blurred sight.

"I'm worried my eyesight won't return to normal, she said. "At the Royal Eye
Infirmary, they said the police only ever use spray in a short burst, but this
was for ages. I'm seeing a specialist tomorrow."

Detective Constable Sarah Lovatt urged anyone who saw the attack or a man acting
suspiciously in the area around Alexandra Road near the time to contact police.

Anyone with information about  the incident is asked to call the  police on
08452 777444, quoting EC106617.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 82


                         Copyright 2010 Evening Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        July 2, 2010 Friday 1:09 AM BST

CUTS WILL INCREASE ATTACK RISK, WARNS ANTI-TERROR CHIEF

BYLINE: Katie Hodge, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 486 words


Britain's most senior anti-terrorist officer warned Government spending cuts
cannot be delivered without increasing the risk of a terrorist attack.

Scotland Yard's Assistant Commissioner John Yates said counter-terrorism
officers would have to make savings in the region of £150 million as part of
``eye-watering'' Treasury cuts.

But he said shaving 25% from the police budget risked weakening defences against
al Qaida.

The Metropolitan Police would see £87 million wiped from its anti-terror budget,
while units across the country would lose £62 million, Mr Yates said during a
private meeting at the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) annual
conference in Manchester.

And he suggested a review of security legislation, including control orders,
surveillance powers and 28-day detention, would have significant implications on
the fight against terrorism.

One of the delegates who attended the closed session told The Times such cuts
could result in the closure of regional counter-terrorism units with fewer
surveillance teams to monitor terror suspects.

And the delegate said police could also see a decrease in resources dedicated to
the fight against Islamic extremism.

Meanwhile another person present at the meeting expressed his alarm, telling the
paper the speech ``alarmed me and should also alarm ministers''.

During the conference Mr Yates, who is also the head of Special Operations at
the Met, reiterated the scale of the al Qaida threat, telling those present that
it remained ``severe'' and was constantly mutating.

Protecting the 2012 London Olympic Games was a high and costly priority, he
added.

Acpo said today it remained dedicated to public protection.

An Acpo spokesman said: ``The Home Secretary has made clear that alongside other
areas of public spending, policing must deliver its share of savings to meet the
fiscal deficit. No area of policing is immune.

``In counter terrorism policing, as well as every other aspect, chief officers
are determined to protect the frontline as much as possible, driving
efficiencies, collaborating and looking at all ways of saving money while
keeping the public safe.

``The police service stands ready and committed to meet all the challenges we
currently face.''

Policing Minister Nick Herbert said the move to cut guidance, bureaucracy and
other red tape must be part of wider reforms to how police operate.

He said: ``The police have been tied up in a deluge of target-related guidance
and doctrine.

``We can't just tinker with the system - we need fundamental reform, where we
restore professional discretion and trust the police to do their job, while
ensuring that the public can hold them to account.

``That's why we've announced that we'll scrap central targets and look again at
the inspectorate performance regime.

``And it's why we're determined to replace top-down, bureaucratic central
direction of policing with stronger, direct local accountability.''

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        July 2, 2010 Friday 12:55 AM BST

CUTS WILL INCREASE ATTACK RISK, WARNS ANTI-TERROR CHIEF

BYLINE: Katie Hodge, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 370 words


Britain's most senior anti-terrorist officer warned Government spending cuts
cannot be delivered without increasing the risk of a terrorist attack.

Scotland Yard's Assistant Commissioner John Yates said counter-terrorism
officers would have to make savings in the region of £150 million as part of
``eye-watering'' Treasury cuts.

But he said shaving 25% from the police budget risked weakening defences against
al Qaida.

The Metropolitan Police would see £87 million wiped from its anti-terror budget,
while units across the country would lose £62 million, Mr Yates said during a
private meeting at the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) annual
conference in Manchester.

And he suggested a review of security legislation, including control orders,
surveillance powers and 28-day detention, would have significant implications on
the fight against terrorism.

One of the delegates who attended the closed session told The Times such cuts
could result in the closure of regional counter-terrorism units with fewer
surveillance teams to monitor terror suspects.

And the delegate said police could also see a decrease in resources dedicated to
the fight against Islamic extremism.

Meanwhile another person present at the meeting expressed his alarm, telling the
paper the speech ``alarmed me and should also alarm ministers''.

During the conference Mr Yates, who is also the head of Special Operations at
the Met, reiterated the scale of the al Qaida threat, telling those present that
it remained ``severe'' and was constantly mutating.

Protecting the 2012 London Olympic Games was a high and costly priority, he
added.

Acpo said today it remained dedicated to public protection.

An Acpo spokesman said: ``The Home Secretary has made clear that alongside other
areas of public spending, policing must deliver its share of savings to meet the
fiscal deficit. No area of policing is immune.

``In counter terrorism policing, as well as every other aspect, chief officers
are determined to protect the frontline as much as possible, driving
efficiencies, collaborating and looking at all ways of saving money while
keeping the public safe.

``The police service stands ready and committed to meet all the challenges we
currently face.''

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 3, 2010 Saturday

UK army spokesman accuses Pakistan, Iran of role in Afghan terror attacks - TV

LENGTH: 289 words


Excerpt from report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 2 July

[Presenter] Evidence has shown that Pakistan and Iran have been masterminding
attacks on US and NATO forces in Afghanistan. A senior British official in
Afghanistan said that the UK military intelligence service had found evidence
showing terrorists in Afghanistan are provided with roadside mines from abroad.
Wali Aryan has more details:

[Correspondent] A top official of the British forces in Afghanistan said that
the Taleban militants had changed the tactics of assaults and stepped up their
attacks on NATO forces in Afghanistan. Gordon Messenger, a UK military spokesman
in Afghanistan, said that the British intelligence agency had found evidence
showing Iran and Pakistan had been masterminding and financing terrorist attacks
on US and NATO forces in Afghanistan.

[Text of a quote from the British military spokesman] We see foreign countries
involved in providing funds and equipment for terrorists in Afghanistan. We have
evidence showing Iran and Pakistan are providing funds and equipment.

[Correspondent] Messenger insisted that it had been observed that British
casualties in Afghanistan had increased as a result of firing in recent weeks.

[Text of a quote from a spokesman for British forces in Afghanistan, Lt-Gen
Gordon Messenger, captioned] Firing on us has increased recently with the use of
heavy weapons, and naturally we should retaliate.

[Passage omitted: correspondent says Pakistan had also been accused of
involvement in terrorist attacks in Afghanistan before]

[Video shows a photo of a UK military spokesman, archive video shows Taleban
militants; foreign forces busy in a military exercise in Afghanistan]

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 2 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 3, 2010 Saturday

Turkey condemns terror attack on US aid group in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 151 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 2 July: Turkey condemned the terrorist attack on a compound of the US
Agency for International Development (USAID) in Kunduz province of Afghanistan.

In a statement, Turkey's Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressed profound sorrow
over killing of people in the attack.

"The attack on humanitarian aid workers of the USAID who were in the area in an
effort to increase prosperity level of Afghan people, in fact, targeted the
country's unity and integrity. Turkey is determined in its efforts to develop
international solidarity and cooperation in fight against terrorism. We condemn
this heinous attack," the Ministry added.

At least four people died in a pre-dawn attack by suicide bombers on a
four-story house used by an American aid organization in Kunduz province.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 2056 gmt 2 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             July 3, 2010 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Claim that cuts raise terror risk is attacked

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: POL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 259 words


BRITAIN S most senior counter-terrorism officer was publicly rebuked  by a
Government minister yesterday after warning that planned spending cuts could not
be delivered without increasing the risk of a terrorist attack.

Cabinet Office Minister Francis Maude said public servants should not indulge in
shroud waving  and should be concentrating on getting costs down rather than
alarming the public.

The highly public spat erupted after Scotland Yard s Assistant Commissioner John
Yates said counter-terrorism officers would have to make savings in the region
of £150 million as part of eye-watering  Treasury cuts.

He said that shaving 25% from the police budget   as Chancellor George Osborne
suggested in his emergency Budget last week   risked weakening defences against
al Qaeda.

His comments were made during a private session at the Association of Chief
Police Officers conference in Manchester but details of his speech were
disclosed to a newspaper by one of the delegates.

Nevertheless, Maude said it was not appropriate for senior public servants to
comment in this way.

I d like to avoid public servants doing this kind of shroud-waving in public.
There is a special responsibility on all public servants to be really careful
what we say and what we do,  he told the BBC.

It s going to be pretty important for people who are managing big public
services like police forces to focus on cutting out unnecessary costs   being as
efficient as they possibly can before they even begin to contemplate talking
about alarming the public in this kind of way. .

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 4, 2010 Sunday

Pakistan TV show discusses terror attacks, links with Islam

LENGTH: 797 words


Karachi Geo News in Urdu at 1400 GMT on 2 July relays daily current affairs
program, "Crisis Cell," hosted by Sana Bucha, a working journalist. The program
features an expert analysis on major issues; Words within double slant lines are
in English.

Reception: Good

Duration: 30 minutes

Bucha begins the program by quoting a verse of the holy Koran that God gives
guidance to some and misleads others from the same thing. Misled ones are those
who are already defiant. Bucha says: Islam is the name of peace for both the
believers and the non-believers. The Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) has abstained from
hurting the children, women, the unarmed, the garden, and crops. It is forbidden
in Islam to hurt anyone unless they openly declare war on them.

Bucha plays video of Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gillani saying that Islam is the
religion of peace but some are trying to deform its face. Agreeing to Gillani,
Bucha says: The terrorists of Al-Qa'ida and the Taleban are killing the
innocents in the name of Islam. It is not about Christians, Ahmedis, and other
minorities; even a common Muslim is not safe from these terrorists.

Bucha mentions the attack on the shrine of Data Darbaar in Lahore on 1 July and
plays the video clippings of Mufti Muneebur Rehman, an Islamic scholar;
Jamaat-e-Islami leader Liaqat Baluch, and Hamid Kazmi, federal minister for
religious affairs, condemning the attack and saying that this is absolutely
forbidden and whoever has done this has nothing to do with Islam. Bucha says: It
is ironic that all Islamic scholars except for Mufti Muneebur Rehman are using
ifs and buts rather than condemning the act. Not sure if this is a result of
their fear for life or their ideology.

Bucha plays a video of Rehman Malik saying that the Lashkar-e-Jhangvi,
Sipah-e-Sihabah Pakistan, and TTP [Tehreek-e-Taleban Pakistan] are involved in
terrorist activities with the help of Al-Qa'ida. These groups who are apparently
against the United States are damaging Pakistan. There is a general perception
that this wave of terrorism is the reaction to the atrocities by the United
States after the 9/11 incident, but it is not understandable why the revenge of
US atrocities is taken in the shape of attacks on mosques and shrines.

Referring to a verse of the holy Koran saying that you should fight in the name
of God with only those who fight with you, but do not cross the limits because
God does not like those who cross limits. Bucha says: In the opinion of certain
experts, another angle to the terrorism is the inappropriate behavior of the
leaders and the establishment.

Referring to the Red Mosque issue, Bucha says: The matter was unwisely handled
by the government and the outcome is the Ghazi force which is becoming a major
threat to the country. According to the intelligence, Ghazi force has its
headquarters at Orakzai Agency with close ties to the Taleban.

Bucha establishes telephone link with Tahirul Qadri, renowned religious scholar,
who has declared fatwa against the suicide bombing, and asks: Who do you think
is to blame for these terror activities in the name of Islam? Qadri says: I
think neither the last military dictator ship nor the current government is
serious about curtailing terrorism in the country. The political leadership is
aware of the terrorists, who is supporting them, who is funding them, and where
their centers are, but it is making a fool of the nation. They want a continued
war against terrorism, so that they can fill their own pockets.

Bucha says: We are not sure of our friends and foes. What will be the result of
our dual policy? Qadri says: This is a stunt for the nation and the government
is clear on the friends and foes. Qadri adds: We need a categorical decision to
bring an end to terrorism. There are certain conditions in Islam to declare war
against countries which are committing atrocities against Muslims. Nobody has
the right in Islam to start suicide bombings on any basis. There is no
justification of terrorism in the 1,400 years of history of Islam.

Bucha asks: What would you call this? Qadri says: This is religious extremism
and conservatism. There is a need to bring an end to brainwashing on a
grassroots level and to change the syllabus of madrasahs.

Bucha asks: Can our religious parties play a role in this? If not, what are the
reasons? Qadri says: Both political and religious parties have their own
interests.

Bucha says: The atrocities committed by Israel on Palestinians, US military
forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the deaths of hundreds of people in drone
attacks are enough to contribute towards hatred, but if those fighting against
atrocities start committing atrocities, this would lead the humanity to
disaster.

Bucha concludes the program.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1400gmt 02 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 4, 2010 Sunday

Two "terrorists" killed in attack on military unit in southestern Turkey

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Sirnak, 4 July: Two terrorists were killed while two temporary village guards
and two civilians, one of them a child, were wounded in the attack that
terrorists carried out against a military unit in Sirnak's Beytussebap District.

The statement issued by Sirnak Governor's Office noted that an armed attack
carried out from three to four separate locations targeted the military police,
the police post, and the city in general in Beytussebap.

Pointing out that two temporary village guards and two civilians, including one
child who was on the balcony at his home, were wounded, the statement read: "The
wounded were taken with helicopter to Sirnak State Hospital. In the clash that
took place two of the terrorists who attacked the military unit were killed and
their weapons were seized."

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in Turkish 0843 gmt 4 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 5, 2010 Monday

Pakistan PM says terrorists "pursuing violence" by attacking soft targets

LENGTH: 643 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 5 July: Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gilani on Monday [5 July]
called for convening a national conference to formulate a national policy to
counter and eradicate terrorism from the country.

The Prime Minister said this in his opening remarks at a high level meeting
specially convened to review the law and order situation here at the PM
Secretariat.

The meeting was attended by the four provincial chief ministers, heads of
intelligence agencies, police and concerned departments.

Prime Minister Gillani expressed concern over the recent wave of terrorism in
Lahore and said it was a matter of great concern for the entire nation. He said
called for convening a national conference to formulate a national policy on
terrorism and said all major political parties of the country, whether in
Parliament or outside, would be requested to participate and bring tangible
suggestions to eradicate the scourge of terrorism from the society.

The Prime Minister said that the attack on Mazar of Hazrat Data Gunj Bukhsh has
caused resentment and indignation in the country from Karachi to
Gilgit-Baltistan and every section of the society, political parties and
religious organizations have expressed their abhorrence over the incident.

He urged the nation to forge a united stand against these elements who are out
to kill the citizens, damage schools and hospitals, desecrate mosque and
shrines.

The Prime Minister stressed upon all the law enforcement forces at the federal
and provincial levels to redouble their efforts and timely sharing of
information, coordinate actions and pursue these defeated elements.

He reiterated that neither the federal nor the provincial governments alone can
deal with this challenge. Therefore, he said beside the Army and law enforcing
agencies, the terrorism, sectarianism and ethnic divide need to be tackled by
important pillars of the state, including public representatives from the
political parties, religious leaders and civil society.

The Prime Minister said the media, particularly electronic media has an impact
on the society. Therefore, it is required that it be involved in this war
against terrorism, he added.

He directed the Ministry of Interior to involve the Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting to achieve this objective. After being hit hard in the FATA and
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province, the Prime Minister said that the terrorists were on
the run and seeking refuge in the urban areas of the country.

He said the terrorists were pursuing violence by attacking soft targets and
spreading sectarian hatred through vicious propaganda.

He expressed the government's resolve not to allow the perpetrators any room for
barbaric activities.

The Prime Minister observed that Lahore has been the target of terrorists for
the last many months. He said that the terrorists have attacked mosques, worship
places of Ahmedi community beside killing a large number of law enforcement
officials at FIA building Lahore and Manawan Police Training Centre. The Prime
Minister rated the attack on the Mazar of Hazrat Data Gang Bukhsh as the most
heinous and barbaric incident in which 49 lives had been lost and 142 persons
were injured.

However, he said, the nation has resolved to boldly face the challenge and root
out the menace in all its forms and manifestations. He said earlier the
terrorists attacked the shrine of Hazrat Bari Imam at Islamabad as well. He
observed that such gruesome acts like desecration of the sanctity of the Sufis
and their Mazars emotionally impacts the people of the country and indicates
that the heartless and ruthless enemies of the Pakistan have no respect for the
noble preachers as well as for the innocent people.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1210gmt
05 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                              July 5, 2010 Monday
                                  1st Edition

Britons behind terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 171 words


MORE than two-thirds of Islamism-related terrorism offences or suicide attacks
in the UK over the last 10 years were perpetrated by British citizens, according
to a report published today.

Some 69% of such incidents from 1999 to 2009 were carried out by Britons, the
study by think-tank The Centre for Social Cohesion found.

Almost half (46%) were committed by individuals of a south central Asian
ancestry, while the second and third most frequent regions of origin were
eastern Africa (16%) and northern Africa (13%).

Some 48% of the 127 Islamism-related terrorism offences or suicide attacks,
collectively referred to as Islamism related offences (IROs), were committed by
individuals living in London, the report found.

The next two most common regions were the West Midlands (13%) and Yorkshire and
the Humber (9%). Nearly a third of individuals who committed IROs (32%) had a
direct link to one or more proscribed organisations, the two most prevalent
being al-Muhajiroun (15%) and al Qaida (14.5%), the report found.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2010 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 5, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UK terror attacks 'by Brits'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 161 words


MORE than two-thirds of Islamism-related terrorism offences or suicide attacks
in the UK over the last 10 years were perpetrated by British citizens, according
to a new report.

Some 69 per cent of such incidents from 1999 to 2009 were carried out by
Britons, the study by The Centre for Social Cohesion found.

Almost half (46 per cent) were committed by individuals of south central Asian
ancestry, while the second and third most frequent regions of origin were
eastern Africa (16 per cent) and northern Africa (13 per cent).

Some 48 per cent of the 127 Islamism-related offences were committed by
individuals living in London, the study found.

The next two most common regions were the West Midlands with 13 per cent and
Yorkshire and the Humber with nine per cent.

The report concludes: "Al Qaida and al Qaidainspired terrorism remains the
biggest threat to the UK's national security.

The Security Service estimates that over 2,000 people in the UK pose a terrorist
threat.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              July 5, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Drugged, beaten and molested by monster at age 15;
WOMAN REVEALS TOBIN SEX ATTACK TERROR 40YRS ON VICTIM RECOGNISES BEAST IN
SCOTTISH Sun BOOK SHE TELLS TV CRIME SHOW ABOUT ORDEAL

BYLINE: ANNABELLE LOVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 652 words


A TORMENTED woman who may be one of serial fiend Peter Tobin's first victims has
finally revealed the terrifying ordeal she suffered at his hands more than 40
years ago.

The traumatised 57-year-old was drugged, beaten and subjected to a sickening sex
assault after being dragged in a squalid Glasgow alleyway when she was just 15
years old.

But her mental anguish only ended when she spotted evil Tobin's picture in a
Scottish Sun book about his horrific crimes.

And tonight she will bravely relive the chilling attack on BBC's Crimewatch - in
a bid to encourage more unknown victims of the monster to break their silence.

Detective Superintendent David Swindle, the officer leading the probe to uncover
the killer's past crimes, said: "This has been very difficult for her and it's
taken a lot of courage.

"We may never know everything that Tobin has done, but every piece of
information we get, no matter how small, could be vital."

The woman was just a teenager when she met Tobin in Glasgow's Barrowlands
Ballroom in 1968 - the dancehall linked to the infamous Bible John killings.

Scheming Tobin, now 63, said his name was Jim McLaughlin and that he was 21
before charming the teenager into trusting him. She told the programme: "He was
very polite to me, nice, laughing and joking - just an everyday guy."

The pair agreed to go out on a date the following night, meeting up and visiting
a number of pubs.

But the victim believes the sex beast spiked her drink - like he drugged
schoolgirls Vicky Hamilton, 15, and Dinah McNicol, 18, before brutally murdering
them.

The distraught woman can remember fighting for her life as twisted Tobin punched
and assaulted her in the alley.

She eventually passed out, and by the time she regained consciousness the fiend
had fled. It's believed he had been disturbed by passers-by.

The woman reported her ordeal police, but their bid to trace her attacker
failed.

It was more than 40 years later that she saw a picture of the killer as a young
man in our book Tobin: Evil Beyond Belief - and realised that was the man who
had put her through the terrifying ordeal.

She contacted Crimewatch after seeing their appeals following Tobin's conviction
last December for slaying Dinah.

And her information about the attack - which bears chilling similarities to his
other crimes - has given detectives a valuable insight into the triple killer's
behaviour. Det Supt Swindle, right, said: "The woman told us she hadn't
recognised him from more recent photographs, but her legs gave way when she saw
his picture in the booklet. During tonight's interview she refers to the booklet
because it has been invaluable.

"She tells viewers it was 42 years for her and that it is never too late. It may
also bring her some closure in the long term."

The top cop added: "This is exactly the sort of information we're hopeful of
getting - evidence instead of speculation.

"The information relating to what may have been Tobin's first serious sexual
assault victim in 1968 is very important to allow us to piece together the
earlier years of Tobin's criminal life when he was a young man.

"And hopefully this will jog other people's minds because without a doubt there
are people out there who knew him and have not come forward."

Despite meeting the woman at the Barrowlands, police do not believe Tobin -
serving life for killing Vicky, Dinah and 23-year-old Polish student Angelika
Kluk - is Bible John. Cops now think the notorious murders were not the work of
one person.

Det Supt Swindle said: "There is no evidence that Peter Tobin is Bible John. We
have got to deal with evidence, not speculation.

What this lady has been able to tell us is very interesting information.

"If you have information about Tobin it may be that vital piece which can bring
closure to families whose loved ones have fallen victim to the serial killer."

CRIMEWATCH is on BBC One at 9pm tonight.

annabellelove@the-sun.co.uk

Crimes

Evidence

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Evil memories... victim saw our pic of monster as a young man and
realised he was fiend who had attacked her in 1968
Probe... book and cop photofit of 'Bible John'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday

Police say six separate militant groups behind terror attacks in Pakistan

LENGTH: 724 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Militants carrying out major attacks
belong to Lahore" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 6 July

Lahore: Police say a group of militants taken into custody in connection with
all major attacks in Lahore and other parts of the country belongs to the
provincial metropolis.

They are involved in recruiting terrorists, planning, gathering information and
storing explosives and sophisticated weapons at different places in the city and
its outskirts and providing logistic support to other groups.

Their future plan was to create anarchy in society and unrest among different
sects besides carrying out more attacks on important political personalities,
sensitive agencies, offices working on law and order and sensitive
installations.

Addressing a press conference at Qilla Gujjar Singh Police Lines on Monday,
Capital City Police Officer (CCPO) Muhammad Aslam Tareen said that terror
suspects identified as Rizwan, Abbas, Haroon Saeed, Umair, Umer and Haji Javed
Alam were detained from different localities of the city by teams of Crimes
Investigation Agency (CIA).

He said all of them got training in Afghanistan and a majority of them acted as
facilitators. The suspects informed the investigators that five to six separate
militant groups were carrying out terror attacks in Pakistan.

The suspects disclosed that they were involved in terror attacks on Rawalpindi's
Parade Lane Mosque, Karachi's Ashura procession, worship places of Ahmadis in
Lahore's Garhi Shahu and Model Town and Lahore's Moon Market, Jinnah Hospital,
Gulshan-i-Iqbal and Samanabad.

CCPO Tareen said suicide attacks on Data Darbar Complex were a conspiracy to
provoke misunderstandings among different sects and disintegrate the country.

Police teams began investigation with two suicide bombers, Moawia, alias
Asmattullah, alias Moaaz, of Lahore, and Abdullah, alias Muhammad, of Karachi,
who were caught from Ahmadis' worship place in Model Town on 28 May 2010.

The police also seized two motorcycles from the spot but their engine and
chassis numbers had been removed. The investigators with the help of the
Forensic Science Laboratory found the chassis numbers of the motorbikes.

Both motorcycles were purchased from Bahawalpur United Company by using the
identity card of Gulzar Hussain, alias Muneeb.

Abdullah informed the police that he had come to Lahore from Karachi by a local
company's bus under ticket name Jafaar on 22 May. He carried a cell phone which
was taken away by his accomplice Hafeez, alias Shah, before the attack.

The police contacted the bus company's Karachi office about seat No 10 and got a
cell phone number which was being used by Hafeez and Rana, who masterminded the
attacks.

They would use the number for conversation with girls in an attempt to deceive
law-enforcement agencies.

The police also received a new number from one of the girls which was being used
in new terror network. After getting all information, police with the help of
intelligence agencies busted the network and arrested several of its members.

To a question, the CCPO said that all federal intelligence agencies were sharing
secret information with the Lahore police on time.

The arrested suspects had concealed 18,000 kilogrammes explosives at different
places and Javed Alam, of Bund Road, Islampura, had given the suspects his
rented house to stay. Umair, of Jiya Moosa, and Umer would use their identity
cards to facilitate others.

Meanwhile, CCPO Traeen told Dawn that 18,000kg explosives recovered from two
weapon-manufacturing units in outskirts of Lahore would be destroyed with the
help of Pakistan Army. He said at least three or four members of the terror
network were still at large.

He said two suspects identified as Haroon Saeed, of Shafeeqabad, and Rizwan, of
Mohni Road, Lower Mall, would recruit militants and suicide bombers and
mastermind terror attacks.

SUSPENDED: The inspector-general of police has suspended from service the Lower
Mall circle DSP while the CC PO has suspended the Lower Mall SHO, Data Ganj
Bakhsh shrine police check-post in-charge and two constables in connection with
terror attacks on the shrine.

The five have been suspended for poor security arrangements which led to the
entry of two suicide bombers into the shrine.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 06 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday

Bosnian Islamist describe terror attack as "ordinary murder"

LENGTH: 238 words


Excerpt from report by Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA

Sarajevo, 6 July: The Wahhabis of Gornja Maoca [Islamist enclave] called today
on Bosniaks [Bosnian Muslims] to unite in "Allah's faith" and "put a stop to the
degrading oppression" under which they are forced to live by the government in
Bosnia-Hercegovina [B-H].

"We are no threat to you. To the contrary, we wish you what we wish for
ourselves; we are your most caring citizens. Oh, people, do not allow yourselves
to be deceived, they are turning you away from your faith," Wahhabis say on
their internet portals in B-H.

In their address to the Bosniak people, the Wahhabis describe the terrorist
attack on the police station in Bugojno as an "ordinary murder" aimed at
political intimidation. They compare it to the Mostar murder of Magdi
Dizdarevic, a young Wahhabi, "whose skull was smashed on the pavement in front
of the mosque".

"Beasts! Predators! Vultures!" - this is how the Wahhabis label politicians and
B-H security service officials tasked with investigating the terrorist attack in
Bugojno, accusing them of profiting from terrorism for election purposes.
[passage omitted]

Security services conducted in Gornja Maoca the largest police operation in
post-Dayton B-H, but the Wahhabis arrested in this spectacle were released
immediately afterward and have not yet been prosecuted.

Source: SRNA news agency, Bijeljina, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 0840 gmt 6 Jul
10

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday

SECRETARY: BOSSES CALLED ME A PAKI AFTER TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 365 words


FELIX ALLEN

A MUSLIM secretary is suing her West End law firm after one of the partners
allegedly said of the Mumbai terror attacks: "It's always your lot. You're a
Paki aren't you?"

Jasmine Akhtar, 28, told an employment tribunal that three partners at Goodge
Law subjected her to months of intimidation and racist abuse after she joined
the firm in July 2008. She says this got worse after she told them she was
pregnant.

She claimed one partner, Michael Greenstein, referred to Asian clients in emails
as "one of your boys" and asked her: "Do you think they're from Paki land?" Ms
Akhtar, who earned £23,000 a year, said she was also singled out by another
partner, Josephine Michaels.

She said this included an incident in 2008 when news broke of the atrocity in
Mumbai, where 166 people were killed by 10 Islamist gunmen.

Ms Akhtar told the tribunal: "I said I couldn't understand why anyone would do
such things. She said, 'Well you should know, it's always your lot, you are a
Paki aren't you?'. I was stunned and deeply offended."

She added: "I felt singled out as the only member of the team of Pakistani and
Muslim origin." Ms Akhtar also claimed that when she became pregnant in January
last year her bosses bullied her out of taking time off for hospital scans.

When she did attend appointments, her absence was put down as sick leave or
holiday, the tribunal heard, and she said the third partner, Rajesh Kalia, joked
he would slap her if he saw her smoking. Later the partners refused to pay her a
promised £1,000 bonus before she went on maternity leave, it was alleged. She
went on: "The last 18 months have been emotionally and physically draining for
me."

Richard Samuel, defending Goodge Law, said emails were part of the "friendly
banter" in the office and said Ms Akhtar had sent emails to Mr Greenstein
referring to his Jewish background.

In another email she told Mr Greenstein: "Stop picking and choosing, stop
behaving like a Muslim, it's embarrassing." Mr Samuel said: "You had a very easy
relationship where you could joke confidently and know that people wouldn't be
offended."

Ms Akhtar is claiming racial and sexual discrimination, which the firm denies.
The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright  2010   Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistani TV show discusses reasons for terror attacks in country

LENGTH: 897 words


Text of report by leading private Pakistani satellite TV channel Geo News

Karachi Geo News in Urdu at 1330 GMT on 5 July relays daily current affairs
program, "Crisis Cell," hosted by Sana Bucha, a working journalist. The program
features an expert analysis on major issues.

Program: "Crisis Cell"

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Bucha begins the program by saying: Is it not a tragedy that Pakistan does not
have a clear-cut counterterrorism policy in spite of being faced with terrorism
and being a frontline state in the war against terrorism.

Referring to the attack on a shrine in Lahore, Bucha says: Different factions of
the society are expressing their reactions in different ways, but we are getting
the same old standard sentences of condemnation from the government.

Bucha plays a video showing Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani and Nawaz Sharif
condemning the attack and Sharif saying that a national conference should be
called. Bucha says: Interior Minister Rehman Malik has arranged a meeting with
the religious parties in order to cool things down, whereas, the Punjab
Government has constituted a task force to deal with the 17 banned
organizations, including Jama't-ud-Da'wah Pakistan. Bucha says: Why do we start
blaming each other as soon as a terror incident happens?

Bucha plays a video of Punjab Governor Salman Taseer blaming Punjab Chief
Minister Shahbaz Sharif for the incident. Bucha adds: However, Rana Sanaullah,
the Punjab law minister, is asking for resignation of the Punjab governor,
alleging him of making Governor House a center of political activities. Bucha
says: These are our political leaders, their vision, and our political culture.

Bucha plays a video of Mufti Muneebur Rehman, a religious scholar, saying that
Rana Sanaullah and the governor of Punjab are both being accompanied by leaders
of banned organizations in order to gain political mileage, and Ahl-e-Sunnat
leader Hanif Syed, alleging that the banned organizations are working robustly
under different names. Bucha says: Where is the Interior Ministry if this is
happening.

Bucha says: For sure, this was a war of the United States but it has now started
burning our homes. The terrorists chant slogans against the United States, but
their victims are the moderate and civilized Pakistanis.

Bucha plays a video showing Jamaat Ahl-e-Sunnat Pakistan leader Sahibzada Fazal
Kareem saying that we are peace-loving people, but will continue our struggle
against attacks on sacred places like Data Darbar [shrine].

Bucha establishes a video contact with Brigadier Ghulam Muhammad Mohtram, an
expert on counterterrorism, and asks: Pakistan seems to be lacking in the
counterterrorism policy. What are the faults and what needs to be done? Mohtram
says: Yes, I totally agree with this. First, we need to define terrorism and
terrorists, so that action can be initiated only against them. We do not have
consensus on this as a nation. Second, public opinion needs to be formed against
terrorism with the help of politicians and the media. Bucha asks: How would we
define terrorism? Mohtram says: Where the writ of the state is challenged with
arms and where innocent are being targeted. For example, the attack on Data
Darbar is an attack on our emotions. Bucha asks: Do we have any institution or
organization that can address this? Mohtaram says: Counterterrorism strategy
requires seriousness of the politicians and it is not a time for point scoring.

Bucha asks: What do you think are the basis of these attacks? Mohtram says: This
is part of a big game. The small groups of terrorist are being coordinated by
some other forces. I can say this with conviction that the attack on Data Darbar
is not an individual act but part of a big plot. There is no room for dialogues
in counter terrorism policy. The need of the hour is to gather intelligence and
establish an institution like Homeland Security so that we have a complete
database.

Bucha asks: How can our government develop consensus on this? Mohtram says:
First, we n eed to establish that it is our war for survival. Commenting on
Nawaz Sharif's suggestion to call a national conference, Mohtram says: This will
be a step in the right direction provided it is not for point scoring.

Referring to Nawaz Sharif's statement that there could be dialogue with certain
Taliban, Bucha asks: Do you not think we are restricting the enemy by calling
them good or bad Taliban? Agreeing, Mohtram says: It will be very difficult to
determine who is good and who is bad, as there are groups other than the Taliban
operating. And in my opinion, the Data Darbar incident has nothing to do with
the Taliban. It is the sectarian groups. Mohtram adds that the responsibility
also lies on the intelligence agencies.

Bucha asks: Who do you think is responsible, after the agencies? Mohtaram says:
After intelligence, it is the responsibility of the courts. The conviction rate
in our country is virtually zero. As far as my information is concerned, 4,000
persons, including Muslim Khan, were arrested during the Malakand Operation, but
most of them, including Muslim Khan, have not appeared before any court. The
reason of the delay is the unavailability of the judges, the prosecutors, and
the witnesses fearing for their lives. Those acquitted have come back into the
business.

Bucha concludes the program.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1330gmt 05 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday

Flawed approach to fight against terror has 'increased risk of attacks': Policy
alienated Muslims, says former police chief Comments mark five years since 7
July bombings

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 624 words


Britain's fight against terrorism has been a disaster, because its "flawed,
neo-conservative" direction alienated Muslims and increased the chances of
terrorist attacks, a former leading counter-terrorism officer has told the
Guardian.

Speaking to mark today's fifth anniversary of the 7 July attacks in London, Dr
Robert Lambert said the atrocity had led the Labour government to launch not
just the publicly declared battle against al-Qaida, but a much wider
counter-subversive campaign that targeted non-violent Muslims and branded them
as supporters of violence.

Lambert, now an academic, served for 30 years as an officer in Scotland Yard's
special branch, dealing with the threat from Irish Republican terrorism through
to the menace from al-Qaida.

He was head of a counter-terrorism squad, the Muslim contact unit (MCU), which
gained intelligence on violent extremists, and won praise from Muslims, even
those who have criticised police.

Lambert said the Labour government adopted a "flawed, neo-con analysis to react
to 7 July. The view was that this is such an evil ideology, we are entitled to
derogate from human rights considerations even further."

The effect of this, said Lambert, was to cast the net too wide: "The (British)
analysis was a continuation of the (US) analysis after 9/11, which drove the war
on terror, to say al-Qaida is a tip of a dangerous Islamist iceberg . . . we
went to war not against terrorism, but against ideas, the belief that al-Qaida
was a violent end of a subversive movement."

Lambert said this approach alienated British Muslims, as those who expressed
views such as opposition to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, also held by
non-Muslims, feared that holding such beliefs made them suspects.

"The best way of tackling al-Qaida is to reassure the communities where it seeks
support and recruits, is to show those communities that their grievances can be
expressed legitimately," Lambert said.

His comments come as Andy Hayman, the former assistant commissioner who led the
7/7 investigation, warns in the Times that Britain remains "under severe risk"
from terror attacks.

"There are now probably more radicalised Muslims, their attack plans are more
adventurous and the UK still remains under severe risk," Hayman said.

Five years ago today, four Britons inspired, and some trained, by al-Qaida
exploded homemade bombs on three London Underground trains and a bus. They
killed themselves, murdered 52 people and injured 750 more.

Lambert said the government was desperate to deny that British foreign policy
drove sections of the Muslim community to support or sympathise with al-Qaida.
He continued: "What the bombers did, and what al-Qaida does successfully, is to
exploit widely held grievances. That should not be difficult to grasp. The last
government spent most of the last five years denying that."

Lambert said the government's decision to go down the wrong path took the police
with them. Senior officers could have done more to tell the government their
policies were making the task harder by alienating Muslims. "There is still a
duty on the police to let government know what the impact of their policies are,
a duty on the police to report the damaging impact on Muslim community support."

Lambert was awarded an MBE for his work heading the MCU and retired in 2007. He
said the fight needed to focus solely on the terrorists. He said that British
policies handed the terrorists propaganda victories. Such policies included the
Iraq war, civilian casualties in Afghanistan, the torture of terror suspects at
Guantanamo and elsewhere, rendition, the muted response to Israel's attack on
Lebanon and the attempt to hold terror suspects in the UK for 90 days without
charge.

Leader comment, page 28

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday

Flawed approach to fight against terror 'increased risk of attacks': Policy
alienated Muslims, says former police chief Comments mark five years since 7
July bombings

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 776 words


Britain's fight against terrorism has been a disaster, because its "flawed,
neo-conservative" direction alienated Muslims and increased the chances of
terrorist attacks, a former leading counter-terrorism officer has told the
Guardian.

Speaking to mark today's fifth anniversary of the 7 July attacks in London, Dr
Robert Lambert said the atrocity had led the Labour government to launch not
just the publicly-declared battle against al-Qaida, but a much wider
counter-subversive campaign that targeted non-violent Muslims and branded them
as supporters of violence.

Lambert, now an academic, served for 30 years as an officer in Scotland Yard's
special branch, dealing with the threat from Irish Republican terrorism through
to the menace from al-Qaida.

He was head of a counter-terrorism squad, the Muslim contact unit (MCU), which
gained intelligence on violent extremists, and won praise from Muslims, even
those who have criticised police.

Lambert said the Labour government adopted a "flawed, neo-con analysis to react
to July 7. The view was that this is such an evil ideology, we are entitled to
derogate from human rights considerations even further."

The effect of this, said Lambert, was to cast the net too wide: "The (British)
analysis was a continuation of the (US) analysis after 9/11, which drove the war
on terror, to say al-Qaida is a tip of a dangerous Islamist iceberg . . . we
went to war not against terrorism, but against ideas, the belief that al-Qaida
was a violent end of a subversive movement."

Lambert said that this approach alienated British Muslims, as those who
expressed views such as opposition to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, also
held by non-Muslims, feared that holding such beliefs made them suspects.

"The best way of tackling al-Qaida is to reassure the communities where it seeks
support and recruits, is to show those communities that their grievances can be
expressed legitimately," Lambert said.

Five years ago today four Britons inspired, and some trained, by al-Qaida
exploded homemade bombs on three London Underground trains and a bus. They
killed themselves, murdered 52 people and injured 750 more.

Lambert said the government was desperate to deny that British foreign policy
drove sections of the Muslim community to support or sympathise with al-Qaida.
Lambert continued: "What the bombers did, and what al-Qaida does successfully,
is to exploit widely-held grievances. That should not be difficult to grasp. The
last government spent most of the last five years denying that.

Lambert said the government's decision to go down the wrong path took the police
with them. Senior officers could have done more to tell government their
policies were making their task harder by alienating Muslims. "There is still a
duty on the police to let government know what the impact of their policies are,
a duty on the police to report the damaging impact on Muslim community support."

Lambert was awarded an MBE for his work heading the MCU and retired in 2007. He
said it applied lessons learned from combating terrorism in Ulster and that the
fight needed to focus solely on the terrorists.

Lambert added that British policies handed the terrorists propaganda victories.
Such policies included the Iraq war, civilian casualties in Afghanistan, the
torture of terror suspects at Guantanamo and elsewhere, rendition, the muted
response to Israel's attack on Lebanon and the attempt to hold terror suspects
in the UK for 90 days without charge. "You have to resist the knee-jerk response
to introduce draconian measures, because they play into the hands of
terrorists," he said.

He added that the new government had taken some encouraging steps on civil
liberties, but needed to change course on the response to terrorism. He is
worried that some figures in the coalition espouse the neo-con analysis:
"Nothing has demonstrably changed under the new government. There is more
awareness of the damage from infringement of civil liberties, but not in the
awareness of the damage of the military strategy."

He said withdrawal from Afghanistan was important. "I can't see any evidence it
is making a contribution to keeping us safe. There is no evidence of success
from the military approach. We need to refocus on the threat to the UK from the
al-Qaida movement." Lambert said a more "optimistic scenario" was possible. If
the UK and the west changed tactics "al-Qaida strategists would be quite alarmed
if there was a new initiative."

The commemoration today will be low-key. A government spokesman said: "Many of
the families have told us that . . . they prefer to remember their loved ones in
their own way."

Leader comment, page 28

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

WHY WE WILL NEVER FORGET;
FIVE YEARS AFTER THE 7/7 TERROR ATTACKS THAT KILLED 52 PEOPLE IN LONDON, THE
FAMILIES OF TWO OF THOSE MURDERED TELL OF THEIR DAILY STRUGGLE TO COME TO TERMS
WITH WHAT HAPPENED.

BYLINE: EMMA CREAMER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 32,33

LENGTH: 1161 words


Sisters Stacy Beer and Michele Brady will never forget the day they lost their
little brother Philip Beer, aged just 22, in the 7/7 bombings.

And today, five years on from the blast between King's Cross and Russell Square
that killed Phil, it's even harder for the siblings.

But this year the family can celebrate new life too, after Stacy had her first
baby Conor six weeks ago and gave him the middle name Philip in memory of her
brother.

"What happened to Phil impacts on everything we do," says Stacy, 29. "I'm so
happy to have Conor and to have become a mum, but Phil not being here makes it
difficult. There's always a part of me that feels sad and it breaks my heart
that Conor will never know him.

"We called the baby Conor Michael Philip. I thought about calling him Philip,
and I'd have liked to, but it just felt too close, too painful. Phil was such a
great guy, we were all really close. And I drove him to the station the morning
he died so I find this time of year a real struggle.

"I woke him up to make sure he wouldn't be late for work. He'd just started as a
hairdresser in London two weeks before so he was really into it.

"Of course he was a 22-year-old lad so he wasn't easy to shift out of bed - I
had to go back about four times to get him up. But I remember we'd had a real
laugh that morning. I'd found him at the back door having a cigarette and we had
a good chat and a laugh before I took him to his train.

"When I got to work I heard there was a problem with the tubes but Phil had lost
his phone on the tube the week before, so I had to text his friend. I just said
to let me know when they were both at work okay.

"But when his friend called, he was hysterical. He'd been on the tube with Phil
and couldn't find him. It was awful, and all we could do was wait."

Michele, who lives with husband Ross and sons Jamie and Jimmy, heard there was
something wrong when Stacy rang to tell her Phil hadn't turned up at work.
"Initially I wasn't worried," she recalls. "I assumed there were tube delays
because of the crash.

"But when I rang Mum an hour later she still hadn't heard from Phil. Then she
burst into tears and said, 'Just come round.' When I got there the TV was
showing images of the devastation - buses torn apart, people with blood running
down their faces. We couldn't get through to anyone on the helpline so the whole
family, congregated at Mum's. We sat phoning every hospital in London desperate
to find out if Phil had been admitted.

"For the next two days we waited. Then on the Saturday the police came and took
Phil's comb and toothbrush and DNA samples from Mum and Dad. When they confirmed
the body they'd recovered was Phil's the next day, Mum was hysterical and had to
be sedated."

A week after he died, Phil was buried in a bright pink coffin. "We asked
everyone to wear something colourful to reflect Phil's personality," says
Michele, 30. "Afterwards we released 22 white doves to represent every year of
Phil's life. He was one of my best friends. I was the oldest, Stacy was in the
middle and Phil was the youngest but with only eighteen months between each of
us we were close.

"He dressed flamboyantly and sometimes said outrageous things but he was kind
and considerate. When I moved in with my husband we still spoke every day. The
last time I saw Phil was the Monday before he died. He'd spent the afternoon
baking biscuits with Jamie.

"After what happened, I didn't go back to work for six months and could barely
look after the children. But I knew I had to pull myself together - it's what
Phil would've wanted.

"For my children, I try to be happy. We talk about Phil every day - my youngest
often asks, 'Has Uncle Phil gone to the doctor's Mummy?' and I say, 'No, he's in
heaven but he's watching you play every day.' And if we're watching something
funny on TV I'll say, 'Phil would have loved this.'

"I have my memory box - inside is the last birthday card Phil sent me and on my
birthday I get it out and put it up. But when something happy happens - like
Stacy having her first baby - there's always the feeling Phil should be here to
share it."

Stacy says she'll make sure baby Conor knows all about his uncle. "I'm already
twittering on about Phil to the baby," she says. "We've got pictures up all over
the place, and Michele's boys will tell him all about Phil. He was such a good
uncle to them, it's just such a shame he never got a chance to meet Conor, but I
know he's looking over all of us."

The sisters will spend today with their family to mark the fifth anniversary of
Phil's death. Michele says: "We'll lay flowers at King's Cross, then we'll go to
Mum's, light Chinese lanterns and watch them float into the sky in memory of
Phil.

"I'll never forgive the bombers - Phil was just a young man. What have they
achieved by doing what they did? It's strange but every July 7 since Phil died
it's always rained in the morning, but in the afternoon the sun has come out - I
like to think it's Phil's way of telling us he's still around."

I'll never see the man he'd have become

Graham Foulkes' son David, 22, died in the explosion at Edgware Road station.
Graham, 58, lives near Manchester with his wife Janet. They have a daughter,
Jill, who is married with children. "Thursday July 7, 2005, was the first time
David had ever been on a tube on his own. He'd got his dream job just three
weeks earlier as an area sales manager for a newspaper in the North-West and had
to travel to London that day for a meeting.

"He had a lovely relationship with a girl he'd been going out with for over a
year and was beginning to blossom into a wonderful young man.

"He was nervous about going on the tube on his own so I sat him down the night
before and gave him a lesson in 'tube etiquette'. I didn't know he'd get on to a
carriage with bomber Mohammad Sidique Khan.

"I'd been in a meeting that morning so had my phone off. When I turned it on at
lunchtime there were messages from people about a bomb in London. I remember
saying: 'The chances of David being caught up in this, on his first trip to
London, are incalculably small.'

"But as they day wore on and there was still no word I began to feel frightened.
By the end of Friday I knew in my heart David was dead but you hope it's not
true. It wasn't until the following Wednesday the police confirmed, via his
dental records, that David was one of the victims.

"When something like this happens you end up having a split personality: you
have one face you present to the outside world - happy, coping. It's only at
home that you can show your ongoing pain. People say time is a healer but it's
not.

"The only positive thing to come out of this is that it has made realise what a
great bond my wife and I have. We've been married for 31 years and she has been
my rock and we're closer than ever.

"David was growing into a fine young man. It's very sad that such a cowardly
attack, which achieved absolutely nothing, took away our chance of seeing David
grow into that man."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HAPPY MEMORIES: Michele and Phil David Foulkes GRIEF: Michele was off
work for six months Phil Beer MISSED: Michele, Phil and Stacy CLOSE: Phil and
Stacy at Michele's wedding

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Two terror cells under surveillance;
Fears of attacks as UK remembers 7/7

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 575 words


Security agencies are monitoring round the clock two active terrorist cells
known to be planning attacks in Britain, The Times has learnt.

The cells stand out from dozens of police and security services operations
because they have discussed methods of attack, including "soft targets" which
could result in large-scale civilian casualties, according to security sources.
The disclosure came on the fifth anniversary of the 7/7 attacks on London that
killed 52 people and injured 700.

Andy Hayman, the former Assistant Commissioner who lead the 7/7 investigation
while he was at Scotland Yard in charge of counter-terrorism, writes in The
Times today that Britain is under its biggest-ever threat from terror. He says:
"There are now probably more radicalised Muslims, their attack plans are more
adventurous and the UK still remains under severe risk."

His comments come as The Times reveals the constant desire of al-Qaeda activists
in Britain to devise new ways and means of carrying out attacks.

Suspects are often aware of the likelihood that they are being watched or
listened to - with many routinely practising counter-surveillance techniques -
and of the high level of protection given to prominent targets.

Some groups have discussed trying to copy the attacks in Mumbai in 2008 during
which heavily armed men attacked an hotel, railway station and synagogue in a
commando-style raid.

In response the British authorities have been drawing up plans for how they
might counter such an attack. A recent exercise envisaged gunmen opening fire on
civilians in Centenary Square, Birmingham.

The details emerged as David Cameron orderedan official inquiry yesterday into
claims that Britain's intelligence services had been complicit in the torture of
terror suspects held abroad in the wake of the 9/11 attacks.

The Prime Minister said that the reputation of Britain's security services had
been overshadowed for too long by the allegations, which were being exploited by
extremists for propaganda. "It is time to clear this matter up once and for
all," he said.

Mr Cameron faced criticism, though, for seeking to wind up - with the offer of
compensation - the dozen civil claims from former detainees alleging
mistreatment in the presence of British officers before the inquiry begins.

A lawyer for Binyam Mohamed, one of those individuals, said that his team would
try to block any attempt to halt civil court proceedings, which would prevent
potentially embarrassing disclosures being made in public.

"We would object to any halt in the process," said Sapna Malik, a partner at
Leigh Day &Co.

Mr Cameron told MPs it was vital the security services were free to concentrate
on keeping Britain safe from terror threats rather than fending off legal
action. "We cannot have their work impeded by these allegations. We need to
restore Britain's moral leadership in the world," he said.

The inquiry announced by Mr Cameron will begin later this year, but not before
the one related criminal case has been concluded in court and there has been
progress in the civil cases.

The panel will be chaired by Sir Peter Gibson, a former Court of Appeal judge,
who is now the statutory commissioner for the intelligence services. It will
take evidence in private, where necessary, to avoid compromising intelligence,
but will publish a report. Mr Cameron said none of the claims against the
intelligence services was proven.

Five years on, pages 12-13 Torture payouts, page 14

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday

Two Bahrainis charged with plotting terrorist attack receive 10-year sentences

LENGTH: 294 words


Text of report in English by Bahrain newspaper Gulf Daily News website on 7 July

[Report by Basma Mohammed: "Terrorism Plot Pair Jailed"]

Two Bahrainis convicted of plotting a terrorist attack with a homemade bomb were
yesterday each jailed for 10 years. The men, aged 24 and 19, did not show up in
the High Criminal Court for the verdict and a warrant was issued for their
arrest.

They were granted bail at an earlier hearing.

They were standing trial for their role in a botched terror plot, which went
wrong when the bomb exploded as it was being transported in a car.

Musa Jaffar Khalil Ibrahim, 30, who was said to be holding the bomb in his lap,
died when it went off.

The 24-year-old defendant, who was driving the car, lost both his eyes and a
hand in the blast and suffered other serious injuries.

The men were on their way to pick up the 19-year-old defendant when the bomb
exploded outside Mr Ibrahim's home, in Daih, on April 30 last year.

The defendants were charged with plotting terrorist attacks on Exhibition Avenue
and making explosives.

Judges denied claims made by the defence team that the men were physically
abused during police questioning, saying their injuries were related to the
incident.

The men's relatives earlier took the stand defending them and pleading their
innocence.

The 24-year-old's sisters claimed they had never met his 19-year-old
co-defendant.

The other defendant's parents also claimed there were physical signs that he had
been abused in custody.

However, prosecutors objected to the claims and said there was no evidence of
abuse in the medical examiner's report.

Lawyers responded by claiming the defendant was not seen by a medical examiner
immediately after the incident.

Source: Gulf Daily News website, Manama, in English 7 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday

Bosnian Federation official urges further checks related to terrorist attack

LENGTH: 213 words


Text of report by Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation public TV, on 7 July

[Presenter Nikolina Veljovic] Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation Vice-President
Mirsad Kebo urged today the Central Bosnia interior minister and police
commissioner to check without delay all the available information regarding the
recent Bugojno terrorist attack [on local police station] in order for the
terrorists and their aides to see the deserved punishment instead of reward.

The vice-president has said in a press release that he is "appalled" at the
information he has received from a large number of Bugojno residents.

We recall here that on the special edition of "60 Minutes" [current affairs
programme] aired seven days ago we reported that on the eve of the Bugojno
terrorist attack, Islam Causevic - a relative of the suspect in the terrorist
attack, Haris Causevic - had been appointed head of the police administration.
Although earlier police information had linked Haris Causevic to certain
criminal offences in Bugojno region, the police did not check the information.
Interestingly, exactly in the period subject to police suspicion, Islam Causevic
was head of the Bugojno police criminal department.

Source: Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation TV, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian
1730 gmt 7 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Echo (NewsQuest)

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday

Dog owner's terror as Staffie attacks pet

BYLINE: Gina Marden

SECTION: BASILDON NEWS (BASILDON NEWS)

LENGTH: 310 words


A TINY dog's spine was broken and its lung punctured when it was savaged by a
Staffordshire bull terrier.

Valerie Nutley said she has been left devastated and unable to even eat or sleep
since the horrific incident.

Her two-year-old miniature Yorkshire terrier Tyson remains on a drip following
treatment to his injuries.

Mrs Nutley, who is in her forties, of Dencourt Crescent, Pitsea said: "It was
awful, there was blood everywhere. This dog just had Tyson in its teeth and was
shaking him about like a rag doll."

Mrs Nutley was with her mum Joy and grandson Callum, four, at the Dunton boot
fair, in Dunton Road, Dunton, when the attack happened.

The trio were walking along when they noticed a couple walking towards them with
a white Staffordshire bull terrier on a lead.

Mrs Nutley said she remarked to the couple that the Staffie looked like her
daughter's dog and it was then, without warning, that the dog broke free from
its leash and came bounding towards them. Mrs Nutley said: "He just got Tyson by
the back and was shaking him. I was screaming and there was blood splattering
about."

Four men freed stricken Tyson and a stallholder helped wrap him in a towel. But
as the tiny hound lay in Mrs Nutley's arms pouring with blood, the owners of the
Staffie just left.

Mrs Nutley added: "These people didn't apologise or anything they just walked
away, but if they've got a dog like that at home it's only a matter of time
before he does it again."

Roger Grimwade, spokesman for Essex Police said: "Officers attended the scene,
but the owners of the dog had already been asked to leave by boot fair
organisers."

The man and woman with the dog are both described as white and in their
thirties. The man was of an athletic build and wore a white T-shirt with blue
jeans. His girlfriend had blonde hair in a pony tail and wore a white vest with
cut-off denim shorts.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday

Three convicted of terror attack plot

LENGTH: 90  words


Three men have been found guilty of conspiring to murder hundreds of people in a
terrorist attack.

Ibrahim Savant, Arafat Waheed Khan and Waheed Zaman were convicted by a jury at
Woolwich Crown Court.

The three men were among eight tried in connection with an al Qaida-inspired
plot to detonate homemade liquid bombs on transatlantic jets.

They were cleared by a jury of their role in targeting aeroplanes but put on
trial again to face charges of conspiracy to murder.

A Crown Prosecution Service spokesman said the jury found all three men guilty.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2010 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

NEVER FORGET;
TEARS FOR 7/7 FIVE YEARS ON..BUT RELATIVES WARN BRITAIN'S WORST TERROR ATTACK IS
BEING NEGLECTED

BYLINE: ALLISON MARTIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 343 words


A CITY paid dignified tribute yesterday on the fifth anniversary of the
terrorist attacks that killed 52 in London.

Wreaths were laid on behalf of PM David Cameron and London Mayor Boris Johnson
at the Hyde Park memorial to the victims of the suicide bombers who also injured
more than 700.

There were no official events - a decision which upset some of those affected.
But Christian, Hindu, Jewish, Sikh and Muslim leaders attended the launch of a
Preventing Hate campaign and declared there was "no place in a harmonious
society for factions who aim to divide and undermine".

Many survivors and families gathered at the Hyde Park Jmemorial and the sites of
the four blasts.

Graham Foulkes, whose 22-year-old son David was killed in the Edgware Road
bombing, was "very disappointed" there was no official ceremony. He said: "This
was an attack against the country. I don't think any of us are saying we want it
to become an annual major event but I think on the fifth anniversary the least
the PM could do is attend and lay a wreath."

He contrasted our attitude with the active approach to remembering 9/11 in the
US.

The Rev Julie Nicholson, whose daughter Jenny, 24, died, laid a wreath from the
government alongside a official from the Department for Culture, Media and
Sport. She said she was happy there was no official ceremony. Laying the
government wreath had been emotional but not as emotional as leaving her "own
little bunch of flowers".

Transport for London organised rooms and support staff for relatives and
survivors near the sites of the Tube blasts.

The Hyde Park memorial, dedicated last year, was the focus for many. Farooq
Murad, of the Muslim Council of Britain, led a delegation to lay a wreath. He
said: "Attacks on innocents have no justification in Islam."

A card with flowers from Mr Johnson read: "To the memory of those who died on
7/7 2005. This city will never forget you."

The attacks were the work of suicide bombers Mohammed Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad
Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain, 18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19 - all from West
Yorkshire.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MESSAGE Five years on from blasts SORROW Mahmood Hussain, father of bus
bomber, at son's grave CARNAGE Tavistock Sq TRIBUTE Flowers on railings SILENT
Relatives take sunflowers to memorial LOCKED Kings Cross tributes were kept in
special metal container SOMBRE Firefighters' tribute in Tavistock Sq

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                       July 8, 2010 Thursday 6:30 PM BST

TRIO FACE LIFE IN JAIL FOR TERROR ATTACK PLOT

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 450 words


Three men from Greater London are facing life in prison after being found guilty
of plotting to murder hundreds of people in suicide bombings.

Ibrahim Savant, Arafat Waheed Khan and Waheed Zaman were convicted of conspiracy
to murder by a jury at Woolwich Crown Court.

The three men were recruited by the ringleader of an al Qaida-inspired plot to
detonate homemade liquid bombs on transatlantic jets. They were cleared by a
jury of their role in targeting aircraft but found guilty at a retrial of
plotting mass murder.

The verdicts bring to an end a sprawling series of trials following an August
2006 operation to smash the largest terrorist plot ever discovered in Britain.
The police and MI5 inquiry would eventually cost more than £30 million and led
to widescale and unpopular restrictions on carrying fluids on aircraft.

Mastermind Abdulla Ahmed Ali had developed a home-made hydrogen peroxide bomb
that could be disguised as a soft drink and assembled through airport security.
He recruited friends and associates to act as suicide bombers as they recorded
martyrdom videos at a flat in Walthamstow, east London.

Ali singled out seven flights to San Francisco, Toronto, Montreal, Washington,
New York and Chicago that departed within two-and-a-half hours of each other. If
successful, the explosions could have exceeded the carnage of the September 11
attacks. Ali, of Walthamstow, Assad Sarwar, of High Wycombe, and Tanvir Hussain,
of Leyton, were found guilty of the airline bomb plot last year.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Stuart Osborne, of the Metropolitan Police, said:
``These three men claimed they recorded their martyrdom videos as part of a
documentary; however, when presented with all the evidence, the jury was
satisfied that they were deadly serious in their intent and were party to the
conspiracy to murder. The martyrdom videos, the instructions left for media to
use them, the fresh passport applications, the loan applications and the
forensic and surveillance links to Ali, Sarwar and the bomb factory all add up
to a clear picture of intent.

``It has taken a long time to bring these men to justice, and the Met Specialist
Operations, the Crown Prosecution Service and British Security Service, showed
huge commitment, dedication, determination and professionalism throughout the
investigation and ensuing trials. Sadly, this case also highlights that there
are people out there who are intent on causing us harm.''

Home Secretary Theresa May said: ``National security is our top priority and
this result reflects the continued and serious threat we face.''

Savant, 29, of Stoke Newington, Khan, 29, of Walthamstow, and Zaman, 26, of
Walthamstow, will be sentenced on Monday. end

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       July 8, 2010 Thursday 5:28 PM BST

TRIO FACE LIFE IN JAIL FOR TERROR ATTACK PLOT

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood, Press Association Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1360 words


Three men were facing life in prison tonight after being found guilty of
plotting to murder hundreds of people in suicide bombings.

Ibrahim Savant, Arafat Waheed Khan and Waheed Zaman were convicted of conspiracy
to murder by a jury at Woolwich Crown Court.

The three men were recruited by the ringleader of an al Qaida-inspired plot to
detonate homemade liquid bombs on transatlantic jets.

They were cleared by a jury of their role in targeting aircraft but found guilty
at a retrial of plotting mass murder.

The verdicts bring to an end a sprawling series of trials following an August
2006 operation to smash the largest terrorist plot ever discovered in Britain.

The police and MI5 inquiry would eventually cost more than £30 million and led
to widescale and unpopular restrictions on carrying fluids on aircraft.

Mastermind Abdulla Ahmed Ali had developed a home-made hydrogen peroxide bomb
that could be disguised as a soft drink and assembled through airport security.

He recruited friends and associates to act as suicide bombers as they recorded
martyrdom videos at a flat in Walthamstow, east London.

Ali singled out seven flights to San Francisco, Toronto, Montreal, Washington,
New York and Chicago that departed within two-and-a-half hours of each other.

If successful, the explosions could have exceeded the carnage of the September
11 attacks.

Ali, of Walthamstow, Assad Sarwar, of High Wycombe, and Tanvir Hussain, of
Leyton, were found guilty of the airline bomb plot last year.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Stuart Osborne, of the Metropolitan Police, said:
``These three men claimed they recorded their martyrdom videos as part of a
documentary; however, when presented with all the evidence, the jury was
satisfied that they were deadly serious in their intent and were party to the
conspiracy to murder.

``The martyrdom videos, the instructions left for media to use them, the fresh
passport applications, the loan applications and the forensic and surveillance
links to Ali, Sarwar and the bomb factory all add up to a clear picture of
intent.

``It has taken a long time to bring these men to justice, and the Met Specialist
Operations, the Crown Prosecution Service and British Security Service, showed
huge commitment, dedication, determination and professionalism throughout the
investigation and ensuing trials.

``Sadly, this case also highlights that there are people out there who are
intent on causing us harm.''

Sue Hemming, head of the CPS counterterrorism division, said the convictions
were the culmination of years of work by police, the security services and
prosecutors.

She said: ``These men were involved in a calculated and sophisticated plot to
create a terrorist event of major proportions, working alongside others who were
determined to bring down aircraft using homemade explosives, causing the maximum
possible loss of life.

``Along with others in the conspiracy, they recorded chilling so-called
martyrdom videos that feature threats to the West of waves of terrorist attacks
and suggested justification for terrorism.

``There can of course be no legitimate reason for planning and carrying out such
acts, whether they knew of the intended targets or not.''

Home Secretary Theresa May said: ``National security is our top priority and
this result reflects the continued and serious threat we face.''

Savant, 29, of Stoke Newington, Khan, 29, of Walthamstow, and Zaman, 26, of
Walthamstow, will be sentenced on Monday.

Savant, of Denver Road, Stoke Newington, Khan, of Farnan Avenue, Walthamstow,
and Zaman, of Queen's Road, Walthamstow, will be sentenced tomorrow.

Abdulla Ahmed Ali, of Walthamstow, Assad Sarwar, of High Wycombe, and Tanvir
Hussain, of Leyton, were found guilty of the airline bomb plot last year.

The al Qaida-inspired plot led by Ali involved smuggling liquid bombs in drinks
bottles on to planes bound for North America.

The hydrogen peroxide devices would have been assembled and detonated in mid-air
by a team of suicide bombers.

Ali singled out seven flights to San Francisco, Toronto, Montreal, Washington,
New York and Chicago that departed within two and a half hours of each other.

If successful, the explosions could have exceeded the carnage of the September
11 attacks.

Counter-terrorist police and the security services spent more than £35 million
foiling the plot and bringing Ali and the others to justice.

The arrest of the gang in August 2006 sparked tight restrictions on carrying
liquids on to aircraft which initially caused travel chaos.

The jury rejected the defence of Ali, Sarwar, and Hussain that the plot was an
elaborate publicity stunt.

Sue Hemming, head of the CPS counterterrorism division, said the convictions
were the culmination of years of work by police, the security services and
prosecutors.

She said: ``Savant, Khan and Zaman were actively working alongside other men on
a plot to cause death and injury on a massive scale.

``They were cleared in the previous trial of being aware of the ultimate targets
of the plot, but we say that they were committed to the principle and practice
of violent jihad to the point of targeting innocent people in an attempt to
further their cause.

``The charges against these men were so serious that, following two previous
trials where juries could not reach verdicts, the Director of Public
Prosecutions decided that the evidence must be properly tested before a jury for
a third time.

``The verdicts demonstrate that the Crown Prosecution Service was right to
pursue a third trial.''

Mrs Hemming added: ``These men were involved in a calculated and sophisticated
plot to create a terrorist event of major proportions, working alongside others
who were determined to bring down aircraft using homemade explosives, causing
the maximum possible loss of life.

``Along with others in the conspiracy, they recorded chilling so-called
martyrdom videos that feature threats to the West of waves of terrorist attacks
and suggested justification for terrorism.

``There can of course be no legitimate reason for planning and carrying out such
acts, whether they knew of the intended targets or not.''

The verdicts bring to a conclusion a marathon series of prosecutions that began
with a five-month trial in April 2008. Ali, Hussain and Sarwar were convicted of
conspiracy to murder people unknown, but not of plotting to blow up aeroplanes.
Mohammed Gulzar was acquitted.

They were put on trial again in March 2009 and convicted of the plot to destroy
transatlantic aircraft. The jury acquitted Savant, Khan and Zaman of their role
in the aeroplane plot, but was hung on charges of conspiracy to murder. A third
retrial was then called.

Evidence included 26,000 exhibits, 9,710 statements, 142 interviews with
defendants and 800 seized electronic devices.

Police examined 14,000GB of data, including 15,000 CDs and DVDs and 500 floppy
disks.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Stuart Osborne, of the Metropolitan Police, said:
``These three men claimed they recorded their martyrdom videos as part of a
documentary; however, when presented with all the evidence, the jury was
satisfied that they were deadly serious in their intent and were party to the
conspiracy to murder.

``The martyrdom videos, the instructions left for media to use them, the fresh
passport applications, the loan applications and the forensic and surveillance
links to Ali, Sarwar and the bomb factory all add up to a clear picture of
intent.

``It has taken a long time to bring these men to justice, and the Met Specialist
Operations, the Crown Prosecution Service and British Security Service, showed
huge commitment, dedication, determination and professionalism throughout the
investigation and ensuing trials.

``Sadly this case also highlights that there are people out there who are intent
on causing us harm.''

Home Secretary Theresa May said the three men had been convicted of ``one of the
most significant terrorist plots the UK has ever seen''.

She added: ``National security is our top priority and this result reflects the
continued and serious threat we face.

``I commend the efforts of the police, security services and the Crown
Prosecution Service in bringing these individuals to justice.''

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2010 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 9, 2010 Friday

Islamist group distances itself from Bosnian terrorist attack

LENGTH: 638 words


Text of report by Bosnian wide-circulation privately-owned daily Dnevni avaz, on
6 July

[Report by F. Vele: "Takfir Followers Attacking IZ B-H, Non-Radical Salafis"]

The Vienna based Salafi group Kelimetul-haqq which propagates the ideology of
takfir [excommunication] and which has 35-year old Nedzad Balkan, a.k.a Abu
Muhamed [or Ebu Muhammed] behind it yesterday issued a statement in response to
the terrorist attacks in Bugojno, Dnevni Avaz has learnt.

Condemning Violence

According to intelligence inputs, Balkan is the leader of a group of adherents
of takfir ideology who most likely include Palislamovic, the organizer of the
terrorist attack on the Police Administration headquarters in Bugojno and the
person who recruited Haris Causevic to carry out the attack.

Although not quite unequivocally, the Kelimetul-haqq group distanced itself from
the terrorist attack in Bugojno. The group's members are particularly angry with
the Islamic Community (IZ) in Bosnia-Hercegovina and a section of the Salafi
community in Bosnia-Hercegovina who had condemned the violence, but accused the
takfiris that their ideology was behind the attacks.

There were first the "Wahhabis," then "Salafis," and we now have the "takfiris."
What will be next? Our brother Muslims, the ones you call "takfirians," have
nothing to do with depriving people of their lives or property. Bear this in
mind, as you will have to stand before Allah to account for your every lie or
generalization. Who in their right mind would commit an act that could become a
stumbling stone in their missionary work that has already borne remarkable
fruits and helped to unmask your actions and those of your cronies in the (un)
Islamic Community for whom religion is a lucrative business and who are robbing
the poor of the little they have under the pretext of religion? - the
Kelimetul-haqq website asked.

They go on to say that "only an imbecile or coward can claim that takfir, or
declaring someone as an unbeliever, entails murdering such people and can draw
parallels with it."

Cushy Life

Referring to the Salafis who had condemned the takfiris, Kelimetul-haqq
described them as having climbed the gravy train on the road to "a cushy life in
this world," and of being capable of sacrificing even their own kith and kin to
maintain it.

In addition to its own interpretations of Islam which, among other things, bans
engaging attorneys (!?), the Kelimetul-haqq group's web page also includes a
series of programmes under the title "The True Face of the (un) Islamic
Community."

Officials in IZBiH told us that they could not understand why Austrian
authorities were tolerating the takfiris, and why the Austrian security services
had not so far done anything to curb the activities of such extreme groups
considering that they are being linked to the most serious acts of terrorism.

[Box] They Do Not Recognize Defenders of Secular Bosnia-Hercegovina

It sounds almost incredible, but in promoting his vision of Islam, Balkan pours
scorn on the struggle by the Army of the Republic of Bosnia-Hercegovina and
Bosniaks to defend Bosnia-Hercegovina.

They boast about waging jihad and call their struggle jihad. Waging jihad for a
secular and democratic Bosnia? Waging struggle with a tagut army (tagut is
anyone whom people worship beside Allah or show submission to, and they are
flattered by it) for mushrik (polytheist) goals - is that what they call jihad?
And the people who fought such struggle - I am not talking about individuals -
they call them Muslims and mujahidin on Allah's path. My message is: Thank Allah
for the fact that you were not killed and for giving you a chance to correct
your ways, Balkan said in one of his speeches.

According to witnesses, his speeches make people's hair stand on end.

Source: Dnevni avaz, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 6 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                              July 9, 2010 Friday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Trio face life for terror attack plot;
60second briefing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 65 words


THREE men were facing life in prison last night after being found guilty of
plotting to murder hundreds of people in suicide bombings.

Ibrahim Savant, Arafat Waheed Khan and Waheed Zaman were convicted of conspiracy
to murder by a jury at Woolwich Crown Court.

The three men were recruited by the ringleader of an al Qaida-inspired plot to
detonate homemade liquid bo mbs on transatlantic jets.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 11, 2010 Sunday

Bosnian police facilities seen as poorly protected from terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 1224 words


Text of report by Bosnian wide-circulation privately-owned daily Dnevni avaz, on
3 July

[Report by K. Kavazovic, M. Dedic in the Sedmica supplement: "Police
Safeguarding Security Under Catastrophic Conditions"]

The unprecedented terrorist attack on the police station in Bugojno has revealed
an array of scandalous facts that point to the catastrophic conditions under
which the Bosnia-Hercegovina police are working and shortcomings in legal
regulations, from policemen's shamefully low salaries to the fact that many of
them are even walking around barehanded because they lack the money to buy
weapons!!!

No Helicopter

Even though Central Bosnia Canton [SBK] Internal Affairs Minister Sedzad
Milanovic thinks that the police in this canton are solidly equipped for
performing their regular duties and responsibilities under the Law on Internal
Affairs, he confirms that there is a need for additional equipment.

"A replacement of weapons is underway, and we are in the process of procuring a
number of rifles for special units. We have also obtained four trained dogs, two
for breaking up disturbances and one each for sniffing out drugs and explosive
materials. A need for these was indicted after the explosion in the FIS
[shopping centre in Mostar] and a series of false reports about the planting of
explosive devices. I think that the police from two or three neighbouring
cantons ought to have a helicopter at their disposal to use for rapid responses,
because a large territory is being covered; it should, of course, have special
equipment for the war against terrorism and other serious forms of crime,"
Milanovic states.

He mentions that the Bugojno Police Department, which was the target of a
heinous act of terrorism on Sunday [ 27 June], is not the only one lacking video
monitoring. That is also the case in other police facilities in the SBK. Only
the cantonal MUP [Ministry of Internal Affairs] building in Travnik is under
video monitoring and under physical security.

We planned last year to install video monitoring in all the buildings, but you,
yourselves, are witnesses to the fact that it is sometimes difficult for
procurement decisions to "make it through" sessions of the government. In the
aftermath of the terrorist attack in Bugojno, we are going to procure equipment
for video monitoring," Milanovic announces.

Shortcomings where the security of police facilities is concerned include the
fact that the majority of them throughout central Bosnia can be approached from
all directions, which is also the case with the Bugojno Police Department. The
Travnik Police Department is an exception. It is situated in an old building in
the centre of the city, so it is accessible from only one side.

"When those buildings were constructed, that was done deliberately so that they
could be approached from all sides. Perhaps that was even a good circumstance in
the case of Bugojno, for who knows what would have happened had the building not
been accessible from all sides and had the police who were arriving at the shift
change not noticed that something was happening behind the building," the SBK
internal affairs minister says.

Bad Situation

Marijan Simic, chief of the crime section of the Una-Sana Canton [USK] MUP, and
Stevo Trninic, chief of the uniformed-police section, stress that the USK MUP is
characterized by a high level of compliance with "European" standards on the
part of the police forces in this canton. According to Simic, attention to the
security of people and police facilities is likewise being paid in conformity
with the best European standards through laws, regulations, and decrees.

"In the wake of what happened in Bugojno, it is logical for all police forces to
have an obligation to strengthen the level of implementing a plan of measures
for the security of facilities. Within that framework, we, too, have
strengthened security measures. That means, above all, a professional vigilance
in keeping with the elaborated system of security," Trninic explains.

Several attacks on policemen in the past period were registered on the territory
of USK, as well.

"We had a case a few years ago on the territory of the village of Vikici near
Bihac in which a person attacked policemen with an axe and destroyed two police
vehicles with vandalistic behaviour. On that occasion, the police were
restrained in the use of force and firearms," Simic emphasized.

In addition to the "plain" physical protection of police stations in USK, there
are technical measures such as video-monitoring systems, but those have not been
installed everywhere yet and are not operating. In a diplomatic manner, Simic
avoided confirming the fact that, other than the USK MUP building in Bihac, no
police facility in this system has video monitoring.

Some police buildings in USK, such as the police station in Velika Kladusa, are
in very poor condition, and even the conditions in the station in Kljuc do not
correspond to needs.

"It is no secret that the USK police forces have problems with a lack of the
money essential for unhindered professional work.

"Bugojno was a high price to pay, and this tragedy has further motivated the
raising of the level of security to protect facilities and people," Simic says.

[Box] Salaries Lowest in SBK

The SBK police have the lowest salaries in the Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation. In
numerous negotiations, the cantonal government has been deaf to the demands of
the police trade-union. Whether this latest case of the death of a policeman in
the honourable performance of his duties will be a sufficient admonition to the
prime minister and ministers in the SBK Government or whether the old practice
of minimal salaries, investments, and purchase of essential equipment will
continue remains to be seen.

[Box] Cooperation with Citizens Important

"In the case of terrorism, as in that of other serious crimes, the best method
of combat is prevention. Everyone who thinks that only the police can prevent
that is seriously mistaken. Cooperation among all police organizations and
security agencies is essential. Cooperation with citizens also has a very
important role here. In the 'Bugojno case,' when citizens saw what had happened,
they came forward, and we obtained a range of useful information in that way
that was of great help to us," Minister Milanovic emphasizes.

[Box] Better-Equipped for Effectiveness

The Donji Vakuf Police Station building, to which a threat was also sent on
disastrous last Sunday, when the terrorist attack in Bugojno was perpetrated, is
a component of the Jajce Police Department.

This building, too, lacks video monitoring, and the security of the facility,
according to Bajro Prslje, chief of the Jajce Police Department, is carried out
through the constant presence of police employees and increased control of
access, that is to say the comings and goings of strangers.

Prslje nevertheless says that he has no comment on the legal regulations, but he
stresses that there are problems in applying them and insufficient knowledge of
legal standards. In that regard, he recommends to the SBK Government that it
find money and equip the police and improve their material position or make it
equal to that of other police agencies, which will certainly also have an impact
on their effectiveness.

Source: Dnevni avaz, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 3 Jul 10 pp 6,7

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 12, 2010 Monday

Pakistan army spokesman says attacks sign of terrorists' "restlessness"

LENGTH: 728 words


Text of report on private Pakistani television channel PTV News on 9 July

There is continuity in the incidents of terrorism in which many innocent people
have died. Director General Inter Services Public Relations Maj Gen Athar Abbas
is with us on the telephone in connection with today's incident [of suicide
attack].

[Begin live relay] [Anchorperson Zubair Ahmad Siddiqui] General, Peace be upon
you.

[Abbas] Peace be upon you too.

[Siddiqui] General, have you fond out the factors behind this major incident of
terrorism that took place in the Mohmand Agency today?

[Abbas] We have preliminary reports so far and we cannot say anything with
confidence. However, one thing is clear. The incident has exposed the claims of
the terrorist organization, Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan [TTP]. The TTP had said
that it did not attack the common civilians. We have seen that the TTP has
particularly //targeted// the people and the tribes, whenever and wherever they
have tried to hold any jirga [assembly of tribal elders]. The real target of
today's attack was the jirga of the Utmankhel tribe, which had been scheduled at
the office of the assistant political agent of the area.

According to the reports so far, the attack was planned to target that jirga and
common citizens were killed in the blast the TTP carried out there. Therefore,
we believe that the incident has exposed the claims of the TTP that it does not
attack civilians and the civilians are not its target.

[Siddiqui] Okay, General, please tell us, the operation is also going on in the
Orakzai Agency, besides other agencies where the terrorists are being
eliminated, and you have also said that Pakistan itself will decide on launching
operation in North Waziristan, our leadership will make this decision. Has the
government identified any other areas where our //troops// need to launch
operation to eliminate terrorism?

[Abbas] Look, the troops got vacated the Bajaur and Mohmand areas from the
terrorists after a successful operation.

[Siddiqui] Okay.

[Abbas] The problem we are facing there right now is that the terrorists have
gone on the other side of the border. They have their hideouts in Kunar area.
They have got a sanctuary there where they are converging and they also include
terrorists from Swat while terrorists belonging to the tribal areas have got
refuge there.

The problem is that you get your area cleared through an operation, through a
strenuous effort but these terrorists come from that area across the border and
target your positions particularly the border check posts, besides the security
personnel.

A few days back, two security check posts situated on the border, one in
Goraprai and the other in Shunkarai area, were attacked and the terrorists had
fled to the other side of the border after the attack.

Due to this reason, the situation particularly in the border areas there is
deteriorating. But we are trying, we have informed the Afghan security forces
and other foreign forces on the other side of the border that these attacks
should be stopped from there because the situation in our area is deteriorating
due to these attacks.

[Siddiqui] General, the last thing, that like this Utmanzai [as heard, should be
Utmankhel] tribal jirga due to be held today, do our forces enjoy the full
support of the tribesmen, how helpful is their cooperation in this whole
operation, in these matters?

[Abbas] Yes. They [the forces] enjoy full support. You have seen earlier as well
that the terrorists attacked the jirgas to be held in Dara Adam Khel, Orakzai,
and Bajaur. So the terrorists target the area wherever people and their leaders
gather to forge unity so that they can break their unity. The troops presently
enjoy full support. And actually the target of the terrorists is to spread
terror and frustration and increase pressure on the army and the government, so
that the operation could be halted. Because wherever we have carried out an
operation it has been successful with the complete support of the masses and
they [the terrorists] are losing ground. There is restlessness in their ranks
because the army is destroying their hideouts and what we are seeing today, is a
reaction of the terrorists in chaos and desperation.

[Siddique] Thank you very much, Maj Gen Athar Abbas for talking to us. [end of
live relay]

Source: PTV News, Islamabad, in Urdu 1300gmt 09 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 12, 2010 Monday

Mauritanian, Malian "mercenaries" among dead in terror attack - Algerian paper

LENGTH: 582 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 12 July

Two terrorists were killed in the lethal ambush that cost 11 border guard
gendarmes [GGF] their lives in the Tinzaouatine region on the Algerian-Malian
border. The terrorists were of Mauritanian and Malian citizenship while the
ambush was carried out by the man named Abou Abdelkrim Targui, a Targui "amir"
from Mali.

This information was reported in a communique from Al-Qa'idah in the Land of the
Islamic Maghreb [AQLIM; the group formerly known as the Salafi Group for Call
and Combat, or GSPC], that was claiming responsibility for the Tinzaouatine
attack and was distributed in the form of leaflets the day following the ambush
in border regions. The communique, a copy of which we have, was also published
on the jihadist [Web] sites close to Al-Qa'idah. It confirmed it had lost two
terrorists, foreigners, one Mauritanian named Sidi-Ahmed Ouled Salek, alias Abou
Obaida Chenkiti, who had been wanted by the Mauritanian security agencies since
2007. This well trained terrorist had been armed with a heavy FMPK weapon at the
time of the attack. Moreover he is nicknamed "Ahmed the PK." The other was of
Malian nationality, and came from a Tuareg tribe and answered to the name of
Habib.

He was a Meharist before joining the ranks of the GSPC and maintained contacts
with the region's traffickers. The same source stated that he sold camels in
order to buy weapons for the terrorist groups. These two terrorists were slain
in the skirmish with the GGF and their bodies were recovered by their henchmen
on board a Toyota Station belonging to the GGF. The communique revealed the
identity of the leader of the group that was behind the ambush; this was a
Targui from Mali, the "amir" of the Anssar brigade. This phalange, according to
security experts, is generally made up of foreign mercenaries. This information
proves once again the presence of foreign terrorists within the terrorist
phalanges that are active under the aegis of the GSPC in the Sahel region and
the Algerian Sahara.

It would be appropriate to remind readers that the Tarek-Ibn-Ziad brigade, led
by the sinister Abou Zeid, is made up essentially of foreigners recruited by the
GSPC, which has failed in local recruitment, and trained in a camp in northern
Mali. In the latest abductions, Abou Zeid demanded the release of Mauritanian
and Malian detainees in exchange for the release of the foreign hostages, very
probably under pressure from the mercenaries.

He still holds two Spanish nationals and one Frenchman all the while sticking
with his condition in exchange for the release of the terrorists in Mauritania.
In this document, proof is established that Malians and Mauritanians are really
and truly part of the front ranks of AQLIM. According to observers of the
security scene, the GSPC's resorting to foreign terrorists, young disoriented
people and former fighters and especially mercenaries, is another proof that the
organization can no longer recruit young Algerians.

This is not the first time the GSPC has appealed to foreign mercenaries to carry
out terrorist operations, among them suicide bomber attacks. It should be noted
that several terrorist elements, of several nationalities, are allegedly among
the terrorists who have been killed and identified as being natives of Benin,
Mali, Tunisia, Morocco, and the Near East. They are also from Niger, Libya and
Mauritania.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 12 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 12, 2010 Monday

Agencies say Pakistan Taleban behind terror attacks in Punjab

LENGTH: 456 words


Text of report by Asad Kharal headlined "LJ, HJI, TTP behind recent attacks in
Punjab: report" published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 12 July

Lahore: Intelligence reports have revealed that three banned organizations -
Lashkar-i-Jhangvi (LJ), Harkatul Jihadul Islami (HJI) and Tehrik-i-Taleban
Pakistan (TTP) - are involved in recent terrorist attacks across Punjab.

According to the reports, LJ, HJI and TTP are involved in a majority of attacks
of the total 49 terrorist incidents that occurred across Punjab during the last
18 months. Reports say that HJI chief commander and the TTP and al Qaeda
operations chief in Pakistan, Ilyas Kashmiri, masterminded these attacks. During
various probes into terrorism incidents, it has been discovered that the three
groups were involved in these attacks.

The first group consists of LJ activist released from Afghan and Pakistani
prisons who got trained and fought in Afghanistan.

After identifying targets and completing the surveillance of these specific
installations, the LJ activists forward these reports to the Ilyas Kashmiri, who
then contacts the TTP so that they can carry out the attacks. The second group
in the terror network provides suicide bombers and attackers, while the third
provides ammunitions, explosives and suicide jackets. The third group consists
of local TTP activist who take part in target-surveillance process.

According to the report, 49 incidents of terrorism occurred in Punjab during the
last one-and-a-half years, killing 687 people, including 69 police officials. At
least 1,834 people, including 268 cops were injured in these attacks. Twenty-one
of the 49 incidents were traced by law enforcement agencies (LEAs), 37
terrorists were arrested, 24 of the attackers were killed in encounters with
police and 27 suicide bombers blew themselves up during these attacks.

According to intelligence reports, in year 2007, 23 terrorism cases were
registered, challans of 14 cases were presented before Anti-Terrorist Courts, 17
cases were decided in which eight accused were convicted, while the accused were
acquitted in nine cases.

In 2008, 15 cases of terrorism were registered, challans of nine cases were
presented in courts, which decided 10 cases and sentenced the accused in five
cases, while the accused were acquitted in five cases.

In 2009, 30 cases of terrorism were registered, challans of 10 cases were
presented in courts, 19 cases were decided, in which 13 accused were acquitted
and six were sentenced. The report said the acquittal ratio in terrorism cases
was alarming high and necessary amendments must be made in this regard in the
Evidence Act 1984 to reduce the ratio.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 12 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                             July 12, 2010, Monday

'TERRORIST' ATTACKS REACTOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 192 words


A "TERRORIST" with a stolen security pass was able to break into the Torness
nuclear power station during a role-playing exercise.

He left several casualties in his wake as he damaged the reactor and took staff
hostage.

Exercise Lindisfarne was launched on March 17 at the Torness power station in
East Lothian to test its defences.

It highlighted serious flaws in safety procedures. Now British Energy are having
to revamp their emergency protocols.

Secret reports on the exercise by the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate and
Office for Civil Nuclear Security have been released under freedom of
information laws. The NII report said: "Action to ensure safety of personnel and
plant appeared to lack urgency at times."

It noted delays in tracking and contacting the intruder, failures tracing
missing persons and poor communications.

The OCNS report revealed a crucial CCTV camera was broken and "the gatehouse
security doors remained open for too long."

Pete Roche, an Edinburgh-based nuclear consultant, said: "This Keystone Kops
approach is simply not acceptable."

A spokeswoman for British Energy said: "There were a number of learning points
identified."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EXCERISE: At Torness

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 12, 2010 Monday 4:14 PM GMT

The Somali terror attack in Uganda: why Britain should worry

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 466 words


After the horrific bombs that killed 64 people in Uganda's capital Kampala last
night, it looks like the world has been given another tragic lesson in the
Arabic language.

Al-Shabaab, the name of the Somali Islamist group suspected of the attacks
against Ugandans, Ethiopians and others watching the World Cup final, means "the
youth". So now that joins al-Qaeda, jihad and shahid on the list of Arabic words
that people in the West have learned since 9/11.

It's an appropriate term for a Somalian terror group: that country has a median
age of 17.6 and, if Gunnar Heinsohn's theory about the youth bulge is true, then
the world, not just Somalia's neighbours, should worry.

The murders of people watching the World Cup reflect a certain twisted logic,
since football and Islamic terrorism are the ultimate globalised institutions.
Football is about bringing people together in a global village; Islamism is
about retreating to a cave, but it thrives in a globalised world, with an
estimated 80 per cent of jihadis being either migrants or the sons of migrants.

Britain has given refuge to between 250, 000 and 400,000 Somalians fleeing the
wars that have ravaged that country. The overwhelming majority are not
Islamists, but there are still problems.

A 2008 report by the Institute for Public Policy Research suggested that 46 per
cent of these Somalis had arrived in Britain since 2000, 48 per cent had no
qualifications, and barely a quarter of those of working age were employed.

Unfortunately, Somali gangs in Tottenham, Woolwich and other parts of the
capital have brought some of the violence and chaos of east Africa to London.
And although there's no evidence that Somali pirates have infiltrated the City
of London shipping industry, Somali terrorists have certainly created strong
links with the UK.

To angry young men raised either in Africa or the West on a diet of
anti-colonialism, fed to them as much by westerners as Africans, Islamism is an
obvious successor to the Left-wing struggles of the 20th century. These groups
might not have the sex appeal of Che and the young Fidel, nor the same cool
attitude to women, but they draw from the same well of anger and hatred for
modernity's excesses.

According to the Independent on Sunday, at least 100 British citizens visit
Somalia every year to join Islamist groups, while earlier this year a suicide
bomber from Ealing blew himself up in  Somalia, killing 20 soldiers. Two years
ago a pair of Somalians were among a group of five east Africans who tried to
blow up the London Underground, and it was only luck, and the poor maths skills
of one of their team, that prevented dozens of deaths. Let's hope they fail next
time, too, but it's hard to see how Britain can avoid getting entangled in
Somalia in the long term.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday

Top court seeks documents from east Indian state in terror attack case

LENGTH: 268 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 12 July: The Supreme Court of India on Monday [12 July] asked West
Bengal [east Indian state] government to table before it all records pertaining
to the trial court proceedings of the terrorists' attack on the American Centre
in Kolkata [West Bengal capital] in which two of the accused are facing death
sentence.

A Bench of Justices Dalveer Bhandari and A K Patnaik, passed the order after
recording an undertaking from the state's counsel Avijit Bhattarcharjee that the
documents would be tabled within eight weeks.

The apex court had earlier stayed [put on hold] the death sentence of two of the
convicts Aftab Ahmed Ansari and Jamiluddin Nasir, pending the appeal filed by
the duo challenging their conviction and sentence.

Two men had indiscriminately fired from an AK-47 assault rifle at policemen
outside the American Centre on Jawaharlal Nehru Road in eastern city Kolkata on
the morning of 22 January 2002, killing six of them and injuring 14 others.

A division bench of the Calcutta High Court had in February 2010, upheld the
death sentence of Ansari along with co-accused Jamiluddin Nasir but commuted the
capital punishment awarded to three others to seven years imprisonment.

The sessions court had in April 2005, sentenced Ansari, Nasir and three others
to death while acquitting two others.

They were charged with sections 121 (waging war against the state), 121-A
(conspiracy), 302 and 9 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC [Indian
Penal Code] and 27(3) of the Arms Act.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1645gmt 12 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday

Five Eritrean killed in Kampala terrorists attacks

LENGTH: 83 words


Text of report in English by Eritrean Ministry of Information's Shabait website
on 12 July

Asmara, 12 July: Reports from Kampala say that over 60 nationals of various
countries, including Eritrea were killed in bomb blasts in different parts of
the Ugandan capital last Sunday [11 July].

Five Eritrean citizens were killed and another 10 injured during the blasts that
occurred while watching the world cup finals on that day, according to reports.

Source: Shabait website, Asmara, in English 12 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday

Turkish premier, party leaders discussing "surge in terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 187 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 13 July: Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan met on Tuesday [13
July] with Democratic Left Party (DSP) Chairman Masum Turker.

Erdogan's meeting with Turker was his first meeting within the scope of his
talks with the party leaders to discuss the recent surge in terrorist attacks.

The meeting took place at the DSP HQ in Ankara.

On Saturday, Premier Erdogan had sent letters to main opposition CHP [Republican
People's Party], Democratic Left Party (DSP), Great Unity Party (BBP) and
Felicity Party (SP) to arrange meetings with the leaders of these parties to
seek support for concerted action against escalating terror acts.

On Sunday, DSP leader Masum Turker accepted Erdogan's request for an appointment
to discuss the recent surge in terrorist attacks.

Erdogan is set to meet with the leaders of Felicity Party (SP) and BBP on
Wednesday 14 July.

Erdogan will meet with CHP Chairman Kemal Kilicdaroglu [at the] CHP chairman's
office at the parliament at 11 a.m. on Thursday.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1326 gmt 13 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Africa's day of joy turns to grief as Somali militants strike out at Uganda;
Continent fears further attacks as terror group with links to al-Qa'ida kills 74
fans watching World Cup final

BYLINE: Trevor Snapp and Megan Alani in Kampala and Paul Peachey

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 979 words


East African nations stepped up security last night after a double bombing
targeting hundreds of people in Uganda watching the World Cup final raised fears
that Somali militants planned to expand terrorist attacks across the region.

Al-Shabaab, a group which claims to have links with al-Qa'ida and is fighting
the fragile, Western-backed Somali government, claimed responsibility for its
first successful foreign strike. More than 70 people - from Uganda, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, India, Ireland and the United States - were killed in the synchronised
twin blasts.

Investigators identified the severed head of a Somali national at one of the
bomb sites in the Ugandan capital, Kampala, suggesting it was a suicide attack,
according to the Ugandan army.

For months al-Shabaab has been threatening to attack its East African neighbours
that were threatening its hold over large parts of Somalia. Sunday night's
attacks followed a failed attempt by the militant group to bomb hotels and other
high-profile targets in Kenya last year. "We will carry out attacks against our
enemy wherever they are," Sheikh Ali Mohamud Rage, an al-Shabaab spokesman in
Mogadishu, said. "No one will deter us from performing our Islamic duty."

The attacks on two crowded venues came 48 hours after the group threatened
attacks on Uganda and Burundi for sending peacekeeping troops to try to bring an
end to two decades of war and chaos in Somalia. Burundi yesterday stepped up its
own security.

US President Barack Obama, condemning what he called deplorable and cowardly
attacks, said Washington was ready to help Uganda in hunting down those
responsible.

Analysts have warned of a growing threat from the group with ranks swollen by
growing numbers of foreign jihadists from Afghanistan and Pakistan. Co-ordinated
attacks have been a hallmark of al-Qa'ida and groups linked to Osama bin Laden's
militant network.

The first bomb ripped through the Ethiopian Village restaurant, a popular
Kampala nightspot heaving with local and foreign football fans during the latter
stages of the World Cup final between Spain and the Netherlands. The blast
killed at least 15 people and wounded dozens more.

"I was scared" said James, a motorcycle taxi driver who witnessed the blast.
"People were rushing up and down the street looking for help. There was blood
and so many dead bodies. Many people were guessing and talking about
al-Shabaab."

Shortly afterwards, another blast hit a rugby club, popular with young
professionals and students in Kampala, where hundreds of spectators had also
gathered to watch the match on a large screen. Witnesses said spectators sitting
in plastic chairs in the front rows of the partly open-air venue took the full
force of the explosion.

"All of a sudden we heard this big explosion in front of the screen. The
screaming started and everyone started to run," said Ivan Muhame, who was
watching the game at the club.

Andinda Moses, 21, a Ugandan student, said there were two explosions. He thought
the first was an electrical fault, then came a second bigger blast. "I just
remember running and stepping over the bodies that had blood spilling from their
bodies. It was so terrible. I was running, not knowing where I was going," he
told the BBC. "After coming to my senses, I realised that I had blood stains all
over my feet."

Many of the wounded from both bombings were taken to the Mulago Hospital,
Uganda's largest. Outside, family members who had not heard from their relatives
held each other, while others wailed and threw themselves to the ground. Inside
the hospital, bodies covered in blood were rushed in and out of surgery.

In one corridor, a man lay on the floor bleeding from his head. It was
impossible to know if he was dead or alive. A few feet away in a small storage
locker, staff had created a makeshift morgue. Six bodies - all young - lay on
the tiles; some had had their clothes blown off.

Before the official claim of responsibility, a senior commander for al-Shabaab,
Sheikh Isse Yusuf told The Independent: "We are very glad with the loss of the
Christian Uganda. These explosions were in reply to the massacre which their
mercenaries are committing in Somalia. I am not going to say who was behind it,
though it's obligatory to attack Uganda."

Yoweri Museveni, the Ugandan president, who visited the rugby club yesterday,
said: "This shows you the criminality and terrorism that I have been talking
about," he said. "If you want to fight, go and look for soldiers, don't bomb
people watching football."

Analysts said that the blasts appear to mark a significant change in tactics by
militants in Somalia, a country that has been mired in conflict and anarchy
since warlords toppled the military dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991.

Ethiopian troops invaded in 2006 to oust an Islamist movement from Mogadishu,
sparking the Islamist insurgency which still rages and has left al-Shabaab in
control of large areas of south and central Somalia.

"The targeting of an Ethiopian restaurant full of foreigners [is] three targets
in one really - Ethiopia, Uganda and the United States," said Anna Murison of
Exclusive Analysis.

The apparent shift by al-Shabaab outside of the country appears to be linked to
the influence of what the International Crisis Group in a recent report called a
"foreign jihadi cabal". The think-tank named one of its leaders as Fazul
Abdullah Mohamed, who has been indicted by the US for his alleged role in the
1998 bombings of American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 240
people.

Last week, Kenya's foreign minister, Moses Wetangula, warned that the situation
in Somalia was "very, very dire", with intelligence reports warning that Afghan,
Pakistani and Middle Eastern fighters were all relocating to Somalia.

Europe could be next on al-Shabaab's hit list

Analysis, page 28

Somalia extends its violent message

Editorial, Viewspaper, page 2

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 14, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan bans Indian film fearing terror attacks

LENGTH: 199 words


Text of News Desk report headlined 'Ali Zafar's Indian film 'Tere Bin Laden'
banned in Pakistan" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 14 July

Islamabad: The exhibition of the Indian film 'Tere Bin Laden' [without Ladin]
has been banned in the picture houses of Pakistan because of the fear of
terrorists' attack.

It is the first appearance of model and singer Ali Zafar [Pakistani actor] in
any Indian film. The full board of the Film Censor Board gave this decision on
Tuesday [13 July] as the film 'Tere Bin Laden' is being released the world over
on Friday next.

Ali Zafar who is in Mumbai has expressed disappointments over the decision. He
has appealed to the concerned authorities to review the decision, as there is
nothing controversial in the film.

It's just a comedy accomplished with the cooperation of Salman Khan and Karan
Johar, he said. When approached, the Vice Chairman, Film Censor Board Masood
Elahi said there was no justification to release the film in Pakistan under
present circumstances. However the federal secretary is authorized to allow the
exhibition under special powers bestowed on him, Elahi said.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 14 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

HOL BRITON'S RAPE TERROR;
ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 86 words


A BRITISH teenager has been found naked on a Majorca street after a suspected
rape.

Police rushed the holiday girl, aged 18, to hospital with shock from the south
west resort of Cala Vinyes.

It is thought she got separated from pals after celebrating Spain's World Cup
win on Sunday night. The Civil Guard are investigating but have yet to make an
arrest.

At about the same time African robbers assaulted a British woman at her home in
the island's nearby resort of Magaluf but fled when she started screaming for
help.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 16, 2010 Friday

Iran MP blames US, UK, Israel for terror attack on mosque

LENGTH: 132 words


Excerpt from report by Iranian official government news agency IRNA

16 July: While condemning terrorism in all its forms, deputy head of the
parliamentary National Security and Foreign Policy Commission Esma'il Kowsari
has said that America, England and the Zionist regime are behind the terrorist
attack on Zahedan's main mosque.

Speaking to an IRNA reporter for political affairs on Friday morning [16 July],
Esma'il Kowsari said that funds for such terrorist attacks were provided by some
regional countries.

"Those who commit similar terrorist and suicide attacks are ignorant, and the
actual reason for their atrocious act is unknown," the MP added.

[Passage omitted: Kowsari slams terrorism, urges people to be vigilant]

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 0457 gmt 16 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              July 16, 2010 Friday

Norwegian Government: Norway condemns terrorist attack in Iran

LENGTH: 174 words


terrorist attack in Iran

Norway condemns the suicide attack in Sistan-Baluchistan province in
southeastern Iran on Thursday 15 July.

'Norway deeply deplores this act of terrorism,' said State Secretary
Gry Larsen.

Ms Larsen also expressed her sympathy for those who were injured or
lost loved ones in the attack.

Between 20 and 30 people are believed to have been killed and between
100 and 160 injured in a double suicide attack Thursday morning outside
a mosque in the city of Zahedan. It has been reported that a Sunni
rebel group has claimed responsibility for the action. A similar attack
took place in the same province in October 2009.

Several countries have recently been hit by serious terrorist attacks,
including Pakistan, Uganda, and now Iran.

'This shows once again how important it is that the international
community stands united in the fight against international terrorism,'
said Ms Larsen.

((M2 Communications disclaims all liability for information provided
within
information on
on the world wide web. Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2010 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 17, 2010 Saturday

Ugandan police chief rejects resignation calls over terror attacks

LENGTH: 363 words


Text of report by Rajab Mukombozi and Brenda Kashaki entitled "I wont resign,
says chief Kayihura" published by leading privately-owned Ugandan newspaper The
Daily Monitor website on 17 July

The inspector-general of police, Maj-Gen Kale Kayihura, has described the call
for his resignation by a section of MPs as "nonsense." Following the Kampala
bombings on Sunday [11 July], some MPs said Gen Kayihura and Security Minister
Amama Mbabazi should step down after the latter admitted that the terrorists had
caught them offguard.

While speaking in Mbarara [southwestern Uganda] on Thursday, Gen Kayihura said:
"I don't sleep, I am everywhere mobilizing security and some people call for my
resignation! That's nonsense." He added: "Most of these MPs calling for my
resignation are just there sleeping in parliament. They have never tabled any
motion on security even amid security threats but are just waking up to call for
my resignation! That's hopeless."

The bomb attacks killed 74 people and left about 50 others with injuries.

Earlier, President Museveni said the two officials cannot resign because of the
single incident. "Unless it became a tendency, that is when you can say this is
failure but an incident can happen anywhere," he told reporters in Ntungamo on
Wednesday night. Maj-Gen Kayihura, who visited Mbarara Central Police, also
warned of laxity in the force.

In the last month, Mbarara has been rocked by murders which claimed over 20
people. "I will not be at all points to direct you on security every time. That
laxity has to stop," he told the police officers. He also called on police to
sensitize the public to be security cautious amid terror threats. "You will not
be everywhere to man security but sensitize and cooperate with the public," he
said.

Gen Kayihura also told residents to take personal initiative in their security
and be mindful of strangers in their neighbourhood. "Let security begin with
you. We are both actors and consumers. You cannot depend on the DPC [District
Police Commander] or RPC [Resident Police Commander]. You are the ones who know
most about your communities," he said.

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 17 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 18, 2010 Sunday

US condemns Pakistan's Lahore terror attacks

LENGTH: 98 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 17 July: The US Mission in Pakistan has condemned the terrorist
attacks targeting two internet cafes in Lahore on Saturday [17 July]. Such
violent acts clearly demonstrate the brutality of the terrorists and their
contempt for innocent Pakistani lives, a statement issued by the US Embassy in
Islamabad said.

We extend our condolences to the victims' families and friends and to the
Pakistani people, the statement added.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1542gmt
17 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 18, 2010 Sunday

Iran senior MP says US, Israel involved in "terrorist attacks" on 15 July

LENGTH: 989 words


At 1815 gmt, the Iranian state-run TV channel two started to broadcast live a
roundtable discussion on the "evident and secret aspects" of the twin suicide
bombing attacks carried out on 15, July in the south-eastern city of Zahedan.
After introducing the gusts, Ali Mohammda Azad, the governor-general of the
Sistan-Baluchestan province in Zahedan (who attended the programme through
studio link) and Ala'eddin Borujerdi, head of Parliamentary Committee for
National Security and Foreign Policy, the presenter asked the viewers to watch a
factual report on the attacks.

At 1819, Azad offered condolence to the families of the victims, Iran's leader,
Ayatollah Ali Khamene'i and the members of the public. Then he gave the latest
figures of the number of those killed and critically injured in the incident.
This was followed by his elaboration on the way the bombing attacks were carried
out.

At 1827 Borujerdi started his remarks by offering condolence to the viewers.
Then he gave an account of the meeting held on 18 July by the parliamentary
committee in which many officials including the deputy interior and intelligence
ministers were present. He said the discussion would continue on 20 July. Then
he referred to the role of "several intelligence organizations" involved in the
attacks and said: "Both the Mossad [Israel's intelligence agency] and the CIA
[Central Intelligence Agency] are involved. And the intelligence service of
Pakistan is also somehow involved. Also some other regional countries are
involved. Therefore, wide-scale cooperation is formed for such a confrontation
[against the attacks]." Then he talked about the "budgets" the US Congress
allocated to create "security challenge against the Islamic Republic of Iran."

Later in the programme, he referred to Pakistan and said Iran had talked to the
Pakistani's at the highest levels and added that Iran was beyond "the stage of
talks with Pakistan" and it was time for action. He emphasized that it was in
the interest of the Pakistanis to cooperate with Iran sincerely and to open "a
new chapter in cooperation".

At 1832 Azad, started to talk about the reasons for the insecurity in the
province. He said people were aware about the situation of the borders and the
presence of foreign forces in Iran's neighbourhood. He said the enemy who could
not stand the stability in Iran was trying to influence religious minorities and
to provoke them to act against Iran. He said the enemy had tried to create a
religious rift among people and the Shi'is and Sunnis; however, he added people
knew who was behind those attempts. He stressed that there was no group in the
country that could have carried out such acts and the type of "the operation"
showed that it was conducted from abroad.

At 1838 Borujerdi elaborated on Iran's attempt to legally pursue the cases of
"threats" against its security through international organs and said the foreign
ministry would officially follow-up Iran's case.

He also criticised Britain for initiating efforts to remove the names of
"terrorist groups" presumably active against Iran from black lists. He said: "As
usual the British started this and their well-known viciousness became evident
in this case too. Then it [presumably, Britain's attempts to delist terrorist
groups] was spread to the European Union and today it is put forward by America.
The reality is that ... we are witnessing state terrorism. In other words  apart
from the fact that states like America, Britain, France and Germany remove the
name of this known terrorist organization [he did not mention any specific
group] from the list of terrorists  they openly abduct people. This is what the
Zionist regime has frequently done." Further, he accused Western countries of
having double-standards in fight against terrorism and added that Iran had
voiced its legal protests through channels available to it.

At 1846 gmt Azad said Iran was surrounded by insecure borders and it needed to
address the issue by taking more security measures. He emphasized that people
had to be trained to identify those who penetrate the borders to be able to take
action against them. He said the "closure of borders" had been on Iran's agenda
from years ago and that country had taken serious steps to secure its borders.
He emphasized that there were temporary and long-term measures to be taken in
future.

At 1850 gmt Borujerdi was asked to talk about the ways to prevent foreign
countries from carrying out "Islamophobia" in the region. He said Britain and
the USA had a long record in creating rift among ethnic and religious groups.
Borujerdi added that Sunni clerics could play a very important role in informing
people about such projects. He urged such clerics to issue religious decrees
against the perpetrators of terrorist acts.

Then at 1855 gmt, Azad said the enemy had broad plans to send its agents to Iran
and several individuals who had been trained abroad had been arrested. He said
Iran should make the best use of the security forces' potential and "mere
prevention" was not enough. He added that the enemy wanted to create "a sense of
insecurity to prevent the government from implementing development projects in
the province".

At 1901 gmt Borujerdi was asked about Iran's expectations from Pakistan. He said
Iran and Pakistan had longstanding ties and many characteristics in common. He
said Pakistan was not a secure country and Iran would take that fact into
account; however that would not change Pakistan's responsibility towards Iran.
The official added that Iran was ready to cooperate with Pakistan over security
issues. Borujerdi emphasized that Iran's expectations from Pakistan were serious
and it had expressed its expectations from its neighbour many times in the past.

The programme ended at 1905 gmt. No further processing planned.

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 2, Tehran, in Persian
1815 gmt 18 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 19, 2010 Monday

Syrian president condoles Iranian counterpart over terror attack

LENGTH: 121 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus - President Bashar al-Asad on Saturday [17 July] sent a cable of
condolences to President Mahmud Ahmadinezhad of Iran over the victims of the
terrorist attack which targeted the Iranian city of Zahedan.

President al-Assad stressed Syria's strong condemnation of this terrorist
attack, expressing heartfelt condolences to President Ahmadinezhad and the
friendly people of Iran, whishing the injured a quick recovery. Zahedan city was
targeted on Thursday by a terrorist attack as two blasts took place near a
mosque killing 27 persons and injuring 270 according to the latest statistics.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 19 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              July 19, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

RAPE NO.2 AT FESTIVAL;
Terror as girl, 17, is attacked in tent

BYLINE: KEIR MUDIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 214 words


A TEENAGE girl was raped at Latitude yesterday - the music festival's second
such attack in 24 hours.

The 17-year-old girl told police she was assaulted in a tent - just yards from
where a 19-year-old was raped by a gang of men the previous day.

Police who had already stepped up patrols after the first attack last night
urged women not to travel around the site on their own.

And there was growing concern that girls at Britain's other big summer
festivals, including next month's V Festival in Staffordshire and Essex, could
be in danger.

Scared

Detectives are checking CCTV footage and questioning festival-goers at Latitude
in Southwold, Suffolk, where 30,000 fans have been enjoying music, comedy,
theatre, classical music and poetry.

Latitude music fan Belinda Ward, 25, a sales consultant from Lavenham, Suffolk,
said: "All the girls are pretty scared but there are quite a few more police
officers here now."

And organisers Festival Republic are stepping up security to prevent further
attacks.

Boss Melvin Benn said of the latest rape: "We have significant sympathy for the
victim of this most awful act and we are so shocked that it should happen here."

A 19-year-old man was last night questioned by police about the second attack
before being released on bail.

news@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HELP: Witness appeal
SHOCKED: Organiser Melvin Benn yesterday **
Picture: NICK PICKLES / WENN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              July 19, 2010 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

CORRIE STAR FAN TERROR;
THUG ATTACKS GRAEME OVER ON-SCREEN FLING WITH ROSIE: EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: BRIAN ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 63 words


SOAP star Graeme Hawley was attacked in a bar by a fan over his fictional fling
with Corrie schoolgirl Rosie Webster.

The thug started ranting about the sordid behaviour of his Street character,
teacher John Stape, before assaulting him. A source said: "He was really
shaken." Graeme added: "It goes with the job." But the attack left him terrified
of going to pubs.

FULL STORY: PAGE 7

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               PR Newswire Europe

                        July 19, 2010 Monday 8:02 AM EST

Muslims Who Stand for Peace Unite Against Terror Attacks;
- Community That Faced Worst Atrocity in its History Strengthens Resolve to
Oppose Extremism

LENGTH: 484 words

DATELINE: ALTON, England, July 19, 2010


ALTON, England, July 19, 2010 /PRNewswire/ -- The world leader of an Islamic
community has made a clarion call for Muslims to unite against terror and
'jihadist' violence.

The Head of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, Hadhrat Mirza Masroor Ahmad, said
those who yearn for peace should not countenance anyone who sought to cause
mayhem.

Members of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community will this month pledge to oppose all
forms of extremism and violence - weeks after suffering the worst terrorist
attacks in the community's history.

More than 30,000 people attending the Ahmadiyya Muslim convention in Hampshire
between July 30-Aug 1 will make a solemn oath to remain wedded to the peaceful
practice of Islam.

In May, more than 200 Ahmadi Muslims were murdered and injured in a gun, grenade
and suicide attack on two mosques in Lahore. Now, in an international pledge
ceremony - witnessed around the globe through satellite TV - Ahmadi Muslims will
form a human chain and pledge themselves to peace.

Hadhrat Mirza Masroor Ahmad, the fifth Khalifa of the Ahmadiyya Muslim
Community, said:

"Those who love and yearn for peace should stand united against terror and
'jihadist' violence. Extremists are creating havoc and seek to destroy those who
disagree with their dogma. We will continue to respond with patience and prayer
and let never give up our belief and trust in God.

"We must always strive to be the standard bearers of the true Islam - and have
love for all and hatred for none.

"Allah created all the worlds and is The Master of all creation. Those who
commit murder in His name will only incur His wrath. Those who kill will bear a
heavy burden for God has proclaimed that to take one life of an innocent is like
murdering all of humanity.

"We are a community of peace, even in the face of such adversity. By spreading a
message of peace, we can extinguish the flames of hatred."

Rafiq Hayat, National President of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Association UK added
that the purpose of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community has been, for over a century,
to propagate the peaceful practice of Islam - a mission that is opposed by
extremists.

"Those who murder in the name of Allah, and those who incite others to hatred,
are not only enemies of Islam but of all of humanity.

"Through Ahmadiyya, the renaissance of Islam has begun and it is through purity
of faith and enlightened thinking - not intolerance and prejudice- that the
beauty of our faith will be seen.

"Though we are stricken with grief and we all know of someone who has lost a
loved one in the terrorist attacks, we remain steadfast and prostrate ourselves
before Allah for divine protection and justice."

Contact

Basharat Nazir, Press Secretary
Phone: +44(0)7703-483-384
Email: media@ahmadiyya.org.uk
Web: http://www.loveforallhatredfornone.org
Web: http://www.ahmadiyya.org.uk





CONTACT:Basharat Nazir, Press Secretary, Phone: +44(0)7703-483-384, Email:
media@ahmadiyya.org.uk

URL: http://www.prnewswire.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                   Copyright 2010 PR Newswire Europe Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 21, 2010 Wednesday

Iran leader says US, UK, Israel involved in Zahedan "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 179 words


Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamene'i has said that America, Britain
and Israel were involved in the bombings in the southeastern city of Zahedan,
the capital of Sistan-Baluchestan Province, on the border with Pakistan and
Afghanistan, on 15 July.

In a message sent on the occasion the seventh day after the deaths of at least
27 people in two bombings in the city, Khamene'i said: "The espionage
apparatuses of America, England and the Zionist regime are behind the Zahedan
crime. Official departments must punish the mischief-makers."

Khamene'i's message was read out by an announcer on Iranian TV's first network.

In his message Khamene'i said: "One of the main objectives of the enemies
resorting to this terrorist action is to create mischief and religious
discord... All officials in the three branches of power [executive, judiciary
and legislative] are duty-bound to seriously confront the enemies of the
country's unity and security and punish them for their actions."

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 1, Tehran, in Persian
0930 gmt 21 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            July 21, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Mersey Edition

'Huge rise in terror attacks' after Allies invaded Iraq

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 722 words


THE invasion of Iraq triggered a massive upsurge in terrorist activity against
the UK, the former head of MI5 claimed yesterday.

Baroness Manningham-Buller said the Security Service had been forced to seek a
doubling of its budget as it struggled to cope with the volume of plots
generated in the aftermath of the invasion in 2003.

Giving evidence to the official inquiry into the conflict, she said ministers
had been warned that the launch of military action against Iraq would lead to a
heightened prospect of attack by al-Qaida.

However, she acknowledged that MI5 had been slow to appreciate that the main
threat would come from "home-grown" terrorists. Lady Manningham-Buller - who is
the only member of the intelligence agencies, past or present, to give evidence
to the inquiry in public about their work - was scathing about the way
intelligence was used to make the case for war.

The evidence of Saddam Hussein's supposed weapons of mass destruction (WMD) had
been "fragmentary", she said, and she dismissed Tony Blair's argument that
action had been necessary to prevent them falling into the hands of terrorists.

She disclosed that MI5 had refused to contribute to the Government's dossier on
Iraqi WMD in 2002 and she criticised the way the invasion had shifted attention
away from the al-Qaida threat in Afghanistan.

The toppling of Saddam had, she suggested, also given al-Qaida a foothold in
Afghanistan for the first time. "Arguably, we gave Osama bin Laden his Iraqi
jihad," she said.

Following the hearing, her comments were echoed by the head of the Royal Navy at
the time of the invasion, Admiral Lord West of Spithead, who described the
military action as "foolhardy".

Lady Manningham-Buller said that MI5 had assessed as early as 2002 that Iraqi
intelligence agents in the UK would not pose much of a threat in the event of
military action against Saddam.

"That turned out to be the right judgment. That is partly as a result of the
action we took," she said.

The agency had, however, warned ministers that an invasion would lead to an
increased threat from al-Qaida.

While they had seen a build-up in terrorist activity following the 9/11 attacks
in the United States in 2001, she said that the threat had increased
"substantially" in the wake of the military intervention in March, 2003. She
suggested that "a whole generation of young people" had been "radicalised" by
what they saw as an attack on Islam, before quickly correcting herself to say:
"Not a whole generation, a few among a generation". At times, she said, MI5 had
been almost overwhelmed by the number of terror plots that sprung up.

"We were pretty well swamped - that's possibly an exaggeration - but we were
very overburdened with intelligence that was pretty well more than we could cope
with in terms of plots, leads to plots and things that we needed to pursue," she
said.

She accepted that MI5 had not foreseen the extent to which British citizens -
some third generation UK nationals - would become involved in terrorist plots
against their own country. "During 2003-04, we realised that the focus was not
foreigners. The rising threat was from British citizens."

Lady Manningham-Buller, however, dismissed Mr Blair's argument that Britain and
the US had needed to take action against Saddam following 9/11 to prevent his
supposed chemical and biological weapons being obtained by terrorists.

"It's a hypothetical theory. It certainly wasn't of concern to my colleagues and
myself," she said. Lady Manningham-Buller was critical of the way that
"fragmentary" intelligence - most of it from the Secret Intelligence Service,
MI6 - had been used by the Blair government to make the case for war.

"If you are going to war, you need a pretty high threshold. I think there is
very few who would argue the intelligence was not substantial enough on which to
make that decision," she said.

She said that MI5 had been asked to contribute to the Government's Iraq weapons
dossier, but had declined.

"We were asked to put in some lowgrade, small intelligence to it and we refused
because we didn't think it was reliable," she said.

Following the hearing, Lord West told BBC Radio 4: "I was never a supporter, I
have to say, of going into Iraq. I think it was a foolhardy thing to do when we
were already engaged in Afghanistan."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Saddam Hussein Tony Blair Picture: DAVID JONES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2010 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            July 21, 2010 Wednesday

We warned Iraq invasion would raise terror attack risk, says ex-MI5 chief

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon and Sam Marsden

LENGTH: 556 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE invasion of Iraq triggered a massive upsurge in terrorist
activity against the UK, the former head of MI5 said yesterday.


· Lady Manningham-Buller arrives at the Iraq inquiry yesterday; a memo the then
deputy head of MI5 sent to the Home Office about a year before the invasion was
published yesterday, and we highlight some of the key points she made. Picture:
Getty Images

Baroness Manningham-Buller said the Security Service struggled to cope with the
volume of plots generated in the aftermath of the invasion in 2003.

Giving evidence to the official inquiry into the conflict, she said ministers
had been warned that military action against Iraq would heighten the prospect of
attacks by al-Qaeda.

However, she admitted MI5 had been slow to appreciate the main threat would come
from "home-grown" terrorists.

Lady Manningham-Buller - the only member of the intelligence agencies to give
evidence to the inquiry in public - was scathing about the way intelligence was
used to make the case for war.

The evidence of Saddam Hussein's supposed weapons of mass destruction (WMD) had
been "fragmentary", she said, and she dismissed Tony Blair's argument that
action had been necessary to prevent them falling into the hands of terrorists.

She disclosed MI5 had refused to contribute to the government's dossier on Iraqi
WMD in 2002 and said MI5 had assessed as early as that year that Iraqi
intelligence agents in the UK would not pose much of a threat in the event of
military action against Saddam, right. The agency had, however, warned ministers
an invasion would lead to an increased threat from al-Qaeda.

She suggested "a whole generation of young people" had been "radicalised" by
what they saw as an attack on Islam, before quickly correcting herself to say:
"Not a whole generation, a few among a generation."

She went on: "We were very overburdened with intelligence on a broad scale that
was pretty well more than we could cope with in terms of plots, leads to plots
and things that we needed to pursue."

Lady Manningham-Buller said she had had to ask Mr Blair for a further doubling
of MI5's resources in 2003. "This is unheard of, but he and the Treasury and the
chancellor accepted that because I was able to demonstrate the scale of the
problem that we were confronted by," she said. "During 2003-4, we realised that
the focus was not foreigners. The rising and increasing threat was a threat from
British citizens, and that was a very different scenario to, as it were,
stopping people coming in."

She dismissed Mr Blair's argument that Britain and the US had needed to take
action against Saddam following 9/11 to prevent his supposed chemical and
biological weapons being obtained by terrorists. "It's a hypothetical theory.

It certainly wasn't of concern in either the short term or medium term to my
colleagues and myself," she said.

Lady Manningham-Buller was critical of the way "fragmentary" intelligence - most
of it from the Secret Intelligence Service, MI6 - had been used to make the case
for war.

"If you are going to go to war, you need a pretty high threshold ... to decide
on that and I think there are very few who would argue that the intelligence was
not substantial enough on which to make that decision," she said.

MI5 had been asked to contribute to the government's Iraq weapons dossier but
had declined. She said: "We were asked to put in some low-grade, small
intelligence to it and we refused because we didn't think it was reliable."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 24, 2010 Saturday

Explosives found in Bosnia reportedly intended for terror attacks

LENGTH: 847 words


Text of report by Bosnian Serb privately-owned centrist newspaper Nezavisne
novine, on 22 July

[Report by Nikola Moraca: "Forty Kilograms of Explosive Discovered in Donji
Vakuf"]

Donji Vakuf - Yesterday a source confirmed to Nezavisne Novine that over 40
kilograms of a highly destructive explosive were discovered in an abandoned
house in Donji Vakuf.

The source said briefly that further investigation would determine whether this
explosive was intended for a new terrorist attack in Bosnia-Hercegovina, or if
its fate was to end up in some other country in the region.

According to unofficial information, agents of intelligence and security
agencies in Bosnia-Hercegovina participated in this action, and everything was
carried out in strict secrecy. Yesterday, however, none of the responsible
authorities wanted to confirm or deny these activities. According to unofficial
information, following the discovery of the explosive, arrested was a highly
educated [as published] police official of the B-H Federation MUP [Interior
Ministry], who was linked to the Wahhabi movement. Yesterday Zeljka Kujundzija,
the spokesperson of the State Investigation and Protection Agency (SIPA), did
not answer her calls and we could not get a confirmation whether SIPA had taken
part in the Donji Vakuf campaign.

Sefir Barucija, the spokesperson of the Central Bosnian Canton [SBK] MUP, said
that he was unaware of any action that resulted in the discovery of explosives.

"I get bulletins every day, but none of them said that our police discovered
this explosive," Barucija told us yesterday.

The police previously received "an e-mail threatening that the terrorist group
would continue with terrorist attacks, and that next up was the Donji Vakuf
Police Administration." The Wahhabis also announced a "sports" gathering of
their followers on Mount Vlasic on 27 July. As reported previously, activists of
the Wahhabi movement approached the SBK MUP, where, as was said, they were
informed on how to submit a request to hold this gathering. The activists were
also told that the request to hold a public gathering should be sent, with
relevant documentation attached, to the canton MUP.

The Wahhabis intended to gather on the Vlasic plateau of Babanovac, "in order to
conduct a sports tournament," on 18 or 27 July, the Uprising Day in
Bosnia-Hercegovina.

According to the findings of Nezavisne Novine, this Wahhabi intention and
especially the sudden discovery of a highly destructive explosive in Donji Vakuf
were the reason why the RS [Serb Republic] police stepped up security. On the
other hand, as was officially stated, the security measures were being carried
out over the UEFA [Union of European Football Associations] qualifying round
soccer match between Switzerland's Lausanne and the Banja Luka Borac. The match
will be played in the biggest city in the RS [Banja Luka] today. RS Interior
Minister Stanislav Cadjo previously stated that the RS MUP had continuously been
conducting activities in order to prevent a terrorist attack.

According to unofficial information, the explosive discovered in an abandoned
house in Donji Vakuf might have been intended for the continuation of terrorist
activities similar to the one that happened on 27 June, when the Wahhabis led by
the suspect Haris Causevic attacked the police station in Bugojno.

The explosion killed police officer Tarik Ljubuskic and severely injured police
officer Edina Hindic. She in the meantime recovered and was released from
hospital. Several other police officers asked for medical assistance after the
attack that shocked Bugojno and the entire Bosnia-Hercegovina.

After several days of investigation and joint activities of police agencies in
Bosnia-Hercegovina, arrested were all persons linked to the attack on the
Bugojno police station, including the suspected organizer Haris "Oks" Causevic,
whose terrorist links had already been known to the police.

On 2 July the B-H Court ordered one-month custody of terrorist suspects
Causevic, Naser Palislamovic, Emin Osmanagic, Nedzad Kesko, and Haris Spago.

According to information previously confirmed by intelligence agencies, Causevic
is linked to the group of Rijad Rustempasic, which is on trial before the B-H
Court for terrorism and other severe criminal acts. It is possible that
Causevic's attack on the police station in Bugojno was revenge for the trial of
Rustempasic's group, but the real circumstances of the attack have yet to be
determined.

A protected witness in the trial, who is an agent of the Intelligence and
Security Agency (OBA), said that Rustempasic and others were plotting to attack
the buildings of the RS Government, of EUFOR's [European Union Force] LOTs
[Liaison and Observation Teams], and of the troops of the B-H Armed Forces set
to go to Afghanistan.

We should also recall that mid-July saw in Gornji Vakuf an interruption of the
"Urban Fest" concert, after a tip-off that the event would be the target of a
terrorist attack like the 27 June attack in Bugojno.

Source: Nezavisne novine, Banja Luka, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 22 Jul 10, pp
2,3

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 26, 2010 Monday

USA embassy condemns "brutal" terror attack on Pakistan minister's home

LENGTH: 105 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

[U.S condemns terrorist attack in Nowshera ]

ISLAMABAD, Jul 26 (APP): The U.S mission in Pakistan condemned the attack on the
residence of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Minister of Information Mian Iftikhar Hussain
today in Nowshera, the second attack on this family in three days.

An embassy spokesman said, "such brutal acts demonstrate the terrorists' agenda
of fear and intimidation. We extend our condolences to the victims' families and
friends, and to the people of Pakistan."

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1331 gmt
26 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              July 26, 2010 Monday
                                  Eire Edition

MY TERROR AT HOMOPHOBIC ATTACK, BY BRIAN KENNEDY;
STAR'S ASSAULT ORDEAL

BYLINE: RICHIE TAYLOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 379 words


SINGER Brian Kennedy has revealed he was the victim of a violent homophobic
assault that left him badly injured.

Belfast man Kennedy, who celebrates 20 years in the business with a greatest
hits album, said the attack happened as he was starting to attract plenty of
media attention.

The gay star, 43, added: "It must have been about 1997. I got two black eyes and
a badly injured jaw and was in a lot of pain.

"But I was actually doing a gig the next night with Van Morrison and Ray
Charles, so I was determined that the show would go on. So I put on a pair of
shades and tried to ignore the terrible throbbing in my jaw.

"I'd have crawled onstage to do it. I was determined that those guys weren't
going to put me down.

"A few years ago I was walking along the South Circular Road in Dublin when a
guy shouted 'faggot' at me.

"I walked over and asked him what he had said. He denied it and said another
fella in the car had said it. I told them I didn't need them to tell me I was a
faggot.

"It was a pretty stupid thing to do.

They could have jumped out of the car and beaten me all shades of black and
blue. Sometimes you have to stand up to things like that."

Busy Brian is playing shows to promote his new album, is well into writing his
autobiography and has also begun work on a new novel.

He revealed: "I do find it hard to sit still.

If I'm not working then I'm going to the gym. I don't like to waste time, I love
moving forward, getting better. I have more enthusiasm now than I did 20 years
ago. What I do is mad, but it'still the best job in the world. I'm actually
quite a sensible chap and don't really indulge in bad behaviour. A few glasses
of wine is my biggest vice. I won't tolerate any trouble or bad behaviour from
anyone in my band.

"We don't need anyone who's a bad influence. I'd always give people a chance,
but if they keep it up, then they're out."

But while he still gigs regularly, Brian feels the touring landscape has
changed. He said:" The days of the big tour are over, unless you're Madonna or
U2.

"But Australia is great, I've toured there eight times. I did 18 shows there
this year. You see so many weird things there.

"I remember playing by the side of a lagoon full of crocodiles, and someone had
been taken by one of them a couple of weeks earlier."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIM Brian Kennedy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday

Newly promoted "terrorist" chief behind recent attack - Algerian paper

LENGTH: 184 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 27
July

If the identity of the suicide bomber is still not known, the masterminds behind
this attack, which killed one and wounded 10 seriously, were quickly identified
by the security agencies.

According to a source knowledgeable about the security issue in the Province of
Tizi Ouzou, he is Si Mohammed Ouramdane, alias Moh El-Kechkache, 25, and a
native of the municipality of Ait Aissi, where the attack took place. Before
going into the terrorist maquis, Moh El-Kechkache lived barely 400 m. from the
Gendarmerie brigade that was the target of the suicide bomber attack the day
before yesterday [25 July]. After the numerous attacks in which he took part
these past two years in the region, the sinister Si Mohammed Ouramdane was
chosen, several weeks ago, to replace "the amir" of the Takhoukht brigade,
Djamel Laazib, alias Zakaria Abdelkahar, who was killed together with two of his
henchmen early this past May right in the town centre of Draa El-Mizan. [Passage
omitted].

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 27 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               PR Newswire Europe

                       July 27, 2010 Tuesday 6:26 AM EST

Ahmadi Muslims Meet in Wake of Terror Attacks;
- Security High After Extremists Target Community That has Pledged Itself to
Peace

LENGTH: 410 words

DATELINE: ALTON, England, July 27, 2010


ALTON, England, July 27, 2010 /PRNewswire/ -- Members of a Muslim Community in
Britain are meeting in the wake of the worst terrorist attacks in their history.

200 people were killed or injured in a double suicide and gun attack on
Ahmadiyya mosques in Lahore in May.

Now 30,000 Ahmadi Muslims are expected to gather in Hampshire to hear Muslim
scholars discuss Islam's response to such crises.

The community, which unites under the banner Love for All, Hatred for None, has
pledged to stand resolute in their commitment to peace and not to retaliate
against extremism.

The worldwide Head of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, Hadhrat Mirza Masroor
Ahmad, has told followers that they must not be deflected from the central
belief that Islam is a religion of peace and this must be put it into practice.

He said: "Those who love and yearn for peace should stand united against terror
and 'jihadist' violence. Extremists are creating havoc and seek to destroy those
who disagree with their dogma. We will continue to respond with patience and
prayer and will never give up our belief and trust in God.

"We are a community of peace, even in the face of such adversity. By spreading a
message of peace, we can extinguish the flames of hatred."

The three-day Islamic convention at the end of July is the biggest annual
gathering of Muslims in Britain. Security has been stepped up not only because
of the terrorist attacks in Lahore, but because messages of hate are being
preached regularly via satellite TV and the internet.

Mr Rafiq Hayat, National President of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Association said:

"Extremist preachers are spreading messages of hate and encouraging followers to
kill Ahmadi Muslims. Though satellite TV, and also through their mosques and
public meetings, extremists remain intent on murder and mayhem for anyone who
disagrees with their philosophy. Leaflets have been distributed in British
cities too about eradicating the Ahmadis.

"We have increased our security, check-in and vetting procedures in order to
safeguard delegates and visitors to the convention. We cannot let terrorists and
extremists deflect us from our mission which is to practice Islam as a religion
of peace."

Contact
Basharat Nazir, Press Secretary
Phone: +44(0)7703-483-384
Email: media@ahmadiyya.org.uk

Web: http://www.loveforallhatredfornone.org

Web: http://www.ahmadiyya.org.uk





CONTACT:Contact Basharat Nazir, Press Secretary, Phone: +44(0)7703-483-384,
Email: media@ahmadiyya.org.uk

URL: http://www.prnewswire.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                   Copyright 2010 PR Newswire Europe Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Llanelli Star

                                 July 28, 2010

Motorist's terror at egg attack

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 506  words


Chantelle Rees

A LLANELLI driver has relived the terrifying moment he lost control of his car
and almost crashed when eggs were thrown at his windscreen from an oncoming car.

The  motorist, a traffic warden  travelling in  an unmarked car, says he slammed
on the brakes with his windscreen obscured by the mess and swerved onto the
wrong side of the road.

The victim now wants to alert other road users to the risks after being told
attacking cars with eggs could be a robbery tactic, while a   council spokesman
said the "dangerous incident" would be reported to the police.

The driver, who has asked to remain anonymous, said: "I was driving at about
50mph approaching the Pembrey Circuit on Kidwelly Flats when I saw something
flying at my windscreen as a car went by in the opposite direction.

"There were at least three eggs that exploded into the windscreen at full force.
The combined speed of the vehicles was in excess of 100mph, so there was quite a
thudding.

"It frightened me because I did not know what had happened until I came to a
stop almost in the hedge on the wrong side of the road.

"If there had been anything coming I could have been killed, because my vision
was completely obscured by the eggy mess.

"I made the mistake of putting on the windscreen wipers and washer, which just
completely whitewashed the screen. It was completely obscured."

Disappeared

The oncoming car had not stopped after the incident, he claimed, but sped off
and disappeared around the bend.

The driver said he thought there were three teenagers in the car and believes he
was not the only driver targeted, because when he arrived in Llanelli 15 minutes
later, he saw another car near Llanelli North Dock with an egg mess over its
windscreen.

"I have since been told that attacking cars with eggs is a robbery tactic used
by thieves, because the driver is completely blinded and has to stop, and can be
at the mercy of his or her assailants," he added.

The Carmarthenshire Council employee said he reported the incident to his
employers because he was on duty in a council vehicle, although it was not
identifiable as such.

He added: "I was unsure about telling the police, but I think drivers using that
road should be made aware of the possible risks.

"I could easily have been badly injured, robbed or even killed by these foolish
pranksters."

A county council spokesman said: "This dangerous incident has been brought to
our attention. Because other vehicles were involved in apparently random
attacks, we are bringing it to the attention of the police.

"We are also investigating the unattended nature of the sale of the eggs at the
side of this busy road."

Police Sergeant Ian Francis said: "Incidents involving objects being thrown at
moving vehicles are extremely dangerous and could have very serious
consequences. Distracting drivers or obscuring the view out of the windscreen or
windows can easily lead to collisions.

"If anyone experiences such an incident they should report it to the police
immediately, and they will take the appropriate action."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 39


                          Copyright 2010 Llanelli Star
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday

Indian party leader calls for new laws to "pre-empt" terror attacks

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "New laws to pre-empt terror attack"
published by Indian newspaper The Hindu website on 29 July

New Delhi: The Communist Party of India (Marxist) parliamentary party leader
Sitaram Yechury on Wednesday [28 July] underscored the need for laws in the
country to pre-empt terror attacks, stating that the current legislation arms
investigation agencies only after an event occurs.

"After 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, we have new laws to pursue terrorists
post-attack; what is needed is to make important change to pre-empt, which are
not yet put in place," Mr. Yechury said at a symposium on unravelling the
'Hindutva terror' network during recent investigations. He said the issue of
terror networks could not be seen only as a law and order problem; it required
strengthening of the intelligence since such networks were not only gaining
strength but also spreading.

Source: The Hindu website, Chennai, in English 29 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 31, 2010 Saturday

Ugandan tourism sector still "strong" despite terror attacks - official

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of report by Francis Kagolo entitled "11 July bombs did not scare off
tourists" published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New
Vision website on 31 July

Tourism has remained strong despite the twin bomb blasts that hit the capital
and killed over 80 people a fortnight ago, officials have said.

"We had feared that the bombs would affect the sector's performance," said
Cuthbert Baguma, the executive director of the Uganda Tourism Board.

Baguma said only 30 tourists cancelled their visits after the blasts. The
country continues to receive over 200 tourists daily, he said. He also applauded
security agencies for normalizing the situation.

He revealed this during a press conference on the World Tourism Day celebrations
to be held in September. The conference was held at the Ministry of Trade and
Tourism headquarters in Kampala on Wednesday [28 July].

Rose Otagye, the commissioner for tourism, said music and exhibitions were some
of the activities scheduled for the three-day celebrations that begin on 25
September.

The celebrations aim at sensitizing Ugandans about the social, cultural and
economic value of tourism. It is one of Uganda's leading foreign exchange
earners. Last year, 450m dollars (one trillion shillings) was raised from
tourism, according to Uganda Wildlife Authority.

Meanwhile, the tourism celebrations will coincide with the journalism tourism
awards aimed at recognizing journalists who have contributed to tourism. The
awards will be held on 26 September, at the Kampala Serena Hotel.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 31 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                 July 31, 2010
                                 First Edition

Police 'failed Sri Lanka team' during terrorist attack

BYLINE: Babar Dogar in Lahore

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 243 words


SENIOR PAKISTAN police officers have been heavily criticised in a report for
being ill-prepared, poorly equipped and incompetent in their efforts to prevent
a terrorist attack on the Sri Lanka cricket team bus last year.

Calling one officer a lazy coward, Shabbar Raza Rizvi of Lahore High Court
identified more than a dozen senior policemen in a report on the attack that is
due to be submitted to the International Cricket Council.

Rizvi wrote that police officials failed to perform their duties on 3 March when
gunmen killed six policemen and a van driver in the team convoy, and injured
several Sri Lanka players and team officials.

Senior Lahore police officer Haji Habibur Rehman was supposed to be the overall
commander of the team's security, but Rizvi said he failed to do his job. "I
wish I had seen him marching on the road ... or at least sitting in his office
before 8am," Rizvi wrote. "Unfortunately, he only became visible after the
occurrence took place."

The Pakistan Cricket Board is still waiting for permission from the government
to submit the report to the ICC, despite reminders by the game's governing body.
A spokesman for the ICC confirmed it had not received the report and had no
further comment.

The ICC carried out its own investigation following the attack. It recommended a
series of security measures to be implemented by member countries, including
requiring cricket boards to have security managers and establish security
standards.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SS


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 2, 2010 Monday

Turkey's PM calls for "common sense" in reaction to recent terror attacks

LENGTH: 231 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Adana, 1 August 2010: Turkey's prime minister said on Saturday [31 July] that
the constitutional amendment package was a project of the nation and a voting
against the coup constitution.

Addressing citizens in southern Adana Province, Turkish Prime Minister and
chairman of Justice and Development (AK) Party Recep Tayyip Erdogan said, "This
is not a project of AK Party or mine. This project does not belong to a couple
of people, but it belongs to the nation".

Erdogan noted that the referendum to be held in September would leave aside the
"law of superiors" and provide a transition to "the rule of law" in Turkey.

The constitutional amendment would make significant contributions to daily life,
rights & freedoms, democracy and economy, moreover, it would expand horizons and
strengthen visions, the Turkish prime minister said.

Commenting on recent acts of terrorism, Erdogan said: "Our civilization is based
on love and brotherhood. Some evil circles have staged dirty scenarios in some
of our towns. Do not ever forget that they want us to get angry".

Noting that such circles desired to keep citizens away from common sense,
Erdogan also said: "We have never fallen into this trap throughout history and
we will not fall today or in the future".

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0842 gmt 1 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 2, 2010 Monday

New rebel leader likely to "prove himself" with terror attacks - Russian senator

LENGTH: 707 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 2 August: The replacement of Dokka Umarov, head of the armed underground
movement [in Russia's North Caucasus], with [Umarov's younger comrade] Aslambek
Vadalov will bring with it a change in the militants' tactics and strategy,
member of the National Antiterrorism Committee and first deputy speaker of the
Federation Council Aleksandr Torshin believes.

"With Vadalov, completely new phenomena and new techniques will replace the
techniques of the militants that we already know and familiar faces. The change
in their tactics and strategy will complicate the situation by an order of
magnitude," Torshin told Interfax today.

Umarov, who is an authority in the armed underground movement, has left and been
replaced by someone unremarkable and little known, Torshin added. "Although
Vadalov does have experience of war from the start of the first Chechen war, it
is noteworthy that the replacement is happening at a time when terrorist
activity in the North Caucasus has increased," he said.

Torshin believes that Vadalov is not currently an authority for militants in the
North Caucasus, and he will need "high-profile terrorist attacks". "It's a rule
of the genre. The Caucasus is the Caucasus, otherwise he will not establish
himself. If you don't prove yourself, nobody will deal with you," Torshin said.

"If one looks at the timetable of attacks on policemen, terrorist attacks,
shootings and the discovery of caches, the line has crept upwards. This is
linked, among other things, to the seasonal factor. And it appears that it is no
coincidence that the change has occurred now, in summer, and not winter or
autumn," he added.

Torshin believes that Vadalov's arrival will be accompanied by acts of sabotage,
which will probably concern infrastructure and some kind of demonstrative
terrorist attacks. "Although an attack on policemen, which Vadalov became famous
for in 2008, is a usual affair for him," he added.

Torshin also drew attention to the fact that Vadalov operated mainly in
Gudermesskiy District [of Chechnya], which is the ancestral land of Chechen
President Ramzan Kadyrov, so for the latter the new appointment will be "a very
unpleasant surprise, it seems".

"Vadalov is a blood feud avenger, what's more, a ruthless one. Dokka Umarov was
not a blood feud avenger to Kadyrov, and Vadalov has his own network in that
region, judging by everything, and his own base of support," Torshin said.

At the same time, Umarov himself is not planning to leave and will continue
jihad as he has already said, Torshin added. "He will probably move abroad and
settle somewhere in Kosovo, which is an absolutely closed territory today. He
may engage in recruiting there," he said.

"Militants will pass through Umarov's hands in order to get to the North
Caucasus. One must give him his due, Umarov is an expert on human souls,"
Torshin said.

"Very sophisticated militants who have passed through fire and water, with a lot
of experience" operate in the North Caucasus, he added.

The prospect of Umarov leaving became noticeable in June this year, when the USA
declared him an international terrorist, Torshin said. "After this it became
clear that it was really impossible to maintain the image of a freedom fighter,
and his activity became ineffective," Torshin said.

In addition, the terrorist Magas who was caught by the special services is now
giving evidence and confessing, he said. "Including locations, passwords and
everything connected to Dokka Umarov," Torshin said.

Torshin believes the militants today need a new person whom Magas does not know
well, and all Umarov's references about his poor health and age are "nonsense".

"He (Umarov) has simply realized that his activity has become ineffective, and
it was necessary to find a completely new person - Vadalov has become that
person," Torshin said.

The main task of the special services now is to capture and neutralize Umarov
and Vadalov, Torshin said.

"There is already success in this area, and we are eliminating authoritative
leaders of the armed underground more quickly than their replacement is
developing," he added. [Passage omitted]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1026 gmt 2 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 3, 2010 Tuesday

Jordanian princes pay condolences to "terrorist attack" victims

LENGTH: 148 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

["Regent, Crown Prince Pay Condolences To Al Alawneh Family" - Petra News Agency
Headline]

Irbid, August 3 (Petra) - Their Royal Highnesses Prince Ali Bin Al Hussein, the
Regent, and Crown Prince Al Hussein bin Abdullah II on Tuesday [3 August]
visited the northern city of Irbid where they conveyed His Majesty King Abdallah
II"s condolences to the family of Subhi Alawneh who was killed in the terrorist
attack in Aqaba yesterday. Prince Ali and Prince Hussein expressed their
sympathy and heartfelt condolences to the victim"s family. The Alawneh family
expressed their gratitude and appreciation for the royal gesture. Prime Minister
Samir Rifai, King"s Adviser Ayman Safadi, and other officials also paid their
condolences to the Alawneh family.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 1455 gmt 3 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 5, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

WOMAN'S RAPE TERROR IN SEX GANG ATTACK;
Violated by 3 brutes near Moira murder scene

BYLINE: ANNABELLE LOVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 387 words


A TERRIFIED young woman was raped in a horrific sex attack by three brutes -
just yards from the scene of sales rep Moira Jones' chilling murder.

The 22-year-old victim was forced into a lane and overpowered by the evil gang
as she walked on the street at night on the south side of Glasgow.

At least one of the men raped her during her sickening ordeal before they were
disturbed by a dogwalker.

The attack in Kingarth Lane on Monday July 26 happened 400 yards from Queen's
Park, where tragic Moira was raped and killed in 2008.

All three suspects in the "despicable" attack are described as of eastern
European appearance.

Last night Detective Sergeant Craig Warren, who is leading the hunt for them,
said the traumatised victim was left deeply distressed. He said: "She was making
for the bus stop and three men approached to make conversation, patricularly one
man. As she was speaking to him, the other two pulled at her, causing her to
fall.

"I have been an officer for 13 years. I have never come across anything like
this.

"This was a despicable attack on a lone female and these men need to be found."

He appealed for the dogwalker and a taxi driver who picked up the victim
afterwards to contact police.

Tragic Moira was forced into Queen's Park before she was killed by monster Marek
Harcar, 34.

He fled the country but was snared in his native Slovakia before being hauled
back here and caged for at least 25 years at the High Court in Glasgow in April
last year.

The first suspect in the latest attack is 5ft 6in, in his late 30s to early 40s
and heavily built. He had short shaven hair, brown eyes, stubble and a
round-shaped head. He was wearing a sleeveless dark top with a football logo on
it, dark coloured threequarter length trousers and trainers. The second suspect
is described as 6ft with a distinctive thin beard. He wore dark blue jeans with
baggy pockets, a grey top and black trainers with stripes from the laces to the
sole.

The third suspect is described as 5ft 6in and aged between 15 and 18 years old.

He had gelled spiky hair and was wearing a shiny square earring in his left ear.

DS Warren added: "The descriptions include some distinct details - someone out
there must recognise these people.

I would ask anyone who does to come forward and help us solve this crime."

annabellelove@the-sun.co.uk

Distressed

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Horror ... Moira and Harcar
Murder scene ... the lane

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 6, 2010 Friday

Iraqi minister views security, US withdrawal, recent terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 1248 words


Text of report by Saudi-owned leading pan-Arab daily Al-Sharq al-Awsat website
on 5 August

[Report on interview by telephone with Iraqi Interior Minister Jawad al-Bulani,
in Baghdad, conducted by Ma'ad Fayyad, in London, on 4 August: "Al-Bulani Tells
Al-Sharq al-Awsat the Terrorists Take Advantage of the US Forces' Withdrawal and
of the Delay in Forming a Government. The Iraqi Interior Minister Says: There is
Security Coordination With Saudi Arabia, As Our Battle With Terrorism Is a Joint
One"]

Iraqi Interior Minister Jawad al-Bulani said that the terrorist attacks, which
were carried out in the Al-A'zamiyah Neighbourhood of Al-Rasafah in Baghdad last
week and in the Al-Mansur Neighbourhood of Al-Karkh two days ago, were "attempts
by terrorists to prove their presence."

He added: "Whenever the Iraqi security agencies defeat and tighten the grip on
them, the terrorists carry out criminal actions against security agency
personnel and civilians." He noted that these attacks are "a natural result of
the situation in Iraq, given the imminent withdrawal of the US forces and the
delay in forming a government."

Speaking to Al-Sharq al-Awsat from Baghdad by telephone yesterday, Al-Bulani
said: "The latest two operations in Al-A'zamiyah and Al-Mansur were part of the
terrorists' attempts to impede the US forces' withdrawal plans."

He added: "These attacks came after our security agencies carried out
qualitative operations based on intelligence plans against terrorists. Leading
terrorists in the so-called Islamic State of Iraq were arrested during these
operations, and the investigation of these leading figures helped us dismantle
terrorist cells and arrest many of their members."

The Iraqi interior minister said: "The terrorists thought that withdrawal of the
US forces and the delay in the efforts to form a government would serve as an
opportunity for them to undermine the security situation that recently
stabilized." He added: "The delay in the efforts to form a government will have
many consequences that will lead to limited terrorist operations."

Al-Bulani, leader of the Iraqi Unity Alliance bloc, which consists of Iraqi
politicians, Sunni and Shi'i Arabs, Kurds, and non-Muslims, said: "A speedy
action to form a government will be an important factor in deterring terrorism
and organized crime in Iraq." He noted: "Security stability does not mean only
security agencies, training, and equipment. Rather, it is associated with the
general political and economic situation and services in Iraq."

Al-Bulani explained: "Formation of a new government will reinforce security
capabilities a great deal and help stabilize the situation in the country
because every new government seeks to assert its capabilities and presence."

He said: "Besides, the formation of a government means that there is a powerful
parliament, a presidency of the republic, and firmly established institutions.
This situation will make the citizens feel stability and will send a powerful
message to the terrorists indicating that there is a powerful state that can
deter them."

He added: "Formation of a government also means a stable Iraqi economy,
investments, and jobs for the unemployed. These large numbers of the unemployed,
the citizens' sense of hopelessness and need, and absence of services are all
favourable circumstances for the terrorists and for the growth of the gangs of
organized crime."

He continued: "On the opposite side, improvement of the political and economic
situation and services will create a large number of jobs for the unemployed and
will make people respect the law. Therefore, we believe that the next
government's battle will be development and assertion of the need for
development and construction projects, which require sincere efforts by devoted
competent Iraqis."

Asked to what extent the US forces' withdrawal will affect the security
situation in Iraq, Al-Bulani said: "The US forces' withdrawal will take place
according to a definitive timetable under the Iraqi-US security agreement, and
the aim behind the latest terrorist attacks was to confuse these plans."

He added: "The US forces will withdraw according to plan, and I am not
absolutely sure that their withdrawal will have no effect on the security
situation. This is because the terrorists will take advantage of these
circumstances and of the delay in the formation of a government in order to find
a way to attack security agency personnel and kill civilians. However, our plans
that are based on reliable intelligence information face and confront the
terrorists' plots."

Commenting on the Iraqi security agencies' preparedness to fill the vacuum that
will be left by the US forces, Al-Bulani said: "The US forces withdrew from the
streets of Iraqi cities long ago, and their task now is support and planning.
When the US forces commander asserts that the Iraqi security and military forces
are ready, we consider his statement a testimony that our security agencies and
forces enjoy field experiences that enable them to impose security and confront
the terrorists and gangs of organized crime."

The Iraqi interior minister said: "If we go back to the terrorist attacks that
were carried out during the years 2006 and 2007, we will find that 200 attacks
were carried out and that 25-30 of them had an impact, while around 15 terrorist
attacks were carried out this year and only three of them had an impact."

He added: "I am talking about attacks in Iraq as a whole, not only in Baghdad.
The reason behind this decrease in the number of terrorist attacks is the
training that the personnel of our security forces receive and these forces'
high-level professionalism. Yet, we will need the remaining US forces' efforts
for the purposes of training and consultation. Besides, our forces need
equipment and advanced armament, and this is contingent on the formation of a
new government."

Al-Bulani praised the level of security cooperation with some of the states that
neighbour Iraq, "especially Saudi Arabia with which there is security
coordination on the exchange of information and criminal cases."

He said: "Our battle against terrorism is a joint one, and stability of the
security situation in Iraq is important to the neighbouring states, especially
Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia too suffers from the problem of terror and
terrorists. God willing, we will agree on joint formulas to eliminate terrorism,
as Iraq is an important state to the region and to security in the neighbouring
states."

With regard to the Iranian interference in Iraqi internal affairs, Al-Bulani
said: "We are able to confront any foreign interference in the security
situation. However, what is required is political immunity and prevention of
interference in political issues, particularly in the formation of a government.
We are confident that our politicians are able to take decisions in a high
national spirit."

Al-Bulani called for the need to expedite the efforts to form a government
because this will create a sense of trust between the political regime and the
people who made sacrifices and behaved in a high spirit during the elections.

He said: "The security agencies too made sacrifices and created a favourable
climate to hold successful elections. The need for a peaceful rotation of power
must be asserted. Failing that, the citizens will have no confidence in any
political regime and, therefore, will not turn up to vote in coming elections."

Source: Al-Sharq al-Awsat website, London, in Arabic 5 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 7, 2010 Saturday

US judge to rule on compensation for Kenya terror attack victims

LENGTH: 381 words


Text of report by Daily Nation New York Correspondent Kevin J Kelley entitled
"Fresh hope for blast payout" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper
Daily Nation website on 7 August

The US government could pay 880 million shillings (11 million dollars) to 6,000
victims of the 1998 terrorist attack in Nairobi, if a judge rules in their
favour.

Mr Philip Musolino, the Washington lawyer representing the survivors, said on
Thursday a judge may order more than 11 million dollars in damage payments
before the end of this year.

"I don't know how to thank people for their patience after 12 years," said Mr
Musolino. "But there really is light at the end of the tunnel now."

The victims were blinded, maimed or bereaved by the attack on the American
embassy, 12 years on Saturday. He said some of the survivors, including those
financially harmed by the attacks, will likely be asked to give testimony via a
video link from Nairobi later this year.

"Our clients will finally get a chance to explain face-to-face what their
damages have been," the lawyer said.

Mr Douglas Sidialo lost his sight in the attack, and remains hopeful that the
lawyer will succeed in the quest.

Justice John Facciola, who has been assigned the case, had earlier planned to
travel to Kenya to take testimony from victims, but security concerns led to a
decision to hold the trial in Washington, beginning probably in November.

"The only difficult decision for the judge is to decide whose damages law to
apply - Kenya's or the United States's?" Mr Musolino said.

Some of the money to settle the claims could come from seized Al-Qa'idah assets.
Mr Musolino and other lawyers representing Kenyan clients have maintained that
American officials knew that an Al-Qa'idah cell was operating in Nairobi yet did
nothing to bolster security at the embassy, which should have been seen as a
likely target of a terrorist attack.

This position has been backed by the former US ambassador, Ms Prudence Bushnell,
who recently revealed she was reprimanded by her superiors for raising concerns
about the security of her embassy and staff.

Ms Bushnell charged that her bosses dismissed her in the belief that "Nairobi
was a backwater, so why would anyone bother to blow it up?"

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 7 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 7, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Batting to keep terror attacks out of sport

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 139 words


MORE than 200 cricket fans came together for a community festival at
Birmingham's Calthorpe Park to make a stand against terrorist attacks in sport.

A special Twenty/20 match marked the beginning of the Not in My Game campaign.

And champion batters included Zar Suliman, who hit the winning runs, and Akhlaq
Ahmed of the Local League Cricket club seniors who won the senior cup.

The festival is the first in a series of community cricket games to be held
across the country over the summer to support the movement which sends out a
clear message - terrorism has no place in sport.

Due to last year's attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team in Lahore, no
international cricket games can be played in Pakistan this summer.

Pakistan are currently playing against England at Edgbaston.

For more information visit www.notinmygame.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Good sports: Fans of all ages enjoy the cricket. the Local Leagues
Cricket Club seniors, who won the senior cup.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2010 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            August 7, 2010 Saturday

International: Damage to Japanese oil tanker caused by terror attack, say
investigators: Inspectors in UAE 'find explosives traces' on hull: Report
follows claim by group linked to al-Qaida

BYLINE: Justin McCurry, Tokyo

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 526 words


Experts investigating damage to a Japanese supertanker that was shaken by an
apparent explosion near the Gulf last month believe the ship was the target of a
terrorist attack.

Inspectors at the port of Fujairah, in the United Arab Emirates, found traces of
explosives on the oil tanker, the official UAE news agency said yesterday.

The explosion occurred just after midnight on 28 July as the vessel, the M Star,
headed through the Strait of Hormuz, a waterway acting as a gateway to the
oil-rich Gulf, separating part of Oman from Iran to the north.

The explosion left a large dent in the hull of the 260,000-ton vessel and
damaged corridors and sleeping quarters. One crew member was slightly injured.

"An examination carried out by specialised teams has confirmed that the tanker
has been the subject of a terrorist attack," the official WAM news agency said,
quoting a UAE coastguard. "UAE explosives experts who collected and examined
samples found a dent on the starboard side above the waterline and remains of
homemade explosives on the hull. Probably, the tanker had encountered a
terrorist attack from a boat laden with explosives."

The report comes two days after a militant group known as the Brigades of
Abdullah Azzam, which has links to al-Qaida, claimed responsibility for the
attack. Al-Qaida has identified the area, through which 40% of the world's
seaborne oil passes, as a potential target.

The militant group claimed on jihadist websites that it had attacked the M Star
to avenge the imprisonment in the US of Omar Abdel Rahman, a blind cleric
convicted of conspiracy and bombing plots including the attack on the World
Trade Centre in 1993.

One website showed a photograph of the alleged bomber pointing at an image of
the tanker on a laptop. The group called him a martyr and said it had waited
until all of its operatives had "safely returned to base" before publicly
claiming responsibility.

If the report is accurate, it would be the first time that al-Qaida has targeted
Japanese interests.

Little is known about the brigades, considered one of the more obscure al-Qaida
affiliates. It has claimed responsibility for an unsuccessful rocket attack on a
US amphibious assault vessel docked at the Jordanian port of Aqaba in August
2005, and bombings that killed 98 people.

The owner of the M Star, Mitsui OSK Lines, said it could not verify the claims
about the incident. "The investigation on the tanker is still continuing," a
spokeswoman said.

Seiji Maehara, Japan's transport minister, said he had told officials to ask
their UAE counterparts to establish the facts.

The explosion gave rise to several theories. Some initially claimed that the
tanker had been hit by a freak wave caused by an earthquake in Iran. Mitsui OSK
dismissed that theory, as well as the possibility that the ship had collided
with a US submarine, insisting that it had been the target of an attack by an
"external force".

No oil leaked in the attack and yesterday the ship was given permission to
continue its voyage to Chiba, Japan, carrying 2.3m barrels of crude oil -
equivalent to about half the country's daily oil needs.

Captions:

Damage to the oil tanker M Star

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            August 7, 2010 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Japanese tanker blast caused by terror attack, says report

BYLINE: Dubai

SECTION: WOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 256 words


Investigators probing a reported blast on a Japanese supertanker near the Strait
of Hormuz last week have found remains of home-made explosives and have blamed
the incident on a terrorist attack.

An examination carried out by specialised teams has confirmed that the tanker
had been the subject of a terrorist attack,  the United Arab Emirates state news
agency WAM said, quoting an unidentified coastguard source.

UAE explosives experts who collected and examined samples found a dent on the
starboard side above the water line and remains of home-made explosives on the
hull,  the WAM report said.

The statement came two days after a militant group linked to al Qaeda claimed
responsibility for the incident.

The 31 crew aboard the 333-metre-long tanker  M Star reported an explosion
shortly after midnight on July 28 which injured one seaman but caused no oil
spill or disruption to shipping in the strategic waterway, which is bordered by
Iran, Oman and the UAE.

The ship was dented on the right-hand side of its hull above the water line and
a lifeboat was blown off the deck. Windows and doors were also smashed.

A spokeswoman for the vessel s owner, Mitsui OSK, said the company could not
confirm details of the  WAM report.

The investigation is still continuing and, while we are looking at all
possibilities, the company has not heard anything that will help determine the
cause of the damage,  she said.

The company s president, Koichi Muto, said he did not rule out the possibility
of an attack, according to another report. Reuters

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            August 7, 2010 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Woman's terror as car is attacked;
Pair tried to flag down lone driver in early hours

BYLINE: DAVE HIMELFIELD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 345 words


A LONE motorist escaped a terrifying attack on her car.

Helen Szoradi was driving home along Lockwood Road in the early hours when a man
and a woman tried to flag her down near the junction with Fair Street.

The man stepped into the road while the girl waved at her to stop.

When Mrs Szoradi, 40, refused to stop one of the pair threw a heavy object -
thought to be a drain cover or a brick - at her Toyota Yaris, smashing her
windscreen and denting her bonnet.

After she stopped her car in shock, the man began walking towards her, said Mrs
Szoradi, who escaped uninjured.

But the raiders are thought to have fled when a patrolling police van approached
from the opposite direction.

The incident happened at around 1.15am on July 28.

Mrs Szoradi, of Meltham, said: "I didn't stop as I was alone.

"As I passed them I heard a big crash and saw my windscreen broken to pieces. I
was in shock, but I immediately realised that I had been attacked.

"I kept watching the back mirror. I saw the man had stopped, changed his mind
and followed the girl down Fair Street.

"Just then a police van passed. I realised that the man must have seen the
police van coming towards us. I got out of my car and ran to the police van.
There were two police officers in the car and I told them what had happened.

"I was upset that the police said they didn't think they could catch them."

The man and woman are described as white, slim and in their 20s.

The woman is described as about 5ft 5in with long blonde hair. She was wearing a
short white dress and high heels.

The man is described as about 5ft 9in and was wearing a light blue top and long
trousers.

It is thought the pair may have been to a party or have come from a night out.

A spokesman for West Yorkshire Police said: "Police have classed the incident as
damage to a motor vehicle, not a carjacking. There is no suggestion that it was
an attempted carjacking.

"Obviously it was a frightening incident for the woman involved and we would
urge anyone with information to call Huddersfield Police via 0845 6060606."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ATTACKED: Damage caused to Helen Szoradi''s car by vandals

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             August 8, 2010 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

MARK TERROR AS OCTOPUS ATTACKS SON

BYLINE: LESLEY YARRANTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 105 words


MOVIE tough-guy Mark Wahlberg has told how a trip to an aquarium turned to
horror - as his wife and son were attacked by a giant octopus.

The actor, 39, wife Rhea, 42, and son Michael, four, were on a visit to Sea Life
at Carlsbad in California when they were invited by a guide to see the creature
close up.

Mark said: "This woman pulls out this gigantic octopus. The thing latches on to
my son's arm, it's got my wife, it's wrapped completely around the lady. They
can't get this octopus off."

Mark told how he watched as bystanders pulled the creature off. He added: "Once
I got my kid out I said, 'Let's go!' I left the lady there."

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                                 August 8, 2010
                                 First Edition

BRUM WARNED OF IRA THREAT;
Anti-terror cops alert businesses to potential attacks

BYLINE: JONNY GREATREX

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 685 words


POLICE have warned Birmingham could be targeted by IRA splinter groups in the
run-up to the Conservative Party conference.

Detectives have told bars and hotels that dissident Irish republicans are once
again viewed as a threat to the city.

The chilling message was delivered at an anti-terror training session held for
bosses of Broad Street venues. The area is popular with late-night drinkers and
is home to the Hyatt Hotel, the base for David Cameron's party during their
October conference.

The new alert brings back haunting memories of the Provisional IRA's devastating
Birmingham pub bombings, which killed 21 people in 1974.

In 2001 a car bomb also partially exploded in the city centre, but did not cause
any injuries. It was believed to have been the work of the Real IRA.

One businessman who attended the training said: "Officers told us the dissident
IRA groups are now back on the list of potential threats for the Conservative
Party conference. They were viewed as a threat because of their increased
activity in Northern Ireland, and because we have a Conservative government
again."

A West Midlands Police spokesman confirmed businesses had been warned about the
potential new threat.

"Given the increase in terrorist activity in Northern Ireland, it's important to
remind people that the threat from dissident Republicans exists and should not
be discounted," she said. "However, there is no intelligence to suggest any of
these groups are planning an attack on the British mainland or specifically in
Birmingham.

"It's simply a case of asking people to be vigilant to a potential threat."

The police alert was given as part of Project Argus during a meeting at
Birmingham Council House in June. The scheme sees officers from West Midlands
Police Counter Terrorism Unit telling businesses how they can help prevent
terror attacks.

The news comes as militants from the Real IRA and Continuity IRA continue their
campaign of violence in Northern Ireland.

On Tuesday a car bomb planted in a hijacked taxi exploded outside a police
station in Londonderry, the fifth such device this year.

And in March last year a terror strike on a British army base claimed the life
of Sapper Mark Quinsey, from Highters Heath, Birmingham. The 23-year-old was
shot dead by the Real IRA outside Masserene Barracks in Antrim as he went to
collect a pizza delivery.

It is not the first time Irish terrorists have targeted a Tory conference.

The Provisional IRA came close to killing then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher
when they bombed the Grand Hotel in Brighton in 1984. The blast ripped through
the venue killing five people, including Conservative MP Sir Anthony Berry.
Earlier this year the Sunday Mercury told how Birmingham was believed to be on a
terror hit list drawn up by dissident Republicans.

Speaking at the time Basil McCrea, an Ulster Unionist on the Northern Ireland
Policing Board, said a bombing campaign on the mainland was a serious concern.

"What they are trying to do is prove they are a credible alternative force," he
waened.

"They have proved they can build bombs, detonate them and deliver them to
high-profile targets.

The next logical step is proving they have geographic reach." But Eamonn O'Kane,
an academic from Wolverhampton who specialises in the Northern Ireland conflict,
believes today's militants do not have the ability to launch a strike on the
scale of the 1984 Brighton bombing.

"They are right to be considered a threat," he told the Sunday Mercury. "It is
certain that they have aspirations to carry out such an attack. Whether they
have the capability is a different matter. So far there has been no indication
the dissidents have broken through here."

Dr O'Kane says although Birmingham has been bombed it is not seen as a prestige
target.

"The pub bombings were seen as quite damaging in terms of the image of the
Republican movement," he said.

Last November a memorial service was held to mark the 35th anniversary of the
pub bombings, when two devices ripped through the Mulberry Bush and the Tavern
in the Town, later renamed the Yard of Ale.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ALERT: Roads in the centre of Birmingham were cordoned off following
the 2001 car bomb attack (inset). Below: David Cameron goes for an early morning
run at last year's Tory Party conference in the city.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: my


               Copyright 2010 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 10, 2010 Tuesday

Pakistan Army puts cantonment on high alert to avert terror attack

LENGTH: 518 words


Text of report by Umar Cheema headlined "Security threat to Rahwali Cantt"
published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 10 August

Gujranwala: Pakistan Army has virtually sealed Rahwali Cantonment after putting
its security on highest alert amid reports of Taleban's planning an attack
inside the garrison city at a time when the troops are intensely busy in relief
activities in flood-affected areas.

Rahwali Cantt has been sealed for a week now and there is no indication when
this ban will be lifted, causing anxiety for the daily visitors of the area who
would go there for jobs and businesses. Inter Services Public Relations, when
contacted for its version said it was a routine security measure and avoided
going into details.

As this correspondent visited the area it transpired that out of nine entry
points, seven had been closed for an indefinite period and the rest two
entrances were open, nevertheless the visitors have to undergo security checks
at multiple places.

Many people who have been issued Cantt Cards are not allowed entry from the
routes sealed. In case the visit is inevitable, they have to travel 20-25
kilometers extra to get through the main entrances. "It has been done due to
terror threats," said an army man deputed on the main check post.

"We have been told not to come because the army has intercepted communication of
militants suggesting a devastating attack in the Cantt," said Imran, an
electrician who runs a shop in the garrison city.

According to reports, the militants have taken shelter in the rural area and are
likely to enter from that side. The Rahwali Cantt is an insulated town which,
unlike other cantonments, is purpose-built and hence located outside the main
population. The garrison also has the residence of corps commander who also
controls Sialkot Cantt and Kharian Cantt sitting in Rahwali. Former DG ISI,
Lt-Gen Nadeem Taj, is presently corps commander there.

"The militants don't spare any opportunity to damage the state because they
consider a weak state suitable for their objectives," said a security analyst.
At a time when the country is facing the worst kind of flood Killing hundreds
and rendering hundreds of thousands people homeless, the militants are also on
the killing spree, noted another expert. The killing of a brave and honest
police officer, Safwat Ghayoor, in Peshawar is the latest example in this
regard.

According to a research report, Army/FC are ranked third after general public
and police among those who suffered most casualties caused by suicide bombing in
2009. The report said there were as many as 19 suicide attacks on Army/FC in
2009. However, the major attack on Army in 2009 was not suicidal, it was a
guerilla attack led by a former Army nurse, Aqeel alias Dr Usman who intruded
into the GHQ, the Army's nerve center, and held a fair number of officer hostage
for a day. Keeping in view this attack which drew a lot of criticism on the
Army's security system, the Rahwali Cantt has been virtually sealed to avert any
untoward situation, said an official.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 10 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 11, 2010 Wednesday

Uganda spy boss said "forced out of office" in wake of 11 July terror attacks

LENGTH: 633 words


Text of report by Alex B Atuhaire entitled "ISO boss forced out of office" by
leading privately-owned Ugandan newspaper The Daily Monitor website on 11
August; subheadings as published

The director-general of the Internal Security Organisation (ISO), Dr Amos
Mukumbi, was yesterday forced to hand over the leadership of the intelligence
outfit to his deputy, Lt Ronnie Balya.

President Museveni last week fired Dr Mukumbi, who has been at the helm of ISO
for the last five years. He had refused to hand over to Lt Balya, saying he had
a confidential file auditing his deputy's performance as well as those of some
other senior directors.

Dr Mukumbi was sacked following an audit of the 11 July terror attacks in
Kampala which placed most blame on ISO's failures. More than 74 people were
killed and scores injured in the twin bomb attacks at Lugogo and Kabalagala,
both Kampala suburbs.

But even before the bomb attacks, President Museveni was reportedly furious with
ISO after it failed to detect the magnitude of the September 2009 riots in which
27 people were killed after demonstrators took to Kampala's streets, protesting
the government's refusal to let Kabaka Mutebi visit Kayunga District.

At that point, the president temporarily handed over political intelligence
information gathering, especially the Buganda docket, to the External Security
Organisation - which reportedly looked more organized.

Litany of faults

But sources indicate that upon further scrutiny of ISO's operations, the
president faulted Dr Mukumbi who had removed the counter-intelligence docket
from Lt Balya, a veteran covert operations specialist.

The president was also reportedly furious that government programmes like NAADS
[National Agricultural Advisory Services] and UPE [universal primary education]
have been abused yet ISO has structures meant to monitor them. Security Minister
Amama Mbabazi and the coordinator of security agencies, Gen David Tinyefuza,
yesterday supervised Dr Mukumbi's exit.

At the function where only two government media houses - the Uganda Broadcasting
Corporation and [state-owned] The New Vision were allowed - Mr Mbabazi announced
that Dr Mukumbi had been appointed special presidential adviser on security
matters.

Daily Monitor barred

Daily Monitor was barred from covering the ceremony. Dr Mukumbi replaced Col
Elly Kayanja in 2005 as the boss of government's civilian intelligence agency
responsible for providing national security intelligence to Uganda's policy
makers.

The agency's role is to also engage in covert operations on government
programmes and security at the request of the president. Dr Mukumbi, a veteran
intelligence operative who joined ISO 24 years ago, bows out on a low after poor
rating of his performance despite Mr Mbabazi's attempt to flower his departure
punctuated by tense moments.

Before an afternoon stage-managed handover ceremony in front of the government
media, Dr Mukumbi was ordered to pass the baton before all ISO directors
including Lt Hannington Kakura (collection), Lt Frank Banana (human resource),
Lt Barungi (office of the DG), Lt Kiiza (IT/technical), Lt Herbert Muramagi
(operations) and Lt Lubega (Secretariat).

Others present were ISO deputy director in charge of West Nile, Taban Amin, the
undersecretary at State House, Hajj Kakande, and all regional security officers.
The agency was founded in 1986 and took over the duties first performed by
military intelligence.

The first director-general was Maj-Gen Jim Muhwezi, who led it until 1996,
before Brig Henry Tumukunde took charge up to 2003. ISO has trained intelligence
officers recruited from all over the country. Upon recruitment, the operatives
are trained at the Institute of Intelligence and Security Studies at Makajo.

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 11 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 11, 2010 Wednesday

Report says terror attacks likely in Pakistan's Peshawar as militants regroup

LENGTH: 521 words


Text of report by Ali Hazrat Bacha headlined "Fresh terror acts an eye opener
for law enforcers" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 11 August

Peshawar, 10 August 10: The law enforcement agencies are likely to face a fresh
challenge as militants are regrouping in and around the district, sources say.

Keeping in view the possible threat, the administration imposed ban on pillion
riding in Peshawar on Tuesday. In the past ban on pillion riding used to be
imposed in Peshawar only in Muharram.

The suicide bomb blast at the busy FC Chowk and killing of Frontier Constabulary
Commandant Safat Gayyur is an eye opener for law enforcement agencies, which
claim to have won the war against terrorists.

Attempt on the life of Dr Gulalai, sister of Awami National Party president
Asfandyar Wali Khan, at Khyber Bazaar is another blow to the law enforcers.

According to observers, these incidents prove presence of terrorists in the main
population. The murder of Mian Rashid, son of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Minister for
Information Mian Iftikhar Hussain, followed by a suicide blast near his house
also show strength of anti-state elements in different areas.

At least four people have been kidnapped from suburban villages of the district.
One of the kidnapped persons was slaughtered few days ago and his body was
dumped near Adezai, but so far no accused has been arrested in this connection.

"We spent sleepless nights in the open despite torrential rains to take on
militants passing through the area but they changed their route," said Farman
Khan, a leader of Adezai Qaumi Lashkar. He said that it was no more a secret
that militants, riding motorcycles, were travelling on Pastawani Road.

Sources said that Frontier Region Peshawar was becoming stronghold of militants,
with no proper check from the law enforcers. They said that some of hardcore
militants reappeared in Pastawana and Bora areas of FR Peshawar. "These
militants belong to the settled areas of Peshawar but they disappeared more than
two years ago when search operations were conducted in the border areas," they
added.

Reliable sources told Dawn that at least 60 militants had reached FR Peshawar to
carry out sabotage activities in the district. They said that military operation
and establishment of a permanent checkpost at Pastawani was the only solution to
block routes of militants.

Observers said that terrorists had changed their strategy as they were carrying
out targeted attacks on high profile personalities, mainly officials of law
enforcement agencies and politicians or their relatives.

"Keeping in view the recent incidents of terrorism, nobody can claim that
militants have lost the war," analysts said.

Peshawar SSP Mubarak Zeb Khan, when contacted, also admitted that incidents of
target killing in Peshawar and Nowshera showed that militants had changed their
modus operandi. He said that militants were moving in the garb of flood victims
and internally displaced persons. He said that nobody could deny presence of
militants. "However, there is no camp of militants in Peshawar," he added.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 11 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday

Police officers accused of attacking terror suspect Babar Ahmad to face criminal
charges

BYLINE: Matthew Taylorguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 450 words

ABSTRACT

Four out of five Metropolitan police officers who carried out 'gratuitous'
attack on British Muslim at his home to be tried

FULL TEXT

Police officers who were accused of carrying out a "serious, gratuitous and
prolonged" attack on a British Muslim man are to face prosecution.

The high court was told last year that , a terrorism suspect, was punched,
kicked, stamped on and strangled during his arrest by officers from one of the
Metropolitan police's territorial support groups at his London home in December
2003.

Ahmad said officers beat and grabbed him around the neck, pulled his testicles
and mocked his Islamic faith. At one point they forced him into a praying
position as an officer shouted: "Where is your God now? Pray to him."Simon
Clements, head of the CPS special crime division, has announced that four of the
five officers involved in the arrest will face criminal charges.

Clements said: "Our conclusion is that there is sufficient evidence and it is in
the public interest to charge four of the officers involved in the arrest of Mr
Ahmad with causing actual bodily harm to him, contrary to the Offences Against
the Person Act 1861. Police constables Nigel Cowley, John Donohue, Roderick
James-Bowen and Mark Jones will be summonsed to appear at City of Westminster
magistrates court on 22 September 2010."The Metropolitan police initially denied
claims that Ahmad had been assaulted, saying officers had used reasonable force
during the arrest. But in March last year the Met admitted liability in the high
court and agreed to pay £60,000 to Ahmad in damages.

The court heard that officers stamped on the 34-year-old's feet and repeatedly
punched him in the head. After a sustained attack he was forced into the back of
a police van, where he was again beaten and punched before being put in a
"life-threatening" neck hold and told: "You will remember this day for the rest
of your life."

At one stage, Ahmad said, one of the officers grabbed his testicles and he was
deliberately wrenched by his handcuffs - a technique known to cause intense
pain.

The CPS's decision to prosecute came after an independent review by retired
senior judge Sir Geoffrey Grigson into the handling of the case.

An original Met inquiry concluded no officer should be disciplined and
prosecutors did not bring criminal charges.

Inquiries into the attack were marked by the loss of key documents.

Ahmad remains in Long Lartin prison after the European court of human rights
halted his extradition to the United States to face terror charges. The court
will announce next year whether transferring him breaches his rights by exposing
him to life imprisonment without parole and solitary confinement.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday
                                 Scots Edition

NOSE SLICE GANG TERROR;
ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 90 words


A DAD almost hacked to death in a machete attack is still living in fear of his
life.

Security consultant Mike Minihane, 45, from Dollar in Clackmannanshire, is
recovering after surgeons re-attached two fingers and his nose after a gang
raided his house in Kenya in June.

But Mike, who is too ill to fly home, has been the victim of two attempted
break-ins since. He fears for the safety of his US wife Christine and son
Connor, five, and has hired three security guards for the house in Nairobi.

He said: "It seems white families become a target."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET Mike Minihane

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday

Ready for terror attack, ambulance staff trained to cope in major incident

BYLINE: Lyndsay Moss

LENGTH: 298 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE ambulance service in Scotland has spent £4.3 million to ensure
staff are able to respond to major incidents such as a terrorist attack.


Teams of paramedics and ambulance technicians are now trained to work at the
heart of a serious emergency, such as those involving chemical, biological or
explosive materials.

In the past, these staff would have been kept outside the "inner cordon",
waiting for other emergency workers to bring casualties to them, potentially
delaying treatment.

Yesterday, health secretary Nicola Sturgeon watched a demonstration of what the
newly trained staff were able to do, with volunteers playing amputees and
injured patients.

The Scottish Ambulance Service (SAS) has used the £4.3m over the past three
years to train up staff and buy equipment to allow them to take part in major
operations where they would previously have been kept on the sidelines.

The service's three Special Operations Response Teams (SORT), based in
Edinburgh, Aberdeen and Glasgow, now have 106 specially trained paramedics and
ambulance technicians with the skills to deal with large-scale hazardous
incidents.

They have completed an intensive training course that enables them to operate in
chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosives (CBRNE) incidents and
other accidents involving hazardous materials.

Ms Sturgeon said: "It is important that all emergency services in Scotland are
prepared to deal with large-scale, hazardous incidents wherever they occur.

"The Scottish Ambulance Service is at the forefront of the country's emergency
response, and I am pleased that the Scottish Government has funded expert
training for three teams of paramedics and technicians who are now equipped to
play an enhanced role in assisting patients during any serious incident."

Pauline Howie, SAS chief executive, said: "Our SORT personnel can provide
best-quality clinical treatment to patients at the scenes of major incidents."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 13, 2010 Friday

Algerian paper reports "terrorist" attack near Algiers

LENGTH: 219 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El-Khabar website on 13
August

Local sources reported that a terrorist group, whose number ranged between 15
and 20 elements, had broken into the house belonging to one of the self-defence
elements the night before yesterday [11 August] at around 20:30 in the village
of Ben Saleh, located in the mountains of the municipality of Sidi Amar in
Tipaza Province and seized a gun rifle type weapon, in addition to a sum of
money and a quantity of jewellery. According to the same sources, the elements
of the terrorist group were wearing vests of the national security, military
uniforms and armed with Kalashnikov weapons.

Sources linked to the fight against terrorism suggested that the members of the
group who carried out the attack are affiliated to the terrorist organization
called " Houmat El Daoua El Salafia" , which  operate along the mountainous
chain stretching from the mountains of Mourad and Mennasser in the east to the
adjacent mountains with the provinces of Chlef and Ain Defla.

The joint security services initiated a large scale search operation around the
mountains surrounding the village in order to hunt down the group, which might
have escaped amid the dense vegetation in the region.

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 13 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             August 13, 2010 Friday

FOUR POLICE CHARGED WITH ATTACKING A TERROR SUSPECT

BYLINE: BY REBECCA CAMBER

LENGTH: 472 words


FOUR riot squad officers are to be charged with assaulting a Muslim terror
suspect in his home.

Babar Ahmad, 36, was allegedly subjected to 'serious, gratuitous, prolonged and
unjustified violence' as well as religious abuse during the police raid.

An investigation

the Independent Police Complaints Commission into the incident failed to uncover
enough evidence for a prosecution.

But in a surprise U-turn, the Crown Prosecution Service yesterday announced that
four officers were to face charges of causing actual bodily harm.

Mr Ahmad, an IT support analyst, was arrested in the dawn operation at his home
in Tooting, South-West London, in December 2003.

He was released without charge but arrested again the following August after
American officials accused him of running a website that raised funds for
Islamist militants in Afghanistan and Chechnya.

He remains in custody awaiting a decision on whether extradition to the U.S.
would contravene the European Convention on Human Rights.

In March last year Met Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson admitted Mr Ahmad had
been the victim of violence and his force paid out 660,000 in damages.

Mr Ahmad was arrested after officers were tipped off that he was linked to Al
Qaeda and headed a South London terrorist group.

At the High Court hearing for damages, it was claimed he was repeatedly struck

the policemen.

At one point he was allegedly forced on to his knees and told to pray

officers who taunted him saying: 'Where is your God now?'

Mr Ahmad claims he had his arms held behind his back and was wrenched to his
feet

his handcuffs, screaming in pain.

He accused officers of pulling his pyjama bottoms down, touching his genitals
and mocking his faith.

Assaults were said to have continued in the police van on the way to Charing
Cross police station leaving him with bruising and injuries to his ear drums,
arms and feet. Mr Ahmad, who had worked at Imperial College for six years and
was married with no children, was questioned and later released

counter-terrorism detectives.

The Crown Prosecution Service's decision to press charges follows an independent
review of the case

Sir Geoffrey Grigson, a retired judge. If convicted, the four officers could
face five years in jail.

All four were members of the Metropolitan Police's Territorial Support Group.

Yesterday there were mounting calls for a review of the unit, which has received
more than 5,000 complaints over the past four years.

It was implicated in an assault on Ian Tomlinson, who died after he was pushed
to the ground

an officer in the G20 protests last year.

James Welch, of Liberty, said there should be an urgent review into the
existence of the TSG and its 'militaristic approach'.

The officers, Nigel Cowley, 32, John Donohue, Roderick James-Bowen, both 39, and
Mark Jones, 43, will appear in court next month. r.camber@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                             August 13, 2010 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

Terror suspect attack trial;
National briefs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 68 words


FOUR police officers were told today they will go on trial accused of attacking
a terrorist suspect nearly seven years ago. The officers will be charged with
assaulting Babar Ahmad as they arrested him during a raid at his home in
Tooting, south London. The four, who were all members of the Metropolitan
Police's territorial support group (TSG) at the time, are accused of assault
causing actual bodily harm.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             August 13, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

Met officers to face charges of attacking terror suspect

BYLINE: CHRIS GREENWOOD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 624 words


FOUR police officers will go on trial accused of attacking a terrorist suspect
nearly seven years ago.

The officers will be charged with assaulting Babar Ahmad as they arrested him
during a raid at his home in Tooting, south London.

The four, who were all members of the Metropolitan Police's territorial support
group (TSG) at the time, are accused of assault causing actual bodily harm.

They are PCs Nigel Cowley, 32, Roderick James-Bowen, 39, and Mark Jones, 43, and
Detective Constable John Donohue who has since transferred to another unit.

Ahmad, 36, who remains in custody awaiting a decision on whether he can be
extradited to the United States, welcomed the news.

He said: "I am pleased that the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) has decided that
a jury will hear the evidence in this case.

"It will now be for the jury to determine whether any police officer should be
punished for the assault upon me in December 2003."

Ahmad suffered injuries including heavy bruising to his head, neck, wrists and
feet when he was arrested in December 2003.

The computer expert was held on suspicion of supporting and helping to recruit
terrorists to fight in Afghanistan and Chechnya through e-mail accounts and
websites.

Prosecutors considered a file of evidence on how the injuries were caused in
2004 after an inquiry by the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC).

They found there was insufficient evidence for a conviction but reconsidered the
case after Ahmad brought a civil case to the High Court last year.

He was awarded pounds 60,000 damages after the court heard evidence he was
assaulted and racially abused by a group of officers.

Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson admitted he was the victim of violence and the
officers were accused of a "serious, gratuitous and prolonged" attack.

He ordered an independent review by retired senior judge Sir Geoffrey Grigson
into the handling of the case.

Inquiries into the attack were marked by the loss of key documents, including
previous complaints against the officers, and the refusal of some to attend
court.

Ahmad has never been charged in Britain, but has been held in Long Lartin prison
since 2004 after the United States issued an extradition warrant.

In July, the European Court of Human Rights halted the move as it considers
whether it will breach his rights by exposing him to life imprisonment without
parole.

The CPS decision creates a fresh headache for senior Scotland Yard staff over
the role of the TSG wing which has been blighted by controversy.

Campaign groups and one member of the Metropolitan Police Authority (MPA) have
called for its role to be reviewed.

Last month prosecutors said TSG officer Pc Simon Harwood will not be prosecuted
over the death of Ian Tomlinson.

Mr Tomlinson, 47, died after being struck with a baton and pushed to the ground
by Mr Harwood on the fringe of G20 protests on April 1, last year.

Simon Clements, of the CPS, said there was "sufficient evidence and it is in the
public interest" to charge the four officers.

James Welch, of Liberty, said: "Justice must take its course in this case.

"But, as both the Ian Tomlinson and this case suggest, equally important is that
the methods and indeed the very existence of the TSG, with its militaristic
approach, are urgently reviewed."

Tooting MP Sadiq Khan, a close friend of Ahmad, said: "I am pleased that the CPS
decided to look at this incident again.

"Mr Ahmad's injuries, which he received pounds 60,000 compensation for, show
there are serious issues to be examined here surrounding the conduct of the
arresting officers.

"It is important that these very serious allegations are properly considered in
a criminal court, and that justice is seen to be done."

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2010 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 14, 2010 Saturday

Wahhabis planning terror attack in Bosnian Serb entity, expert tells daily

LENGTH: 343 words


Text of report by Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA

Banja Luka, 14 August: The member of the southeastern European expert team for
the fight against terrorism and organized crime, Darko Trifunovic, maintains
that Wahhabis have moved into the second phase of activities with the aim to
organize terrorist attacks at targets in the [Bosnian] Serb Republic (RS).

Trifunovic says this is shown by the greater presence of Wahhabis in the Serb
Republic and their aggressive conduct towards local Muslims.

"The so-called awakening phase, which constitutes the first step in establishing
shari'ah law and rules of behaviour among Bosnian Muslims, Wahhabis and their
sponsors from radical Islamic countries, has been successfully completed. The
second phase has now begun which means the organization of terrorist attacks,"
Trifunovic said.

He told [daily] Press RS that the latest RS police operation in Novi Grad and
Kozarska Dubina confirms that security structures in the Serb Republic have
realized the kind of evil they have to deal with.

According to him, the Wahhabi sponsors know all too well the huge poverty
holding sway over people in B-H [Bosnia-Hercegovina], and they are recruiting
new members through the buying of souls model, paying them monthly between 500
and 1,000 KM [B-H currency - convertible marks], because of which it is not just
Bosniaks [Bosnian Muslims] who are joining the Wahhabis, but some Serbs and
Croats as well.

"There is strong collusion among the most influential socio-political
organizations in the B-H Federation, which more or less, openly support radical
Islamists. Above all, Islamic Community of B-H Reis Mustafa Ceric, and then the
largest Bosniak parties, as well as non-governmental organizations from Islamic
countries based in Sarajevo," Trifunovic said.

He said that the RS government must understand the utmost seriousness of the
Wahhabi presence and to combat it with rigorous checks and prohibition of
Wahhabi activities in the Serb Republic.

Source: SRNA news agency, Bijeljina, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 0908 gmt 14 Aug
10

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                August 15, 2010
                                  Main Edition

tot in bomb blast;
Two-year-old toddler injured in no-warning terror attack

BYLINE: Aaron Tinney

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 161 words


miracle escape three children caught in explosion

A TINY toddler yesterday miraculously survived the latest murderous attack by
bloodthirsty dissidents.

The helpless two-year-old was one of THREE kids hurt in a terrifying no-warning
bin-bomb blast in Lurgan, Co Armagh.

Reckless terrorists planted the crude device outside a school in a bid to kill
police officers who had been frantically searching for the device.

But instead it was two 12-year-olds and a tot who were injured by flying debris
when the crude pipe-bomb exploded in a wheelie bin at Kilmaine Street.

Chief Inspector Sam Cordner said: "It was a miracle these children were not more
seriously injured by this sickening attack."

Campaigning dad Colin Parry -- whose 12-year-old lad was killed in the 1993 IRA
Warrington bin-bomb -- said the Lurgan attack brought back horrific memories,
adding: "Thank God these kids weren't killed like my son."

FULL STORY pages 6 and 7

CAPTION: aftermath: The explosion scene

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SL


                  Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 17, 2010 Tuesday

Think-tank chief suggests Russia terror attacks coordinated from abroad

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 17 August: Attacks on law-enforcement officials, which have recently
become more frequent in the North Caucasus, and the explosion in Pyatigorsk are
aimed at undermining the standing of the executive in Russia and are coordinated
from abroad, the president of the Effective Policy Foundation, Gleb Pavlovskiy,
believes.

"Any terrorism in principle is a challenge to the system. In this particular
situation (the explosion in Pyatigorsk - Interfax), too, the terrorists want to
deliver the most painful blow to people's way of life as well as to the standing
of the authorities," Pavlovskiy told Interfax on Tuesday [17 August].

In the opinion of the political analyst, the objective of those behind such
attacks is to impose on the public the view that "the authorities, both federal
and regional, suffer from a shortage of capacity to tackle emergencies and to
provide security".

"Through their actions the terrorists are trying to convince people that there
is a gap between the authorities' declarations concerning security provision and
their actual capacity to take the requisite measures," Pavlovskiy said.

In his opinion, terrorist activity in the North Caucasus is directly linked to
international terrorism. "Terrorism, from the very start, is not independent
because it would never be able achieve its goals on its own. Today terrorists
have many external partners linked to international terrorism, which is no
longer purely Islamic," the expert says.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1503 gmt 17 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 17, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE BATTLE FOR GROUND ZERO;
President Obama has managed only to inflame the row engulfing America over plans
to erect a mosque close to the scene of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Toby Harnden
reports

BYLINE: Toby Harnden

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1250 words


August tends to be an inauspicious month for elevated debate in American
politics. Last year, everyone was bickering about whether health-care reform
would usher in "death panels" that could dispatch Granny to her grave.

Now, as Europe holidays, the United States is in a frenzy about the building of
a mosque at Ground Zero, principal site of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Polls
indicate that two-thirds of the country opposes the establishment of a Muslim
holy site at the spot where Islamists killed 2,752 people that day in 2001.

Even before President Barack Obama waded into the controversy at the weekend,
the issue had degenerated into a parody of one of those cable talk shows where
two polemicists on either side of an issue shout at each other for 15 minutes,
reinforcing lots of prejudices but changing no minds.

What is being proposed, in fact, is not a mosque but an Islamic community
centre. It is, moreover, not at Ground Zero but two blocks away. That would put
it a little under a quarter of a mile from Ground Zero itself. There is,
incidentally, already a mosque just a third of a mile away.

Opponents of the Cordoba House cultural centre like to conjure up the image of
minarets rising from the ashes of the World Trade Center's twin towers. But, in
reality, the proposal is for a 15-storey building with a mosque inside it, along
with an auditorium, swimming pool and other facilities. Among its neighbours
will be the Pussycat Lounge strip joint, Thunder Lingerie (featuring a peep
show) and numerous pizza parlours, tanning salons, banks and bars.

That said, the sanctimony of many supporters of the project has been
breathtaking. New York's Mayor, Michael Bloomberg, has been among the most
prominent figures to suggest that the protesters are guilty of bigotry and
religious intolerance. Certainly, there are prejudiced voices opposing the plan,
which was given the go-ahead by a nine-to-zero vote of New York's Landmarks
Preservation Commission a fortnight ago. Hamas has, predictably, spoken out in
favour. Does that mean all those who support the scheme favour suicide bombing?
Mr Obama's intervention was as ham-fisted as it was harmful to the prospects of
common sense and goodwill prevailing. It is always impressive to witness a
politician take a principled stand in the face of public opinion and damn the
consequences, and that is what it seemed Mr Obama had done at Friday night's
traditional White House dinner to mark the breaking of the fast during the
Islamic holy month of Ramadan.

''As a citizen, and as President, I believe that Muslims have the same right to
practise their religion as anyone else in this country," he said. "That includes
the right to build a place of worship and a community centre on private property
in lower Manhattan, in accordance with local laws and ordinances."

The man who was elected largely on the basis of his awe-inspiring skill with the
spoken word can surely have been in no doubt about how his utterances, in a
prepared speech, would be interpreted. Cutting to the chase, as usual, the New
York tabloids called it as they saw it. "Allah Right By Me", proclaimed the New
York Post while the New York Daily News went with "Prez: Build the Mosque".

But wait. The very next day, Mr Obama was backtracking, stating that he was only
defending the legal rights of the Cordoba project. "I was not commenting and I
will not comment on the wisdom of making the decision to put a mosque there. I
was commenting very specifically on the right people have, which dates back to
our founding."

So Mr Obama had merely been playing the constitutional law professor, lecturing
the nation about religious freedom. And what did he think about whether the
mosque should be built in that particular spot? Having given a speech that was
interpreted by friend, foe and undecided alike as being in favour, he was now
insisting that he had taken no stance.

Democrats working frantically to maintain their party's majorities in the
November mid-term elections are understandably tearing their hair out.
Initially, the White House had said it was staying out of what was a "local"
matter - a sensible position to take when Republicans such as Sarah Palin were
trying to stoke it for personal political gain.

Then, Mr Obama weighed in, apparently on the unpopular side of the debate - a
problem for centrist Democrats seeking to win seats in conservative districts.
Next, he claimed not to have taken a side at all, thus losing credit from those
who admired what they thought was a principled stance.

What was most damaging, however, was that Mr Obama was not addressing the nub of
the issue at all. He was, in fact, doing what Mayor Bloomberg has done -
branding all opponents of the proposed centre as un-American. Bizarrely, he also
described the project as "a mosque" at Ground Zero, playing into the dumbeddown
caricature of what was being proposed.

Few opponents of the centre have said that those who want to build it have no
right to do so. What they have been saying is that they should not exercise that
right because it would be insensitive to New Yorkers and to relatives of the
9/11 victims to do so. They cite, in their support, Pope John Paul II's decision
in 1993 to order Carmelite nuns to leave the convent they had founded in the
early 1980s near the Auschwitz camp, which many Jews saw as an affront to their
sensibilities.

The victims of 9/11 were not all Christians - some 60 Muslims died that day - or
all Americans. They came from more than 90 nations and were of many faiths. But
there is no denying that the attacks were carried out in the name of Islam,
albeit a perverted version of it. Given that fact, it is curious that Imam
Feisal Abdul Rauf, the man behind the Cordoba project, should want to build a
centre so close to Ground Zero. It is even more remarkable that he should insist
on proceeding with it despite the furore that has developed.

If a Japanese-American had proposed building a Japanese cultural centre 400
yards from Pearl Harbor in 1950, he probably would have faced some opposition.
He could genuinely have seen his centre as a bridge towards cultural
understanding. But the outcry, surely, would have persuaded him that the
opposite would be the case.

Thus, there is justifiable suspicion about the motives of Rauf, an apparently
moderate Muslim who has written books such as What's Right with Islam is What's
Right with America and promoted the idea of a modern Islamic faith that is not
at odds with Western society.

He has stated that "United States policies were an accessory to the crime that
happened" because "we have been accessory to a lot of innocent lives dying in
the world... in the most direct sense, Osama bin Laden is made in the USA".

Even more pertinently, he has failed to take up an offer from Governor David
Paterson of New York, a Democrat, to provide city land further away from Ground
Zero so the centre could be built there. In making his proposal, Paterson made
clear he did not oppose Rauf's right to build a centre where he wanted.

Such a compromise would seem to be an ideal way out of the mess this issue has
become. But with Mr Obama's unhelpful intervention, the battle lines are more
firmly drawn than ever. Now, it's sunk to the lowest common denominator of
Redneck versus Terrorist, Muslim versus Christian, Obama versus Palin. There is
every indication that this could stretch well beyond the summer silly season and
become a national election issue in November - a depressing prospect indeed.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Something I said? President Obama at the site of the 9/11 attacks.
Below, a protester makes her feelings known
SHANNON STAPLETON; KEYSTONEUSA-ZUMA / REX FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday

Russian senator blames recent terrorist attacks on militant infighting

LENGTH: 480 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 18 August: The [recent] terrorist attacks in [Russia's] North Caucasus
may have been staged by rivalling militant groups, believes Aleksandr Torshin, a
member of the National Antiterrorism Committee, the head of the Caucasus
commission [in the Federation Council] and senior deputy speaker of the
Federation Council.

"I am under the impression that after [head of the jihadist Caucasus Emirate]
Dokka Umarov identified [Magomed] Vagapov as his successor but then stated that
he was not planning to step down, a rivalry started between them over who was
the more legitimate and more fighting-fit," Torshin told Interfax on Wednesday
[18 August].

He believes that Umarov alone would not have the resources to stage two
terrorist attacks in a single day [on 17 August]. "To all appearances, Umarov
organized the terrorist attack outside the police checkpoint on the border of
North Ossetia and Ingushetia, and in the evening his adversaries organized the
blast in Pyatigorsk," he said.

At the same time, Torshin is of the opinion that Umarov is being supported by
the notorious Movladi Udugov, and that there are forces in the underground that
would like to preserve Umarov.

"As for those who have broken free of his (Umarov's) influence, they have a
burning need to make a loud statement about themselves by means of a
high-profile terrorist attack," Torshin believes.

He noted that there was a difference in signature between the two terrorist
attacks.

"The explosion outside the police checkpoint was aimed against the
law-enforcement agencies, whereas the one in Pyatigorsk suggested a certain
token terrorist attack - [the terrorists] were apparently aiming for a greater
number of casualties there," he said.

[Passage omitted - background]

Torshin believes that the Pyatigorsk blast was a demonstration possibly meant
for the president's plenipotentiary representative to the North Caucasus Federal
District, Aleksandr Khloponin, "whose representative office is situated in
Pyatigorsk. The militants need to demonstrate that they are still 'effective',"
he said. [Passage omitted]

"I fully support the measures to step up security in the North Caucasus Federal
District," Torshin said. "It is also necessary to reinforce security at local
schools. And Moscow mayor Yuriy Luzhkov was right to step up security measures
in the capital."

He also hailed the measure to form special battalions in the North Caucasus as
being totally correct: "It is obvious that the goal of completely eliminating
the bandit underground has not been achieved yet. It is my feeling that
replenishment coming from a neighbouring state - I will not name it - has again
intensified along Ingushetia's outer border. Therefore, we must be vigilant and
remain on the lookout."

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0654 gmt 18 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday

Russian party leader says "fifth column" may be behind terror attack in south

LENGTH: 209 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 18 August: Deputy State Duma speaker and leader of the LDPR [Liberal
Democratic Party of Russia] Vladimir Zhirinovskiy has said that so-called
"foreign forces" could have been behind the explosion in Pyatigorsk [in
Stavropol Region on 17 August].

"It is quite possible that a 'fifth column' is helping the people guilty of the
terrorist attack in Pyatigorsk. The foreign enemy is not dozing," the party's
press service quoted Zhirinovskiy as saying on Wednesday [18 August].

Zhirinovskiy said that terrorist attacks like this are aimed at destabilizing
the situation in Russia.

"All this is done to terrorize people, to evoke in Russians dislike or even
hatred for representatives of other ethnic groups, to instil a hostile attitude
to the authorities," Zhirinovskiy said.

In this situation the law-enforcement agencies must increase control and
vigilance in all Russian regions, he said.

"In particular, tough measures should be introduced in the North Caucasus
[Federal] District to restrict the parking of cars in crowded places; all the
necessary operational steps should be taken to avert terrorist attacks," he
said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1142 gmt 18 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday

Moscow police put on "terror alert" over attacks in North Caucasus - official

LENGTH: 256 words


The Moscow police have been put on alert over the attacks in the North Caucasus
on 17 August, official spokesman for the Moscow GUVD (city directorate for
internal affairs) Viktor Biryukov has said, as reported by Russian news agency
ITAR-TASS on 18 August.

"In the wake of the terrorist attacks in North Ossetia and in Stavropol
Territory, Russian Interior Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev and head of the Moscow
GUVD Vladimir Kolokoltsev have ordered to put Moscow police on high alert," he
said.

"This measure includes both counterterrorism efforts and tougher preventive
measures," he added. "Public security on transport facilities, primarily in the
metro, as well as in busy public places, is given close attention," he said.
Biryukov explained that the number of police officers on the streets would be
increased by about one quarter during this period.

In a separate report, Interfax news agency quoted a source in the
law-enforcement agencies as saying that increased security measures would be
mainly preventative ones. "The case is that law-enforcement agencies have
received information on a number of extremist organizations preparing terrorist
attacks in the North Caucasus," he said. Preventative measures were also
introduced in view of "the approaching start of the new academic year, Moscow
Day celebrations [on 5 September] and the exacerbation of the situation in the
[North] Caucasus", he added.

Sources: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0704 gmt 18 Aug 10; Interfax
news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0700 gmt 18 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Sheffield Telegraph

                                August 18, 2010

Day of drama tests city's response to terrorist attack threat

BYLINE: DAVID WALSH

LENGTH: 386 words



HIGHLIGHT: THERE were dramatic scenes in Sheffield as the city tested whether it
was ready to respond to a chemical attack.


The possible threat of a terrorist attack means Sheffield must be geared up to
react, says John Harthman, emergency planner with the fire service.

The exercise aimed to test the emergency services' effectiveness and - crucially
- speed in response to a chemical attack.

The scenario was that a truck carrying chemicals had been rammed into the fire
service headquarters on Eyre Street during an open day, contaminating and
injuring 40 people.

The exercise began with the victims coralled on The Moor in the city centre by
the first officers to attend who, although unwittingly contaminated themselves
and therefore unable to move, raised the alarm and gave details of the problem.

A full-blown decontamination response from the police, fire and ambulance
service followed. But because the equipment is not kept in Sheffield city
centre, to minimise the risk of it being affected by a terrorist attack, it took
an hour before officers in specialist breathing suits were ready for action.

Mr Harthill said the delay was his big worry.

He added: "One of the biggest issues is whether the people affected will be
willing to wait around for that length of time, coughing, their eyes streaming
and covered in sticky liquid.

"They might take themselves off to hospital, which is only 20 minutes walk away,
running the risk of contaminating more people.

"We know there are people out there who intend to do us harm and we have to be
ready. This exercise could also be useful in an industrial incident or road
accident. If you've got a lot of people we need to be able to deal with them,
the problem is the time it take to set everything up.

"We want the Government to give more advice to the public on how to deal with
this situation."

Once ready, officers treated people who were first told to get undressed, wipe
their faces and blow their noses. They were given large orange capes before
being herded in batches into covered showers set up on Fitzwilliam Gate at the
bottom of The Moor.

The exercise on Sunday involved dozens of personnel, including NHS and council
staff, and lasted three hours.

Got a view? Leave your comment below.

BUY ONLINE: The Sheffield Telegraph and Property Guide are now out every
Thursday. To sign up on line click here.

MORE:
Local News
Local Sport
Arts Guide
Community News
Listings Guide
Restaurant Guide
Letters

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STEL


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 20, 2010 Friday

Indian states on high alert over fears of terror attack during festive season

LENGTH: 241 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 19 August: The country has been put on high alert following
intelligence inputs that Pakistan-based terrorists may strike during the
upcoming festive season.

The Centre has asked state governments to take all possible steps to foil
attempts by militant groups, particularly Lashkar-i-Toiba, to disrupt peace
during the ongoing Ramadan month and the upcoming festivals of Raksha Bandhan
[Hindu festival], Id and Onam [Festival celebrated in South India].

Sources said the advisory issued by the Home Ministry has asked all states to
increase vigil and take precautionary measures to ensure security as
Pakistan-based groups may strike at public places.

The ministry asked states like Delhi, Karnataka and Kerala to deploy additional
forces in sensitive locations.

Onam will be celebrated on 23 August, Raksha Bandhan on 24 August and Id on 13
September.

"We have sent alert to all states and are taking all necessary measures. There
is possibility that Pakistan-based elements may try to carry out terror strike
in the country," a home ministry official said.

The advisory has asked states to be more vigilant and check crowded public
places like markets, railway stations, bus terminals and parks besides other
places of mass gathering, he said.

The home ministry also gave out list of potential targets and advised on what to
look out for.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1718gmt 19 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 20, 2010 Friday

Pakistan agencies warn of possible terror attack in three key cities

LENGTH: 187 words


Text of report by Pakistan's private television channel Geo News website on 20
August

Islamabad: In the latest development in war on terror, the intelligence agencies
have warned law-enforcement agencies against potential terrorist strikes in
major cities of country including Lahore, Islamabad and Rawalpindi, Geo News
reported on Friday [20 August].

According to report, a fanatic terror group, hailing from Islamabad, is expected
to launch terrorist attacks on sensitive areas in Lahore, Islamabad and
Rawalpindi.

In a letter, intelligence agencies wrote to law-enforcement agencies, it is
feared that a group, linked to defunct outfit Lashkar-i-Jhangvi, has devised a
plan to trigger terror strikes in parts of Lahore, Islamabad and Rawalpindi.

Key security officials residing near airport, FIA [Federal Investigating Agency]
Headquarters in Islamabad and IG [Inspector General] Islamabad are on the
terrorists' hit list, it said.

Law-enforcement agencies have been directed to remain alert for safeguarding
high-ranking security officials and beef up their security.

Source: Geo News TV website, Karachi, in English 20 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 20, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

England warned of terrorist attacks;
Australian Fraser worries Games will be 'another Munich'

BYLINE: Simon Hart

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 554 words


THERE were fresh fears about athlete safety in the Commonwealth Games after
England's athletes were warned to expect terrorist attacks on soft targets in
India in forthcoming weeks and have been told not to wear team kit while off
duty in India.

At the same time,the Australian Dawn Fraser, the Olympic swimming gold
medallist, called for a boycott of the Games because Indian officials could not
be trusted over security.

She told an Australian newspaper: "The Indians are telling us that security will
be right. But they have also been telling us for months that their stadiums are
ready to go too and quite obviously they're not.

"I would hate to see another Munich but, with things getting worse and worse, I
have grave concerns. I know the Australian Commonwealth Games Association is
doing everything it can with security, but what's at the other end of the
tunnel?" Commonwealth Games England has written to the country's 17 Commonwealth
sports to try to allay any fears about the danger of travelling to New Delhi in
October after receiving positive feedback about the Indian security plan from
the Metropolitan Police Specialist Protection Group.

But, in its letter, CGE has told athletes and support staff that, based on
advice it has received from the police and the British High Commission in New
Delhi, they should not be surprised if there are bomb attacks elsewhere in India
in the weeks leading up to the Games.

"Whilst the current advice is that there is no specific threat to the Games, we
will continue to keep channels of communication open with the relevant
authorities, particularly the Delhi Organising Committee, who carry ultimate
responsibility for security provision at Games-time," CGE said.

"We are also aware that there continues to be a likelihood of pre-Games attacks
on 'soft' targets, such as the Pune cafe bombing in February of this year, as
part of a tactic to scare team members and to stop them attending. You may wish
to inform your team members that they should expect this tactic to continue."

CGE has also warned athletes that when they are off duty in New Delhi, they
should visit only "listed" tourist sites where there is a police presence and
should avoid wearing team kit.

Fraser's remarks were dismissed as "ill-informed" by ACGA chief executive Percy
Crosswhite. "We believe, at this stage, it will be safe and it will be secure,"
he said.

His comments were echoed by Craig Hunter, chef de mission of the England team,
who said the Metropolitan Police had been liaising closely with their Delhi
counterparts and had advised that it was safe to travel to the Games, which open
on Oct 3. "I attended a meeting yesterday with the Metropolitan Police and I
came away from that meeting knowing that we are in a good position and there is
no change in any advice or status and we will be going to the Games," he said.

Hunter added that the issue of terrorist attacks outside the Games had been
highlighted by the police and the British High Commission and, in the interest
of openness, CGE had warned sports in England to expect further incidents.

"We don't want to be anything other than honest and transparent about this," he
said. "They are not specific threats to the Games but if that changes then the
police and the British High Commission will look at that and advise us
accordingly."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Security check: police search labourers at Thyagaraj Stadium
PRAKASH SINGH/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 22, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Irish terrorists plotting bomb attack on Tories

BYLINE: By Aidan Harrison

SECTION: NEWS; 33

LENGTH: 388  words


IRISH republican terror groups are feared to be planning a bomb attack at this
year's Conservative party conference in Birmingham.

Dissidents unhappy with the Ulster peace process could be plotting a repeat of
the 1984 Brighton attack that came close to killing Margaret Thatcher, it has
been claimed.

Police, intelligence services and MPs are thought to be planning talks prior to
the conference in Birmingham in October. Republican groups that are said to be
causing concern include the Real IRA, the Continuity IRA, and Oglaigh na
hEireann, which means "Soldiers Of Ireland".

The Provisional IRA were behind the bomb attack on the Grand Hotel at Brighton
in October 1984 during that y ear's Conservative party conference.

Although Mrs Thatcher and her Cabinet members survived the blast, five people
were killed, including Conservative MP Sir Anthony Berry.

Norman Tebbit's wife Margaret was among those seriously injured.

The warnings follow a recent surge in dissident republican violence in Northern
Ireland, including a bomb that injured three girls last Saturday.

The two 12-year-olds and a threey ear-old suffered cuts after a rubbish bin
exploded in Lurgan, in County A rmagh, as a protestant march took place in
Londonderry.

A Tory MP who did nine tours of duty in Northern Ireland in the Army says police
and Army intelligence suggested that attacks on the British mainland could be
imminent. Former chairman of the Commons sub-committee on counter-terrorism,
Patrick Mercer, warned splinter groups could kill by the end of this month as
they prepare for the party conference.

He told a newspaper: "There are doubts over whether they have the capability but
the aspiration is there and West Midlands Police would be crazy not to take the
threat seriously."

The Commons select committee on Ulster is expected to question Northern Ireland
Secretary Owen Paterson about the threats at a meeting on September 8.

The conference will be based at Birmingham's ICC conference venue and the city
centre's Hyatt Regency Hotel between October 3 and 6. About 13,500 people are
expected to attend.

Police have confirmed that they warned businesses of a possible threat during an
anti-terror training session held earlier this month.

They insisted there was "no intelligence" to suggest a specific threat to
Birmingham or the British mainland.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OLD ENEMY: Republican dissidents are said to be planning an attack like
that on Brighton in 1984

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                August 22, 2010

Irish terrorists plotting bomb attack on Tories

BYLINE: Aidan Harrison

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 387 words


IRISH republican terror groups are feared to be planning a bomb attack at this
year's Conservative party conference in Birmingham.

Dissidents unhappy with the Ulster peace process could be plotting a repeat of
the 1984 Brighton attack that came close to killing Margaret Thatcher, it has
been claimed.

Police, intelligence services and MPs are thought to be planning talks prior to
the conference in Birmingham in October. Republican groups that are said to be
causing concern include the Real IRA, the Continuity IRA, and Oglaigh na
hEireann, which means "Soldiers Of Ireland".

The Provisional IRA were behind the bomb attack on the Grand Hotel at Brighton
in October 1984 during that year's Conservative party conference.

Although Mrs Thatcher and her Cabinet members survived the blast, five people
were killed, including Conservative MP Sir Anthony Berry. Norman Tebbit's wife
Margaret was among those seriously injured.

The warnings follow a recent surge in dissident republican violence in Northern
Ireland, including a bomb that injured three girls last Saturday.

The two 12-year-olds and a threeyear-old suffered cuts after a rubbish bin
exploded in Lurgan, in County Armagh, as a protestant march took place in
Londonderry.

A Tory MP who did nine tours of duty in Northern Ireland in the Army says police
and Army intelligence suggested that attacks on the British mainland could be
imminent. Former chairman of the Commons sub-committee on counter-terrorism,
Patrick Mercer, warned splinter groups could kill by the end of this month as
they prepare for the party conference.

He told a newspaper: "There are doubts over whether they have the capability but
the aspiration is there and West Midlands Police would be crazy not to take the
threat seriously."

The Commons select committee on Ulster is expected to question Northern Ireland
Secretary Owen Paterson about the threats at a meeting on September 8. The
conference will be based at Birmingham's ICC conference venue and the city
centre's Hyatt Regency Hotel between October 3 and 6. About 13,500 people are
expected to attend.

Police have confirmed that they warned businesses of a possible threat during an
anti-terror training session held earlier this month.

They insisted there was "no intelligence" to suggest a specific threat to
Birmingham or the British mainland.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OLD ENEMY: Republican dissidents are said to be planning an attack like
that on Brighton in 1984

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                August 22, 2010
                                  Main Edition

paedo suspect is not our relative;
exclusive kitty living in terror of attack

BYLINE: Ciaran Barnes, Crime Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 305 words


A WORRIED grandmother has spoken of her fear at being mistaken for a relative of
a paedophile suspect.

Kitty Auld's life was turned upside down last week when 24-year-old Gerard Auld,
who is not a relation, appeared in court charged with abusing kids and rape.

The alleged child molester gave his address as Landgarve Manor in the village of
Crumlin, Co Antrim.

This is the same street where popular Kitty has lived for the past 14 years.

The 67-year-old last night moved to distance her family from Gerard Auld, saying
she had never laid eyes on him until she picked up last week's Sunday Life.

"The last week has been terrible for me, I'm worried that everyone now thinks
Gerard Auld is my relative and is staying at my home," explained Kitty, who is
battling cancer.

"I'm frightened that my house could be attacked or a brick could come through
the window.

"Gerard Auld is not related to me and is nothing to do with my family. I want to
make that absolutely clear."

Kitty says she has never seen Gerard Auld on Landgarve Manor and has been told
he is now living in another part of Crumlin.

"I was so worried that I got in touch with a local politician," added the
pensioner.

"That was how I found out that Gerard Auld is supposed to be living in another
part of Crumlin." Gerard Auld is accused of a catalogue of sex offences spanning
a decade.

He is charged with abusing one of his victims on eight separate occasions
between June 1998 and September 2007.

In total Auld is accused of two counts of rape; four counts of indecent assault
on a female; indecent assault on a female child; four counts of sexual activity
with a child; and gross indecency with a child.

He appeared at Belfast Magistrates' Court two weeks ago and was released on £500
bail.

CAPTION: sex abuse charges: Gerald Auld at courtFRIGHTENED: Kitty Auld and her
husband Frank

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SL


                  Copyright 2010 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             August 23, 2010 Monday
                                 Ulster Edition

TORIES FEAR TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE, TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 7 words


Tories fear terror attack FULL STORY: PAGE 7

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             August 23, 2010 Monday
                                 Ulster Edition

MP WARNS OF TERROR ATTACK ON THE TORIES;
FEARS OF BRIGHTON BOMBING REPEAT

BYLINE: VICTORIA MCMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 443 words


DISSIDENT republicans are targeting the Conservative conference amid fears of a
repeat of the Brighton bomb, a Tory MP has warned, Patrick Mercer, ex-chairman
of the Commons subcommittee on counter-terrorism, said former senior police and
army intelligence officers had told him dissident splinter groups had the
conference in their sights as part of a hit list.

He said: "They want to kill by the end of August to get poised for whatever
operations they can mount in September leading up to the Tory Party conference
in early October.

"There are doubts over whether they have the capability, but the aspiration is
there and West Midlands police would be crazy not to take the threat seriously."

His comments come nearly a fortnight after the Daily Mirror revealed how English
anti-terrorist police officers warned of dissident attacks in Birmingham where
the conference is due to take place.

West Midlands police confirmed they were aware of increased activity by
dissident republicans and said their counter-terrorism unit was constantly
assessing the threat ahead of the party conference.

Secretary of State Owen Paterson said the Government was also monitoring the
situation, and insisted there was now "unprecedented co-ordination" between the
security services and police responsible for tracking those responsible.

He added: "We have made a substantial number of arrests and we are bearing down
on them. But we do not underestimate the threat they represent."

The new danger was revealed at an anti-terror training session held for bosses
of Broad Street venues.

The area is popular with latenight drinkers and is home to the Hyatt Hotel, the
base for David Cameron's party during the conference.

If the dissidents take their terror campaign to England it will follow in the
well-worn footsteps of the Provos.

The Provisionals left a trail of death and destruction as they targeted England
during the 70s, 80s and early 90s. In October 1984, they bombed the Grand Hotel
in Brighton during the Conservative Party's conference, killing five people and
injuring 34.

The then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher narrowly escaped being killed.

Birmingham was targeted in 1974, with 21 people killed in a series of pub
bombings.

Mr Mercer said dissidents wanted to "draw attention to themselves" by mounting a
similar attack.

A recent upsurge in attacks by dissidents has included attempts to kill police
officers with undercar bombs and a a bomb attack outside Strand Road police
station in Derry.

Dissidents were also blamed for a Lurgan bomb bin blast in which three
youngsters suffered minor injury as they fled for the lives just over a week
ago.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THREAT Patrick Mercer MP and Daily Mirror's story a fortnight ago

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 24, 2010 Tuesday

Three injured in "terrorist" attack on Algerian security company convoy

LENGTH: 247 words


Text of report by Fodil S., headlined: "Terrorism: Security Company Convoy
Targeted by Terrorists in El Aouana (Jijel)", first paragraph is El Watan
introduction, published by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website
on 23 August

This Monday morning [23 August], three people were wounded in the explosion of a
homemade bomb as a convoy of security company vehicles drove past.

The attack was perpetrated by a terrorist group in the spot known as Afouzer, on
the western edge of El Aouana (20 kilometres to the west of Jijel). Two were
reportedly wounded among elements from the police, who had been escorting this
convoy. As for the third wounded man, he was a driver who had been on board on
the vehicle. The wounded are not, though, in danger.

Certain sources are suggesting that two other drivers were allegedly wounded in
an accident following their flight from the scene of the attack. Sustained fire,
which was allegedly the result of a skirmish between the police and the
terrorists, was heard but, according to indications, the attackers were
successful in fleeing.

The money that was being carried was not stolen. This terrorist sortie comes 24
hours after the one that targeted a Gendarmerie convoy on the southern edge of
Texenna. The gendarmes are providing security for the foreign workers from the
Turkish company doing the work on the water transfer of the future Tabellout dam
to the Setif area High Plateaux.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 23 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 24, 2010 Tuesday

Two Algerian civilians killed in M'sila "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 249 words


Text of report by Ghellab Smail, headlined: "Terrorism: Two Citizens
Assassinated in M'sila" - first paragraph is El Watan introduction - published
by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 23 August

Two citizens from the Lefred family, the father and the son, 57 and 21 years old
respectively, were found on Sunday [22 August] morning with their throats slit
in the spot known as Ouzina, seven kilometres away from the village of Qamra, in
the municipality of Ain Rich, in the M'sila province.

These two people had been abducted the night before being assassinated and laid
out in the same spot where last Thursday's attack took place against elements
from the Gendarmerie, who had come to recover the body of the citizen who had
been found with his throat slit the very day (El Watan, 21 January 2010 [as
published]).

The assassination of three people, in the space of one week, points to the
resurgence of activity by elements from the Mouhajiroune brigade, which has
reigned supreme on the territory of the M'sila province for some time. Some
would say that these murders came in response to the elimination of three of its
elements this past 6 July in the city of M'sila, when a dissident phalange from
the Salafi Group for Call and Combat [GSPC; the group now known as Al-Qa'idah in
the Lands of the Islamic Maghreb, or AQLIM] elected domicile in order to become
a liaison centre between the north and the south.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 0000 gmt 23 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            August 24, 2010 Tuesday

TERROR OF CANCER PATIENT ATTACKED IN HIS WHEELCHAIR

LENGTH: 126 words


SRI CARMICHAEL

A TERMINALLY ill cancer patient thrown from his wheelchair by robbers says he
now fears leaving his home.

The 59-year-old from Streatham, who is too scared to be named, was attacked by
three teenagers on his way to the bank. One put a knife to his throat and
demanded his cash and phone.

When he said he did not have either, they pushed over his electric wheelchair,
ordered him to tell them how it worked and ripped out its wiring.

The victim has prostate cancer which has spread to his spine, causing paralysis.
He said: "I don't feel safe to go outside. Every time I see kids coming towards
me I start shaking."

The attack happened in Lakeview Road, West Norwood, at around midday on Saturday
August 7. Witnesses can call police on 020 8649 3439.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright  2010   Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                            August 24, 2010 Tuesday

Spar knife robber locked up for terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 300  words


A Man has been detained under the Mental Health Act after holding a knife to a
Grimsby shop assistant's neck and demanding cash and cigarettes.

Wayne Beck, 34, of Eskdale Way, Grimsby, admitted robbery on February 2 last
year.

Prosecutor Stephen Welch told Grimsby Crown Court: "Between 11.20am and 11.40am
two males in hats and scarves covering their faces entered the Spar shop in Nuns
Corner, Grimsby, which was being run by two female members of staff.

"The defendant pushed staff member Deborah Barratt down on the counter, holding
her arm with his other hand and then put a knife to her neck.

"Both males said 'open the till' and the second male took the cash. Beck, still
holding on to Ms Barratt with the knife, pushed her around the counter and then
pushed both members of staff to the floor."

The court heard the men raided the cigarette display and left the store, telling
the  terrified women to stay where they were or they "would be back".

Beck originally denied the  offences but changed his plea after microscopic
particles of the sweatshirt he was wearing were found on Ms Barratt's fleece
top. A victim statement read out on behalf of Ms Barratt told the court that
since the offence she has been frightened and had become cautious of customers.

Mitigating, Andrew Bailey said Beck was diagnosed with schizo-affective disorder
last year.

Giving evidence, Dr Muluka, who is treating Beck at the Humber Centre, told the
court that although Beck is not as ill as he was, he still needs  considerable
treatment before he is no longer a threat to the public.

He said this could take at least two years.

Beck was given an unlimited hospital order under section 38 of the Mental Health
Act.

He will not be released from hospital until the Home Office is satisfied he is
no longer a threat to the public.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 85


                    Copyright 2010 Grimsby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                           August 25, 2010 Wednesday

Terrorist Attack Kills 32

LENGTH: 56 words


News: A violent attack in Muna Hotel in Somalia on August 24 has resulted in 32
dead, including six MPs. The militants shot one guard, and one insurgent
detonated a device inside the building, blowing himself up. The hotel is
situated near the presidential palace. Somali Islamist group al-Shabab has taken
responsibility of the attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political Risk Alert

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2010 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 26, 2010 Thursday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack in Somalia

LENGTH: 200 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 26 August: Turkey condemned on Thursday [26 August] the terrorist attack
that killed tens of people in Somali capital Mogadishu.

Turkey's Foreign Ministry released a statement in which it strongly condemned
Tuesday's attack that killed many people, including law makers, in a hotel in
Mogadishu.

The ministry expressed deep sorrow, offered condolences to the relatives of
those killed in the attack, and wished quick recovery to the injured.

In its statement, the ministry underlined the importance Turkey attached to
Somalia's sovereignty, territorial integrity, independence and unity.

The ministry said Turkey was fulfilling its obligations to help Somalia overcome
its problems and restore peace and stability, and expressed Turkey's
determination to go on supporting efforts of Somalia to ensure stability.

Thirty-three people, including six Somali parliamentarians, were killed and many
others were wounded when a suicide bomber and gunmen wearing military uniforms
attacked a hotel in Mogadishu on Tuesday, sparking one-hour gun battle with
security forces.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1721 gmt 26 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 26, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Guard's machete attack terror in raid

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 196 words


A SECURITY guard threatened by a thug wielding a machete has spoken of his
terrifying ordeal.

Armed officers and a police helicopter swooped on a construction site in Long
Lane, Essington, near Wolverhampton, after an offender confronted a 22-year-old
night watchmen at 5.30am yesterday.

The man threatened the security sub-contractor with a machete and warned he
would be "cut up" if he didn't get off the site.

The victim locked himself in his car and called police. Roads around the site
were blocked while a search for the offender was carried out. But despite a
four-hour search he was not traced.

The shocked victim, who is from Coventry but did not want to be identified,
said: "It was nerve-wracking at the time.

"I had just finished a patrol when it happened.

But I'm fine now."

The incident caused delays to parents trying to drop children off at a nursery
next to the compound as the road block was not lifted until almost 9.30am.

A Staffordshire Police spokesman said: "The victim has been interviewed and
investigations to identify the offender are ongoing. "We are still trying to
establish a motive." No description of the offender has yet been given.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2010 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            August 26, 2010 Thursday

'For homework tonight I want you to plan a terrorist attack'

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 362 words


The teenage students at Kalgoorlie-Boulder Community High School in the state of
Western Australia were given the assignment last week in a class on contemporary
conflict and terrorism.

They were asked to pretend they were terrorists making a political statement by
releasing a chemical or biological agent on "an unsuspecting Australian
community", according to a copy of the assignment received by the West
Australian newspaper.

The task included choosing the best time to attack and explaining their choice
of victims and what effects the attack would have on a human body.

"Your goal is to kill the MOST innocent civilians in order to get your message
across," the assignment read.

Principal Terry Martino said he withdrew the assignment as soon as he heard of
it.

"The teacher, who is relatively inexperienced, made a well-intentioned but
misguided attempt to engage the students in an assignment on contemporary
conflict and how beliefs and values influence the behaviours and motives of
individuals," Mr Martino said in comments provided by the state Education
Department.

Mr Martino said the highly regarded teacher was not promoting terrorism but just
made a mistake. He said she was remorseful and understood the topic was
inappropriate.

The school declined to identify the teacher, citing her privacy, and her name
also was not given in the newspaper report.

The Education Department's director requested a full report on the incident,
which was revealed in a front-page article in the West Australian newspaper
yesterday.

Student Sarah Gilbert, 15, told the newspaper she was horrified by the
assignment.

"I was shocked and quite offended," she said. "I'm offended that it's Australia
but I'm disgusted because it doesn't matter where it is, it's still not
something you ask someone to do or think about. There is a difference between
being a terrorist and learning about terrorism."

Sarah - whose mother lost a relative in the 2002 Bali bombings - wrote a letter
to her teacher refusing to do the assignment.

"Even though it may seem petty, to me my beliefs are more important than an A
stating I am smart," Sarah wrote. A copy of her letter was published by the
newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 27, 2010 Friday

Kyrgyz veteran commando warns of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 336 words


Text of report by privately-owned Kyrgyz AKIpress news agency website

Bishkek, 27 August: "Kyrgyzstan is a target of terrorism," the head of a public
union, Alfa Terror, Maj-Gen Artur Medetbekov, has said. In an interview he gave
to the news agency AKIpress today, he said that militants would possibly enter
Kyrgyzstan ahead of [10 October parliamentary] elections in small groups and
through official ways using forged documents. One of their goals might be to
carry out terrorist attacks. An attack by a large number of militants is
unlikely because mountain paths and passes will close in a month's time
[Medetbekov said].

In Medetbekov's opinion, Kyrgyzstan is a target of terrorism.

"Al-Qa'idah declared a jihad against NATO a long time ago. By housing the US
military base, Kyrgyzstan is exposing itself to possible terrorist attacks,"
Medetbekov said.

"After June's events [ethnic clashes in Osh and Dzhalal-Abad], many young people
from the country's southern regions began moving underground to Waziristan,
where the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan has a base, to undergo training to
carry out terrorist attacks in Kyrgyzstan," Medetbekov said. He explained that
field commanders of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and the Islamic Movement
of Turkestan were mainly natives of the Fergana Valley. The young people
undergoing training in Pakistan are recruited for subversive warfare.

According to the latest reports, the religious and extremist organization,
Hezb-e Tahrir, is merging with the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan.

"A large number of members of Hezb-e Tahrir live in Kyrgyzstan. Many members of
this organization were released from prisons - they were granted amnesty -
especially after April's events [anti-government uprising that ousted President
Kurmanbek Bakiyev]," Medetbekov said.

[Monitor's note: Alfa Terror is a voluntary association of veterans of the
Kyrgyz National Security Service's special task force, Alfa.]

Source: AKIpress news agency website, Bishkek, in Russian 1000 gmt 27 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            August 28, 2010 Saturday

Britain - Journal attacked over terrorists in jails claims;
'Scaremongering report will create more problems for Muslims'

BYLINE: Will Stone

LENGTH: 389 words


A Muslim who has served 20 years behind bars slammed a report yesterday that
claims prisons are factories for hundreds of home-grown terrorists.

Former prisoner Danny Afzal, who works as a researcher for the Prison Reform
Trust, hit out at the Royal United Services Institute journal after it published
a report warning that prisons are radicalisation Muslims.

It stated that Britain has more to fear than any other Western country from
home-grown terrorists.

According to its estimates, one in 10 Muslim prisoners in high security jails
across England and Wales are "successfully targeted" by radical jihadists.

"Perhaps 800 potentially violent radicals, not previously guilty of terrorism
charges, will be back in society over the coming five to 10 years," the journal
said.

It warned against British "public complacency" and stoked fears that the
possibility of terrorist attacks hangs over all major sporting events including
the London 2012 Olympic Games.

Mr Afzal rubbished the report and warned that it would create major tensions
inside and out of prisons.

He said: "I'm very disappointed by this scaremongering report. All the hard work
to improve faith relations inside and out of prison are severely jeopardised by
reports such as this.

"When so-called experts publish these misleading figures they never think of the
consequences for Muslims and their families, who will be isolated as a result.

"The report is based on unreliable secondary evidence.

"I've visited prisons first hand and spoken to enough Muslims there to know that
the report's 'facts' are unfounded."

He added that decent resettlement will prevent future acts of terrorism.

Civil rights group Liberty policy director Isabella Sankey said: "What is
crucial is society's response. Terrorism feeds on fear, division and
disenchantment."

The government's independent reviewer of terrorism legislation Lord Carlile said
the issue is more about crime than Islam and Muslims.

"We should not be surprised that when we send very young men to prison,
particularly for short prison sentences, they become targets for greater crime,"
he said.

A Ministry of Justice spokesman also questioned the report's facts and said it
did not recognise the figure of 800 "violent radicals" and did not agree that
jihadist radicalisation was taking place at a rapid rate.

willstone@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 29, 2010 Sunday

Pakistan analyst says more terror attacks likely

LENGTH: 441 words


Text of report by private Pakistani TV channel Geo News on 28 August. Words and
passage within double slant lines are in English.

Let us now turn to Peshawar once again and talk to Defense Analyst Brig (Retd)
Mahmood Shah.

[Begin live relay] [Anchorperson Najia Ashar] Mahmood Shah, the attackers have
targeted a government building in Peshawar. What do you think could be the
motive of this attack and who could be the attackers?

[Shah] In fact Pakistan Army is paying most of its attention to the flood that
has hit the country right now. So these terrorists in the tribal areas thought
it was time to strengthen themselves and re-organize and //re-group//. And I
think we should always keep an eye on this. And the continuous attacks from
their side like the attack in Wana, which you just mentioned, and similarly the
one in Matani and [ attacks at] a couple of other places, so it was being feared
that the attacks will be carried out in Peshawar also in the coming days and
security was beefed up in this connection. So, I think this attack is also a
continuation [of the earlier attacks] and there is threat of two to three more
attacks.

[Ashar] Shah, you just mentioned Wana. We would also like to talk to you on this
report, it is being said that tensions have erupted between Maulvi Nazeer Group
and Hakimullah Mehsud Group after the 23rd August suicide attack. Maulvi Nazeer
Group has told Hakimullah Group to leave the area within 2 days. What would you
say could be the outcome of this tension?

[Shah] I think it is not between the two groups only but there is possibility of
a war between Wazirs and Mehsuds because this Maulana Noor Muhammad was quite
popular, equally among the Taleban as well as the people over there. He was a
//widely respected figure// belonging to Wazir [tribe]. It seems Hakimullah
Mehsud targeted Maulvi Noor Muhammad to avenge the murder of Merajuddin, another
former member of the National Assembly belonging to Mehsud [tribe] who was
killed by someone a couple of months ago. All the Wazir [tribe] is quite angry
over this and I think they will take revenge of this. So I think as the first
//step// toward this all the Mehsuds have been ordered to leave the area, which
I think will be obeyed and perhaps after this, they will make more efforts to
find out how to take this revenge from Hakimullah Mehsud.

[Ashar] Yes. Thank you very much Mehmood Shah. [end live relay]

Senior Analyst Brig (Retd) Mehmood Shah was present with us and gave us his
analysis of the incident that took place in Peshawar today and simultaneously
the incident that took place in Wana.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 0700gmt 28 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                            August 29, 2010, Sunday

SILENCE ON TERRORISM MAY SPARK AN ATTACK

BYLINE: BRUCE WALKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 298 words


DEFENCE experts fear that Britain's hushhush approach to counter-terrorism could
trigger extremists into action.

The warning comes after former Government adviser Michael Clarke, of the Royal
United Services Institute, said the UK had more to fear than any other western
country from homegrown terrorists.

He added that the conditions were right in the UK for a series of terrorist
attacks.

Clarke's views received backing from another think tank, Demos.

ey say the Government's policy towards counterterrorism increases mistrust and
helps fuel conspiracy theories.

In a report, they called for the British secret services to become more open.

ey say details of counterterrorism investigations should be made available to
securitycleared community leaders and individuals.

They also want terrorism trials to be open to the public and for the National
Security Council to publish an annual report of their work.

And they suggested the Government should consider infiltrating online sites to
counter conspiracy theories.

Jamie Bartlett, who wrote the report - The Power of Unreason - for Demos, said:
"The more open the Government are, the harder it is for extremist groups to make
stories out of silence.

"Clearly, there are occasions when more transparency is not possible for reasons
of national security or the safety of certain individuals.

"But the degree to which conspiracy theories make up part of the extremist
mind-set and world view suggests it needs to be confronted."

Demos a dv i s ed that "Government agents should in ltrate internet sites to
plant doubts about conspiracy theories, introducing alternative information".

A Home Office spokesman said: " e coalition government have prepared the ground
work in being more open and transparent on counterterrorism by having a review
of powers."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2010 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 30, 2010 Monday

Turkish governor says plastic explosives seized meant for terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 237 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Diyarbakir, 29 August: The governor of Turkey's southeastern Diyarbakir province
said on Sunday that the plastic explosives seized in a recent operation
conducted in his city were to be used in terrorist attacks to be waged in
Turkey's major cities.

Holding a press conference at the headquarters of Diyarbakir Police Department,
Governor Mustafa Toprak said that security forces, who had been waging
operations to prevent terrorist attacks and PKK's drug trafficking activities,
had found nearly 65 kilograms of plastic explosives inside the LPG tank of a
truck a couple of days ago.

Toprak noted that the explosives were similar to the hand-made bombs which had
been confiscated in the Aegean province of Izmir on June 11 and deactivated in
Ergani on August 5, adding that such explosives had been prepared by PKK
terrorists active in the rural areas of Diyarbakir.

"It has been determined that suspects detained during the operations were
planning to deliver the explosive materials to people getting prepared to stage
major terrorist attacks in Turkey's metropolises," the governor said.

Noting that terrorist organization PKK provided a significant amount of
financial support from drug-trafficking, Toprak said operations against the
terrorist group would continue in a determined way.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1027 gmt 29 Aug 10

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      August 31, 2010 Tuesday 02:48 PM GMT

Suspect airline pair may have been rehearsing terror attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 458 words


Two airline passengers arrested after scans revealed suspicious items in their
luggage may have been on a dry run for a terrorist attack, security sources said
today.

The men were held at Amsterdam airport after flying in from the US at a time of
heightened alert just days before the ninth anniversary of the September 11,
2001 terror attacks.

Among their luggage was a mobile phone taped to a medicine bottle and a knife
and box cutters.

Ahmed Mohamed Nasser al Soofi and Hezam al Murisi had arrived on a United
Airlines flight from Chicago, where their decision to change their flight plans
raised questions.

One of the men, believed to be from the Detroit area, is of Yemeni origin.

US officials said they were examining if the incident was a dry run for a future
terror attack and whether the men were testing the aviation security system to
see if strange items and travel patterns would raise suspicion.

Officers were pursuing leads in Detroit, Birmingham, Alabama; and Memphis,
Tennessee.

The White House said the men were not on any US terror watch list.

Dutch investigators questioned two men arrested at Amsterdam's airport after US
authorities found the suspicious items one of them men's checked luggage.

The pair were arrested yesterday morning at Schiphol Airport and under Dutch law
can be held without charge for six days.

Al Soofi was questioned as he went through security in Alabama on his way to
Chicago.

He said he was carrying a lot of cash. Screeners found $7,000 (EUR 5,500) on
him, but he was not breaking any law by carrying that much money.

Security also found multiple mobile phones taped together and multiple watches
taped together in his checked baggage.

Al Soofi was supposed to fly from Chicago to Washington Dulles International
Airport in Virginia, and then on to Amsterdam. But when he got to Chicago, he
changed his travel plans to take a direct flight to Amsterdam.

Al Murisi also changed his travel plans in Chicago to take a direct flight to
Amsterdam, raising suspicion among US officials. Federal Air marshals were on
the flight from Chicago to Amsterdam.

A Homeland Security spokeswoman said once officials found suspicious items in
luggage associated with two passengers on Sunday night's flight, they notified
the Dutch authorities.

"The items were not deemed to be dangerous in and of themselves," she said. She
would not identify the passengers.

It is not illegal to carry knives or taped mobile phones and watches in checked
baggage.

Dutch prosecutors said the two men were Yemeni citizens who are being treated as
suspects in a conspiracy to commit a terrorist act.

They said the men were being held "on suspicion of a conspiracy to a terrorist
criminal act."

It will be announced in a few days if they will be charged.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

* Teenager s sex attack terror

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 74 words


A 17-year-old woman was knocked to the ground and assaulted by a man in a
sexually motivated attack.

She was walking in West Scotland Street, Edinburgh, around 2am when she was
attacked and pulled into a lane. The man tried to take off her top but he ran
off when several people heard the woman s cries and came to help her.

The attack happened on August 20. A Lothian and Borders Police spokesman said:
We are treating this extremely seriously.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MADMAN FLIPS BUS BY PULLING WHEEL;
Passenger terror at 60mph attack on driver

BYLINE: ALEX PEAKE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 294 words


A CRAZED passenger snatched the wheel of a commuter coach at 60mph - flipping it
on its side.

The maniac had been sitting alone at 2am yesterday when passengers saw him leap
up and approach the driver. He then attacked him and pulled the steering wheel
hard left.

The hero driver battled to keep the double decker on the M40 but it shot across
the hard shoulder on to the embankment before toppling. The driver told
passengers to escape through the roof hatches as his attacker fled near
Beaconsfield, Bucks.

A 21-year-old suspect was found nearby by a police helicopter's thermal imaging
camera. Two of the 11 London-bound passengers were taken to hospital, with one
man suffering a suspected spine injury. A police source said: "Only a madman
would grab a driver's wheel to make him crash but that is the scenario.

It is unclear at this point whether alcohol was involved."

The suspect was released on bail last night as further investigations are
carried out. The attack is thought to have been captured on the coach's CCTV.
The driver, 48, whose shoulder was injured, told of the moment he was attacked,
saying: "I thought, 'Oh my God, this is it'.

"I was struggling to stay on the road and braking hard when the coach began to
go up the bank.

I could feel it was about to topple.

My shoulder went through the side window.

I was petrified." The driver, of Witney, Oxon, who wants to remain anonymous,
said passengers were saved by seatbelts. He added: "Two girls were suspended
from their seatbelts.

One got herself unclipped and I helped take her friend down on my shoulders.

I was amazed everyone walked out.

I don't take any credit.

The passengers were brilliant." A spokesman for coach firm Oxford Tube said: "We
commend the driver for his bravery."

a.peake@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flip. . identical Oxford Tube bus

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                          September 1, 2010 Wednesday

'Dry run' air terror attack suspected

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 458 words


The Yemenis were held at Amsterdam's Schiphol airport after security services in
the US found what could have been a dummy bomb in one of their suitcases which
had been placed on another plane.

Their arrests came amid a period of extra security in the run-up to the ninth
anniversary of the September 11 attacks.

The luggage had been removed from a plane in America and checked after its owner
suddenly switched flights, along with the other man.

Prosecutors in the Netherlands said the men flew in from Chicago yesterday en
route for Sana'a, the Yemeni capital.

Meanwhile their luggage was sent on a US internal flight to Washington. But
security called the plane back and examined the bags after discovering its
owners were not on it.

They found a mobile phone taped to a medicine bottle, knives, several mobile
phones taped together and multiple watches also taped together.

Dutch prosecutors said today the men were being held "on suspicion of a
conspiracy to commit a terrorist criminal act".

It will be announced in a few days if they will be charged.

None of the items found on the men or in their luggage broke US security rules.
But together with the men's changing travel itinerary they raised concern that
it may have been a deliberate test of the US aviation security system to
determine what would raise an alarm.

A US source said the men were Ahmed Mohamed Nasser al-Soofi and Hezam al-Murisi.
Al-Soofi had a Detroit address. He had been living in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, and
working at a convenience store for the past three months.

The White House said the men were not on any US terror watch list.

Al-Soofi was questioned by the US Transportation Security Administration as he
went through security in Birmingham, Alabama, on Sunday on his way to Chicago.

Screeners found $7,000 on him, but he was not breaking any law by carrying that
much money.

Al-Soofi was supposed to fly from Chicago to Washington and then on to Dubai.
But when he got to Chicago, he changed his travel plans to take a direct flight
to Amsterdam, while his luggage went on to Washington.

Al-Murisi also changed his travel plans in Chicago to take a direct flight to
Amsterdam, raising suspicion among US officials. Federal Air marshals were on
the flight from Chicago to Amsterdam.

The men were arrested yesterday at Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport after getting
off the United Airlines flight from Chicago.

A Homeland Security spokeswoman said once officials found suspicious items in
luggage associated with two passengers on Sunday night's flight, they notified
the Dutch authorities.

"This could have been a test or it could have been an honest mistake, but the
system in this case worked," said John Sullivan, managing partner of aviation
security consulting firm Welsh-Sullivan.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Two suspected of 'dry run' for aircraft terror attack

BYLINE: Catherine Philp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 91 words


Washington Two Yemeni men were being held in Amsterdam on suspicion of
conspiracy to commit terrorism as officials investigated whether they were
conducting a dry run for an attack on an airliner (Catherine Philp writes). The
men, from Michigan, were arrested after officials noted that both made a
last-minute change of flight from Chicago and suspicious items, including a
knife, were found in their luggage. US officials suggested that the two, who
were travelling separately, would not be charged, although they could face a
court in Holland.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 2, 2010 Thursday

Algerian man killed, eight wounded in Ain Defla terrorist attack

LENGTH: 247 words


Text of report Aziza L. entitled "Terrorist Incursion in Ain Defla: One Dead and
Eight Wounded"  by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 1
September

One citizen was killed and one policeman and seven civilians were wounded on
Tuesday [ 31 August] evening, at about 2100 hours, following a terrorist
incursion into a neighbourhood in the municipality of El Abadia, in the far west
of the province of Ain Defla 130 kilometres west of Algiers, we have learned
from local sources.

At around 2100 hours, the terrorists, who broke up into several small groups,
went into downtown of the municipality of El Abadia, on the outskirts of the
Errahmane mosque, which was full of the faithful who were reciting the Tarawih
prayer. According to the local authorities, the terrorists wanted to go after
the policemen charged with seeing to the safety of the citizens in that much
trafficked neighbourhood of El Abadia.

A violent skirmish pitted the security forces against the terrorists. A major
panic seized the citizens present. In the exchange of fire, one citizen and
several others were wounded. Eight people were reportedly wounded, one of them a
policeman, who were evacuated to the nearest hospitals.

Upon the arrival of reinforcements, the terrorists fled, taking advantage of
night and the general panic. A huge search operation was immediately kicked off.
It was still ongoing Wednesday [ 1 September] morning.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 0000 gmt 1 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 2, 2010 Thursday

Israeli defence minister vows to prevent wave of terror attacks

LENGTH: 520 words


Excerpt from report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem
Post website on 2 September

[Report by Gil Hoffman: "Baraq Vows To Prevent New Wave of Terror Attacks"]

Minister Ehud Baraq promised on Wednesday to prevent Tuesday's drive-by shooting
deaths of four people from being the first of multiple terrorist attacks.
Speaking at a pre-Rosh Hashanah toast for Labour Party activists, Baraq said
that after Labour succeeded in bringing Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu to the
negotiating table, he would not allow terrorists to derail the talks. "We will
not allow the incident to turn into a wave of attacks," Baraq said. "We will do
everything possible to make sure that the perpetrators will be punished and
their efforts to derail the talks in Washington won't succeed. We won't concede
the fight against terror."

Baraq and other Labour ministers used Thursday's summit with Palestinian
[National] Authority President Mahmud Abbas to justify the party's controversial
decision to join Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu's government. But Labour MKs
who opposed joining the government were conspicuously absent at the toast.
"There wouldn't be talks in Washington had we not joined the coalition and a
narrow right-wing government been formed," Baraq said. "We won't let this
supreme opportunity fall through our hands. The silent majority wants to
maintain security but is willing to go very far to achieve peace in this
generation and bring about two states for two peoples."

Industry, Trade, and Labour Minister Binyamin Ben-Eli'ezer went farther, saying,
"there was no decision more correct than Ehud's to enter the government," and
"we won't let those animals achieve their goal of destroying the peace began."
Ben-Eli'ezer and other speakers at the event pleaded for unity in the divided
party. "People ask me why we try to shoot ourselves in the foot, why we try to
kill ourselves," Ben-Eli'ezer said. "I say there is no party like this. Many
parties have adopted the views of Labour. I say let's keep this party going."

Welfare and Social Services Minister Isaac Herzog urged Labour activists to show
support to Netanyahu in his talks in Washington, which he said would be fateful
for the people of Israel. At a rally of World Likud activists in Ariel, the
chairman of World Likud, MK Danny Danon, blamed the terrorist attack on Baraq.
He said the defence minister ordered the IDF to downgrade its operations in the
West Bank to make sure the summit would take place. "I say to the defence
minister, go back to your main job, which is not to pursue the settlers but to
defend Israel. And if he won't do that, I call upon the prime minister to fire
him," Danon said. Danon apologized to the activists for the freeze, saying "the
Likud made a mistake with the freeze, but we will make it up to you by
maintaining the Land of Israel."

Bet Arye Regional Council head Avi Na'im vowed in his speech at the event that
US President Barack "Obama will soon go, but the people of Israel will stay here
in the Land of Israel." [passage omitted]

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 2 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           September 2, 2010 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

I BEEPED MY HORN FOR HELP BUT NO-ONE CAME;
Girl, 19, in terror at armed man's 2pm attack at lights

BYLINE: ANDREW HIRST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 301 words


A TEENAGE driver was terrorised by an attacker wielding a screwdriver as she
waited at traffic lights.

Chelsea Sykes, 19, sounded her horn in a bid to attract help during the incident
on Manchester Road in Thornton Lodge - but no-one came to her aid.

Luckily the lights changed and the attacker ran off after scratching her car
with the screwdriver.

The nursery nurse was driving home from Huddersfield to Linthwaite when the
lights changed to red at 2pm on Monday.

She said: "I became aware of a shadow by the passenger door and so locked all
the doors.

"My handbag was on the passenger seat and I wondered if he had tried the door to
grab it.'' The manmoved around to the front of the car and Chelsea could see
that he had a knife in one hand and a roll of what looked like tape in the
other.

"He was swearing and snarling,'' she said. "I had trouble making out what he was
saying.

"I beeped my horn to try to summon help, but no-one came.

"But it must have scared him off because he ran off along Manchester Road
towards the town centre shouting, 'Cos I'm bad I can do what I want.'" Chelsea
drove on Manchester Road for about quarter-of-a-mile once the lights changed to
green before she dared to pull over and inspect the damage.

The man had scratched the passenger side of her Renault Clio, along with the
bonnet.

She added: "I was badly shocked by what happened - it was terrifying at the
time. I couldn't believe it was happening.'' The man is Asian, aged around 19
with short hair and he wore a black sports jacket.

A spokesman for West Yorkshire Police said: "Inquiries are ongoing and we would
like to speak to anyone who saw the incident or the suspect.'' Contact Pc Sally
Baines who is based at Kirkburton police station via the main West Yorkshire
Police phone number on 0845 6060606.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ SCARY EXPERIENCE: Chelsea Sykes, 19, of Linthwaite was subjected to
a terrifying attack at Longroyd Bridge lights, below (PW010910Ccar-01)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 2, 2010 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

POLICE SLAM GUN ATTACK AND RIOTERS;
TERROR

BYLINE: COLM DONNELLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 210 words


POLICE have condemned those responsible for shooting at a house - and rioters
who then targeted officers.

Several shots were fired at a house in Dove Gardens, Derry, by a four-man gang
on Tuesday around 11pm.

Two men who were in the house at the time escaped injury.

When officers arrived to investigate up to 50 rioters hurled petrol bombs and
other missiles at them.

One officer sustained a leg injury.

Acting chief inspector John Burrows said it was "deplorable" officers had been
targeted.

He added: "There should be no attempts to justify attempts to attack or
intimidate members of the community, no matter what the perceived motive should
be.

"The victims and intended victims of an incident such as this deserve a full
investigation - as well as the entire community."

Sinn Fein councillor Peter Anderson said he knew the family whose home was
attacked.

He added: "No one can justify the actions of people who opened fire in such a
reckless manner. The crowd who attacked the police must also be condemned."

SDLP assembly member Pat Ramsey said people in the Bogside area were appalled
and added: "This is an area populated by families, children and elderly people.

"Our communities have suffered from the obscenity and destructiveness of
violence for far too long."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: APPALLED Pat Ramsey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 3, 2010 Friday

Suspects arrested over July terrorist attacks appear in Ugandan court

LENGTH: 493 words


Text of report by Ephraim Kasozi and Juliet Kigongo headlined "Terror suspects
appear in court again" published by leading privately-owned Ugandan newspaper
The Daily Monitor website on 3 September; subheading as published

A group of 30 people who were arrested in connection with the July twin bombings
that killed over 70 people in Kampala has been remanded to Luzira Maximum
Prison.

The Nakawa Chief Magistrate's Court yesterday also remanded another four
suspects in relation to the same incident to police custody to allow the state
and police easy access for inquiry.

Chief Magistrate Deo Ssejjemba remanded the two groups until 16 September when
they reappear for mention of the case. The group appeared before court for fresh
plea taking after senior principal state attorney Joan Kagezi submitted to court
an amended charge sheet to include two more suspects; Yahya Suleiman Mbuthia and
Khalifa Abdi Muhammed.

The duo and other two suspects; Idris Magondu and Mohammad Hamid Sulaiman - were
the four sent to police custody. Ms Kagezi asked court for an adjournment to
allow the state bring to the country two more suspects who were recently
arrested in Tanzania.

"Investigations into this matter are still in progress. I pray for more time to
complete the interrogation of the suspects. I also pray that four of these
suspects are remanded to police custody for identification and easy access for
interrogation," Ms Kagezi said.

However, Mr Ssejjemba did not allow the suspects to plead to the charges, saying
the court did not have the powers to hear them.

They were charged with 76 charges of murder, three charges of terrorism and 10
charges of attempted murder at Kyaddondo Rugby Club, Lugogo and Ethiopian
Village in Kabalagala.

Driven to court amid tight security of uniformed and plain clothed armed
officers, 14 of suspects have acquired advocates. City advocates Ladislaus
Rwakafuzi and Siraje Ali, who represented 14 of the 34 suspects, requested that
witness statements and copies of charge sheets be availed to the suspects.

But Ms Kagezi downplayed their request, saying it was premature for the
application because the suspects had not been committed to the High Court for
trial.

According to the charge sheet, the group and others still at large in Kampala
with intent to influence government or intimidate the public and for a
political, religious, social or economic aim without due regard to safety of
others or property intentionally and unlawfully delivered and discharged
explosives with intent to cause death and serious injury.

Forensic exhibits

Meanwhile, a number of suspects complained to the court about worrying medical
conditions and loss of personal property during detention.

The state attorney explained that all the money obtained is being regarded as
proceeds from the execution of the blast while the items are being kept as
exhibits subject to forensic investigation.

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 3 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 3, 2010 Friday

Ugandan police arrest two more suspects over July terror attacks

LENGTH: 429 words


Text of report by Charles Ariko and Andante Okanya headlined "Bombs: 2 more
held" published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New Vision
website on 3 September

Two more suspects have been arrested over the 11 July bombings in Kampala,
bringing the number to 34. Khalif Abdi Muhammed, 20, a Somali national, was
arrested from Somalia and Yahya Suleiman Mbuthia, 40, a Kenyan, was held in
Kenya. The twin blasts left over 76 people dead.

The Somali and Kenyan were also charged in Kampala yesterday. Senior principal
state Ladislaus Rwakafuuzi represents 11 Kenyans, and Siraje Ali is for a
Pakistani national and his employee, Ntale, currently admitted at Mulago
Hospital. The Kenyan lawyer is Mbugua Mureithi.

Thirty suspects, who have been in police custody since they were charged on 16
August, were yesterday remanded to Luzira Prison. However, one of them, Peter
Ntale Dithan, was unable to appear in court because he was admitted at Mulago
Hospital. Four others were taken back into police custody after the prosecution
said "inquiries into their case was still going on".

Others are Hussein Hassan Agad, a Kenyan preacher of Islam who has 10 names.
Agad lives in Mulolongo, Athi River in Kenya, and Idris Magondu alias
Christopher Magondu, aged 42, an employee of Flexible Trading Company in Kenya.
Magondu lives in Kawangwale in Nairobi.

Kagezi said the suspects in Nairobi would be transferred to Kampala to face
charges of terrorism, murder and attempted murder.

Among the 34 accused are Ugandans, Kenyans, Somalis and a Pakistani. The
magistrate read the charges to them in a heavily-guarded courtroom.
Heavily-armed 60 security officers surrounded the Nakawa Court premises, where
the suspects appeared.

The suspects were ferried to court in two batches, handcuffed and chained in
pairs on the legs. Some walked with difficulty.

According to the prosecution, each of the accused is charged with the murder of
60 people who died at Kyadondo Rugby Club and 15 at the Ethiopian Village
Restaurant in Kabalagala.

Relatives of the accused who camped at the court from 9.00 a.m., were denied
access to the suspects. Some of them, however, managed to speak to them in
Boran, a Somali language, as they were led into the courtroom.

Apart from journalists, security and lawyers, no-one else was allowed into the
courtroom.

After the court proceedings, the police whisked the suspects away in a convoy of
10 police pick-up trucks accompanied by other vehicles. They are expected back
in court on 16 September.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 3 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            September 3, 2010 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

ON CAMERA ... TRAFFIC LIGHTS TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: KEVIN CORE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 310 words


THESE are the first pictures of a man who terrified a teenage girl with a
screwdriver.

These stills from footage show the moment that 19-year-old Chelsea Sykes was
approached by a man holding the weapon who menaced her with it and then used it
to scrape her car.

The footage shows the nursery nurse pull up at lights on Manchester Road in
Thornton Lodge at 2.40pm on Monday.

A man crosses the road and can be seen stopping in front of her car.

There is no audio on the video but Chelsea said he was swearing and snarling.

She beeped her horn to attract attention but the man moved away.

She told the Examiner: "I became aware of a shadow by the passenger door and so
locked them.

"My handbag was on the passenger seat and I wondered if he had tried the door to
grab it."

She said she could see he had what looked like a roll of tape in one hand and
what she thought at the time was a knife.

She continued: "He was swearing and snarling, I had trouble making out what he
was saying.

"I beeped my horn to try to summon help, but no one came. "But it must have
scared him off because he ran off along Manchester Road towards the town centre
shouting 'cos I'm bad I can do what I want'.

When the lights changed she drove on for around a quarter-of-a-mile before she
had the confidence to step out and inspect the damage.

She found there was a scratch along the bonnet of her Renault Clio.

She added: "I was badly shocked by what happened, it was terrifying at the time.
I couldn't believe it was happening."

The man is Asian, aged around 19 with short hair and wearing a black sports
jacket.

A spokesman for West Yorkshire Police said: "Inquiries are ongoing and we would
like to speak to anyone who saw the incident or the suspect."

Contact Pc Sally Baines at Kirkburton Police Station via the main West Yorkshire
Police phone number 0845 6060606.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ WORRIED: Yesterday's story about Chelsea's ordeal ¦ ON CAMERA: The
man with screwdriver and tape walks in front of Chelsea's car before launching
his attack and making off

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 4, 2010 Saturday

Iran condemns terrorist attack in Pakistan's Quetta

LENGTH: 169 words


Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokesman Ramin Mehmanparast has condemned the
terrorist attack in Pakistan's city of Quetta, Fars News Agency reported.

According to Fars, quoting the Foreign Ministry's information and press
department, Mehmanparast said: "The unfortunate incident where the terrorist
attack against Muslims of Pakistan's city of Quetta led to the death of many
people in that city reveals the disgusting image of enemies of Islam and
humanity once again." He added: "Planning and executing such attacks by
extremist individuals and groups against defenceless and innocent people who had
gathered just to express their peaceful protest against the occupying Zionist
regime in support of the oppressed Palestinians on Quds Day was a big mistake.
And it has clearly revealed the connection and leadership of these terrorist
groups to the hegemonic and Zionist base. And it has unveiled the faces of these
terrorist groups' real supporters."

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 1757 gmt 4 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           September 4, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

New appeal over teen attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 181 words


POLICE yesterday made a fresh appeal for public help following a brutal attack
which left a teenager with serious injuries.

The terrified 18-year-old victim, from Erskine, suffered internal wounds and had
to go through surgery to repair damage to his bowel.

Police are treating the assault, which happened in the Macduff area of Erskine
at around 9.30pm on Monday, August 30, as attempted murder.

A group of youths chased the teenager and, after catching him, lashed out at
him.

Detective Constable John Hume, of Paisley CID, is urging anyone who has
information to come forward.

He said: "We have no clear motive for the assault at this time. However,
officers have been making extensive inquiries throughout the area.

"I would appeal to anyone who was in the area of Macduff, Erskine, at this time
and who saw the group to contact us.

"We would also like to speak to anybody who may have seen this group in the area
of North Barr, Erskine, before or after the attack."

Witnesses are asked to contact Paisley CID on 0141 532 5900 or, alternatively,
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 5, 2010 Sunday

Russia: Militants still have forces for terrorist attacks - Dagestani president

LENGTH: 392 words


Today's terrorist attack on the summer camp at the firing range belonging to a
unit of the Defence Ministry's 136th Motor-Rifle Brigade speaks for the fact
that the militants' underground in the republic has certain forces for these
treacherous raids, Dagestani President Magomedsalam Magomedov has said at the
scene of incident in Buynaksk as quoted by ITAR-TASS on 5 September.

The republic's law enforcement agencies have recently carried out several
successful operations to destroy a large number of militants, several notorious
figures among them," the report quoted Magomedov as saying.

"Nevertheless, we need to build up offence for complete elimination of the
militants' underground. Unfortunately, we do not always manage to save people
from these terrorist attacks," he said.

After visiting the scene of the incident, Magomedov arrived in Buynaksk and
visited the injured who are staying in Buynaksk's military hospital and in the
central city hospital, the report said.

An earlier ITAR-TASS report quoted a source in the Defence Ministry as saying
that the power equivalent of the bomb that went off in Buynaksk was 20 to 25 kg
of TNT.

"The investigation has established that two bombs with the total power
equivalent of 40 to 45 kg of TNT were in the Zhiguli car that tried to enter the
field camp of the 136th Motor-Rifle Brigade near Buynaksk. The military's
estimate suggests that only one bomb has gone off, one of them must have been in
the car's cabin and the other in the boot," the source said as quoted by the
report.

The source noted the competent actions of the driver of the duty towing truck
GAZ-66 who blocked the entrance to the field camp with his vehicle.

"The towing truck driver has been injured, he is in hospital now," the source
said.

The investigation agencies of the Investigations Committee for Dagestan have
instituted criminal proceedings under three articles of the Russian Criminal
Code including terrorism, a source in the Russian Investigations Committee has
said as quoted by the report.

A special commission headed by the commander of the North Caucasus Military
District troops, Lt-Gen Aleksandr Galkin, is working at the scene, the report
said quoting a source in the Defence Ministry.

Sources: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0719 gmt 5 Sep 10; ITAR-TASS
news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0535 gmt 5 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 5, 2010 Sunday

Kenyan radio presenter arrested over Uganda terror attack

LENGTH: 222 words


Text of report by Kenyan privately-owned TV station KTN on 5 September

Detectives from the Anti-terror police unit in Nairobi have arrested a radio
presenter with a Mombasa radio station believed to have participated in the
Kampala twin bombings that claimed 76 football fans.

So far 20 people are in police custody in connection with the Uganda blasts.

[Reporter] The radio presenter was trailed by the detectives from his Nairobi
home to a Mombasa-bound bus in Kitengela where he was arrested. Habib, who is
believed to be an employee of a Mombasa-based radio station was off duty at the
time the anti-terrorist police unit closed in on him. Employees of the station
confirmed that the suspect is a presenter with the station. His colleagues who
spoke to KTN expressed shock at the arrest even as police confirmed that he was
behind bars being investigated in connection to the terror act.

The journalist is a producer and presenter with a Mombasa radio station.

The presenter's arrest brings to 20 the number of persons, who have since been
arrested in connection with the Kampala bombings, which terror group Al-Shabab
has claimed responsibility.

Earlier, two suspects were arrested in Mombasa's Nyali Estate and seven vehicles
believed to have been used by the suspects recovered.

Source: KTN TV, Nairobi, in English 1800 gmt 5 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Herald

                            September 5, 2010 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Revealed: MoD ignoring risk of terror attacks on Clyde nuke subs

BYLINE: Exclusive By rob edwards environment editor

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 531 words


THE Ministry of Defence has come under fire from its own expert advisers for
failing to take account of the risk of terrorist attack on the nuclear submarine
bases on the Clyde.

A previously secret report released to the Sunday Herald under freedom of
information laws also says there are  uncertainties  in the MoD s risk estimates
for accidents caused by aircraft crashes, fires, floods, explosions and ship
collisions.

According to critics, other recently released reports show that an attack on a
Trident submarine while it is being hauled out of the water could trigger a
major catastrophe, contaminating large parts of Scotland with plutonium.

The MoD asked defence company Serco to assess its emergency plans for nuclear
submarine bases. A censored version of the company s report, produced in
September 2008, has been made available to the Scottish Campaign for Nuclear
Disarmament.

The coverage of man-made hazards currently excludes sabotage, terrorism, civil
unrest and acts of war,  says the report.  Some consideration could have been
given to these hazards.

Moreover, some types of accident could be incorrectly defined as  not reasonably
foreseeable , it warns.

The report also criticises the MoD safety assessments as being  involving many
arguments that are not readily quantifiable and are open to debate .

Some submarine reactor leaks could have  severe consequences , the report says.
It lists a series of potential accidents at HM Naval Base Clyde, which include
Faslane on the Gareloch and Coulport on Loch Long. They include  earthquake,
aircraft crash, external fire, external flood, ship collision   blast/explosion,
shiplift platform collapse and dropped loads/crane collapse .

Other declassified reports released to Scottish CND show that an attack whereby
an aircraft is deliberately crashed on to the shiplift at Faslane, which hoists
fully loaded Trident submarines out of the water, could set off a disastrous
chain of events.

The risk assessment assumes that if one Trident missile detonates then the other
15 missiles will all explode,  said Scottish CND s co-ordinator, John Ainslie.
It would be like putting a match in a box of fireworks   but on much larger
scale.

Up to 200kg  of one of the most lethal substances on Earth  would be scattered
across a large part of Scotland, he claimed.  Radioactive dust would contaminate
the environment for centuries.

The Serco report was praised by the independent nuclear expert, John Large, who
said that it had highlighted  a number of mismatches and shortfalls that give
rise to concern.

He accused the MoD of ignoring some severe accident scenarios, including a
series of cascading explosions. It was  quite incredible  that the submarine
hazard assessment excluded the risks of terrorist attack, aircraft crashes and
sabotage, he said.

Excluding these external hazards when a submarine is most vulnerable, when it is
surfaced and in a port like Faslane, really is turning a Nelsonian blind eye to
the obvious,  he added.

An MoD spokesman said:  Detailed risk assessments are carried out regularly and
updated wherever necessary in order to maintain the highest levels of safety at
Her Majesty s naval bases.



LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Protesters on scaffold tripods erected outside Clyde naval base to
disrupt traffic entering the nuclear basePhotograph: Chris James

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SH


                      Copyright 2010 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 7, 2010 Tuesday

Major terrorist attack averted, suspected militants killed in Russia's Caucasus

LENGTH: 558 words


A major terrorist attack has been averted, suspected militants killed and a
suspected militant accomplice detained in incidents in Russia's North Caucasus,
news agencies reported on 6 and 7 September.

Ingushetia

Ingushetia's law-enforcement agencies have prevented a major terrorist attack,
ITAR-TASS news agency quoted the republic's president Yunus-Bek Yevkurov as
telling parliament and the government on 7 September.

"A terrorist act was planned by bandits in crowded public places using a suicide
bomber," Yevkurov said, noting that the crime was averted partly thanks to the
vigilance of local residents.

"The population is gradually understanding that stability in the republic
depends largely on their not being indifferent, and is begining to help the
law-enforcement agencies," he said, adding that security in the republic will be
stepped up when Muslims are celebrating the end of the month of Ramadan.

Dagestan

One person was injured when a VAZ-21010 car exploded in the centre of
Makhachkala on 6 September, the press service of Dagestan's Interior Ministry
told Interfax-South on the same day.

According to the press-service's information, the explosion occurred at the
intersection of Ulitsy Dakhadayeva and Malygina (streets) at approximately 1750
Moscow time (1350 gmt).

"According to preliminary information, one person was injured, their identity is
being established. After the explosion, a fire erupted and the car was burnt
out," the press service reported.

In another incident in Dagestan on 6 September, the bodies of two men who had
been shot the previous day by law-enforcement employees were found in the forest
in Tabasaranskiy District, near the village of Khuchni, the republic's Interior
Ministry reported.

On 5 September, during a document check 5 km from Khuchni, near the "Vodopad"
hotel complex, the unidentified occupants of a Zhiguli car shot at employees of
the Interior Ministry and the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) directorate
for the republic, the district internal affairs department and servicemen from
the Russian Interior Ministry's Internal Troops, who were carrying out
operational investigative activities.

None of the officers was injured; they opened return fire.

"Having driven off 300-400 m, the culprits abandoned the car and hid in the
forest. Cartridge cases and blood were found inside the car. Their bodies were
found this morning when the area was combed," a spokesman for the Interior
Ministry said, adding that the identities of the deceased are being established.

Chechnya

Meanwhile, law-enforcement employees have detained a suspected militant
accomplice in Chechnya.

"During operational investigative activities, a resident of the village of
Khal-Keloy in the republic's Shatoyskiy District, born in 1965, has been
identified by employees of the law-enforcement agencies and taken to the police
department. The man confessed that from 2009 until the present time, he aided
and abetted participants in illegal armed groups," a source in the Chechen
Interior Ministry's press service told Interfax on the same day.

According to the source, the suspect said that he had bought and supplied food
products and other items to members of the bandit group.

Sources: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1131 gmt 7 Sep 10; Interfax
news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1408, 0829 and 0757 gmt 6 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Gazette (Blackpool)

                           September 7, 2010 Tuesday

Dog attack terror on street

LENGTH: 196 words



HIGHLIGHT: RESIDENTS on a Blackpool street are living in fear for their safety
after pets were "massacred" by a pair of savage dogs.


Terrified neighbours in Winton Avenue, Marton described how the "pit-bull type"
dogs ran into a woman's house and tore her cat apart after randomly killing
another cat in a garden. Now they fear more pets or even young children are not
safe.

The dogs struck on Saturday, ripping apart the cats and rampaging through
gardens.

The dogs have been confiscated by police, but officers today confirmed the
owners have refused to have the animals put down.

Residents - including parents of young children - are demanding the beasts are
destroyed before they kill again.

Cathrine Blan, whose 19-year-old black and white cat Dave (pictured) was killed,
said: "It was a cat massacre. I witnessed my neighbour's cat being shredded. The
footpath was covered in blood.

"Then these dogs attacked my cat in my own kitchen. He was howling in terrible
pain. They have the taste of blood now. They are vicious and shouldn't be loose.
I don't want this to happen to anyone else."

The dogs were roaming free when they viciously mauled one cat in its owner's
garden.

The dogs first attacked Mrs Blan's neighbour's cat, Cole, around 3.30pm on
Saturday.

FOR THE FULL STORY PICK UP A COPY OF TUESDAY'S GAZETTE.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BLAC


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 8, 2010 Wednesday

Kenyan Islamic radio says presenter's arrest over terror attacks "shocking"

LENGTH: 382 words


Text of report by Patrick Beja and Cyrus Ombati headlined "Presenter's arrest
shocked us, says station" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper
The Standard website on 8 September; subheading as published

An FM radio station says the arrest of one of its presenters over the Kampala
bombings is shocking.

More than 70 people were killed and scores injured during the twin bombings in
Kampala, Uganda on 11 July.

On Tuesday, the Mombasa-based Radio Salaam FM said Habib Suleiman Njoroge was
hired on a six-month contract in March, as a voice artist before he was arrested
on Saturday [4 September].

Programmes controller Abeid Mtsumi said they did not suspect anything unusual
before Mr Njoroge's arrest. Mr Mtsumi said the journalist had an impressive
record from two other FM radio stations.

"Apart from his work at the station, we did not know his life outside the
station. But we are ready to co-operate with the police to unearth the truth and
ensure justice," he told The Standard.

Part-timerMtsumi also said the presenter worked on a need-basis, since he was
always away when there was no assignment for him.

He said Njoroge had recently started presenting a religious programme at the
station but Mr Sheikh Said was the producer.

"Njoroge was the voice artist for the station imaging. He had just started
hosting a religious programme and he was doing fine," Mtsumi said.

He said police had not visited the station since they picked up the presenter at
the weekend.

On Monday, police went to Njoroge's Majengo home in Mombasa and picked up his
wife, Hawa Ibrahim.

Meanwhile, one of the three men arrested in Mombasa in connection with the
Kampala bombings has been deported to Tanzania. The man who police said is a
Tanzanian, was handed over to detectives in Dar-es-salaam. The suspect had been
living in Mombasa and is married to a Kenyan woman.

He was among three men arrested on Monday and interrogated before being taken
away while the other two were later released.

Police claim the suspect had a hand in the planning of the Kampala bombings and
he is wanted back in his country for similar charges.

"Tanzanian police arrived and picked him up on Monday evening. He is no longer
in the country," said a senior police officer.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 8 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 8, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan religious group demands judicial commission to probe terror attacks

LENGTH: 444 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Judicial commission should be formed for
current terror wave: Sajid Naqvi" published by Pakistani newspaper Nawa-e Waqt
on 7 September

Lahore -- Syed Sajid Ali Naqvi, leader of Millat-e-Jafariya Pakistan, has
demanded that a high-level judicial commission should be constituted to unearth
facts about the tragedies that happened on Ashura [10th day of Muharram],
commemoration day of Ali's martyrdom, and Al-Quds rally in Quetta. He said: "A
judicial commission needs to be formed to investigate the lynching of two
brothers in Sialkot. What is the obstacle in forming a commission to investigate
the incidents of terrorism? The people want to know who the terrorists and their
patrons are." Naqvi suggested 20 points for uprooting terrorism and creating
religious harmony.

Addressing a news conference with other office bearers in the Lahore Press Club,
Naqvi also said: "The country is being run under a conspiracy. We shall draw the
next line of action in consultation with other important figures after 'Id
al-Fitr. We do not accept the government's stance that religious festivals
should be limited. Nobody is bothered even after the massacre in Lahore and
Quetta. Are these incidents not linked to the conspiracy involving Justice
[retired] Syed Sajjad Ali Shah, former chief justice of Pakistan, under which he
was stopped from investigating sectarian incidents. The government has become
helpless before the terrorists. Every citizen should arrange a rally for peace."

Mushtaq Jaafari, Nawaz Sarfraz, Naubahar Shah, Agha Mazhar Mashahdi, Shah
Hussain Qazalbash, and other leaders said that the Army should take control of
the government and should constitute a government with consensus. They further
said: "The Punjab Government is responsible for terror incidents, including the
incidents at Karbala Gamay Shah [mausoleum]. Peace cannot be established as long
as Law Minister Rana Sanaullah continues patronizing terrorists and the chief
minister continues patronizing the law minister. Both should be removed from
their posts. The Karbala Gamay Shah tragedy took place because of government
negligence and faulty security arrangements. The chief patron of the terrorists
is sitting on the lap of the government. Why do terrorists only attack Shiites
and Brelvis and not Raiwind?"

They strongly condemned the statements issued by the interior minister and
Munawar Hassan [chief of Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan] and added that Chief Minister
Shahbaz Sharif should pay attention to the law-and-order situation in the
province, instead of weakening the federal government.

Source: Nawa-e Waqt, Rawalpindi in Urdu, 7 Sep 10, pp 6, 8

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday

Russian paper blames terror attack on lax security

LENGTH: 930 words


Text of report by the website of liberal Russian newspaper Vremya Novostey on 7
September

[Sergey Minenko report: "'We missed it, so to speak': the number of casualties
and victims from the terrorist act at the military range in Dagestan continues
to rise."]

The number of casualties of the terrorist act at the field camp of the Defence
Ministry 136th Motorized Rifle Brigade near the Dagestani city of Buynaksk has
risen to four. Another serviceman died in hospital yesterday. There was new
information on the number of victims yesterday also. Whereas on Sunday 32
wounded were officially reported, there are now on this list 35. Meanwhile, both
officials and experts are of the opinion that the serious consequences of the
terrorist act had been dictated by the military facility's inadequate security.

The attack on the Dalniy field camp of the 136th Motorized Rifle Brigade located
near the village of Gerey-Avlak at Buynaksk occurred in the early hours of
Sunday morning. At approximately 0030 hours the suicide terrorist in an
explosives-laden Zhiguli 14, having driven up to the camp by a side road, rammed
the barrier arm at the exterior checkpoint and attempted to break through to the
tent encampment.

It appears that the suspicious vehicle had been spotted at the first observation
post, and the security had by bullhorn demanded that the driver stop. He did not
respond, and then the 25-year-old summer contract serviceman Nuradil
Salimgereyev, who was on duty that night, drove in his personal Zhiguli to
intercept the suicide bomber. But the latter was able to avoid a crash, and,
with a slight detour, continued to drive towards the camp. Only then did the
security open fire on the terrorist for effect. Simultaneously one soldier
managed to bar the way with a GAZ 66 truck, into which the runaway Zhiguli of
the goon, who, by all accounts, had already been killed, ripped. As a result,
the explosion occurred on the outskirts of the camp, and the terrorist did not
manage to reach the tents, in which the soldiers were sleeping. The power of the
explosion was approximately 30 kg of TNT. According to the provisional
information, there were in the suicide bomber's vehicle two charges made on an
ammonium nitrate and aluminium powder base - in the trunk and in the passenger
compartment - but only one of them was triggered.

As a result of the blast, three tents, each of which designed for 40 men, were
burned down. Practically nothing was left of the suicide bomber's vehicle. The
truck that had barred his way was completely burned out also, but its driver
survived, he sustained serious wounds. Four persons were killed as a result of
the blast altogether - three died on the spot, one other died a day later in
hospital. A further 35 persons, according to the final figures, were
hospitalized. Five of the victims are in critical condition. Three of them were
yesterday morning, accompanied by a team of medical personnel, taken by special
flight to the capital's Burdenko Hospital.

Aleksandr Khloponin, the president's authorized representative in the North
Caucasus Federal District, believes that it was the inadequate protection at the
field camp that enabled the terrorists to get to it. "I admit of incompetence
and the inadequate organization of the security of the military facilities. They
missed it, so to speak," he said. "On the whole, this was an act of vengeance
against the victories that we have won as of late in the North Caucasus in the
elimination of terrorists. We were prepared for this, but, unfortunately, they
feel out the weak spots - they hit this weak spot."

Anatoliy Serdyukov, head of the Defence Ministry, who personally flew to
Dagestan and visited the scene of the incident, is not as yet in any hurry to
draw conclusions but he agrees with Mr Khloponin, by all accounts. "I have given
instructions for a tightening of security," the minister observed. "The action
that was taken to prevent a terrorist act was insufficient, in my view. There
should have been tougher action. All the instructions have been given and will
be executed as soon as possible, I believe. The commander in chief of Ground
Troops will within 2-3 days furnish a detailed analysis of the incident, and,
accordingly, the conclusions will be drawn."

Valeriy Baranov, Col-Gen of the reserve and former commander of the United Force
Contingent in the North Caucasus, believes that the terrorist act at the Dalniy
range could have been prevented had the field camp had the proper
infrastructure. He believes that the tragedy was possible most likely owing to
the flagrant violations of the directive documents having to do with
infrastructure development for the troops in areas of increased danger. "In 2002
I happened to draft regulatory documents having to do with the location of
troops under field conditions, specifically, the infrastructure development of
the field camp at the Dalniy range," Mr Baranov said. "We prepared at that time
methods aids and instructions, which clearly established the measures and modes
of protection of the troops under field conditions. Specifically, the tent
encampment had along the perimeter necessarily to be secured by a protective
trench, and all the tents sunk a 1-1.5 meters into the ground, and there should
have been security posts in front of the field camp. None of this, by all
accounts, was done. And, figuratively speaking, flagging the field camp along
the perimeter instead of digging long-term protective trenches - this is
inexcusable sloppiness."

Source: Vremya Novostey website, Moscow, in Russian 7 Sep 10

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:54:39

