



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:09:52
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           January 2, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror in sledgehammer attack on jewellery shop

BYLINE: Emily Winsor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 392 words


STAFF were left traumatised after two men armed with sledgehammers tried to
break into their shop - while they were inside it.

The men tried to break in through the window of the Onyx Goldsmiths jewellery
shop in High Road, Beeston, at 9.30am on New Year's Eve.

They smashed the window but the shop's security system was triggered and a metal
shutter came down, stopping the men from getting in.

They eventually fled emptyhanded.

Managing director Erica Mucenieks was in the store at the time and spoke of her
shock after the incident.

"Myself and my manageress were at the back of the shop making phone calls to
customers when, all of a sudden, we heard a massive bang," she said.

"It sounded like a bomb going off in the street outside but then we realised
what was happening.

Two large men were attacking our shop window with a sledgehammer."

Although the shop was open, there is a buzzer system for letting customers in.
Once the metal screen came down, the men fled empty-handed.

Ms Mucenieks said: "We are all in real shock after this, especially with it
happening at this time of year. We couldn't go to our New Year's Eve parties
because we were so upset.

"I'm just so relieved that they didn't get away with anything and proud of our
security.

"We are a small, independent business but we put a lot of thought into our
security system.

"Everyone keeps saying that they can't believe how lucky were that nothing was
stolen.

"If they had got through before the screen came down, they would have got
covered in smart water-type dye, which would have meant they would be easily
recognisable.

"I hope the men who did this get caught as soon as possible and that the public
keep their eyes peeled for them."

Beeston Detective Constable Karl Aram said: "We believe the men arrived on foot
from the direction of Derby Street.

"Did you see anyone carrying a sledgehammer in the area shortly before the
incident? "We also believe the men left the scene in the direction of Broadgate.

"If you saw anything suspicious in the High Road area of Beeston on that
morning, please call us."

No one was injured in the incident.

Witnesses or anyone with any information should call Notts Police on 101,
quoting incident 162 of December 31, 2012, or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800
555 111.

'"It sounded like a bomb going off... but then we realised what was happening
Erica Mucenieks

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Crime scene: Erica Mucenieks outside the Onyx Goldsmiths store in High
Road, Beeston.
PICTURE: SHAWN RYAN NOSR20130101A-021_C

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2013 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             January 4, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Kids 'terrorised' by gang attack;
Group targeted caravan as family watched TV

BYLINE: SENTINEL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 479 words


A DRUNKEN man has been jailed after children were injured by flying glass when a
caravan was ransacked by a gang.

John Frost, aged 21, was one of three men who caused £10,000 damage to the
static caravan while a father watched television with his two children.

Stoke-on-Trent Crown Court yesterday heard the man was renting the caravan at a
farm in Gillow Heath, Biddulph, when at about midnight on August 18 the front
side windows were smashed.

Prosecutor David Bennett said: "His children screamed hysterically and both were
cut by glass. "Threats were made to the man and his children.

"Two or three men entered the caravan and smashed the kitchen area but did not
enter the lounge where the man and his children were." The men drove off in a
white car but the court heard the caravan was forensically examined and blood
matched Frost's DNA.

In his police interview, he said he had been fishing when two men came up to him
and they went drinking together. He said he thought they were visiting a friend.
But one armed himself with sticks from the boot of the car and started smashing
the caravan windows. He looked through and saw the children so he told the
others to 'leave it'.

Frost said he pulled one of the men away. He declined to name the other men.

The boy needed stitches and the girl sustained scratches on her back. They have
both been severely affected by their ordeal.

Frost, of Mobberley Road, Goldenhill, pleaded guilty to burglary with intent to
cause damage. He also admitted resisting a police officer on June 24 last year
and breaching a suspended sentence he received for an affray.

David Iles, mitigating, said Frost was drunk when he committed the burglary and
now bitterly regrets his actions.

Mr Iles conceded Frost was going to prison and will miss the birth of his first
child.

He acknowledged the incident would have been frightening for the children who
were 'helpless victims'.

"This was not any sort of mission against little ones," said Mr Iles.

"It wasn't until the last minute that he was fully aware what was going on. When
the others went in, he realised too late what was going on.

"He had too much to drink, he was far more foot soldier than Field Marshall. He
regrets what he did. He did not touch any of the three occupants." Judge David
Fletcher jailed Frost for a total of two years and four months.

He told the defendant: "There was ransacking and vandalism. You were a member of
a group, there is some evidence of planning and there was also considerable
trauma to the victims.

"You have been extremely foolish.

These children were severely affected by what happened.

"It was an occupied dwelling.

They were sitting in there watching TV when suddenly three men broke the windows
and caused £10,000 damage."

What do you think? Email us at letters@thesentinel.co.uk THE SENTINEL ONLINE>To
read more news stories go to www.thisisstaffordshire.co.uk/news

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2013 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                            January 5, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

VICTIM'S TERROR AFTER PETROL BOMB ATTACKS;
EXCLUSIVE: Woman moved to safe house after terrifying ordeal ; Woman moved to
safe house after petrol bomb attacks

BYLINE: James Campbell

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 628 words


THE victim of two arson attacks on her home has spoken of her terror after
petrol bombs were thrown through the windows.

Detectives have said the woman could have been killed in the attacks and have
made a desperate plea for help to catch those responsible. The woman, who is
battling cancer, revealed windows were smashed before petrol bombs were thrown
into the house.

She claims the consequences could have been much worse after one of the petrol
bombs landed close to a gas cooker and boiler.

The victim said: "I am terrified now.

"I now have to take diazepam as a result of what happened." The house in Grove
Street, off Beverley Road, in Hull, was targeted on Monday and then again on New
Year's Day.

The woman claims she does not know why anyone would want to harm her.

Those living in the house have had to be moved while the investigation
continues. The woman, who asked to remain anonymous for her own safety, is in a
safe house along with one of the other tenants. "I am now in a one-bedroom safe
house but I hope to return," she said.

"It feels like my life is in limbo at the moment. "We were definitely targeted
but I think it maybe something to do with the previous tenants." "I'm sure it
has nothing to do with us but someone is targeting the house for some reason."
Both attacks involved someone putting a brick through the window before throwing
in a petrol bomb. The woman said: "It was about 1.15am in Monday when one of the
other tenants was downstairs and heard something smash in the kitchen. "As he
reached the kitchen, someone threw a petrol bomb in right next to the gas cooker
and gas boiler. "Luckily, he managed to put the flames out. "The second time, on
New Year's Day, I woke up at about 8.25am to take my medicine when I heard a
window smash. "I went into the living room and there was a brick and another
petrol bomb.

"I put out the flames with a saucepan of water." It is not just the tenants in
the targeted house who are now living in fear. A neighbour, who also wished to
remain anonymous, revealed her teenage daughter will not return because she is
so frightened. The mother said: "I live right next door and I have children. "It
has been really frightening for everyone. It's a nightmare. "If my neighbour's
gas cooker had exploded then it would have been right next to my daughter's
bedroom and I dread to think what could have happened. "My daughter is staying
with her sister because she is so scared." Detectives have stepped up their
appeal for information, releasing CCTV footage of a man they want to speak to
about the attacks. Nobody was injured in the attack, although fire damage was
caused on each occasion.

A 42-year-old man was arrested in connection with the first attack but has been
released on bail pending further inquiries. No-one has been arrested for the
second attack but the two are being linked. Anyone with information should call
Humberside Police on the non-emergency number 101. THE detective leading the
investigation into the two arson attacks has revealed he could easily have been
dealing with a murder inquiry. Detective Chief Inspector Simon Walker said: "In
my opinion, there is no doubt we would have been looking at fatalities and a
possible murder investigation had the residents not heard the bricks being
thrown through the window. "These were devastating attacks on extremely
vulnerable victims, one of whom is suffering from cancer. "We believe the
attacks are connected and we are trying to catch a very dangerous individual. "I
want to hear from people who know of anyone who may have had a motive to carry
out these attacks on this house. "Our primary concern is to ensure the safety of
the victims and others but we are urgently trying to find who is responsible and
bring them to justice."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RECOGNISE HIM? The CCTV footage released by police.
LUCKY ESCAPE: Victim's is lucky to be alive after her home was targeted by
arsonists.
INVESTIGATION: Detective Chief Inspector Simon Walker.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDM


                         Copyright 2013 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 5, 2013 Saturday 3:48 PM GMT

Terror for American family brutally attacked while traveling in Peru as
'villagers whip them, knock their teeth out with rocks, and shoot at them'

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 553 words


Three Wyoming residents were the victims of a brutal attack last week while
traveling in Peru.

Jennifer Wolfrom, brother, Joseph Wolfrom, and sister-in-law Meghan Doherty told
authorities they were bound, beaten, and robbed by villagers over a horrific two
days while on a climbing trip outside Cuzco, Peru.

'This situation has not only been extremely traumatic both mentally and
physically, but has also become a huge financial burden for the three of us,'
Wolfrom wrote at her site, Adventure Americas.

Joseph and Doherty had journeyed through Central and South America for nine
months without incident when Wolfrom joined the pair as part of a 10-day
vacation.

She flew to Cuzco on Dec. 22, and after a few days the threesome decided to hike
in the Asungate Mountains.

When they left the mountains, they parked their truck by a bridge in the village
of Palca.

According to Wolfrom's account, they were approached by two men who told them it
would be all right to camp there.

But the men then blew whistles and used their cell phones to alert other members
of their village who then descended on the trio demanding official documents.

The family attempted to flee but were unable to get by a series of roadblocks.

The villagers then threw rocks at the truck. Wolfrom's jaw was cut, and Joseph's
front teeth were knocked out. All of them were bloodied.

'It very much seemed like a planned, organized attack with each of the villagers
blowing whistles, signaling other villagers to come out and join the chase,'
Wolfrom wrote. 'There were at least 30 people chasing us and throwing rocks at
us at one point.'

They were then forced to return to the village, took them to the school, and
separated them.

They were each whipped with ropes and had their belongings stolen.

Their captors then forced them at gunpoint to sign a document that said their
injuries were from a drunk driving accident.

At one point they were even shot at while trapped in a circle of villagers.

'At least one gun shot was shot towards us in the circle,' Woflrom wrote. 'We
immediately saw that there were at least three villagers that had at least three
guns, one that we know was a 20 or 12 gauge shot gun. We tried to shield
ourselves from the guns and again pleaded for them not to kill us. We were
forced into the middle of the circle by men holding whips and we were held at
gun point while again the villagers addressed the Presidente with their stories
and ideas for our lives.'

The family promised they would tell the police that their injuries were from an
accident, and the next morning four Policia National officers arrived.

They were taken by ambulance to  a hospital in Ocongate, Peru, and received 100
stitches combined.

They lost an estimated $10,695 of gear, clothing, and documents.

As of Thursday, they were still stuck in Peru without money or passports and
nursing extensive injuries.

Woflrom said that finding time to meet with police and replace their passports
forced them to change airline tickets.

They are currently working with the U.S. Consolate in Cuzco on returning to the
U.S.

Stateside family members have contacted state Sen. Leland Christensen about
their predicament.

An online fund set up by family friend Rachel Segien at CrowdTilt.com drew
$15,787 from 265 contributors was closed so the three could use the money.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 5, 2013 Saturday 3:35 PM GMT

Terror for American family brutally attacked while traveling in Peru as
'villagers whip them, knock their teeth out with rocks, and hold them at
gunpoint'

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 459 words


Three Wyoming residents were the victims of a brutal attack last week while
traveling in Peru.

Jennifer Wolfrom, brother, Joseph Wolfrom, and sister-in-law Meghan Doherty told
authorities they were bound, beaten, and robbed by villagers over a horrific two
days while on a climbing trip outside Cuzco, Peru.

'This situation has not only been extremely traumatic both mentally and
physically, but has also become a huge financial burden for the three of us,'
Wolfrom wrote at her site, Adventure Americas.

Joseph and Doherty had journeyed through Central and South America for nine
months without incident when Wolfrom joined the pair as part of a 10-day
vacation.

She flew to Cuzco on Dec. 22, and after a few days the threesome decided to hike
in the Asungate Mountains.

When they left the mountains, they parked their truck by a bridge in the village
of Palca.

According to Wolfrom's account, they were approached by two men who told them it
would be all right to camp there.

But the men then blew whistles and used their cell phones to alert other members
of their village who then descended on the trio demanding official documents.

The family attempted to flee but were unable to get by a series of roadblocks.

The villagers then threw rocks at the truck. Wolfrom's jaw was cut, and Joseph's
front teeth were knocked out. All of them were bloodied.

'It very much seemed like a planned, organized attack with each of the villagers
blowing whistles, signaling other villagers to come out and join the chase,'
Wolfrom wrote. 'There were at least 30 people chasing us and throwing rocks at
us at one point.'

They were then forced to return to the village, took them to the school, and
separated them.

They were each whipped with ropes and had their belongings stolen.

Their captors then forced them at gunpoint to sign a document that said their
injuries were from a drunk driving accident.

The family promised they would tell the police that their injuries were from an
accident, and the next morning four Policia National officers arrived.

They were taken by ambulance to  a hospital in Ocongate, Peru, and received 100
stitches combined.

They lost an estimated $10,695 of gear, clothing, and documents.

As of Thursday, they were still stuck in Peru without money or passports and
nursing extensive injuries.

Woflrom said that finding time to meet with police and replace their passports
forced them to change airline tickets.

They are currently working with the U.S. Consolate in Cuzco on returning to the
U.S.

Stateside family members have contacted state Sen. Leland Christensen about
their predicament.

An online fund set up by family friend Rachel Segien at CrowdTilt.com drew
$15,787 from 265 contributors was closed so the three could use the money.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 8, 2013 Tuesday 2:38 PM GMT

Blow to Obama as terror suspect linked to Benghazi consulate attack is freed

BYLINE: TOBY HARNDEN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 455 words


A Tunisian man questioned by the F.B.I about the murderous attack on the U.S.
consulate in Benghazi has been released by a Tunisian judge due to lack of
evidence, according to his lawyer.

Ali Harzi, 26, was one of the few known suspects in custody the case, which has
been beset by problems stemming from the weakness of the Libyan government and
the power of militias in the country - some of whom may have even been involved
in the attack.

Christopher Stevens, who died in the September 11 attack, was the first U.S.
ambassador to be killed in the line of duty since 1979. Sean Smith, another
diplomat, and Glen Doherty and Tyrone Woods, both C.I.A. contractors and former
U.S. Navy SEALs, were also killed.

Anwar Oued-Ali, Harzi's lawyer, said that the presiding judge had 'conditionally
freed' his client on Monday night on the understanding that he would remain in
the Tunis area in case the court needed to recall him.

The lawyer described the release as 'correcting an irregular situation' because
the Tunisian authorities lacked hard evidence.

Harzi was detained in Turkey and in October he was extradited to Tunisia, where
authorities had said he was 'strongly suspected' of being involved in the
attack.

His lawyer said he was officially charged with 'membership of a terrorist
organisation' - a charge that left him facing six to 12 years in jail.

Last month, FBI officers questioned Harzi for three hours in the presence of a
Tunisian judge.

The FBI has not commented on the results of the questioning, but Harzi's lawyer
said they just asked if his client had any information about the attacks on the
Benghazi consulate as well as the assault on the U.S. embassy in Tunis three
days later.

U.S. intelligence has blamed the Benghazi attack on terrorists linked to
al-Qaeda - members of different groups ranging from local Libyan militia Ansar
al-Shariah and al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb.

The consulate's cameras captured many of the faces of armed men in a mob, and
some have been questioned, but most remain free.

According to American officials, authorities in the region have not yet arrested
many of the suspects the U.S. wants to question about the attack.

In a recent TV interview, Harzi's father, Tahar, said his son was just working
in Libya in construction supporting his family.

Eight years ago,  Ali harzi and his brother Brahim were sentenced to 30 months
in prison for having contact with another brother, Tarek, who fought against US
and allied  forces in Iraq.

The father acknowledged that he had encouraged his sons to take up 'jihad in the
cause of God'.

As well as Harzi, American officials said in December that Egypt had also
arrested a member of the Islamic Jihad group in connection with the Benghazi
attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 9, 2013 Wednesday 9:46 AM GMT

Cyber terrorists could inflict 'fatal' attack on Britain because Armed Forces
rely so heavily on computers, MPs warn

BYLINE: IAN DRURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 726 words


The military is so reliant on computers that combat units could be crippled by a
renegade cyber-strike by a rogue state or terror group, experts warn
MPs have been presented with a series of potential nightmare scenarios where
hackers could cause chaos in a warzone

Britain's Armed Forces could be 'fatally compromised' by rogue states or terror
groups launching a massive cyber-attack against their computer networks, MPs
warn today.

The military is so reliant on information and communications technology that
combat units including aircraft, tanks and warships could be crippled by a
renegade cyber-strike, according to experts.

They warned the Commons' Defence Select Committee of a series of nightmare
scenarios where hackers could cause chaos in a warzone.

An enemy could attack radar or satellites to create a 'deceptive picture' of the
conflict to commanders, disrupt supplies of weapons, equipment and food to the
frontline or target 'vulnerable' unmanned drones and battlefield robots.

The cross-party committee's report says the cyber threat to UK security has the
ability to evolve with 'almost unimaginable speed and serious consequences'.

Yet it raises grave concerns over the Government's lack of 'vigour' in building
capacity to deal with attacks.

The report says: 'The evidence we received leaves us concerned that with the
armed forces now so dependent on information and communications technology,
should such systems suffer a sustained cyber attack, their ability to operate
could be fatally compromised.

'Given the inevitable inadequacy of the measures available to protect against a
constantly changing and evolving threat... it is not enough for the Armed Forces
to do their best to prevent an effective attack.

'The Government should set out details of the contingency plans it has in place
should such an attack occur. If it has none, it should say so - and urgently
create some.'

The Ministry of Defence should also 'place a premium' on research and
development to 'keep pace' with the cyber-threat.

The 2010 National Security Strategy identified hostile attacks upon UK
cyberspace as one of the four most likely threats to national security.

It predicted a new breed of computer hackers would be engaged by terror cells
and hostile foreign states to crack sophisticated computer systems and target
critical infrastructure such as nuclear power stations and electricity supplies
and military capabilities.

The Government has allocated 6650million - including 690million to the Ministry
of Defence - to help bolster the detection and countering of the cyber threat.

Three years ago the director of the GCHQ eavesdropping centre warned that
Government computers were being targeted by 1,000 'malicious' emails a month.

Rogue states, terror groups, political extremists and commercial organisations
are all capable of launching computer-generated assaults, which involve
individuals creating software viruses or rogue computer programs and emails, to
cause havoc.

Tory MP James Arbuthnot, the committee chairman, said it was essential that
ministers took the lead in ensuring effective plans were in place to cope with
the threat.

He said: 'It is our view that cyber security is a sufficiently urgent,
significant and complex activity to warrant increased ministerial attention.

'The Government needs to put in place - as it has not yet done - mechanisms,
people, education, skills, thinking and policies which take into account both
the opportunities and the vulnerabilities which cyberspace presents."

Shadow Defence Secretary Jim Murphy said: 'This report is worrying. The
Government stand accused of complacency and lacking contingency planning.

'Policy progress is falling behind the pace of the threat our armed forces
face.'

Defence minister Andrew Murrison said: 'The UK Armed Forces and the equipment
and assets they use are amongst the world's most modern and advanced, so of
course information technology plays a vital role in their operation.

'Far from being complacent, the MOD takes the protection of our systems
extremely seriously and has a range of contingency plans in place to defend
against increasingly sophisticated attacks although, for reasons of national
security, we would not discuss these in detail.'

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 10, 2013 Thursday 10:35 AM GMT

'I thought he might die': Mother's terror after Japanese Akita attacked her
three-year-old son leaving him with fractured eye socket and face wound which
needed 100 stitches

BYLINE: STEVE NOLAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 654 words


'I thought he might die': Mother's terror after Japanese Akita attacked her
three-year-old son leaving him with fractured eye socket and face wound which
needed 100 stitches

Trafford-James Jackson-Poole was attacked in Newbold, Derbyshire
He had been at a village pub with family when he was mauled
Mother Gemma Jackson has called for the Japanese Akita to be destroyed
The three-year-old could be scarred for life following the incident

A three-year-old boy needed 100 stitches in his face and suffered a fractured
eye socket after he was mauled in an horrific dog attack at a pub.

Trafford-James Jackson-Poole could be left scarred for life after he was
attacked by a Japanese Akita at his family's local pub in Newbold, Derbyshire.

His distraught mother Gemma Jackson says that her young son was lucky not to
lose an eye in the mauling.

Doctors stitched up a four inch gaping wound which stretches from
Trafford-James's left ear to his mouth but the youngster could be left with a
permenant scar.

Gemma, 28, and Trafford-James had been at the Nag's Head pub in the village just
north of Chesterfield and were about to leave when he wandered off into another
room and was attacked by the dog.

Ms Jackson heard screams and seconds later her son emerged with blood pouring
from his face.

He was rushed to Chesterfield Royal Hospital, but later needed treatment at a
specialist unit at Sheffield Children's Hospital because of the extent of his
injuries.

The mother-of-three is now demanding that the dog be destroyed.

She said: 'We had a lovely time at the pub and we were just about to leave when
Trafford-James wandered off while my back was turned.

'He was gone in a flash and then I heard a dog barking. Trafford James suddenly
appeared, he was screaming and holding his face, there was blood everywhere.

'I was in complete shock, I did actually think "is he going to die?".

Doctors hope that Trafford-James has not suffered nerve damage but will not be
able to tell for sure until swelling completely dies down.

Ms Jackson added: 'The doctors have been marvellous and they are hopeful he will
make a full recovery but they won't know for a few weeks.

'I realise now that he is a lucky little boy because it could have been so much
worse, it's frightening to think what could have happened because those dogs
have a a bad reputation.

'Trafford-James has been very quiet since he was attacked and has not really
been the lively little boy he normally is.

'He used to like dogs but he won't go near them now and he is terrified when he
hears them barking.

'As far as I know the dog is still around but I think it should be destroyed
straight away.

'It is dangerous, it has bitten one child and it could easily happen again and
next time the consequences could be even worse.'

A Derbyshire police spokesman said of the most recent attack: 'A child was
bitten on the face in the Nag's Head on December 30 and inquiries into the
incident are ongoing.'

The pub refused to comment.

Marston's, the brewery which owns the Nag's Head, said: 'This matter is
currently in the hands of the police.'

Japanese Akita's are powerful dogs that can grow to weigh more than nine stone.
They are not included in the Dangerous Dogs Act, but there has been several
attacks by the breed.

Last July seven-year-old Shannon Rennie needed 10 stitches in her face after she
was attacked by one of the dogs.

And in May 2012, Simon Hryhoruk watched in horror as his daughter Amy was
knocked to the ground by a Japanese Akita which clamped its jaws around her
head.

When Mr Hryhoruk went to the aid of his daughter, the eight stone dog turned on
him and he needed two operations and dozens of stitches to recover from his
injuries.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 11, 2013 Friday

Pakistan information minister says terror attacks aimed at delaying polls

LENGTH: 443 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 11 Jan: Minister for Information and Broadcasting Qamar Zaman Kaira
on Friday [11 Jan] said that people should identify and isolate the extremist
mindset to purge the society of the menace of extremism and terrorism.

"We will have to get rid of this mindset by identifying and isolating it. Such
mindset exists in media, civil society and even the political parties," Kaira
told reporters prior to inaugurating the hiking Trail-6 in the lap of Margalla
Hills.

The four-kilometre trail, developed by the Capital Development Authority in
collaboration with private partners, in the north of Faisal Mosque with unique
facilities like exclusive track for mountain bikes, smooth surface to facilitate
movement of kids and women and bird watching point.

The minister said the government has dismantled the networks of the terrorists
and destroyed their havens, so they had now been attacking while hiding at
different areas.

Kaira strongly condemned the killing of police and other security personnel,
media men as well as the civilians in Quetta blasts and said the victim families
will be compensated as per the set policy.

He said a fresh wave of terrorism had started as the elections were nearing and
such elements were poised to delay the polls.

He lauded the MQM's decision to stay away form the long march of Dr Tahirul
Qadri; however, he said the long marchers were supposed to protest peacefully as
it was their fundamental right.

"But if there would be any disruption, the federal government is bound to ensure
protection of people's lives and properties." To a question regarding the
shortage of petrol in Islamabad, he said the commodity fell short as the people
resorted to panic buying following a news item.

He said it was a temporary shortage in the federal capital caused by some
misunderstanding adding that no such complaints had been received from the other
cities.

Kaira lauded the role of CDA authorities for promotion of the recreational
facilities in Islamabad as they had also been striving to undo the shortcomings
in development work of the city.

He said it was pleasing that a mountain bike track had also been provided along
with the newly developed trail.

The minister said the development of such facility without spending the CDA's
money and appreciated the private companies for extending assistance in this
regard.

In a lighter vein, the information minister also suggested Tahirul Qadri to
bring his supporters to that trail for healthy walk instead of holding long
march.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0947gmt
11 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            January 11, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MANHUNT AFTER RAPE OF GIRL, 15;
Early-hours attack terror

BYLINE: David Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 389 words


A 15-YEAR-OLD girl was grabbed and raped as she walked home from a pal's house
in the early hours of the morning.

The victim was attacked and sexually assaulted on Carriden Brae in Bo'ness, West
Lothian, just after midnight yesterday.

Officers from Central Scotland Police are hunting the attacker, who is believed
to have been seen in the area just before the assault.

Detective Inspector Dougie Anderson, of Falkirk CID, said: "We are appealing for
anyone who may have seen the girl in the area to come forward.

"We are also keen to trace a man who we believe may be responsible for the
assault.

"He is described as being 5ft 5in and of slim build. He was wearing a black polo
neck-style top and dark trouser bottoms.

"Incidents of this nature are extremely rare and we urge anyone with any
information to come forward."

Officers closed the A904 Carriden Brae road after the incident to allow them to
carry out investigations around the crime scene.

It was shut in both directions from the entrance to the graveyard at Carriden
Parish Church to the junction with West Lodge House.

Forensic experts were yesterday combing the area for evidence.

The victim had been visiting friends and was walking home along the road, which
is on a steep hill, when the attacker struck.

She reported the attack to friends and police were called.

Local people took to social networking website Twitter to tell of their horror
at the incident.

Megan Jackson, @meganlucinda, tweeted: "That's horrible! I saw someone say
something happened at Carriden Brae, no far from where I stay, terrifying!

"I'm actually sickened, there's some evil people out there!" Abbie Brand,
@abbiebrand, wrote: "Carriden Brae is no a busy street, I've walked down it at
like dinner time. It's dark and not passed one person."

Nicole Allan, @_nicoleallan, said she lives near the scene of the incident, and
would be avoiding the area while the culprit was still at large.

She tweeted: "Scary how close I live to where this rape happened. Don't think
I'll even be driving up Carriden Brae for a while."

A police spokeswoman added: "We thank the public for their patience while the
road is closed to allow their investigations to be carried out."

Anyone with information can contact Central Scotland Police on 01786 456000 or
information can be given anonymously to Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INVESTIGATION J Police, some in forensic suits, carrying out a search
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 11, 2013 Friday 11:02 PM GMT

Antonio Cubillo: Activist who fought for the independence of the Canary Islands;

Years after he was attacked, courts confirmed that he was the victim of state
terrorism

BYLINE: Phil Davison

SECTION: OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 810 words


Antonio Cubillo was the founder and leader of the movement for the independence
from Spain of the Canary Islands, the Atlantic Ocean archipelago much loved by
tourists, 70 miles from Africa but 10 times as far from mainland Spain. A
lawyer, he died of an aneurysm but had spent 34 years on crutches or in a
wheelchair after being stabbed in the spine in 1978, during exile in Algiers, by
two hitmen sent by the Spanish secret services.

Spanish courts years later confirmed that he was a victim of "state terrorism";
Cubillo had opposed Franco's military rule all his life. Sentenced to six months
in prison in 1961 for demanding independence, he fled and founded his Canary
Islands independence party in Algiers in 1964. When he died he was described in
some Spanish newspapers as "the last grand figure of the Franco era" - a fact
rather than a compliment.

Although Cubillo was largely considered little more than a thorn in the flesh,
even a crank, by most mainland Spaniards, the armed wing of his group was blamed
as the catalyst for the world's deadliest aircraft collision, the crash of two
Jumbo jets on a Tenerife runway in 1977 which killed 583 people. The PanAm and
KLM planes, and other international flights, had been diverted to the
less-than-adequate Los Rodeos airport after a small bomb, planted by the armed
wing of Cubillo's group, went off in a florist's at the bigger Las Palmas
(Gando) airport on Gran Canaria. The phoned threat of a second bomb led to the
closure of the Gran Canaria airport and the diversion of all flights to Los
Rodeos, which was suddenly hit by thick fog. Cubillo always denied any direct
responsibility and preferred to blame "fate".

When Cubillo set up his Movement for the Self-Determination and Independence of
the Canarian Archipelago (MPAIAC), in Algiers in 1964, Franco was fiercely
opposed to any independence groups. Cubillo called not only for Canary Islands'
independence "from Spanish colonialism" but for political unity with the
countries of North Africa. He also called on Madrid to give up its territories
there - the enclaves Ceuta and Melilla, part of Spain to this day. "Africa
begins at Gibraltar," he used to say.

The armed wing of his party, the Fuerzas Armadas Guanches [Guanche Armed Forces]
was set up in 1976 and carried out 28 dozen small bomb attacks on Spanish
territory - in total, one policeman died - before the backlash from the Los
Rodeos disaster led to the group disbanding in 1978. It had been named after the
Guanches, the Berbers who had sailed from Africa and settled on the Canary
Islands several millennia ago. In the 15th century the islands were colonised by
Spain, which found their prevalent winds handy as a starting line for the New
World.

By the late 1970s Franco was dead, Spain was into its transition to democracy,
Spaniards had come out of the darkness of dictatorship and, including those on
the Canary Islands, mostly felt liberated. The islands were granted the status
of an "autonomous community", which would later turn them into one of the
outermost territories of the European Union. Antonio Cubillo became an
anachronism and shut down the MPAIAC, although he continued to campaign
peacefully for independence for the rest of his life. With the mediation of the
new Socialist prime minister Felipe González, he was allowed to return from
exile in the mid-1980s, with a royal pardon, and settled on Tenerife.

Antonio de León Cubillo Ferreira was born in 1930 in San Cristobal de La Laguna,
on Tenerife, and received a law degree from that town's university. Hunted by
Franco for his independence views, he chose the newly independent Algeria as his
base and won support from Algerian leaders, firstly Ahmed Ben Bella and later
Houari Boumedienne.

On 5 April 1978 two men, led by Juan Antonio Alfonso, attacked him at his home
in Algiers. They told him they had planned to bomb his car but chickened out
because his wife and children were in it. When he asked them not to shoot him,
they stabbed him, crippling him. A few years ago, he and his potential assassin
appeared together in a documentary. Alfonso said he had not been able to sleep
out of guilt for that day. Cubillo forgave him.

At Cubillo's.quiet, family-led funeral, his coffin was covered in the
independence flag - the official Canary Islands flag but with seven green stars
added by Cubillo to represent the main islands of the archipelago. As he was
buried, dozens of his supporters chanted, "The Canaries are not Spain! Viva the
free Canary Islands! Viva Cubillo!" He is survived by his wife Maria Teresa, the
French daughter of a Spanish Republican general forced into exile by Franco, and
by their sons.

Antonio Cubillo Ferreira, lawyer and independence activist: born San Cristóbal
de La Laguna, Tenerife 3 July 1930; married Maria Teresa (three sons); died
Santa Cruz de Tenerife 10 December 2012.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 11, 2013 Friday 2:22 PM GMT

Pakistani Shias refuse to bury their dead as they demand better protection;
Leaders of Pakistan's minority Shia population said they would not bury their
dead until the army was deployed to protect them, a day after terrorist attacks
killed 125 people.

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly Islamabad

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 447 words


<em class="bold">                       In the worst of the attacks, suicide
bombers killed 92 people                     </em> and wounded more than 100
when they detonated explosives in two waves at a crowded snooker hall in Quetta,
in part of the city dominated by Shia Muslims.

A banned Sunni terrorist group, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, claimed responsibility.

The scale of the attacks and the apparent inability of security forces to tackle
the threat have prompted fears that elections due to be held this spring could
be delayed, heralding a fresh crisis of political instability.

Authorities have announced three days of mourning in the south-western province
of Baluchistan.

Hundreds of Shias demonstrated outside the snooker hall on Friday to demand the
army take control of security from paramilitary forces and police, which they
accused of being unable to protect them.

They said they would not bury their dead until their demands were met as they
sat among coffins.

"The protest will continue until Quetta is handed to the army," said Hashim
Mousavi, one of the organisers from the Shia Wahdatul Muslimeen party.

"The government is either incapable of bringing the situation under control or
does not want to do anything."

In another attack in the city, a bomb exploded beneath a vehicle used by
security forces, killing 11.

And 22 people died in an attack on a religious gathering in the north-western
area of Swat, from where the Taliban were repelled in 2009.

The attacks in Quetta against the Shia Hazara community brought instant
condemnation and withering criticism of the failure of the government to stem
the killings.

"If the government has any trepidation about its failure to stem the horrific
spike in sectarian killings or the utter absence of its own writ, it has
certainly done a good job hiding that," said the Human Rights Commission of
Pakistan.

Police officers in Quetta said Thursday's attack was carried out in two phases.
A suicide bomber began the attack, detonating his explosives inside the snooker
hall.

Ten minutes later, as rescue workers and journalists flooded the scene, a car
bomb exploded, causing the building to collapse.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said: "The United Kingdom strongly
condemns these senseless attacks and the persecution of the Shia population. It
was a tragic day for Pakistan ."

Talat Masood, an analyst in Islamabad, said the unrest would make it difficult
to hold elections in the spring, as scheduled.

"It will be very problematic to hold elections. People will be reluctant to go
to the polls and political parties will have problems in organising public
rallies and corner meetings," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                      January 11, 2013 Friday 9:51 PM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACKS IN PAKISTAN

LENGTH: 148 words


LONDON, Jan. 11 -- The United Kingdom Foreign & Commonwealth Office issued the
following press release:

The Foreign Secretary William Hague has condemned yesterday's terrorist attacks
in Pakistan and sent his condolences to those affected.

Speaking today the Foreign Secretary said:

I was extremely saddened to hear of the brutal terrorist and sectarian attacks
in Quetta and Swat yesterday. My thoughts are with the families of those who
have been killed. I wish all those injured in the attacks a swift recovery. The
United Kingdom strongly condemns these senseless attacks and the persecution of
the Shia population. It was a tragic day for Pakistan. We will continue to stand
with the people of Pakistan in their fight against terror and violent extremism.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                      January 11, 2013 Friday 4:05 PM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY HAGUE CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACKS IN PAKISTAN

LENGTH: 144 words


LONDON, Jan. 11 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

The Foreign Secretary William Hague has condemned yesterday's terrorist attacks
in Pakistan and sent his condolences to those affected.

Speaking today the Foreign Secretary said:

I was extremely saddened to hear of the brutal terrorist and sectarian attacks
in Quetta and Swat yesterday. My thoughts are with the families of those who
have been killed. I wish all those injured in the attacks a swift recovery. The
United Kingdom strongly condemns these senseless attacks and the persecution of
the Shia population. It was a tragic day for Pakistan. We will continue to stand
with the people of Pakistan in their fight against terror and violent
extremism." For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 12, 2013 Saturday

Iran strongly condemns Pakistan's terror attacks

LENGTH: 181 words


Text of report by Iranian official government news agency IRNA website

Foreign Ministry Spokesman Ramin Mehmanparast strongly condemned the Thursday's
terrorist attacks on Shi'a civilians in Pakistani cities, which resulted in
death and injury of a large number of Pakistani citizens.

"The increase in the killing of Pakistani civilians in recent weeks and in
different parts of Pakistan has taken place in a coordinated and organized
manner," Mehmanparast said in Tehran late Friday.

"There is no doubt that the aim of this organized and Zionist plot is inflaming
ideological and religious differences among Pakistani people, particularly among
Shi'a and Sunni citizens of the country," he added.

Mehmanparast sympathized with the families of the victims and injured of the
terrorist incident, and called for international condemnation of this criminal
act.

The Iranian diplomat reiterated the participation of all countries and
international organizations for uprooting the ominous phenomenon of terrorism.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 2102gmt 11 Jan
13

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 12, 2013 Saturday

UK Foreign Secretary condemns terrorist attacks in Pakistan

LENGTH: 133 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 11 Jan: UK's Foreign Secretary has condemned Thursday's [10 Jan]
terrorist attacks in Pakistan and sent his condolences to the affected.

Speaking on Friday, the Foreign Secretary said: "I was extremely saddened to
hear of the brutal terrorist and sectarian attacks in Quetta and Swat on Friday.

"My thoughts are with the families of those who have been killed. I wish all
those injured in the attacks a swift recovery.

"The United Kingdom strongly condemns these senseless attacks. It was a tragic
day for Pakistan. We will continue to stand with the people of Pakistan in their
fight against terror and violent extremism," he added.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1532gmt
11 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 12, 2013 Saturday

OIC chief condemns terrorist attacks in Pakistan

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

[Unattributed report: "OIC Secretary General Strongly Condemns Terrorist Attacks
in Pakistan"]

The Secretary-General of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Prof.
Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu, has strongly condemned series of horrible terrorist
attacks on 10 January 2013 in Pakistan (in Quetta and Swat valley) which left
more than 100 people dead and wounded dozens of others.

The OIC Secretary-General expressed his heartfelt condolences to the families of
the victims, the Government and people of Pakistan and prayed for the quick
recovery of the wounded.

While reiterating his support for the Government of Pakistan in its efforts to
fighting against terrorism in all its forms, the OIC Secretary-General appealed
to the concerned authorities in Pakistan to bring perpetrators of these heinous
attacks to justice.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 12 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           January 12, 2013 Saturday

China strongly condemns terrorist attacks in Pakistan

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 153 words


BEIJING -- Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi on Friday strongly condemned a
series of terror attacks in Pakistan, which caused heavy casualties.

In a message to his Pakistani counterpart, Hina Rabbani Khar, Yang extended
profound condolences to the victims and sincere sympathy to their family members
and the injured.

China opposed terrorism of any form, he said, adding that, as an all-weather
strategic partner, China would continue to firmly support the Pakistani
government and people's efforts in safeguarding their country's stability and
countering terrorism.

Thursday marked a bloody day for Pakistan, with four blasts rocking the country,
leaving at least 116 people killed and 235 others injured.

Out of the four blasts, three hit Quetta, capital city of Pakistan's southwest
Balochistan Province, which borders Afghanistan and Iran. Another hit a
preaching center in the country's northwest district of Swat.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 13, 2013 Sunday 8:15 PM GMT

Cameron accused of putting Britain at risk of terror attack after agreeing to
help French fight Al-Qaeda militants in Mali

BYLINE: IAN DRURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 888 words


PM warned that decision to transport foreign troops and equipment to the warzone
could provoke reprisals                     He has agreed to provide two cargo
planes to fly kit and supplies to Mali                     Insisted that British
troops would not join the military mission                     France sent 550
soldiers and launched air strikes to thwart advance by Islamist rebels

David Cameron was today accused of putting Britain at risk of a terror strike
after helping France fight al Qaeda-linked militants in Mali.

The Prime Minister was warned the decision to transport foreign troops and
equipment to the warzone could provoke reprisals on UK streets.

He agreed to provide two RAF C-17 Globemaster cargo planes to the French armed
forces to fly vital kit and supplies to the west African nation.

Mr Cameron insisted that British combat troops would not join the military
mission.

France has deployed around 550 soldiers to its former colony and launched a wave
of ferocious air strikes to thwart an advance by Islamist rebels.

Western leaders fear Mali's lawless northern desert could become a haven for
terrorists to plan and launch international attacks.

Ministers stressed Britain's role would involve 'very limited strategic tactical
support' to topple the 'thoroughly unpleasant regime' which took control of a
huge swathe of Mali last April.

But the Government's intervention raised concerns it would lead to 'mission
creep' with the UK dragged deeper into the conflict and jeopardise security at
home.

Labour MP Paul Flynn said: 'We are stirring up a hornet's nest and that could
lead to retribution.

'These military interventions always start quietly and then after a while when
things don't go to plan we get sucked in, our involvement escalates and we end
up in another endless and costly war.'

Chris Nineham, of Stop The War Coalition, said: 'Unfortunately the misguided
foreign policy that led to our involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan is still
alive and well.

'The record of the last 12 years is of increasing tension, anger and hatred on
our streets and the risk of more attacks. This is no exception.'

The Ministry of Defence said the first C-17 transport plane left RAF Brize
Norton in Oxfordshire for Paris yesterday afternoon. The second was scheduled to
leave in early tomorrow morning.

Both 128tonne aircraft, flown by three aircrew, were empty and will be loaded
with 77tonnes of equipment in France. They will then fly to Mali, unload the
cargo and return home.

Britain also plans to send two Army officers to Mali as part of a European Union
mission to train local soldiers to fight against the Islamists.

UK forces also could be deployed to Ghana, Sierra Leona and Nigeria to
coordinate training, logistical and intelligence support for a 3,000-strong
African peacekeeping force.

Mr Cameron agreed to offer assistance after a phone call with French President
Francois Hollande.

Challenged over whether British involvement would increase the risk of
reprisals, Africa Minister Mark Simmonds said: 'We are only providing limited
logistical support.

'The terrorists have made their plans very clear before intervention anyway, and
before we responded to the French request.'

A senior British official suggested Sunday that UK personnel could also play a
role in training the Malian army.

Mr Simmonds later told Sky News: 'We may well, through a European Union
mechanism, provide training and support for the Malian army to give them
strength to bring back the integrity of the Malian country in totality.

'It's absolutely essential, as part of our obligations as a permanent member of
the Security Council that we provide assistance when we are requested.'

Since snatching control, the militants have enforced an extreme interpretation
of Islamic law, including conducting public floggings, amputations and the
stoning of an unmarried couple.

M. Hollande intervened following a request from Mali's president after the
Islamists drove government forces from the strategically-important town of
Konna, about 435 miles north-east of the capital Bamako.

It was recaptured following three days of fierce clashes.

Today French Mirage fighter jets and attack helicopters pounded the rebel
stronghold of Gao, a large desert city, in a surge northwards.

Hostilities have left around 100 rebels dead with reports that at least 11
civilians had been killed, including three children who drowned after jumping in
a river to escape falling bombs.

The Defence Ministry in Paris also confirmed that the pilot of a Gazelle
surveillance helicopter, named as Damien Boiteux, had died after his aircraft
was shot down by rebels.

As the military operation was launched, M. Hollande sent French commandos into
Somalia, east Africa, in a failed attempt to rescue hostage Denis Allex from al
Qaeda warlords.

French special forces swooped on the village of Bulo Marer, 50 miles from the
capital Mogadishu, under cover of darkness.

Mr Allex, a codename, was a French intelligence agent held captive by members of
militant Islamist group Al-Shabab since his kidnap in July 2009.

But the raid ended in disaster with two soldiers and Mr Allex believed to have
died in the bungled firefight. At least 17 rebels were killed.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 14, 2013 Monday 12:14 PM GMT

Cameron accused of putting Britain at risk of terror attack after agreeing to
help French fight Al-Qaeda militants in Mali

BYLINE: IAN DRURY and MATT CHORLEY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 894 words


PM warned that decision to transport foreign troops and equipment to the warzone
could provoke reprisals                     He has agreed to provide two cargo
planes to fly kit and supplies to Mali                     Cameron defends being
'first out of the blocks' to offer help                     No.10 insists
British troops would not join the military mission                     France
sent 550 soldiers and launched air strikes to thwart advance by Islamist rebels
but says mission will only last 'weeks'                     First British plane
delayed by technical fault, MoD reveals

David Cameron today defended being the 'first out of the blocks' to offer help
to France in fighting Al Qaeda-linked militants in Mali amid claims it puts
Britain at risk of a terror strike.

The Prime Minister insisted it was in Britain's interests to provide two RAF
C-17 Globemaster cargo planes to the French forces.

He has been warned that the decision to transport foreign troops and equipment
to the war zone could provoke reprisals on UK streets. Mr Cameron insisted that
British combat troops would not join the military mission to the west African
nation.

France has deployed 550 soldiers to its former colony and launched a wave of air
strikes to thwart an advance by Islamist rebels.

French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius insisted the military assault would last
'a matter of weeks'.

'Later on, we can come as back-up, but we have no intention of staying forever,'
he said, insisting it would not lead to another Afghanistan where forces have
been for more than a decade.

Western leaders fear that Mali's lawless northern desert could become a haven
for terrorists to plan and launch international attacks.

Mr Cameron insisted the mission would not involve British 'army boots' on the
ground, but spoke to French President Francois Hollande last night to offer the
C-17s because 'France is a strong ally and friend of Britain andwhat is being
done in Mali is very much in our interests'.

'There is a very dangerous Islamist regime allied to Al-Qaida in control of the
north of that country.

It was threatening the south of that country and we should support the action
that the French have taken,' the Prime Minister told BBC Radio 4's Today
programme.

Mr Cameron added: 'We were first out of the blocks, as it were, to say to the
French "we will help you, we will work with you, we will share all the
intelligence we have with you and try to help with what you are doing".'

However, the British military aircraft bound for Mali loaded with military
equipment and foreign troops was grounded due to a technical fault.

The C-17 took off from RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire yesterday and was being
loaded with military equipment at a French base last night.

It was due to leave for Mali this morning but has been delayed due to a 'minor
technical fault', a Ministry of Defence spokesman said.

Ministers said Britain's role would involve 'very limited tactical support' to
topple the 'thoroughly unpleasant regime' which took control of a huge part of
Mali last April.

Asked if the UK could play any further part in the Mali operation, Mr Cameron's
official spokesman told reporters at a regular Westminster briefing: 'We are
providing logistical assistance to the French government. It is purely a
logistical role.

'We have been very clear that this is a logistical role only. It will not be a
combat role.

'If there are other logistical and support roles that are proposed, I am sure
they will be considered.'

But Labour MP Paul Flynn said: 'We are stirring up a hornet's nest and that
could lead to retribution.'

Mr Flynn added: 'These military interventions always start quietly and then
after a while, when things don't go to plan, we get sucked in and we end up in
another endless and costly war.'

Chris Nineham, of the Stop The War Coalition, said: 'The record of the past 12
years is of increasing anger on our streets and the risk of more attacks. This
is no exception.'

The Ministry of Defence said the first C-17 transport plane left RAF Brize
Norton in Oxfordshire yesterday afternoon. The second was scheduled to leave
early today.

Both 128-ton aircraft will be loaded with 77 tons of equipment in France. They
will then fly to Mali, unload the cargo and return home.

Britain plans to send two Army officers to help train local soldiers to fight
the Islamists. Malian forces could also go to Ghana, Sierra Leona and Nigeria to
support a 3,000-strong African peace force.

Mr Cameron agreed to help after a phone call with French president Francois
Hollande. Africa Minister Mark Simmonds said: 'We are only providing limited
logistical support. The terrorists made their plans clear before intervention,
and before we responded to the French request.'

The US is also providing communications and transport and has offered armed
drones to support the mission.

As the military operation began, Mr Hollande sent French special forces into
Somalia in east Africa, in a failed attempt to rescue hostage Denis Allex from
Al Qaeda warlords.

Mr Allex and two French soldiers are believed to have died in a firefight in the
village of Bulo Marer. At least 17 rebels were killed.

Mr Allex, a codename, was a French intelligence agent held by militant Islamist
group Al-Shabaab since his kidnap in July 2009.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 14, 2013 Monday 11:56 AM GMT

Cameron accused of putting Britain at risk of terror attack after agreeing to
help French fight Al-Qaeda militants in Mali

BYLINE: IAN DRURY and MATT CHORLEY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 839 words


PM warned that decision to transport foreign troops and equipment to the warzone
could provoke reprisals                     He has agreed to provide two cargo
planes to fly kit and supplies to Mali                     Cameron defends being
'first out of the blocks' to offer help                     No.10 insists
British troops would not join the military mission                     France
sent 550 soldiers and launched air strikes to thwart advance by Islamist rebels
First British plane delayed by technical fault, MoD reveals

David Cameron today defended being the 'first out of the blocks' to offer help
to France in fighting Al Qaeda-linked militants in Mali amid claims it puts
Britain at risk of a terror strike.

The Prime Minister insisted it was in Britain's interests to provide two RAF
C-17 Globemaster cargo planes to the French forces.

He has been warned that the decision to transport foreign troops and equipment
to the war zone could provoke reprisals on UK streets. Mr Cameron insisted that
British combat troops would not join the military mission to the west African
nation.

France has deployed 550 soldiers to its former colony and launched a wave of air
strikes to thwart an advance by Islamist rebels.

Western leaders fear that Mali's lawless northern desert could become a haven
for terrorists to plan and launch international attacks.

Mr Cameron insisted the mission would not involve British 'army boots' on the
ground, but spoke to French President Francois Hollande last night to offer the
C-17s because 'France is a strong ally and friend of Britain andwhat is being
done in Mali is very much in our interests'.

'There is a very dangerous Islamist regime allied to Al-Qaida in control of the
north of that country.

It was threatening the south of that country and we should support the action
that the French have taken,' the Prime Minister told BBC Radio 4's Today
programme.

Mr Cameron added: 'We were first out of the blocks, as it were, to say to the
French "we will help you, we will work with you, we will share all the
intelligence we have with you and try to help with what you are doing".'

However, the British military aircraft bound for Mali loaded with military
equipment and foreign troops was grounded due to a technical fault.

The C-17 took off from RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire yesterday and was being
loaded with military equipment at a French base last night.

It was due to leave for Mali this morning but has been delayed due to a 'minor
technical fault', a Ministry of Defence spokesman said.

Ministers said Britain's role would involve 'very limited tactical support' to
topple the 'thoroughly unpleasant regime' which took control of a huge part of
Mali last April.

Asked if the UK could play any further part in the Mali operation, Mr Cameron's
official spokesman told reporters at a regular Westminster briefing: 'We are
providing logistical assistance to the French government. It is purely a
logistical role.

'We have been very clear that this is a logistical role only. It will not be a
combat role.

'If there are other logistical and support roles that are proposed, I am sure
they will be considered.'

But Labour MP Paul Flynn said: 'We are stirring up a hornet's nest and that
could lead to retribution.'

Mr Flynn added: 'These military interventions always start quietly and then
after a while, when things don't go to plan, we get sucked in and we end up in
another endless and costly war.'

Chris Nineham, of the Stop The War Coalition, said: 'The record of the past 12
years is of increasing anger on our streets and the risk of more attacks. This
is no exception.'

The Ministry of Defence said the first C-17 transport plane left RAF Brize
Norton in Oxfordshire yesterday afternoon. The second was scheduled to leave
early today.

Both 128-ton aircraft will be loaded with 77 tons of equipment in France. They
will then fly to Mali, unload the cargo and return home.

Britain plans to send two Army officers to help train local soldiers to fight
the Islamists. Malian forces could also go to Ghana, Sierra Leona and Nigeria to
support a 3,000-strong African peace force.

Mr Cameron agreed to help after a phone call with French president Francois
Hollande. Africa Minister Mark Simmonds said: 'We are only providing limited
logistical support. The terrorists made their plans clear before intervention,
and before we responded to the French request.'

The US is also providing communications and transport and has offered armed
drones to support the mission.

As the military operation began, Mr Hollande sent French special forces into
Somalia in east Africa, in a failed attempt to rescue hostage Denis Allex from
Al Qaeda warlords.

Mr Allex and two French soldiers are believed to have died in a firefight in the
village of Bulo Marer. At least 17 rebels were killed.

Mr Allex, a codename, was a French intelligence agent held by militant Islamist
group Al-Shabaab since his kidnap in July 2009.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 14, 2013 Monday 11:27 AM GMT

Cameron accused of putting Britain at risk of terror attack after agreeing to
help French fight Al-Qaeda militants in Mali

BYLINE: IAN DRURY and MATT CHORLEY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 750 words


PM warned that decision to transport foreign troops and equipment to the warzone
could provoke reprisals                     He has agreed to provide two cargo
planes to fly kit and supplies to Mali                     Insisted that British
troops would not join the military mission                     France sent 550
soldiers and launched air strikes to thwart advance by Islamist rebels
First British plane delayed by techinical fault

David Cameron today defended being the 'first out of the blocks' to offer help
to France in fighting Al Qaeda-linked militants in Mali amid claims it puts
Britain at risk of a terror strike.

The Prime Minister insisted it was in Britain's interests to provide two RAF
C-17 Globemaster cargo planes to the French forces.

He has been warned that the decision to transport foreign troops and equipment
to the war zone could provoke reprisals on UK streets. Mr Cameron insisted that
British combat troops would not join the military mission to the west African
nation.

France has deployed 550 soldiers to its former colony and launched a wave of air
strikes to thwart an advance by Islamist rebels.

Western leaders fear that Mali's lawless northern desert could become a haven
for terrorists to plan and launch international attacks.

Mr Cameron insisted the mission would not involve British 'army boots' on the
ground, but spoke to French President Francois Hollande last night to offer the
C-17s because 'France is a strong ally and friend of Britain andwhat is being
done in Mali is very much in our interests'.

'There is a very dangerous Islamist regime allied to Al-Qaida in control of the
north of that country.

It was threatening the south of that country and we should support the action
that the French have taken,' the Prime Minister told BBC Radio 4's Today
programme.

Mr Cameron added: 'We were first out of the blocks, as it were, to say to the
French "we will help you, we will work with you, we will share all the
intelligence we have with you and try to help with what you are doing".'

However, the British military aircraft bound for Mali loaded with military
equipment and foreign troops was grounded due to a technical fault.

The C-17 took off from RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire yesterday and was being
loaded with military equipment at a French base last night.

It was due to leave for Mali this morning but has been delayed due to a 'minor
technical fault', a Ministry of Defence spokesman said.

Ministers said Britain's role would involve 'very limited tactical support' to
topple the 'thoroughly unpleasant regime' which took control of a huge part of
Mali last April.

But Labour MP Paul Flynn said: 'We are stirring up a hornet's nest and that
could lead to retribution.'

Mr Flynn added: 'These military interventions always start quietly and then
after a while, when things don't go to plan, we get sucked in and we end up in
another endless and costly war.'

Chris Nineham, of the Stop The War Coalition, said: 'The record of the past 12
years is of increasing anger on our streets and the risk of more attacks. This
is no exception.'

The Ministry of Defence said the first C-17 transport plane left RAF Brize
Norton in Oxfordshire yesterday afternoon. The second was scheduled to leave
early today.

Both 128-ton aircraft will be loaded with 77 tons of equipment in France. They
will then fly to Mali, unload the cargo and return home.

Britain plans to send two Army officers to help train local soldiers to fight
the Islamists. Malian forces could also go to Ghana, Sierra Leona and Nigeria to
support a 3,000-strong African peace force.

Mr Cameron agreed to help after a phone call with French president Francois
Hollande. Africa Minister Mark Simmonds said: 'We are only providing limited
logistical support. The terrorists made their plans clear before intervention,
and before we responded to the French request.'

The US is also providing communications and transport and has offered armed
drones to support the mission.

As the military operation began, Mr Hollande sent French special forces into
Somalia in east Africa, in a failed attempt to rescue hostage Denis Allex from
Al Qaeda warlords.

Mr Allex and two French soldiers are believed to have died in a firefight in the
village of Bulo Marer. At least 17 rebels were killed.

Mr Allex, a codename, was a French intelligence agent held by militant Islamist
group Al-Shabaab since his kidnap in July 2009.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 14, 2013 Monday 9:38 AM GMT

Cameron accused of putting Britain at risk of terror attack after agreeing to
help French fight Al-Qaeda militants in Mali

BYLINE: IAN DRURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 670 words


PM warned that decision to transport foreign troops and equipment to the warzone
could provoke reprisals                     He has agreed to provide two cargo
planes to fly kit and supplies to Mali                     Insisted that British
troops would not join the military mission                     France sent 550
soldiers and launched air strikes to thwart advance by Islamist rebels

David Cameron today defended being the 'first out of the blocks' to offer help
to France in fighting Al Qaeda-linked militants in Mali amid claims it puts
Britain at risk of a terror strike.

The Prime Minister insisted it was in Britain's interests to provide two RAF
C-17 Globemaster cargo planes to the French forces.

He has been warned that the decision to transport foreign troops and equipment
to the war zone could provoke reprisals on UK streets. Mr Cameron insisted that
British combat troops would not join the military mission to the west African
nation.

France has deployed 550 soldiers to its former colony and launched a wave of air
strikes to thwart an advance by Islamist rebels.

Western leaders fear that Mali's lawless northern desert could become a haven
for terrorists to plan and launch international attacks.

Mr Cameron insisted the mission would not involve British 'army boots' on the
ground, but spoke to French President Francois Hollande last night to offer the
C-17s because 'France is a strong ally and friend of Britain andwhat is being
done in Mali is very much in our interests'.

'There is a very dangerous Islamist regime allied to Al-Qaida in control of the
north of that country.

It was threatening the south of that country and we should support the action
that the French have taken,' the Prime Minister told BBC Radio 4's Today
programme.

Mr Cameron added: 'We were first out of the blocks, as it were, to say to the
French "we will help you, we will work with you, we will share all the
intelligence we have with you and try to help with what you are doing".'

Ministers said Britain's role would involve 'very limited tactical support' to
topple the 'thoroughly unpleasant regime' which took control of a huge part of
Mali last April.

But Labour MP Paul Flynn said: 'We are stirring up a hornet's nest and that
could lead to retribution.'

Mr Flynn added: 'These military interventions always start quietly and then
after a while, when things don't go to plan, we get sucked in and we end up in
another endless and costly war.'

Chris Nineham, of the Stop The War Coalition, said: 'The record of the past 12
years is of increasing anger on our streets and the risk of more attacks. This
is no exception.'

The Ministry of Defence said the first C-17 transport plane left RAF Brize
Norton in Oxfordshire yesterday afternoon. The second was scheduled to leave
early today.

Both 128-ton aircraft will be loaded with 77 tons of equipment in France. They
will then fly to Mali, unload the cargo and return home.

Britain plans to send two Army officers to help train local soldiers to fight
the Islamists. Malian forces could also go to Ghana, Sierra Leona and Nigeria to
support a 3,000-strong African peace force.

Mr Cameron agreed to help after a phone call with French president Francois
Hollande. Africa Minister Mark Simmonds said: 'We are only providing limited
logistical support. The terrorists made their plans clear before intervention,
and before we responded to the French request.'

The US is also providing communications and transport and has offered armed
drones to support the mission.

As the military operation began, Mr Hollande sent French special forces into
Somalia in east Africa, in a failed attempt to rescue hostage Denis Allex from
Al Qaeda warlords.

Mr Allex and two French soldiers are believed to have died in a firefight in the
village of Bulo Marer. At least 17 rebels were killed.

Mr Allex, a codename, was a French intelligence agent held by militant Islamist
group Al-Shabaab since his kidnap in July 2009.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 15, 2013 Tuesday

Greek communist leader condemns terrorism, bomb attacks

LENGTH: 389 words


Text of report by government-affiliated Greek news agency ANA-MPA website

[Unattributed report: "KKE Leader: 'We Condemn Individual Terrorism and Bomb
Attacks, but the Issue is Where They are Targeted at and From Where They
Originate'"]

"Condemnation is self-evident, such actions are not at expression of displeasure
or punishment, while today's episode indicates an escalation," Communist Party
of Greece (KKE) leader Aleka Papariga said Monday [ 14 January] morning on
private MEGA television station, referring to a pre-dawn armed attack against
the New Democracy (ND) headquarters in Athens.

Referring to an early morning statement by ND secretary Michalis Kefaloyannis
[Kefalogiannis] calling for condemnation of "violence by the extremes and
extreme actions", she said that ND would do better to "seek out the purpose of
such actions", adding that the KKE does not align itself with the exploitation
of such actions to "put the popular indignation into one bag". She said that
some quarters are speaking of violence "and each one means whatever he wants,
given that they consider the strikes and guarding of the strikes, including
struggles, as violence".

"We condemn individual terrorism and bomb attacks, but the issue at hand is
where they are aimed and from where the originate, and in addition we do not
care about who 'signs' (with 'revolutionary' names)," Papariga continued, adding
that "the issue occupies us greatly, as there is interest in putting the people
in a plaster cast".

She said that the clash between ND and main opposition SYRIZA [Coalition of the
Radical Left] was "ridiculous" and reproduces a two-party clash, adding that
"the harsh clash should be over the content of policy and its substance", and
opined that ND and SYRIZA do not have major differences.

On the Lagarde list, she said that this confirmed that capital and profits
existed that are produced in Greece and that stagnant capital also existed that
could not find a field of investment for more profit. "There will be some kind
of recovery, but its cycle will include the sperm of the next, deeper crisis,"
Papariga predicted, adding that any recovery will b accompanied by cheap labor
and elastic relations of non-permanent work for the working people.

Source: Athens News Agency-Macedonian Press Agency website, Athens, in English
0957gmt 14 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 15, 2013 Tuesday

Pakistan TV show says recent terror attacks show diminishing government writ

LENGTH: 852 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1705 GMT on 10 January airs live
regularly scheduled "Today With Kamran Khan" program. Noted Pakistani journalist
Kamran Khan reviews, discusses and analyzes major day-to-day developments with
government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and prominent analysts
in Geo TV's flagship program.

Program: "Today With Kamran Khan"

Reception: Good

Duration: 1 hour

Khan reads out headlines:

Deadliest bomb attacks kill dozens of people in Swat, Karachi, Quetta

Preparations for Tahirul Qadri's long march enter the final phase

India again violates ceasefire on Line of Control [LoC]

Muttahida Qaumi Movement [MQM] Chief Altaf Hussain finally launches his
political drone attack

Government is going to bar Tahirul Qadri's entry to Islamabad

Karachi police arrest father of Shahrukh Jatoi, the prime suspect of Shahzeb
murder case.

Segment I

Khan says that the terrorist attacks are continuously taking place throughout
Pakistan, which show that writ of the government is diminishing, as dozens of
people were killed and over 200 injured in three attacks in the restive
provinces of Balochistan and Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa [KPK], marking a sharp spurt in
terrorist violence ahead of the country's next general election. Khan adds that
22 people were killed and nearly 70 others injured in a suicide attack at a
Tablighi Markaz [preaching centre] near Mingora in Swat.

Khan establishes video contact with Geo News correspondent Essa Khankhel and
asks him why "peaceful people" of Tablighi Jamaat have been attacked in Swat.
Khankhel replies that the terrorists do not differentiate between peaceful or
violent people, as they kill everyone who comes in their way to create fear and
panic. Khankhel says that head of suicide bomber has been recovered from the
site of the bomb explosion.

Khan says that the terrorist attacks, long march of Tahirul Qadri, and repeated
violations of ceasefire by India on LoC have tightened the noose around the
government and it appears that various elements are attempting to topple the
government intentionally or unintentionally.

Segment II

Khan says that MQM Chief Altaf Hussain has finally launched his "political drone
attack" by delivering a speech, wherein he tried to prove through different
documents that founder of Pakistan Muhammad Ali Jinnah was loyal to British
Kingdom.

Khan plays a video, wherein Altaf Hussain says that Muhammad Ali Jinnah was not
a citizen of Pakistan, but he was loyal to British Kingdom.

Khan says that Altaf Hussain also made it clear in his speech that his party
will support Tahirul Qadri's long march. Khan adds that Altaf Hussain, in his
speech, has tried to prove British nationality of founder of Pakistan Muhammad
Ali Jinnah, only to defend his own dual nationality along with dual nationality
of Dr Tahirul Qadri.

Khan plays video, wherein Altaf Hussain sings different songs of Urdu movies for
amusement of his audience.

Segment III

Khan says that government has suddenly decided that it will not allow Dr Tahirul
Qadri's rally to enter Islamabad Capital Territory [ICT], without permission
from the city administration, owing to security concerns.

Khan plays a video, wherein Interior Minister Rehman Malik, after a high-level
meeting at the Ministry of Interior, says that the government cannot allow
Qadri's march in Islamabad. Khan says Malikn took a U-turn on the issue of long
march even though he had promised to facilitate the rally during his meeting
with Qadri in Lahore.

Khan says that leaders of main political parties participated in an
extraordinary meeting, which was arranged by Supreme Court Bar Association
[SCBA] in Islamabad and pledged that they would not let anyone to "//derail//"
democracy in the country. Khan adds that the political leaders passed a
resolution to support democracy, besi des demanding general elections on time.

Khan plays a video, wherein Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz [PML-N] President Mian
Nawaz Sharif, while hinting at the attitude of MQM and PML-Q leaders, says that
dual policies of political leaders have brought the country to a brink of
destruction.

Khan plays another video showing political leaders, including Information
Minister Qamar Zaman Kaira, president of Pakhtunkhwa Milli Awami Party [PKMAP]
Mehmood Khan Achakzai, and senior leader of Awami National Party [ANP] Afrasiab
Khan Khattack pledging their support to democratic process in the country.

Segment IV

Khan says that the Supreme Court has given two more weeks to police for arrest
of prime suspect of Shahzeb murder case, Shahrukh Jatoi, while police have
arrested the suspect's father from premises of the court, where he had appeared
to get bail before arrest. Khan says that the action of police has so far proved
that police officials are showing some activity regarding the case, only because
of pressure of the court.

Khan plays a video, wherein PML-N President Mian Nawaz Sharif strongly
criticizes police officials for not taking action against the culprits, involved
in Shahzeb murder before suo moto action of the court.

Khan concludes the program.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1705gmt 10 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 15, 2013 Tuesday

Iraqi MP killed in terrorist attack

LENGTH: 67 words


Text of report by Iraqi government-controlled Al-Iraqiyah TV on 15 January

As of 1142 gmt on 15 January, Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Satellite Television in Arabic
was observed to carry the following "breaking news" as a screen captions:

"The martyrdom of MP Ayfan al-Isawi in a terrorist attack using an explosive
belt in the centre of Al-Fallujah city."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1142 gmt 15 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 15, 2013 Tuesday

Ethiopian court sentences "terror" suspects for plotting attacks

LENGTH: 170 words


Text of report by state-owned Ethiopian TV on 15 January

The [Ethiopian] Federal High Court has sentenced terror suspects who were
charged in the Hasan Jarso case, and who were members of the Somalia-based
terror groups and were plotting to carry out terror attacks in Ethiopia, to jail
terms of between three and 20 years.

The court, in its session today, sentenced the eighth defendant, Mr Abdulrahman
Husayn, in absentia to 20 years in prison from the day he will be arrested.

The first defendant, Mr Hasan Jarso [a Kenyan], was sentenced to 17 years
imprisonment.

The second defendant, Mr Umar Hamza, was sentenced to 13 years imprisonment with
a 5,000 birr [about 275 US dollars] fine, and Mr Muhammad Qasim was also been
sentenced to 12 years in prison and a 5,000 birr fine.

The sixth, seventh, ninth, 10th and 11th defendants have been sentenced in
absentia to 14 years imprisonment from the day they are arrested, a report from
the Ministry of Justice said.

Source: Ethiopian TV, Addis Ababa, in Amharic 1700 gmt 15 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 16, 2013 Wednesday

Turkey condemns terror attack in Iraqi city

LENGTH: 206 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia)

ANKARA (AA) -Turkey has condemned Tuesday's [15 January] attack in the Iraqi
city of Fallujah that targeted Ayfan Sadoun al-Issawi, a Sunni member of the
parliament.

In a written statement released on Tuesday, the Turkey Ministry of Foreign
Affairs said, "Turkey strongly condemns this attack and wishes God's mercy on
those killed, offers condolences to the families of the victims."

Recalling that the attack came just days after the Sunni finance minister, Rafie
al-Issawi, survived an assassination attempt as he was heading to the same city,
the statement said that both attacks were aimed to hurt unity and solidarity of
the Iraqi people.

The statement said that Turkey expected those responsible for the attack would
be brought to justice in shortest possible time.

"We will continue to act in solidarity with the people of Iraq in their fight
against terrorism," the statement said.

A suicide bomber blew himself up as al-Issawi inspected a road being constructed
south of Fallujah. At least two of his bodyguards were also killed in the
attack.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency, Ankara, in English 1736
gmt 15 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 16, 2013 Wednesday

Syrian ministry urges UN to condemn "terrorist" attack on Allepo students

LENGTH: 233 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Foreign and Expatriates Ministry Calls on UN and UNSC Member States to Condemn
Massacre against Alep..." - SANA Headline]

Jan 16, 2013

(SANA) -DAMASCUS, (SANA) -Foreign and Expatriates Ministry on Wednesday called
upon the UN and the UN Security Council member states to condemn the terrorist
crimes in Syria, including the massacre committed against Aleppo University
students, employees and citizens who resort to it.

Addressing two identical letters to the President of the UN Security Council and
the UN Secretary General, the ministry said that the victims of the terrorist
attack against the University of Aleppo are students who were on their first day
of exams and they have no guilt but that they are continuing their educational
attainment and prepare themselves to take part in their country's progress and
building its future.

The Ministry added that Syria calls upon the member states of the UN and the UN
Security Council to condemn the terrorist crimes in Syria, including the
massacre committed against Aleppo University students, employees and citizens
who resorted to the university as there remains no excuse for states which are
practicing double standards and supporting terrorism in Syria while they condemn
it in another place.

More to follow......

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 16 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     January 16, 2013 Wednesday 5:54 PM GMT

'Several Britons' in terror attack

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 366 words


Several British nationals have been caught up in a terrorist attack on an oil
facility in Algeria, Downing Street has said.

UK sources were unable to confirm local reports that one Briton has died in the
incident, at a BP oilfield near the border with Libya.

An Islamist militant group has claimed to have kidnapped up to 41 foreigners -
including seven Americans - in a dawn raid on the facility in retaliation for
France's intervention in neighbouring Mali.

But the situation on the ground remains unclear and it is thought that
authorities fear the number involved may be even higher.

Prime Minister David Cameron chaired a 45-minute meeting of Whitehall's Cobra
emergency committee, at which ministers were updated on the developing
situation.

Speaking after the meeting, Mr Cameron's official spokesman said: "The ongoing
incident has involved various nationalities, including several British
nationals. We are working with BP to support the families of staff and provide
consular assistance."

Heavily armed gunmen in vehicles are reported to have stormed the energy site in
In Amenas, in the east of the African country, at around 2am, taking a group of
up to 20 international workers hostage. It is understood at least some of the
captive workers were being kept in their own living quarters at the compound and
were being allowed access to telephone and email.

Mr Cameron's spokesman declined to give precise details of the numbers of
Britons believed to be involved in what he said was a "highly sensitive"
situation, or whether any of them have been kidnapped or injured. He was unable
to confirm reports from Algeria's official news agency APS, attributed to
provincial authorities, that a Briton was among two people killed in the attack,
with the other fatality understood to be French.

A news agency in the Saharan state of Mauritania was contacted by the militant
group Katibat Moulathamine - "The Masked Ones" - with a claim that the attack
was carried out by one of its affiliates, identified as "Those who sign their
names in blood".

A spokesman for the Katibat told the Sahara Media Agency that 41 Westerners of
nine or 10 nationalities had been taken hostage, including seven Americans.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     January 16, 2013 Wednesday 4:34 PM GMT

Briton 'killed' in terror attack

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 285 words


A British national caught up in a terrorist attack in Algeria has been killed,
according to local reports.

The Foreign Office said UK workers are involved in the incident at a BP oilfield
near the border with Libya but officials could not confirm reports of the
killing.

A 36-year-old Irishman is among the group of workers taken hostage in the early
hours by a group claiming to be al Qaida but is believed to be unharmed.

APS, the country's state news agency, said the Briton was the second person to
die.

A French national is reported to have been killed during the raid, which comes
after militant Islamists vowed to retaliate for France's military intervention,
supported by British military equipment, against rebels in Mali.

Prime Minister David Cameron is chairing a meeting of the Government's crisis
committee Cobra on the terror attack, which is being attended by ministers from
the Foreign Office and the Ministry of Defence.

Ireland's Tanaiste (deputy prime minister) Eamon Gilmore has called for the
immediate release of the Irish hostage.

He said: "The Government stands ready to use all the resources available to us
to ensure that our citizen is released as soon as possible. I would ask that the
family be allowed privacy at this difficult time."

Heavily-armed gunmen in vehicles are reported to have stormed the energy site in
In Amenas, in the east of the African country, taking a group of up to 20
international workers hostage.

It is understood at least some of the captive workers were being kept in their
own living quarters at the compound and were being allowed access to telephone
and email. The natural gas complex is a joint venture of BP, Norway's Statoil
and the Algerian Sonatrach company.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     January 16, 2013 Wednesday 3:34 PM GMT

Britons in gas field terror attack

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 292 words


British nationals have been caught up in a terrorist incident at a gas field in
Algeria where several workers, including an Irishman, have been taken hostage.

Two people are reported to have been killed in the incident but it is understood
the 36-year-old married man, from Northern Ireland, is unharmed.

Foreign Office officials in London have confirmed that more than one British
national is "caught up" in the terrorist attack on the BP site and Prime
Minister David Cameron is to chair a meeting of the Government's crisis
committee Cobra on the incident.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "We can confirm that British nationals are
caught up in a terrorist incident ongoing near the town of In Amenas at an oil
installation near the Algerian border with Libya. The British embassy in Algiers
is liaising with local authorities."

Ireland's deputy prime minister Eamon Gilmore has called for the Irishman's
immediate release.

"The Government stands ready to use all the resources available to us to ensure
that our citizen is released as soon as possible," he said. "I would ask that
the family be allowed privacy at this difficult time."

Dublin's Department of Foreign Affairs said it was providing consular assistance
to the family and was in close contact with its international partners and a
wide range of other contacts in order to establish the facts of the situation.

The emergency British Cobra meeting will be attended by ministers from the
Foreign Office and Ministry of Defence as well as officials from other agencies.

No family hotline has been set up for the incident because the number of British
nationals involved is "very small", according to officials.

The Foreign Office said it is working with BP to support the families of those
involved.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     January 16, 2013 Wednesday 9:56 AM GMT

Helicopter crashes near River Thames in central London;
'It was extremely scary... I thought it was a terrorist attack'

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 503 words


Two people died today when a helicopter crashed into a crane near the River
Thames at Vauxhall in central London and cartwheeled to the ground.

The stricken aircraft exploded into flames after hitting the crane, on top of a
tower block by the River Thames, before crashing into a street during rush hour.

Burning wreckage and aviation fuel covered the road as witnesses reported seeing
cars on fire and hearing people screaming.

The Metropolitan Police said two people died at the scene and two had been taken
to hospital.

There were reports that the helicopter was flying across London from Gatwick to
Elstree. It is believed that there were two people on board at the time.

Scotland Yard said: "Two people have been confirmed dead at the scene. We have
no further details. Two have been taken to south London hospital. We await a
condition update.

"We will confirm further details on the incident as soon as possible."

Fire and rescue services were inundated with emergency calls as witnesses
described the scene.

The aircraft appeared to have hit a crane on a newly-built tower block on the
south bank of the Thames. It crashed close to a railway line and a branch of
Sainsbury's.

London Fire Brigade confirmed that the crane at the St George's Wharf
development appeared to have been left "in a precarious position".

Video footage shot on a mobile phone showed an entire road blocked by burning
wreckage and aviation fuel.

The side of a building on one side of the street was also damaged by the flames.

Passers-by stood watching as the wreckage burned. A motorcycle was also lying on
its side in the road where it was abandoned.

The crane was on top of a building called The Tower, in the St George Wharf
development, and is billed to be one of Europe's tallest residential towers.

The building is only a few hundred metres from MI6 and is situated on a busy
roundabout.

Paul Ferguson, who was working in an office near the incident, told BBC News:
"There was a flash and the helicopter plunged to the ground. It exploded and you
can imagine the smoke coming out of it.

"It may be that on this misty morning the lights on nearby St George Tower
weren't on and it moved and clipped the edge of the crane and lost control."

Eyewitness Chris Matthison told BBC News: "There was some damage to the crane.
The top of the nearest building is steeped in mist and difficult to see."

He added: "I heard a very unusual dull thud, then there was silence."

London Ambulance Service said two patients were taken to nearby St Thomas's
Hospital with "minor injuries".

A spokesman said: "At 8am today we received a number of calls to reports of a
helicopter crash on Wandsworth Road.

"We have sent a motorcycle responder, seven ambulance crews, our hazardous area
response team, the air ambulance's medical team in a car and four officers to
the scene, with the first crew arriving in under four minutes.

"Sadly two people have been confirmed dead at the scene.

"We have treated two patients for minor injuries and they were taken to St
Thomas's Hospital."

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     January 16, 2013 Wednesday 9:34 AM GMT

Helicopter crashes near River Thames in central London;
'It was extremely scary... I thought it was a terrorist attack'

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 828 words


A helicopter crashed near the River Thames at Vauxhall in central London today
after hitting a crane on top of a tower block.

Two people have been confirmed dead.

The stricken aircraft cartwheeled to the ground and exploded into flames before
crashing into a street during the rush hour.

Burning wreckage and aviation fuel covered the road as eyewitnesses reported
seeing cars on fire and hearing people screaming.

The Metropolitan Police confirmed that the helicopter had come down. London Fire
Brigade said the crash happened near Wandsworth Road in South Lambeth.

Fire and rescue services said they were taking "lots of emergency calls" as
eyewitnesses described seeing grey smoke towering into the sky, close to
Battersea Bridge.

Some took to Twitter to report details.

One said the aircraft appeared to have hit a crane on a newly-built tower block
on the south bank of the Thames. It crashed close to a railway line and a branch
of Sainsbury's.

London Fire Brigade confirmed that the crane at the St George's Wharf
development appeared to have been left "in a precarious position".

Video footage shot on a mobile phone showed an entire road blocked by burning
wreckage and aviation fuel.

The side of a building on one side of the street was also damaged by the flames.

Passers-by stood watching as the wreckage burned. A motorcycle was also lying on
its side in the road where it was abandoned.

Commuter Sherna Noah described seeing a "large plume of dark grey smoke" as she
crossed Battersea Bridge at around 8am.

She said: "I was coming across the bridge and basically I could see a few
cyclists on the bridge looking towards the water.

"I looked over to see what they were looking at and could see a pall of grey
smoke coming from the south side.

"You could see a large plume of dark grey smoke."

A woman who answered the phone at the London Heliport, in Battersea, would not
comment on the fire.

The incident caused gridlock as roads were closed at the height of the rush
hour.

Visibility was apparently low with London City Airport in Docklands reporting
delays. The top of the tower block was obscured by mist.

Paul Ferguson, who was working in an office near the incident, told BBC News:
"There was a flash and the helicopter plunged to the ground. It exploded and you
can imagine the smoke coming out of it.

"It was probably heading from the nearby heliport. It may be that on this misty
morning the lights on nearby St George's Tower weren't on and it moved and
clipped the edge of the crane and lost control."

Eyewitness Chris Matthison told BBC News: "There was some damage to the crane.
It's possible the crane is lying across Nine Elms road.

"The top of the nearest building is steeped in mist and difficult to see."

He added: "I heard a very unusual dull thud, then there was silence. The silence
really took my imagination. Emergency services responded very quickly."

Erin Rogers was waiting at a bus stop outside Vauxhall station.

He said: "It was a bit surreal actually. I just had a coffee in my hand, I
looked up, heard a bang and saw bits of crane debris falling to the floor.

"Then the helicopter was in flames. The rest of the people at the bus station
were looking on going 'What was that?'.

"It's something I will never forget for a long time."

Sarah-Beth Casey lives in an apartment near the incident.

She told Sky News: "You're always worried about things like 9/11 and things like
that. I have three small children with me in the flat. It's one of your fears
that something like this can happen.

"When I heard the explosion - it was like a little earthquake."

She went on: "It was like a gas explosion. I looked up to see debris falling off
the tower."

She added: "I can't see any people on the ground, it seems to be a lucky escape.
The police and ambulance response was incredible."

Matt Haverson was doing construction work on railway arches near the incident.
He said there was a good "pull together" with people attempting to extinguish
small fires and escort other people away.

He said: "It was extremely scary... I obviously thought it was a terrorist
attack."

The crane was on top of a building called The Tower, in the St George Wharf
development, and is billed to be one of Europe's tallest residential towers.

The building is only a few hundred metres from MI6 and is situated on a busy
roundabout.

Eyewitness Michael Gavin saw the accident while he was standing at Vauxhall
station.

"I was facing the building when it happened and I heard a loud bang," he told
BBC News.

"The top of the crane was actually obscured by fog so I didn't see the impact.
But I heard a bang and saw the body of the helicopter falling to the ground
along with pieces of the crane and then a large plume of smoke afterwards."

Vauxhall Underground station, on the Victoria line, was closed, leading to
disruption to services on the line.

Road congestion spread out from the scene of the crash - reaching Clapham,
Kennington, Wandsworth, Lambeth and Battersea.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           January 16, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MOB OF 40 MEN ATTACK CURRY HOUSE;
TERROR: DINERS FLEE FROM RAMPAGE WHICH LEAVES MAN FIGHTING FOR HIS LIFE ; Shock
as 40 yobs target restaurant

BYLINE: PETER WARZYNSKI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 595 words


Diners at an Indian restaurant were forced to flee in fear after a mob of about
40 thugs ransacked the venue, smashing windows and doors and assaulting people
inside.

The attack happened at the Moghul Durbar restaurant, in Spinney Hills,
Leicester, at about 9pm on Monday.

Six people were taken to Leicester Royal Infirmary and three men remained in
hospital last night - one in a critical condition.

Police have arrested six men in connection with the incident.

CCTV footage taken by a nearby business shows about 40 men running from a nearby
side street and going into the restaurant through the front door.

It takes almost a minute for the large group to squeeze inside the restaurant,
in East Park Road.

Some of them can then be seen running out and smashing the front windows before
disappearing down the same side street. Witnesses yesterday described seeing
people running from the scene with blood streaming from their faces.

Fast food worker Saif Butt, 18, from Royal Chicken and Pizza, a takeaway shop
across the road, was working as the chaos spilled out on to the street.

"We were pretty busy, so I didn't see it at first," he said. "Then a big group
of people ran past and some people were bleeding from the side of their faces -
blood was running down their cheeks.

"Other people were bleeding from their bodies, around their chests. They looked
frightened and some of them were crying."

The attack lasted five minutes, and traders said it was one of the worst
incidents of violence they had seen in the area.

Ashraf Sidat, 32, owner of fast food shop Toro's Express, next door to Moghul
Durbar, said: "I was talking to the staff who were on last night and they said
it was crazy. "A massive group of lads ran into the kitchen next door.

"It's only just been taken over and redecorated. The new guy has only been there
for about four weeks. "You don't expect it in this area, nothing like this has
ever happened before." Bilkis Shakh, owner of Seam Line Tailors, opposite the
restaurant, said: "I've heard a lot of rumours about what went on. We obviously
weren't open, but it sounded awful. "We've only just opened ourselves but I've
never heard of anything like this happening." The owner of the CCTV camera which
supplied the footage - who asked not to be named - said: "I just don't
understand how they thought they could get away with it when the police station
is so close. "We know the owners and they're really nice guys - it's horrible to
think something like this has happened to them. "The footage shows people
running around, there's so many of them, it's crazy." Police said they would not
be releasing the CCTV images. However, they did call for witnesses to come
forward and identify members of the group. Detective Inspector Simon Preston
said: "We have had a team of officers working on this incident and already have
six people arrested. "However, that doesn't mean that we don't still need
witnesses to come forward."

A section of East Park Road outside the restaurant remained cordoned off
yesterday while forensic officers carried out their examinations. Police said
officers would be patrolling the area to reassure members of the community.
Chief Superintendant Rob Nixon, police commander for the city, said: "I would
like to reassure the community in the East Park Road area that we are treating
this incident very seriously." The Mercury was unable to contact the owners of
the Moghul Durbar restaurant yesterday. ¦ Anyone with any information should
call police on 101. Alternatively, contact Crimestoppers, which is anonymous, on
0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PICTURE: ANDY BAKER WRECKAGE: Police outside the smashed-up premises
yesterday
CHAOS: A glimpse inside the vandalised restaurant yesterday afternoon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2013 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         PA Newswire: Northern Ireland

                     January 16, 2013 Wednesday 4:25 PM BST

'SEVERAL BRITONS' IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Sam Lister, Brian Hutton and Andrew Woodcock, Press Association

SECTION: PA Newswire: Ireland

LENGTH: 984 words


``Several'' British nationals have been caught up in a terrorist attack on an
oil facility in Algeria, Downing Street said today.

UK sources were unable to confirm local reports that one Briton has died in the
incident, at a BP oilfield near the border with Libya.

An Islamist militant group has claimed to have kidnapped up to 41 foreigners -
including seven Americans - in a dawn raid on the facility in retaliation for
France's intervention in neighbouring Mali.

But the situation on the ground remains unclear and it is thought that
authorities fear the number involved may be even higher.

Prime Minister David Cameron chaired a 45-minute meeting of Whitehall's Cobra
emergency committee today, at which ministers were updated on the developing
situation.

Speaking after the meeting, Mr Cameron's official spokesman said: ``The ongoing
incident has involved various nationalities, including several British
nationals.

``We are working with BP to support the families of staff and provide consular
assistance.''

Heavily armed gunmen in vehicles are reported to have stormed the energy site in
In Amenas, in the east of the African country, at around 2am, taking a group of
up to 20 international workers hostage.

It is understood at least some of the captive workers were being kept in their
own living quarters at the compound and were being allowed access to telephone
and email.

The natural gas complex is a joint venture of BP, Norway's Statoil and the
Algerian Sonatrach company.

Mr Cameron's spokesman declined to give precise details of the numbers of
Britons believed to be involved in what he said was a ``highly sensitive''
situation, or whether any of them have been kidnapped or injured.

He was unable to confirm reports from Algeria's official news agency APS,
attributed to provincial authorities, that a Briton was among two people killed
in the attack, with the other fatality understood to be French.

Mr Cameron will speak to his Algerian counterpart Abdelmalek Sellal later today.

Downing Street said that it was ``too early to speculate'' on the motive for the
attack, or whether it was linked to French support - backed by the UK - for
Mali's government in its fight against Islamist forces which have occupied the
north of the country.

The Foreign Office said UK workers are involved in the incident but officials
could not confirm reports of the killing.

A 36-year-old Irishman is among the group of workers taken hostage in the early
hours by a group claiming to be al Qaida but is believed to be unharmed.

Ireland's Tanaiste (deputy prime minister) Eamon Gilmore has called for the
immediate release of the Irish hostage.

``The Government stands ready to use all the resources available to us to ensure
that our citizen is released as soon as possible,'' he said.

``I would ask that the family be allowed privacy at this difficult time.''

A news agency in the Saharan state of Mauritania was contacted by the militant
group Katibat Moulathamine - ``The Masked Ones'' - with a claim that today's
attack was carried out by one of its affiliates, identified as ``Those who sign
their names in blood''.

A spokesman for the Katibat told the Sahara Media Agency that 41 Westerners of
nine or 10 nationalities had been taken hostage, including seven Americans.

Five foreigners were being held in a factory, while 36 others were in living
quarters at the plant, claimed the spokesman, who said the action was carried
out in retaliation for Algeria allowing France to use its airspace to carry out
raids on northern Mali.

The Algerian Interior Ministry said in a statement that three vehicles carrying
heavily armed men attempted to ambush a bus carrying employees from the plant to
the airport of In Amenas early this morning, but the attackers were driven off.

``After their failed attempt, the terrorist group headed to the complex's living
quarters and took a number of workers with foreign nationalities hostage,'' said
the statement.

``The forces of the People's National Army and security services arrived at the
scene and immediately took all necessary measures to make the area secure and
seek a rapid resolution of the situation, which is being very closely followed
by the national authorities.''

BP said in a statement that there was ``an ongoing security incident'' at the In
Amenas gas field, about 1,300km from the capital Algiers. The facility was
``attacked and occupied by a group of unidentified armed people'' at about 5am
UK time, said the company.

BP said: ``Contact with the site is extremely difficult, but we understand that
armed individuals are still occupying the In Amenas operations site.

``Our absolute priority is the safety and security of our staff. The site is
normally manned by staff and contractors from the joint venture.

``We do not yet have confirmed information on the status of personnel at the
site but believe some are being held by the occupiers.

``We are attempting to get confirmed information at the moment as to whether
there have been any injuries to personnel at the site.

``We do not have confirmed information on the identity or intention of the
people occupying the site.''

BP said it had activated its emergency response system and was contacting
relatives of its people on the site.

The attack happened as EU foreign ministers were preparing to meet tomorrow in
Brussels to discuss plans to send a 400-strong military training mission to
Mali.

Europe Minister David Lidington said that Britain could make a ``small
contribution'' to the mission but stressed that it would not be involved in
combat operations.

``The EU training mission is an entirely distinct initiative from the French-led
military response,'' he told a Commons committee on Europe, adding that it would
terminate after 15 months.

``It remains a clearly bound and time-limited project. It is not ill-defined or
prone to mission creep.

``The training mission is not mandated to take part in combat.''

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2013 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday

Syrian military condemns ''terrorist attack'' in Aleppo University

LENGTH: 222 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["General Command of the Army: The Criminal Act against Aleppo University a
Revenge against People of ..." - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) The General Command of the army and Armed Forces said that the
armed terrorist groups committed yesterday a new crime that claimed the lives of
scores, targeting Aleppo University by rocket shells from Al-Lairamoun area,
which prompted the army to hit back against the gatherings of terrorists in the
area.

In a statement on Wednesday [16 January], the command said that the crime came
as a desperate attempt to cover the bankruptcy of the hostile forces' project
and their inability to realize their goals.

"This coward criminal act came to take revenge on the people of Aleppo, who
proved their deep attachment to their homeland and solid will in the face of
terrorism, " the statement said.

The statement added that the attacks against scientific cadres and schools,
institutes and universities are proof of the of the dark nature of the criminals
whose mindset belongs to bygone times, adding that these criminal acts will only
stiffen its determination to carry out its duties in cracking down on the
remnants of terrorists to purify the homeland of their evils.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 17 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday

Ghana's security forces on "high alert" over likelihood of "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 329 words


Text of report by entitled "Ghanaian Security on high alert over fears of
terrorists attack" Ghanaian Joy FM radio website owned by the Multimedia
Broadcasting Corporation on 17 January

The National Security Coordinator Col Larry Gbevlo Lartey is assuring Ghanaians
the country's security agencies are alert and ready to foil any terrorist
attacks.

The insurgency of Islamist rebels in northern part of Mali, whose activities
have spilled over into Algeria has caused anxiety in Ghana as the country
contributes troops to ward off the rebels.

Some security experts have raised concerns about the possibility of Ghana being
targeted by the terrorists for supporting the offensive against the rebels.

But the country's National Security Coordinator in an interview with Joy News on
Thursday [17 January], assured that the security agencies "are up to speed in
taking care of our people and ensuring their safety".

Col Gbevlo Lartey, however, underscored the need for public to also be vigilant.

As far as the readiness of the security agencies is concerned, he said that is
not "too much of a problem for the security agency because it takes a short time
to bring them up to a certain level of alertness".

While admitting the possibility of Ghana being attacked by these rebel groups,
he also explained that "every country will continue to face threats".

He however said that the risk level of such attacks is what matters. He also
maintained that "the measures we take to continue to maintain surveillance and
internal vigilance [is more] important."

West African defence chiefs, including Ghana, have already approved plans to
speed up the deployment of African troops against Islamist rebels in northern
Mali, with some regional soldiers possibly arriving next week.

According to Col Gbevlo Lartey, Ghana's decision to participate in the operation
is in order, saying it is in line with what the international community expects.

Source: Joy FM text website, Accra, in English 17 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday

Algerian installation attacked by Libyan 'terrorist" groups, says minister

LENGTH: 244 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper Echourouk El Youmi
website on 17 January

Interior and Local Authorities Minister Daho Ould Kablia has revealed in an
exclusive statement to Echourouk that the terrorist group which carried out the
In Amenas attack had come from Libya and prepared for the operation there.

Ould Kablia said that "all the information and facts revealed that the terrorist
group which attacked the oil base in In Amenas had officially come from Libya
and that the operation had been planned and supervised by the terrorist Moktar
Belmoktar on the Libyan territories".

[Passage omitted: Minister saying that recent facts required an alternation to
yesterday's story about the place these terrorists had come from and that the
Algerian authorities had expressed their concerns several times to the Libyan
counterparts about the need to secure the borders.]

Regarding the operation to free the hostages, the minister said: "We have asked
the supervisors of the base to supply us with the residents' names in order to
determine their numbers".

Ould Kablia denied published information about the blowing up of the gas
pipeline in the region. He stressed that the army forces were continuing the
operation to free the hostages.

He reiterated that "the number of the terrorist present [at the base] does not
exceed 20 on account that they entered [the base] on board three cars".

Source: Echourouk El Youmi website, Algiers, in Arabic 17 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brits caught up in terror attack on oilfield, Downing Street says

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 254 words


SEVERAL British nationals have been caught up in a terrorist attack on an oil
facility in Algeria, Downing Street has said.

UK sources were unable to confirm local reports that one Briton has died in the
incident, at a BP oilfield near the border with Libya.

An Islamist militant group has claimed to have kidnapped up to 41 foreigners -
including seven Americans - in a dawn raid on the facility in retaliation for
France's intervention in neighbouring Mali.

But the situation on the ground remains unclear and it is thought that
authorities fear the number involved may be even higher.

Prime Minister David Cameron chaired a 45-minute meeting of Whitehall's Cobra
emergency committee yesterday, at which ministers were updated on the developing
situation. Speaking after the meeting, Mr Cameron's official spokesman said:
"The ongoing incident has involved various nationalities, including several
British nationals. "We are working with BP to support the families of staff and
provide consular assistance." Heavily armed gunmen in vehicles were reported to
have stormed the energy site in Amenas, in the east of the African country,
taking a group of up to 20 international workers hostage. It is understood at
least some of the captive workers were being kept in their own living quarters
at the compound and were being allowed access to telephone and e-mail.

The natural gas complex is a joint venture of BP, Norway''s Statoil and the
Algerian Sonatrach company. Mr Cameron's spokesman said it was a "highly
sensitive" situation.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DET


                     Copyright 2013 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           European Spot Gas Markets

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday

Drop in Algeria-Italy flows linked to terrorist attack

BYLINE: Tom Marzec-Manser

SECTION: EUROPEAN SPOT GAS MARKETS

LENGTH: 365  words


Natural gas flows from Algeria to Italy dropped on Thursday, with market sources
speculating the cause was related to a terrorist situation at the Saharan In
Amenas processing facility.

Data from Italian transmission system operator (TSO) Snam Rete Gas indicated at
15:00 London time that 62.0 million cubic metres (Mm³) was forecast to be
imported from the African country on Thursday, down from the earlier-nominated
75.2Mm³.

Traders at the Italian PSV hub said the likely closure of In Amenas, following a
hostage situation, was the possible reason for the drop in volumes via the
Transmed pipe into Mazara del Vallo.

The daily delivery of Transmed so far this year has averaged 75.3Mm³.

The PSV Day-ahead contract on Thursday closed E0.35/MWh higher at E27.65/MWh,
less of an increase than at the French hubs. But it did reinstate a premium to
the Dutch TTF, which closed at a discount on Thursday.

In Amenas is operated by incumbent Sonatrach, Norwegian Statoil and Britain's
BP. The facility is understood to have shut down following the taking of
hostages on Wednesday. The plant and field produce around 24.6Mm³/day.

Data from Spanish TSO Enagás indicated that flows from Morocco via the
Maghreb-Tarifa pipeline - which sources its gas from Algeria - and through the
Medgaz pipeline into Almería were largely unchanged, however.

But one trader with capacity through Medgaz said he understood that there had
been some disruption to flows during the previous session.

"There was some reduction in flows [on Wednesday] but I think [on Thursday] it
should be back to normal," he said.

Output from In Amenas is transported to Hassi R' Mel and then onward to the
domestic Algerian market as well as European hubs. Gas from Algeria can also be
exported to the wider international markets from the LNG terminals at Skikda and
Arzew.

BP confirmed that its larger Algerian facility at In Salah, which also feeds
Hassi R' Mel, was still producing, but with heightened security.

Data from the BP Statistical Review show that in 2011, Algeria produced 78
billion cubic metres (Gm³) of gas, of which 28Gm³ was consumed domestically.

Neither Statoil nor Sonatrach were available to comment on Thursday. TMM/SM/RS

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                        Copyright 2013 Heren Energy Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Terrorists kill Briton in attack on complex

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 134 words


ALGERIA: A Briton is among two people killed after Islamic gunmen stormed a
natural gas complex.

The terrorists were also said to be holding dozens of foreigners hostage. A
militant group claimed responsibility for the attack saying it was in revenge
for Algeria s support of France s operation against al Qaeda-linked rebels in
Mali.

BP, which jointly operates the desert site, confirmed it was  attacked and
occupied by a group of unidentified armed people,  and some of its personnel are
believed to be  held by the occupiers .

The number and identities of the hostages was still unclear but it is believed a
36-year-old Irish man was among them, while Japan and Britain said citizens were
involved as well.

In addition to the two people killed, six others were injured and hostage
negotiations are ongoing.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;

Briton dies and five kidnapped in terror attack on gas terminal

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 418 words


A BRITON was killed and five others are believed to have been taken hostage
yesterday when Islamic militants stormed a gas terminal in Algeria.

State sources said the unnamed Briton and a French citizen died, while six
others were wounded in the dawn raid at In Amenas.

There are thought to be 41 hostages in all. There were also reports of 14
Norwegians, one Irish, five Japanese and seven American workers held.

The terminal is jointly run by BP. In a statement last night, the energy giant
confirmed the attack by the gang took place at about 5am.

An Algerian government spokesman said the two workers died when heavily armed
terrorists - believed to be linked to Al Qaeda - attacked a workers' bus.

The raiders were "repelled by the escort units" and then drove to the oil field
where they seized the hostages.

They are threatening to blow up the plant if the military attempts to force them
out.

Last night Foreign Secretary William Hague said the crisis was "extremely
dangerous" and the Government would be working to resolve it.

"A number of people are held hostage.

"This does include a number of British nationals. This is therefore an extremely
dangerous situation," he said.

"We are in close touch with the Algerian government, the Algerian military have
deployed to the area and the Prime Minister has spoken to the Prime Minister of
Algeria.

"We are liaising very closely with all levels of the Algerian government."

Earlier yesterday David Cameron chaired a meeting of the Cabinet emergency
committee Cobra to discuss the "sensitive and ongoing situation".

Afterwards, the Prime Minister's spokesman said: "The ongoing incident has
involved various nationalities, including several British nationals. We are
working with BP to support the families of staff and provide consular
assistance."

Algerian forces were last night negotiating to free the captives.

It is feared the attack was carried out as a reprisal after France - backed by
the UK - launched action against insurgents in neighbouring Mali.

BP confirmed that they were trying to contact relatives of those involved. A
spokesman said: "Contact with the site is extremely difficult, but we understand
that armed individuals are still occupying the In Amenas operations site.

"Our absolute priority is the safety and security of our staff."

In Amenas gas field sits in the desert 60 miles from the Libyan border and 800
miles from the capital Algiers.

It is run by BP with Sonatrach, the Algerian state oil company and the Norwegian
state energy firm Statoil.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Militants linked to Al Qaeda stormed the gas terminal yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday

Briton dies and five kidnapped in terror attack on gas terminal

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 429 words


A BRITON was killed and five others are believed to have been taken hostage
yesterday when Islamic militants stormed a gas terminal in Algeria.

State sources said the unnamed Briton and an Algerian citizen died, while six
others - including two Britons - were wounded in the dawn raid at In Amenas by a
group linked to Al Qaeda.

There are thought to be 41 hostages, including 14 Norwegians, one Irish, five
Japanese and seven Americans.

Algeria's top security official, interior minister Daho Ould Kabila, said last
night that "security forces have surrounded the area and cornered the
terrorists, who are in one wing of the complex's living quarters."

The terminal is jointly run by BP. The attack happened at about 5am.

The two workers died when heavily armed terrorists attacked a workers' bus. The
raiders were "repelled by the escort units" and then drove to the oil field
where they seized the hostages.

They are threatening to blow up the plant if the military attempts to force them
out.

Last night Foreign Secretary William Hague said the crisis was "extremely
dangerous".

He added: "A number of people are held hostage. This does include a number of
British nationals. This is therefore an extremely dangerous situation.

"We are in close touch with the Algerian government, the Algerian military have
deployed to the area and the Prime Minister has spoken to the Prime Minister of
Algeria.

"We are liaising very closely with all levels of the Algerian government."

Earlier yesterday David Cameron chaired a meeting of the Cabinet emergency
committee Cobra to discuss the "sensitive and ongoing situation".

Afterwards, the Prime Minister's spokesman said: "The ongoing incident has
involved various nationalities, including several British nationals. We are
working with BP to support the families of staff and provide consular
assistance."

Algerian forces were last night negotiating to free the captives.

It is feared the attack was carried out as a reprisal after France - backed by
the UK - launched action against insurgents in neighbouring Mali.

BP confirmed last night that it was trying to contact relatives of those
involved. A spokesman said: "Contact with the site is extremely difficult, but
we understand that armed individuals are still occupying the In Amenas
operations site.

"Our absolute priority is the safety and security of our staff."

In Amenas gas field sits in the desert 60 miles from the Libyan border and 800
miles from the capital Algiers.

It is jointly run by BP with Sonatrach, the Algerian state oil company and the
Norwegian state energy firm Statoil.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Militants linked to Al Qaeda stormed the gas terminal yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           January 17, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'SEX ATTACK' TERROR IN TOWN CENTRE ALLEY;
Scene sealed for 12 hrs after girl's ordeal

BYLINE: LOUISE COOPER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 294 words


A TEENAGE girl was the victim of a terrifying sex attack.

Police cordoned off a large area of Huddersfield town centre after the attack
which happened late on Tuesday night.

The attack is thought to have happened at the junction of Westgate and Chancery
Lane and the scene remained sealed off for most of yesterday and pedestrians
were diverted around the police cordon.

Police confirmed late yesterday that they were investigating the sex assault
allegations, made by the teenager.

A West Yorkshire Police spokesman said: "Police are currently investigating an
allegation of sexual assault in Westgate, Huddersfield that was reported at
11.15pm on Tuesday night. "The victim, a 17-year old girl, is currently being
looked after by specially-trained officers.

"Inquiries are ongoing." It is understood the girl was being painstakingly
interviewed by officers attached to the West Yorkshire force's sex crimes unit,
trying to piece together every detail of the attack.

Officers were seen sealing off a side street - Chancery Lane - at around 8am
yesterday.

The narrow lane runs from Westgate through to Cloth Hall Street, with an
alleyway heading into Market Place alongside the NatWest bank.

Uniformed officers kept up security on the cordon throughout the day in
bitterly-cold temperatures.

Insp Chris Sheard, of the Huddersfield South Neighbourhood Policing Team, said
the inquiry was being handled by detectives from Kirklees CID.

"The current situation is that a serious allegation has been made and it is
being investigated.

"Officers have been interviewing the victim who made the complaint but a number
of other inquiries are ongoing.

"No-one has been badly injured but it is being treated as a very serious
incident and the cordon has been kept in place for several hours".

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ NO WAY THROUGH: Police stand guard to monitor cordoned off Chancery
Lane in Huddersfield town centre
(JH160113Cpolice)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Post

                                January 17, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'There was just a wall of fire - I thought it was a terrorist attack'

BYLINE: John Siddle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 570 words


A MERSEYSIDE woman told how she missed the horrific central London helicopter
crash by just seconds.

Joanna Moroz, 28, was commuting to work on a crowded bus when the Agusta
Westland aircraft hit a crane, plummeted to the ground and burst into flames.

Two people died and 13 were injured in the accident, which happened in the
Wednesday morning rush-hour near Vauxhall station.

Miss Moroz, from Hoylake, was just yards from the crash scene when her bus came
to a halt.

She said: "I heard a whizzing noise and a massive crash, which was the
helicopter hitting the ground.

"The whole street was on fire. It was like a wall of fire.

"I knew by the number of police, fire and ambulances that it was serious. There
was a sea of flashing blue lights and smoke.

"It was petrifying. My initial thought was that it was a terrorist attack."

Witnesses reported seeing debris falling from the sky after the aircraft struck
the crane before exploding into flames and plunging to a street near Vauxhall
station in rush hour.

Miss Moroz, who works for the radio station Talksport and used to work at
Liverpool station Juice FM, was evacuated from her bus.

She said: "I missed it by seconds. There were two cars and a bus in front of us
and then the scene.

"I just thought what if I had got an earlier bus or if the traffic lights had
changed differently.

"It was so, so close. I am a bit shaken up by it."

Metropolitan Police commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe confirmed that there
were two deaths, one person critically injured and a number of others with less
serious injuries.

The crane was on top of a building called The Tower, in the St George Wharf
development, which is billed as one of Europe's tallest residential towers.

Video footage shot on a mobile phone showed an entire road blocked by burning
wreckage and aviation fuel. The side of a building on one side of the street was
also damaged by the flames.

Passers-by stood watching as the wreckage burned. A motorcycle was seen lying on
its side in the road where it was abandoned.

Miss Moroz told how she called mum Anna frantically to let her know she was
okay.

She said: "My mum knew something was up because I never call her in the
mornings.

"She didn't know the scale of it all until she got to work. She was so relieved
I was alright.

"Wandsworth Street is a very, very busy road especially in the mornings. It is
awful that two people died but it could have been much worse."

Police said the helicopter was on a scheduled flight from Redhill, Surrey, to
Elstree, Hertfordshire.

The two people killed were pilot Pete Barnes and someone on the ground,
emergency services said.

Mr Barnes worked for flight operator RotorMotion and had piloted helicopters in
action scenes in movies Die Another Day, Tomb Raider II and Saving Private Ryan.

He had around 9,000 hours of flying time, including 3,500 hours on the type of
craft involved in the incident.

Met commander Neil Basu said the police force were working with other agencies
including the Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) and the Civilian
Aviation Authority.

Asked if the lights on top of the building and crane were faulty, Mr Basu said:
"That will form part of the investigation."

London Ambulance Service has confirmed six people were treated in hospital for
injuries. Another seven were treated at the scene.

twitter Join us on Twitter @DailyPostNews A line of flaming debris shortly after
the helicopter crash in central London

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Remnants of the helicopter next to a burnt-out car
Joanna Moroz, 28, with her mother Anna

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPP


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 17, 2013 Thursday 3:27 AM GMT

Defense Secretary Leon Panetta condemns deadly incident in Algeria as 'terrorist
attack' and says U.S. will 'take all necessary steps' to get American hostages
back

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 371 words


Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said Wednesday the U.S. 'will take all necessary
and proper steps' to deal with an Islamist attack on a natural gas field in
southern Algeria that has resulted in Americans and other foreigners taken
hostage.

Panetta would not detail what such steps might be, but he condemned the incident
as 'terrorist attack' and likened it to al-Qaida activities in Pakistan,
Afghanistan and in the United States on 9/11.

A militant group that claimed responsibility says it's holding seven Americans,
but State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said she wouldn't provide
details to protect those who were kidnapped. Panetta said he didn't know the
numbers of those kidnapped.

Militants said they attacked and occupied the field partly operated by the
energy company BP because of Algeria's support of France's operation against
al-Qaida-linked Malian rebels groups to the southeast.

'It is a very serious matter when Americans are taken hostage along with
others,' Panetta told reporters in Rome, where he spent the day meeting with
Italian leaders, in part to discuss the operations in Mali.

'I want to assure the American people that the United States will take all
necessary and proper steps that are required to deal with this situation.'

Panetta told reporters in Italy that he was briefed Wednesday on the Algeria
attack and said the U.S. is in consultation with the Algerians to determine what
the situation is and what happened.

He said he did not know if the kidnappings were connected at all to the French
military assault in Mali.

'I do know that terrorists are terrorists and terrorists take these kinds of
actions,' he added, 'We've witnessed their behavior in a number of occasions
where they have total disregard for innocent men and women. This appears to be
that kind of situation.'

Nuland said that Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke Wednesday by
telephone with Algerian Prime Minister Abdelmalek Sellal.

She also said the U.S. Embassy in Algiers issued an emergency message to
American citizens encouraging them to review their personal safety.

'We're obviously taking the appropriate measures at the embassy as well,' she
told reporters.

U.S. authorities also were in contact with BP.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 17, 2013 Thursday 2:45 AM GMT

At least three dead and dozens held hostage after Islamist militants conduct
Mali revenge attack on BP gas field in Algeria as Panetta brands actions '
terrorist attack'

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON, DAVID WILLIAMS, TIM SHIPMAN and BETH STEBNER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3557 words


At least three dead and dozens captured on bus near the town of Ain Amenas,
Algeria close to Libyan border                     At least 41 others held
hostage, including at least seven Americans                     Attack was
retribution for Algeria's support of France's opposition in neighboring Mali,
reports claimed                     Rebels are 'holding victims in gas plant and
threatening to blow it up'                     Al-Qaeda group claims raid was
revenge for France's attacks on Mali rebels

At least three people have been killed and dozens taken hostage in a deadly
attack on a natural gas facility in Algeria Wednesday in a strike that appears
to have been carried out by an al-Qaeda-linked militant group.

According to reports by the AP and Reuters, 41people have been taken hostage
from the complex deep in the Sahara, including citizens from America, Britain,
France, Norway, and Japan.

The attack is thought to be a new offensive against France's military
intervention in the neighboring north African country of Mali. The U.S.
Secretary of Defense, Leon Panetta, has branded the incident a 'terrorist
attack.'

The Associated Press reports that seven Americans are among the hostages, and
said that one of those killed was a French national, the other was British. The
nationality of the third person killed was unknown, according to Reuters.

Scroll down for video

Reports from the area remain largely unclear, and many details about Wednesday's
attack are still evolving, and there are conflicting reports over the number of
people killed, their nationalities, and the number of hostages.

The incident occurred at the upper northeastern corner of Algeria close to the
Libyan border and was reportedly carried out by militant group Katibat
Moulathamine, or the Masked Brigade.

One member phoned a Mauritanian news outlet to say that one of its affiliates
had carried out the operation at the Ain Amenas gas field, and that France
should end its intervention in Mali to ensure the safety of the hostages.

BP, the Norwegian company Statoil and the Algerian state oil company Sonatrach,
operate the gas field. A Japanese company, JGC Corp, provides services for the
facility as well.

In Rome, U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta declared that the U.S. 'will take
all necessary and proper steps' to deal with the attack in Algeria.

He would not detail what such steps might be but condemned the action as
'terrorist attack' and likened it to al-Qaida activities in Pakistan, Afghnistan
and in the United States on September 11, 2001.

Algeria's top security official, Interior Minister Daho Ould Kabila, said that
'security forces have surrounded tharea and cornered the terrorists, who are in
one wing of the complex's living quarters.

He said one Briton and one Algerian were killed in the attack, while a Norwegian
and two other Britons were among the six wounded.

'We reject all negotiations with the group, which is holding some 20 hostages
from several nationalities,' Kabila said on national television, raising the
specter of a possible armed assault to try to free the hostages.

Those held captive could now be used as human bargaining chips in the escalating
war in Mali.

There are also rumours that the hostage takers fought off a night-time attack
made by Algerian troops who tried to rescue hostages, although there has been no
confirmation of this.

'It is a very serious matter when Americans are taken hostage along with others.
I want to assure the American people that the United States will take all
necessary and proper steps that are required to deal with this situation.'

-Defense Secretary Leon Panetta

A spokesman for the interior ministry in Algiers said: 'Two people, including a
British national, died in the attack. Six others have been wounded and others
held hostage.'

All of the victims were on a bus in the south of the country near the town of
Ain Amenas, which is in the south east of the former French colony, close to the
Libyan border.

A gang of terrorists brandishing machine guns, rocket launchers and grenades
opened fire soon after dawn, halting the bus, and then moving into the In Amenas
gas installation.

The rebels are holding all the hostages inside the plant, which is now
surrounded with mines, with the terrorists threatening to detonate them if
security forces intervene, said an Algerian diplomatic source based in Paris.

There were some reports last night that semtex explosives were strapped to some
of the hostages.

He confirmed that the facility was 'in the hands of the terrorists' who had
demanded the release of 100 Islamists held in Algeria, and that everything was
being done to capture them and to free the hostages.

Hundreds of Algerians work at the plant and were taken in the attack, but the
state news agency reported that they have gradually been released, unharmed and
in small groups, by the late afternoon.

Typically there would be fewer than 20 foreign staff members on site on a
typical day, along with hundreds of Algerian employees.

Many hostages were believed to have been on their way to Ain Amenas airport,
from where there are regular flights to Gatwick airport.

Gatwick-based company Jet Air is among those who have now suspended their
flights from the UK to southern Algeria.

The British worker and a French security guard are thought to have died in a
fire fight after the Algerian Army deployed troops at the scene.

'A TERRORIST ATTACK': U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY LIKENS ATTACK TO 9/11

Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said Wednesday the U.S. 'will take all necessary
and proper steps' to deal with an Islamist attack on a natural gas field in
southern Algeria that has resulted in Americans and other foreigners taken
hostage.

Panetta would not detail what such steps might be, but he condemned the incident
as 'terrorist attack' and likened it to al-Qaida activities in Pakistan,
Afghanistan and in the United States on 9/11.

A militant group that claimed responsibility says it's holding seven Americans,
but State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said she wouldn't provide
details to protect those who were kidnapped. Panetta said he didn't know the
numbers of those kidnapped.

Militants said they attacked and occupied the field partly operated by the
energy company BP because of Algeria's support of France's operation against
al-Qaida-linked Malian rebels groups to the southeast.

'It is a very serious matter when Americans are taken hostage along with
others,' Panetta told reporters in Rome, where he spent the day meeting with
Italian leaders, in part to discuss the operations in Mali. 'I want to assure
the American people that the United States will take all necessary and proper
steps that are required to deal with this situation.'

Panetta told reporters in Italy that he was briefed Wednesday on the Algeria
attack and said the U.S. is in consultation with the Algerians to determine what
the situation is and what happened.

He said he did not know if the kidnappings were connected at all to the French
military assault in Mali.

'I do know that terrorists are terrorists and terrorists take these kinds of
actions,' he added, 'We've witnessed their behavior in a number of occasions
where they have total disregard for innocent men and women. This appears to be
that kind of situation.'

Nuland said that Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke Wednesday by
telephone with Algerian Prime Minister Abdelmalek Sellal.

She also said the U.S. Embassy in Algiers issued an emergency message to
American citizens encouraging them to review their personal safety.

'We're obviously taking the appropriate measures at the embassy as well,' she
told reporters.

U.S. authorities also were in contact with BP.

-Associated Press

It claimed it was holding 41 people hostage - five in a factory and 36 others in
living quarters at the plant - from nine or ten nationalities.

A man from Northern Ireland - believed to be travelling on an Irish passport -
is also said to be among those abducted.

FRANCE LAUNCHES FIRST GROUND INVASION AGAINST MALI REBELS

The attack on the Algerian gas plant is being linked to attacks by France on
Islamist rebels in Mali.

French troops today launched the country's first ground operation in a bid to
dislodge the fighters who have resisted six days of air strikes.

France called for international support against Islamist insurgents it says are
a threat to Africa and the West and acknowledged it faced a long fight against
well-equipped and determined militant fighters who seized Mali's vast desert
north last year.

Earlier, Edouard Guillaud, the French chief of military staff, said up to 2,500
of his troops would soon have been deployed, together with tanks and artillery
pieces.

It comes as British transport planes which have landed in the west African
country continue to resupply the growing military presence in the west African
country.

Thirteen nations, most notably Nigeria, have agreed to send troops or supplies
and logistical help.

Islamist groups and secular Tuareg rebels took advantage of the chaos that
followed a military coup to seize northern Mali in April 2012.

They have imposed a brutal version of Islam, with girls as young as 12 being
flogged for not covering up, along with pregnant and elderly women.

All music and even mobile phone ringtones have been banned.

The British Foreign Office was unable to confirm reports of the British worker's
death, but said UK nationals have been 'caught up' in the attack.

A spokesman added it had 'political and consular crisis teams working on this
incident'.

Prime Minister David Cameron will also chair a meeting of the Government's
crisis committee Cobra on the incident later today.

Mr Cameron will speak to his Algerian counterpart Abdelmalek Sellal later today.

Downing Street said that it was 'too early to speculate' on the motive for the
attack, or whether it was linked to French support - backed by the UK - for
Mali's government in its fight against Islamist forces which have occupied the
north of the country.

The U.S. State Department confirmed that a number of Americans are among the 41
hostages, but declined to give names or other details about them 'in order to
protect their safety'.

Thw U.S. embassy in Algiers had issued an emergency message to other U.S.
nationals in the country urging them to 'review their security'.

Countries including France and Britain have been on heightened terrorist alert
since French forces went into action in Mali on Friday.

In a statement, BP said the site was 'attacked and occupied by a group of
unidentified armed people,' and some of its personnel are believed to be 'held
by the occupiers.'

The number and identities of the hostages was still unclear, but Ireland
announced that a 36-year-old married Irish man was among them, while Japan and
Britain said their citizens were involved as well.

A Norwegian woman said her husband called her saying he had been taken hostage.

Six others were wounded in the attack, including two foreigners, two police
officers and two security agents, Algeria's state news agency reported.

The French catering company CIS has 150 Algerian employees being held at the
site, but they are being allowed 'to move around freely, unlike the foreign
hostages who are trapped in a corner and cannot move,' said a spokesman.

Algerian forces have surrounded the kidnappers and negotiations for the release
of the hostages are ongoing, an Algerian security official based in the region
said, adding that the militants had come from Mali.

VIDEOForeign Secretary William Hague talks UK response
VIDEOFrance's Francois Hollande on hostage drama

He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorised to speak to the
press.

There are fears that the new front in the war against terror could prompt
further Islamist revenge attacks on Western targets, especially in Africa, where
Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb operates across borders in the Sahara desert.

The alleged terrorist caller to the Nouakchott Information Agency, a Mauritanian
news outlet which often carries announcements from extremist groups, did not
give any further details, except to say that the kidnapping was carried out by
'Those Who Signed in Blood,' a group created to attack the countries
participating in the ongoing offensive against Islamist groups in Mali.

He said the operation was to punish Algeria for allowing French jets attacking
rebel groups in Mali to use its airspace.

French President Francois Hollande launched the surprise operation in its former
West African colony on Friday, with hopes of stopping al-Qaida-linked and other
Islamist extremists he believes pose a danger to the world.

Today's attack began with the ambush of a bus carrying employees from the gas
plant to the nearby airport, but the attackers were driven off, according to the
Algerian government, which said three vehicles of heavily armed men were
involved.

'After their failed attempt, the terrorist group headed to the complex's living
quarters and took a number of workers with foreign nationalities hostage,' said
the statement, adding that authorities were following the situation very
closely.

Attacks on oil-rich Algeria's hydrocarbon facilities are very rare, despite
decades of fighting an Islamist insurgency, mostly in the north of the country.

In the last several years, however, al-Qaida's influence in the poorly patrolled
desert wastes of southern Algeria and northern Mali and Niger has grown and it
operates smuggling and kidnapping networks throughout the area.

Militant groups that seized control of northern Mali already hold seven French
hostages as well as four Algerian diplomats.

The natural gas field where the attack occurred, however, is more than 1,000
kilometers (600 miles) from the Mali border, though it is just 60 miles (100
kilometers) from Libya's deserts.

The British Foreign Office confirmed that 'British nationals are caught up in
the incident,' while the U.S. embassy in Algiers said in a statement it wasn't
'aware of any U.S. citizen casualties.'

A Foreign Office spokesman said: 'There is in an ongoing terrorist incident near
the town of Ain Amenas at an oil installation near the Algerian border with
Libya.

'We can confirm that British nationals are caught up in this incident.

'The FCO has political and consular crisis teams working on this incident.The
British Embassy in Algiers is liaising with the local authorities.'

BP, together with Norwegian company Statoil and the Algerian state oil company,
Sonatrach, operate the gas field. A Japanese company, JGC Corp, provides
services for the facility as well.

Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said the kidnapped foreigners
possibly include Japanese employees of JGC.

'We are certain that JGC is the one affected,' Suga said, adding that the
government is now negotiating with local officials through diplomatic channels,
asking for safety first to protect the lives of the Japanese nationals

Japan's Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida told Algerian counterpart, Mourad
Medelci, during telephone talks late Wednesday that he was gravely concerned
about the development, and called the abductions 'unacceptable.'

'I asked (Algeria) to place top priority on the lives of the Japanese and others
who have been captured,' he said.

Statoil said that it has 20 employees in the facility. The Norwegian Foreign
Ministry said it could not confirm that any Norwegian citizens had been
abducted.

The Norwegian Newspaper Bergens Tidende, however, said a 55-year-old Norwegian
working on the site called his wife to say he had been abducted.

Algeria had long warned against military intervention against the rebels in
northern Mali, fearing the violence could spill over its own long and porous
border.

Though its position softened slightly after Hollande visited Algiers in
December, Algerian authorities remain skeptical about the operation and worried
about its consequences on the region.

Algeria is Africa's biggest country, and has been an ally of the U.S. and France
in fighting terrorism for years.

But its relationship with France has been fraught with lingering resentment over
colonialism and the bloody war for independence that left Algeria a free country
50 years ago.

Algeria's strong security forces have struggled for years against Islamist
extremists, and have in recent years managed to nearly snuff out violence by
al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb around its home base in northern Algeria. In the
meantime, AQIM moved its focus southward.

AQIM has made tens of millions of dollars off kidnapping in the region,
abducting Algerian businessmen or political figures for ransom and sometimes
foreigners.

Today's attack was the first of its kind in Algeria since 32 European tourists
were kidhapped by the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat, later renamed Al
Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), in February 2003.

MOKHTAR BELMOKHTAR - A 'VETERAN' JIHADIST AND SMUGGLER

A Mauritanian news agency said the raiders were commanded by Mokhtar Belmokhtar,
a veteran Saharan jihadist and smuggling kingpin. Here are some facts about
Belmokhtar:

Linked to a string of kidnappings of foreigners in North Africa in the last
decade, Algerian-born Belmokhtar has earned a reputation as one of the most
daring and elusive Islamic jihadist leaders operating in one of the remotest
corners of the globe - the vast Sahara desert.                     'He's one of
the best known warlords of the Sahara,' said Stephen Ellis, an expert on
organised crime and professor at the African Studies Centre in Leiden, the
Netherlands. He said Belmokhtar had also gained notoriety as a Saharan smuggler,
especially of cigarettes.                     French intelligence dubbed
Belmokhtar 'the uncatchable' in 2002.                     Born in Ghardaia,
Algeria, in 1972, Belmokhtar started his jihadist activities early, according to
his own account in an interview posted on jihadi forums in 2007.
He said he travelled at the age of 19 to Afghanistan where he claimed he gained
training and combat experience before returning to his homeland Algeria in 1992.
This launched him on a two-decade career of Islamic militancy, first as a member
of Algeria's Islamic Armed Group (GIA) in the country's civil war, then as a
joint founder of the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC), which
started extending its attacks against security forces into countries of the arid
Sahel, which forms the southern fringe of the Sahara.                     The
GSPC later took up the franchise of al Qaeda's North Africa wing, under the name
al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM). Belmokhtar headed one of two AQIM
battalions in Algeria's southern desert bordering Mali.                     In
his role as a militant Saharan jihadist leader, Belmokhtar has been linked to
the 2003 kidnapping of 32 European tourists, the 2008 negotiations for the
release of two Austrian captives, and 2009 negotiations for the release of two
Canadian hostages. Hostage-taking and smuggling, of everything from cigarettes
to guns, people and drugs, form part of a multi-million dollar criminal economy
in the Sahara.                     Belmokhtar was sentenced by an Algerian court
to life imprisonment in absentia in connection with the killing of 10 Algerian
customs agents in 2007.                     He has also carved out a reputation
as one of the most important 'gangster-jihadists' of the Sahara. Besides his
involvement in kidnappings, he has gained prominence as a supplier of arms to
Islamist groups, and as a trafficker of cigarettes, part of a mosaic of criminal
activities.                     The latter gained him the nickname 'Mister
Malboro' among the local population in the Sahara, according to French media.
Ellis said U.S. military officials had described Belmokhtar as 'a logistician'
and 'fixer' in the Saharan region.                     His activities gained him
strong links with local Tuareg communities, including the ones in northern Mali
whose fighters played a major role in the Tuareg-led rebel offensive last year
that seized the north of the West African state following a military coup in the
southern capital Bamako. He is reported to have married local Arab and Tuareg
women, cementing his ties.                     An Algerian TV channel reported
Belmokhtar had been killed in northern Mali in June in clashes between Islamic
militants and Tuareg-led separatists, but an associate denied the report.
In December, the same associate said Belmokhtar had left AQIM to create his own
group operating across the Sahara, but it remained under the orders of central
al Qaeda. The move followed an apparent fallout with other militant leaders.

VIDEO                     US State Dept confirms Americans among hostages

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                     January 17, 2013 Thursday 4:34 PM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY HAGUE HAS SPOKEN ABOUT TERRORIST ATTACK IN ALGERIA

LENGTH: 403 words


LONDON, Jan. 17 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

The Foreign Secretary William Hague has spoken about the terrorist attack in
Algeria in a series of media interviews.

Speaking to media on Wednesday evening the Foreign Secretary William Hague
commented on the ongoing terrorist incident at a gas installation near the
Algerian border with Libya involving British nationals.

He said:

Early yesterday Algerian time, early, early today UK time, the incident took
place in the eastern part of Algeria, a terrorist attack on an oil compound with
oil workers. A number of people are held hostage there. This does include a
number of British nationals and this is therefore an extremely dangerous
situation and we're in close touch with the Algerian Government.

The Algerian military have deployed to the area and the Prime Minister has
spoken to the Prime Minister of Algeria. We are liaising very closely at all
levels with the Algerian Government. I've just spoken to our ambassador in
Algeria and sent a rapid deployment team from the Foreign Office in order to
reinforce our embassy and consulate staff there.

We will give more details as it becomes possible to do so, but obviously it is a
very dangerous situation and we can not give out details very lightly. So we
will keep people informed. We're working closely with BP whose staff are
involved and I've just spoken to the senior management of BP. We're making sure
between us, BP are doing a good job of this, that the families, that the loved
ones of those who may be caught up in this are kept informed and kept up to date
with any information that we're able to give them.

The Government's crisis mechanism, COBRA, has met and been chaired by the Prime
Minister and it will continue to meet. So the safety of those involved and their
co-workers is our absolute priority and we will work around the clock to resolve
this crisis.

Speaking later the Foreign Secretary added:

Excuses being used by terrorists and murderers who are involved, there is no
excuse for such behaviour, whatever excuse they may claim. It is absolutely
unacceptable of course. It is in this case the cold blooded murder of people
going about their business. So there is no excuse whether it be connected to
Libya, Mali or anywhere else." For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 18, 2013 Friday

Algeria considers Ansar Eddine "terrorist" group after attack on Malian city

LENGTH: 824 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 17
January; subheads as published

Ansar Eddine, the Touareg Islamist group led by Iyad Ag Ghali, involved
alongside the terrorists of Al-Qa'idah in the Land of Islamic Maghreb [AQLIM]
and the Movement for Unity and Jihad in West Africa [MUJAO] in last Thursday's
[17 January] attack on the Malian city of Konna, has lost favour with the
Algerian authorities.

In our view, by falling under the influence of their jihadist wing, Ansar Eddine
has totally disqualified itself. By associating itself with the terrorist groups
which attacked the town of Konna, they crossed the Rubicon by clearly choosing
the terrorist camp. We now consider them as such, like the AQLIM and MUJAO," an
Algerian diplomatic source explained. Moreover, the same source recalled that
the Algerian side had time and time again urged them to clearly distance
themselves by breaking away from the terrorist groups and drug-traffickers so
that they can be part of the solution to the crisis in Mali.

There is therefore not a shadow of a doubt: The joint action on 11 January with
the terrorist groups against the town of Konna constitutes for Algiers a final
breaking point. Sources close to the case even give assurances that Algeria will
do its utmost to ensure that the leaders of Ansar Eddine are in future kept out
of the talks which will take place between the Malian government and the
representatives of the north of Mali populations on the future of Azawad.
Similarly to representation of other communities in the North of Mali
(Barabiches, Songhai, etc.), other more qualified representatives will be able
to speak on behalf of the large Ifoghas family with a view to finding, through
dialogue, a lasting solution to the legitimate demands of these populations on
the basis of the strict respect for the territorial integrity of Mali," our
source indicated.

Konna marks a definitive breaking point

Were the Algerians expecting the Ansar Eddine leaders to betray their trust and
change their colours so easily? In Algiers, it is argued that no-one
underestimated the influence and appeal exerted by the AQLIM and MUJAO on the
"cadres" of the group. However, there was focus on the moderate wing of Ansar
Eddine, and it was especially hoped that this wing would eventually take over
the radical clan. The changing balance of power between the two wings also
explains the duplicity of Ansar Eddine's discourse. It is precisely after
pressure put by the "moderates" that the group created by Iyad Ag Ghali accepted
the Algiers platform and committed not only to condemn terrorism but also to
fight it.

The seizure of power by the supporters of dialogue was however very short. All
in all, it only lasted for a mere fortnight, since Ansar Eddine, on 3 January
last, fell into the hands of AQLIM , MUJAO and, who knows, maybe even in the
hands of one of the many foreign intelligence services that poke around in the
region. Formally, the Touareg Islamist group's change of course resulted in its
decision to freeze the Algiers agreement on the cessation of hostilities in the
north of Mali signed on 21 December 2012. A decision justified by the lack of
enthusiasm shown by the Malian transitional government in finding a political
settlement of the crisis. But nobody really took the argument put forth by the
jihadist group seriously.

Radicals take power

Is it possible that the Ansar Eddine's about-turn points to a desire to discard
Algeria from the Malian chessboard? Several former senior Algerian army officers
think so. One thing is certain: Just as the Algerians say they have definitively
turned the Ansar Eddine page, Qatar - whose government has been in the recent
months regularly accused by Western intelligence services of funding terrorist
groups in the Sahel - considered, on Tuesday, that resorting to the use of force
in Mali would not solve the problem, and called for dialogue. "Of course we hope
that this problem can be resolved through dialogue. I think that political
dialogue is important and necessary. I do not think that force will solve the
problem ", Qatar's Prime Minister Shaykh Hamad Bin-Jasim Al Thani told reporters
in Doha.

The Malian issue should "be discussed between the neighbouring countries, the
African Union and the UN Security Council," he added, while stressing that his
country was ready to contribute to mediation towards a resolution. "If someone
asks for our help (...), we will be part of the solution (but) we will not be
the only mediator," he said. Shaykh Hamad Bin-Jasim Al Thani has however omitted
to say in what capacity he will come to the Sahel, a region that is thousands of
miles away from where his home country, and especially with whom one should
negotiate? Is he referring to Ansar Eddine? There is a good chance that this is
the case. Be that as it may, the issue deserves a clear answer.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 17 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 18, 2013 Friday 8:05 PM GMT

'It was a very exciting episode. I enjoyed it:' Rescued hostage gives
extraordinary account of Algerian gas field terror attack

BYLINE: David McKittrick

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 498 words


The first British hostages to speak of their ordeal in the al-Qa'ida desert
siege today expressed relief at their rescue and warmly praised the Algerian
army. One unnamed hostage who appeared on Algerian state television said,
extraordinarily: "It was a very exciting episode. I enjoyed it."

But Stephen McFaul, the Belfast man who was one of the first to escape, gave a
hint of the horror of the scene as a terrorist convoy, carrying a number of
hostages, attempted to flee from the camp.

He described to his family how explosives were fastened around his neck as five
al-Qa'ida jeeps were attacked by Algerian forces as they tried to leave the
camp. Mr McFaul's brother, Brian, said: "They were moving five jeep-loads of
hostages from one part of the compound. At that stage they were intercepted by
the Algerian army. The army bombed four out of five of the trucks and four of
them were destroyed. "The truck my brother was in crashed and at that stage
Stephen was able to make a break for his freedom. He presumed everyone else in
the other trucks was killed." He said this version of events was relayed to him
by Stephen's wife, Angela, who had spoken to him by phone.

Algerian television interviewed several British hostages who were on their way
back to Britain. One with an English accent said: "I was very impressed with the
Algerian army. It was a very exciting episode. I feel sorry for anybody who has
been hurt. I enjoyed it."

Darren Matthews, a freed Briton, said: "I feel safe at the moment but I won't
feel 100 per cent safe until I'm back in the UK. My heart goes out to the guys
that are still there and hopefully everyone comes home safe because, at the end
of the day, it's only work."

Another former hostage said the army had done a good job and kept them safe,
adding: "I never really felt any danger, to be honest." A man with a Scottish
accent added: "We're very, very relieved to be out, obviously. As much as we're
glad to be out, our thoughts are with colleagues who are still there at the
moment."

Describing the Algerians as "fantastic", he said: "I've never been so relieved
as when they came and got us off site."

The Foreign Office has sent a plane carrying consular crisis staff to within 280
miles of the facility amid continued efforts by joint operator BP and the
Government to evacuate UK workers. A number of Scottish residents who were held
hostage in the attack are now safe and well, according to First Minister Alex
Salmond. He said he would not confirm numbers or other details as the situation
remained fluid.

Mr McFaul was due to be debriefed by Foreign Office officials in London tonight
on his experiences at the desert camp. A family spokesman described his mood as
"bright and together and nervously excited".

His father, Christopher, said: "We feel sorry for the other hostages who are
still there - we don't know what has happened to them - those who have been
killed. The last 48 hours has been hell, that's all I can really say about it."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 18, 2013 Friday 7:28 PM GMT

Algeria gas field terrorist attack: 30 foreign hostages thought to be dead or
missing, among them up to 12 Britons;
British hostages remain in danger after bloody Algerian operation that went
ahead without international consent

BYLINE: John Lichfield, Nigel Morris

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 755 words


Around 30 foreign hostages are thought to be dead or missing in the Saharan
desert tonight, among them up to 12 Britons, as the siege of a BP gas field in
Algeria continued for a third day.

A group of around a dozen Islamist militants were still reported to be
resisting. According to one report, they were barricaded in a machine room with
explosives and an unknown number of hostages and threatening to blow up the
industrial part of the site.

Britain has traditionally had a limited presence in Saharan Africa, but Mr
Cameron's comments foreshadow a new focus on tackling terrorism in the region.
The Prime Minister said Britain faces a "large and existential threat" from
organisations such as al-Qa'ida in the Maghreb. British intelligence and
military logistics are supporting the French action in Mali, but there are no
plans, No 10 says, to deploy ground troops to the country.

The Algerian authorities said that around 100 foreigners had been rescued. Two
of the missing Britons are reported to have died when Algerian special forces
launched an assault on part of the BP facility.

The Algerian forces - who provoked international outrage for the brutality of
their assault yesterday - encircled the raiders yesterday but apparently made no
new attack. The scale of the hostage-taking became clear for the first time as
Algerian security sources revealed that a multinational group of about 25 to 30
militants trapped 600 Algerians and 132 foreigners from 10 countries - including
30 Britons - at the gas field in Tiguentourine when they attacked on Wednesday.

According to the Algerian state news agency tonight, "almost 100" of the 132
foreigners and most of the Algerians were freed when the living quarters were
stormed on Thursday. This left around 30 foreigners unaccounted for. Two
Britons, two Japanese nationals, one Frenchman and eight Algerian civilians are
officially reported to have died.

Survivors' tales suggested that some "hostages" were never actually captured by
the Islamists. A French chef who hid under his bed for 40 hours reported three
Britons were discovered in a roof space when Algerian forces freed the living
quarters.

David Cameron - who met the US Secretary of Defence, Leon Panetta, in London -
told the Commons that the number of  Britons missing had been "significantly
reduced" from the initial estimate of "less than 30".

He declined to give further details but the number of British workers
unaccounted for was said to be at the "low end" of a scale between 10 and 20.

In an emergency Commons statement, Mr Cameron made clear his irritation that
Algeria had refused his offer of "technical and intelligence assistance". "We
have had very good contacts over the past few days but I will not hide the fact
that we were disappointed not to be informed of the assault in advance," he
said.

A British plane landed in Algiers today to bring back freed hostages. Footage of
unnamed British workers said to have escaped the siege was shown on Algerian
state television.

"My heart goes out to the guys that are still there and hopefully everyone comes
home safe," one man said. Eighteen raiders are reported to have died in
Thursday's fighting. One was captured alive, according to the Algerian media.

Algerian security sources said the militants were mostly young men from Libya,
Tunisia and Egypt but there was also one French citizen. An Algerian survivor
told Le Monde that one of the raiders "spoke English with a perfect British
accent".

The surviving Islamists, communicating through a news agency in Mauritania,
offered to trade two American hostages for two Islamists jailed in the US
tonight. One of them is the "blind sheikh", Omar Abdel-Rahman, convicted for
organising the 1993 World Trade Centre bomb plot. One expert on the region said
that, in the eyes of the Algerian security services, both terrorists and
hostages are "people condemned to death".

According to accounts by survivors, including Stephen McFaul from Belfast, the
assault began after a group of militants tried to leave the gas field with a
number of hostages in a convoy of five trucks. Mr McFaul survived because his
vehicle crashed. The other trucks were destroyed by Algerian helicopter gunships
- killing captors and captives alike.

A more patient approach was adopted by the Algerians today. Officials in Paris
said that this was perhaps a response to international criticism. But one expert
on Algeria said: "The Algerians may also be saying to the West: 'Look what
happens if we do it your way. The crisis drags on'".

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 18, 2013 Friday 11:59 AM GMT

'Brutal and savage': David Cameron expresses disgust and condemnation at
Algerian oil field terror attack that has left at least 30 hostages, including
two Britons, dead;
Prime Minister said Algeria did not inform him of a rescue operation until it
was under way

BYLINE: John Hall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1469 words


David Cameron has expressed "disgust and condemnation" at a "brutal and savage"
ongoing terrorist attack at a BP gas field in Algeria.

30 hostages, including two Britons, died after Algerian forces defied
international pleas for caution and stormed the In Amenas gas compound, which is
deep in the Sahara desert, close to the Algerian border with Libya.

Following his chairing of an emergency Cabinet Office Briefing Room (COBR)
meeting, the Prime Minister told the Commons that the initial attack on buses
travelling from the BP gas plant, in which one Briton died, was "large, well
co-ordinated and heavily armed" and appeared to be pre-planned.

Mr Cameron said he asked his Algerian counterpart, Abdelmalek Sellal to warn him
if any action was planned, but he was not informed of yesterday's assault by
Algerian military until it was under way. Offers of British help had reportedly
been declined.

Mr Cameron told the Commons: "[Sellal] said that the terrorists had tried to
flee, that they judged there to be an immediate threat to the lives of the
hostages and had felt obliged to respond."

He added: "This is a large and complex site and they are still pursuing
terrorists and possibly some of the hostages in other areas of the site.

"The Algerian prime minister has just told me this morning that they are now
looking at all possible routes to resolving this crisis.

Mr Cameron said that last night around 30 British citizens were believed to be
"at risk", but added that number has now been "quite significantly reduced".

He said he would "continue to do everything we can to hunt the people down who
are responsible for this and for other such terrorist outrages".

Each of the families of those caught up in the crisis has been assigned a police
liaison officer and is being kept fully updated of developments, he said.

BP, the joint operator of the gas plant, has also begun evacuating staff from
Algeria, with 11 being flown back to London yesterday.

The Government is providing a back-up service to fill any "gaps in what BP are
able to do" and all installations in Algeria have been placed on "high alert".

Labour leader Ed Miliband said those behind the "appalling and tragic events"
should know Britain and the international community "stand united in
condemnation".

US defence secretary Leon Panetta said in London today that here was "no
justification for the kidnapping and murder of innocent people" in Algeria, and
vowed the US government was "working around the clock to ensure the safe return
of our citizens".

Mr Cameron said the terror attck was a "well calculated" assault that is
believed to have started with an attack on two buses travelling to the compound.

He told MPs: "According to the information we have from the Algerian
authorities, the terrorists first attacked two buses en route to the In Amenas
airfield before attacking the residential compound and the gas facility at the
installation.

"It appears to have been a large, well-co-ordinated and heavily armed assault
and it is probable that it had been pre-planned.

"Two of those travelling in the convoy to the airfield were, very sadly, killed,
including one British national and his family were informed on Wednesday.

"A number of other workers were taken hostage by the terrorists in separate
locations, both at the residential compound and the gas facility.

"The precise numbers involved remain unclear at this stage but the hostages
included British nationals, along with nationals of at least seven other
countries and, of course, many Algerians."

 Mr Cameron postponed a speech he was due to give in Amsterdam today on
Britain's future in Europe, saying he "simply cannot be away" until the crisis
is resolved.

Earlier this morning, Algerian authorities announced that there had been "some
deaths and injuries" after launching their military bid to free foreign workers
from Islamist militants at the plant.

Algerian security sources said that 30 hostages had died in the battle,
including eight Algerians, two Britons, two Japanese and one Frenchman.

Foreign Secretary William Hague, who is cutting short a visit to Australia, told
Sky News: "This remains a fluid and evolving situation and many details are
still unclear, but the responsibility for the tragic events of the last two days
squarely rests with terrorists who chose to attack innocent workers, murdering
some and holding others hostage.

"Our priority remains at the moment to identify exactly what has happened to
each British national caught up in this incident and, indeed, to help other
countries determine what has happened to their nationals."

The Algerian rescue effort was launched yesterday without consultation with the
UK, to the dismay of Number 10.

Western governments are believed to have urged the Algerian authorities - in
vain - to take a softly-softly approach. Algiers has a reputation for taking a
violent line with hostage-taking.

Algerian communications minister Mohamed Said Belaid said the military operation
succeeded in "neutralising a large number of terrorists and freeing a large
number of hostages".

Earlier this morning a US plane landed at an airport near the In Amenas gas
plant to evacuate Americans caught up in the crisis, a local source told
Reuters.

Eleven or more Islamist militants were said to have died when Algerian special
forces, helicopters and - according to one account - warplanes launched a series
of attacks on the sprawling complex seized by an Islamist group linked to
al-Qa'ida on Wednesday.

The raid on the BP complex is believed to have been inspired - and possibly led
- by a veteran al-Qa'ida leader in North Africa, Mokhtar Belmokhtar. It was
unclear tonight whether he was amongst the dead.

The capture of the Algerian gas site was claimed by the Islamist splinter group,
Mouwaghina Bi Dam ("Those Who Sign in Blood") as a retaliation for French
intervention in Mali. But Western governments suggested that the operation must
have been planned for many weeks.

The French President François Hollande said the hostage-taking in Algeria had
proved France's argument that its armed intervention in Mali was about far more
than the fate of the Malian government.

An unknown number of foreign captives and 600 Algerians were reported to have
been freed or to have escaped from their captors during the assault.

Stephen McFaul from Belfast, was one of the lucky ones who got out. Last night
he telephoned his family to say he was safe.

Mr McFaul's family said the 36-year-old was laughing and joking as gunmen took
over the plant, adding that he stayed in contact by mobile phone with his
brother Brian throughout the ordeal.

"It's like riots in west Belfast," joked Mr McFaul, who was later discovered
hiding under a bed by the terrorists.

"When news came through that Stevie was free I told mum and dad and they hugged
each other, shouting at the top of their voices," said Brian.

One of the freed Algerian hostages told the French newspaper Le Monde that the
Islamist raiders were a 20 or 30-strong multinational group from a number of
countries - including a man who spoke English with a perfect British accent.

One of the dead militants was said to be a French national.

The unnamed Algerian captive said that the raiders "seemed to know the site well
and knew exactly what they were looking for.... They searched the living
quarters for foreigners and told Muslims that they were in no danger."

It appeared that the gang of kidnappers had difficulty in controlling so many
captives. There were reports during the day of small groups of Algerian and
foreign workers escaping.

A French captive contacted by the newspaper Sud Ouest said the raiders had
strapped explosives to some hostages.

The Algerian Communications Minister, Mohamed Said Belaid, claimed the rescue
operation was a success. "A large number of hostages were freed and a large
number of terrorists were eliminated and we regret the few dead and wounded," he
said.

According to one report, seven hostages were held for many hours after the main
assault by a die-hard group of militants who resisted in part of the gas plant
near the town of In Amenas, near the Libyan border.

Radio France Internationale reported from Algiers that the raiders had made four
attempts to flee this morning. A convoy of buses and trucks was finally attacked
from the air by the Algerian military.

The Algerians had told the raiders that they could leave the country without
their hostages but the kidnappers had attempted to take some foreigners with
them.

The Algerian assault came as French operations against Islamist rebels in
neighbouring Mali entered a seventh day, with warplanes and helicopters
continuing to pound targets in the centre and north of the country.

Despite pledges of support from a number of European nations at a meeting of EU
foreign ministers, none is sending troops

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 18, 2013 Friday 9:41 PM GMT

Algeria hostage crisis: praise for the rescuers, prayers for those left;
Freed British hostages have spoken of their relief at having escaped the Algeria
terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead, Auslan Cramb, Patrick Daly and Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 909 words


One man even described how he had "enjoyed" the experience as the men praised
the Algerian army for its decisive action, a move criticised in political
corridors for fears that it would cost lives.

Darren Matthews, a 29-year-old electrical engineer from Teesside, said: "I am
relieved to be going to see friends and family.

"I feel safe at the moment but I won't feel 100 per cent happy until I'm back in
the UK, when I am back with my family."

Mr Matthews, who has a baby son, added: "My heart goes out to the guys that are
still there and hopefully everyone comes home safe because, at the end of the
day, it's only work. No one should have to go through [this]."

The engineer had spent periods working in Algeria since 2010. His girlfriend,
Emma Richardson, had been too upset to talk as she awaited news.

Mr Matthews was interviewed on Algerian television along with three other
Britons as they boarded a coach, believed to be bound for an airport.

Sitting beside him, Iain Strachan, 38, an engineer and father of two from
Renfrewshire, said: "I am very, very relieved to be out but still do not know
what is happening back on site."

Asked what he thought of the Algerian army, he said: "Fantastic, I have never
been so relieved as when they came and got us off site.

"As much as I'm glad to be out, my thoughts are with colleagues that are still
there at the moment."

Another unidentified man, speaking with an English accent, said: "It was a very
exciting episode. I feel sorry for anybody who has been hurt but, other than
that, I enjoyed it."

A fourth man with a North East accent said: "The gendarmes did a fantastic job.
They kept us all nice and safe and fought off the bad guys. I never really felt
in any danger, to be honest."

Another survivor, Mark Grant, 29, a father of one, texted his wife Emma to tell
her he was safe and well.

The welcome message came just hours after she had told the media how concerned
she was for his safety after not hearing from him since the incident began.

She had said how she feared the worst but then received a text saying: "I'm
safe. Got me out this afternoon. With the Algerian army."

Mrs Grant was joined by family and friends at their detached, two-storey villa
in Grangemouth, Stirlingshire, yesterday as they waited for his return.

Allan Madden, Mr Grant's uncle, said the whole family was delighted by the news
of his release.

Allan McCroary, a friend, added: "Thank God. It was such a relief. It was the
news we had all been waiting for."

A BP worker from the north-east of Scotland was also understood to have been
freed.

Alex Salmond, the country's First Minister, said all Scottish workers who were
caught up in the hostage crisis in Algeria were "safe and well".

He could not confirm numbers, however, as the situation remained "fluid".

In Liverpool, friends of another British worker, Garry Barlow, said they had
heard he was safe but there was no official confirmation.

Mr Barlow's wife, Lorraine, had previously told how the last time she had heard
from her husband he had a bomb strapped to him.

A friend said Mr Barlow had called Lorraine, 52, to say the complex had been
taken over by what they thought then was mujahideen.

"He said, 'I'm sitting here at my desk with Semtex strapped to my chest. The
local army have already tried and failed to storm the plant and they've said
that if that happens again they are going to kill us all'."

Yesterday other friends said they believed the father of two and Everton fan was
among a number of hostages who were to be repatriated by the Foreign Office.

Alan Fletcher, a former neighbour, said: "I gather the word has come out that he
is safe and we are all so relieved."

Other families were still waiting for news last night.

The daughters of Kenneth Whiteside, a 59-year-old from Glenrothes in Fife who
lives in Johannesburg, confirmed that their father had been working at the gas
plant, but said they had received no information about him. Ali and Nova-Leigh
Whiteside, who both live in South Africa, said they last heard from their father
a couple of days ago.

The young women said they had been in contact with the Foreign Office in the UK.

"Sitting and waiting for a call to find out if my dad's OK in In Amenas is
painful," Ali Whiteside wrote on Twitter.

"Thinking of all the families going through the same thing!"

"Nothing can ever prepare you for anything in life, but I have faith that my dad
is OK and will return," Nova-Leigh Whiteside wrote. "Praying so hard for my
dad!!! This is absolutely shocking, feels so surreal! I hope he is OK."

Friends of Mr Whiteside said he had moved to South Africa about 30 years ago but
still returned to Scotland several times a year to visit family and friends.

Gordon Isles, 57, from Glenrothes, said: "He's a good man and he's
strong-willed. He enjoys his job but he doesn't really talk about work much."

Another friend, Gary Hall, 61, from Thornton, said Mr Whiteside's
brother-in-law, John Strachan, had phoned him on Wednesday to tell him the
situation.

"He told me Kenneth was where it happened in Algeria and that his wife and his
two daughters couldn't get hold of him," he said.

"Obviously I was worried. There's always a chance you won't get out of these
things, especially when there are terrorists and guns involved. John sounded
worried too."

<em class="italic">Additional reporting Nick Britten, Rosa Silverman, Ben
Bryant, Claire Newell, and Holly Watt. </em>

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 18, 2013 Friday 9:30 PM GMT

Hostage crisis: hundreds of oil workers flown out of Algeria;
Hundreds of workers from international oil companies are being evacuated from
Algeria in the wake of the terrorist attack on the In Amenas gas plant.

BYLINE: By James Hurley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 583 words


BP began bringing non-essential workers out of Algeria as a "precautionary and
temporary measure" on Thursday night, following the attack by militants
associated with al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM).

Three flights left Algeria carrying a total of 11 BP employees alongside several
hundred staff from other companies.

The first flight arrived in London, the second two flights landed in Palma in
Majorca overnight with passengers expected to transfer on to final destinations.

A fourth plane was expected to transport further staff out of the country and BP
said it was prepared to arrange "further flights as necessary."

The gas field supplies 12 per cent of Algeria's output and energy accounts for
70 per cent of tax revenue and 98 per cent of exports.

The International Energy Agency, the energy arm of the OECD, warned that the
kidnapping and murder of foreign oil workers at the In Amenas gas field had
"cast a dark cloud over the outlook for the country's energy sector."

James Le Sueur, a US academic who had written about Algeria's struggle for
democracy, said oil and gas installations were "even more secure than the army
barracks."

"They were oases in an unsafe country," he added. "That they finally got to them
indicates a very substantial threat."

There were concerns that the worsening security in the Sahara desert might slow
drilling by producers including France's Total, Italy's Eni and Norway's
Statoil, a partner in the Amenas plant. Anadarko Petroleum and ConocoPhillips,
US producers with Algerian interests, said they were watching developments.

Ahmed Amdimi, a professor of political science at the University of Algiers,
said: "Algeria lives off oil and gas. To strike against that is to strike
against Algeria as a whole. If other operations take place, this will have a
very dangerous effect on the Algerian economy."

The remote south of the country, close to the unstable Sahel region of the
Sahara desert, is where energy companies typically focus their operations

But other companies' reaction is likely to depend on whether they operate in
that area, according to Abderrezzak Osmani, director general of the UK-Algeria
Business Council.

"The north is a completely different story to the south and is safe," he said.
"The British are very pragmatic - companies are not going to take stupid risks
with their workers but they will realise this is one tragic incident in an
isolated part of the country."

He said that borders in southern Algeria are likely to remain a problem.

"Algeria has huge, exposed borders. The terrorists are thought to have come over
the border from Libya. Work is going on to make the borders more secure, but it
is very difficult to resolve."

British companies operating in the country include Shell, HSBC, GlaxoSmithKline
and AstraZeneca.

Algeria is attempting to rebalance its economy and is trying to attract British
firms, particularly those in health, financial services and construction
sectors, to invest in the north. British businesses exported goods and services
worth more than £700m to Algeria in 2011 and Mr Osmani insisted the long term
trading prospects between the two countries remain positive.

Among the other evacuees were Spain's Cepsa, which evacuated foreign employees
from two sites within 155 miles of the Amenas gas development.

The unrest in the Sahara also threatens Libya which has several major oil and
gas installations close to the Algerian border, including the Wafa gas treatment
plant and the El Feel, or Elephant, field.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 18, 2013 Friday 2:09 PM GMT

Algeria attack: Around 10 Britons 'at risk';
David Cameron has condemned the "brutal and savage" terrorist attack in Algeria
as he confirmed that the number of British citizens at risk has now been "quite
significantly reduced"

BYLINE: By Peter Dominiczak and Tim Ross

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 707 words


In a statement to the Commons the Prime Minister disclosed that the number of
British nationals "at risk" has been "quite significantly reduced" since last
night.

However the Prime Minister sharply criticised the Algerian government for not
informing Downing Street that it was planning to take military action against
the terrorists.

Mr Cameron's statement comes after botched military attack on a BP gas plant in
Algeria, where al-Qaeda kidnappers were holding 41 westerners, led to a
bloodbath as helicopter gunships opened fire on the compound.

While Mr Cameron said significantly fewer than 30 British people were still at
risk, it is understood that the number is in the region of 10 or 12.

These are British people who are still missing, not confirmed as safe, actively
feared to be at risk or known to have been killed.

Government officials are not releasing precise numbers for the entirely
understandable reason that they do not want to jeopardise the ongoing operation.

Although expressing support for the Algerian government, the Prime Minister
criticised its decision not to keep the British Government fully informed about
the developing situation.

"I was told [about the military attack] by the Algerian Prime Minister while it
was taking place," Mr Cameron said.

The Prime Minister said that he should have been consulted "before any action
was taken".

Mr Cameron said that last night, fewer than 30 British citizens were believed to
be "at risk" in what is the West's worst hostage crisis in a generation.

That number has now been "quite significantly reduced", said Mr Cameron.

He said that hostage negotiation experts are on standby to help with the crisis.

Mr Cameron said the initial attack on buses travelling from the BP gas plant, in
which one Briton died, was "large, well co-ordinated and heavily armed" and
appeared to be pre-planned.

The Prime Minister expressed his shock and "disgust" at the "brutal and savage
attack that has been unfolding in Algeria".

"This is a large and complex site and they are still pursuing terrorists and
possibly some of the hostages in other areas of the site," Mr Cameron added.

"The Algerian prime minister has just told me this morning that they are now
looking at all possible routes to resolving this crisis."

At least one Briton, Stephen McFaul, 36, an engineer from Belfast, escaped from
the In Amenas compound, but the fate of several others was unclear.

Another man from Northern Ireland and at least one Scot were thought to be among
seven western hostages still inside the compound.

Western governments with citizens involved urged Algeria to exhaust all avenues
of negotiation before considering a military solution. Some of the hostages
themselves had called television stations on mobile phones to make their own
pleas for talks to begin. They said they had been forced to wear explosive belts
and urged the soldiers surrounding the plant to fall back so negotiations could
start.

But the Algerians, who have a long track record of taking a hard-line approach
to kidnappings, decided to launch a full-scale attack without consulting any
Western leaders.

According to French government sources, the extremists started killing hostages
"in an appalling fashion" after the assault began. Downing Street said the
Algerians refused repeated requests to be consulted about a rescue mission, and
only informed Britain about the operation after it had begun.

Mr Cameron's spokesman has openly admitted that Britain was unhappy with the
Algerians' actions.

Ed Miliband, the Labour leader said there is "no justification for the taking of
hostages".

"The thoughts of the House and the country are with all those families enduring
the uncertainty of waiting for news of their loved ones," Mr Miliband said.

"Alongside Algerians and other foreign nationals, those involved are British
citizens, seeking to earn an honest living, far from home and their families. It
is appalling that innocent, decent people have been targeted in this way.

"There is no, nor can there ever be, any justification for the taking of
hostages.

"Those who planned and are responsible for this attack must be in no doubt that
Britain, along with the international community, stands united in condemnation."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 18, 2013 Friday 9:19 AM GMT

Algeria hostage crisis: William Hague condemns terrorist 'murderers';
William Hague has said the Algerian hostage situation remains "fluid and
evolving" as he condemned the "terrorists who chose to attack innocent workers".

BYLINE: By Peter Dominiczak Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 561 words


With David Cameron preparing to chair a meeting of the Government's emergency
Cobra committee, Mr Hague, the Foreign Secretary, admitted that "many details
are still unclear".

"This remains a fluid and evolving situation and many details are still
unclear," Mr Hague told Sky News. "But the responsibility for the tragic events
of the last two days squarely rests with terrorists who chose to attack innocent
workers, murdering some and holding others hostage."

Mr Hague said that Foreign Office staff have been sent to Algeria to help
British nationals caught up in the crisis.

"Our priority remains at the moment to identify exactly what has happened to
each British national caught up in this incident and, indeed, to help other
countries determine what has happened to their nationals," the Foreign Secretary
added.

"We've sent additional staff to Algeria [and] we're in close touch with the
Algerian authorities and with BP."

Mr Hague said that the Government is now "working to ensure that those who
survived this ordeal are properly cared for and reunited with their loved ones".

The Prime Minister has been warned to expect "multiple" Britons to be among up
to 34 gas workers killed in the West's worst hostage crisis in a generation.

A botched military attack on a BP gas plant in Algeria, where al-Qaeda
kidnappers were holding 41 westerners, led to a bloodbath as helicopter gunships
opened fire on the compound.

The attack was carried out against the wishes of Mr Cameron and other Western
leaders, who had urged Algeria to negotiate with the kidnappers after the
captives said bombs had been strapped to their bodies.

At least one Briton was reported to have died, following the death on Wednesday
of another Briton when the hostages were taken.

Senior Downing Street sources said they were braced for "multiple British
casualties". Mr Cameron warned that the country "should be prepared for the
possibility of further bad news".

On Thursday night the hostage crisis appeared to be approaching a disastrous
climax amid growing international anger over Algeria's handling of the
situation. According to one report, 34 hostages were dead, but conflicting
accounts suggested six westerners had been killed.

Reports from Algerian state news agency APS claimed that the Algerian army was
in control of just part of the natural gas complex.

Local officials in the southeastern region of Illizi had said the army's raid
was over late Thursday, but later clarified that only the residential area,
where the majority of the hostages were being held, had been secured, saying the
army was still surrounding the gas facility itself.

More than eight hours after the attack began, Downing Street was still unclear
about precisely what had taken place. Mr Cameron said: "It's a fluid situation,
it's ongoing, it's very uncertain."

In a statement Thursday night, Alistair Burt, the Foreign Office minister for
the Middle East, said: "Although details have yet to become final I am afraid we
should be under no illusion that there will be some bad and distressing news to
follow from this terrorist attack."

At least one Briton, Stephen McFaul, 36, an engineer from Belfast, escaped from
the In Amenas compound, but the fate of several others was unclear.

Another man from Northern Ireland and at least one Scot were thought to be among
seven western hostages still inside the compound.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 19, 2013 Saturday

Search operations avert terrorist attacks in Pakistan tribal area - report

LENGTH: 178 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper The Express Tribune website on
18 January

Peshawar: Search operations by security forces have averted terrorist attacks in
Khyber Agency and forced many militants out of the area.

The militants, however, have vowed to not give up without a fight. The banned
outfit Lashkar-e-Islam has attacked security forces check posts several times.
Since the beginning of the year, nine security officials have died, while 50
others were injured. Some of the wounded are in critical condition, while three
went missing during these terrorist attacks in Shalober and its adjoining areas.

The Pakistan Army has lost more than 3,000 soldiers and suffered huge losses.
Around 10,000 more have been reported as injured, some, according to official
sources, have been permanently disabled.

In exchange of fire with security forces, 21 terrorists have been killed, while
huge quantities of arms and ammunition have been recovered during search
operations in Akakhel and Alam Gudar.

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 19 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                           January 19, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I thought he would rape or murder me;
Shop girl, 20, relives terror attack

BYLINE: ROB KENNEDY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 378 words


CRAZED John Lamb was today behind bars for an attack on a shop worker which left
her in fear of her life.

When Lamb came in to the shop asking to use the toilet, staff thought nothing of
it as he'd been a customer in the tanning salon in the past.

But as a 20-year-old assistant led him towards the toilets, he shoved her in the
back and stuck a knife in her neck. The panic-stricken worker handed over the
keys and Lamb pushed her into a store room as he looked for cash.

As the 18-year-old was locked up for four years and eight months, the victim
relived her ordeal in a statement to Newcastle Crown Court. She said: "I thought
I was going to be raped or murdered. He stabbed me in the neck, which made my
fears even more real.

"It was an absolutely terrifying experience and I have been having nightmares
ever since and have not returned to work."

Lamb went into the Golden Tanning Salon, on Gateshead High Street, which he had
previously visited as a customer and spoke to the assistant.

Prosecutor Michael Bunch said: "As she led him to the toilet she felt a shove to
her back and as she turned round the defendant was locking the door behind them.
He struck the left side of her neck and at first she thought she had been
punched but then she realised she had been stabbed and was bleeding.

"At one time it went quiet and she left the room but found he was still present.
He again put her back in the store room."

Eventually Lamb fled with £150 and his victim was taken to hospital and found to
have a cut to her neck just above her collar bone which needed surgery.

Lamb was caught on CCTV and arrested two-and-a-half weeks later after fleeing to
his father's home in London. Lamb, of Chandos Street, Deckham, Gateshead,
pleaded guilty to robbery.

Sending him to a young offender institution, Judge James Goss QC told him: "You
committed a sustained offence of violent robbery against a 20-year-old
vulnerable female victim who, during the robbery, was stabbed to the lower part
of her neck with a knife.

"As a result of the wound she sustained she had to have surgery and has been
significantly psychologically affected and initially feared for her life."

Stuart Graham, defending, said: "His mother says he has told her this is going
to be a life-changing event for him."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ASSAULT Golden Tan Salon
LOCKED UP Attacker John Lamb

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2013 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 20, 2013 Sunday

Jordan condemns terrorist attack on Algeria gas plant

LENGTH: 115 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

["Jordan Condemns Terrorist Attack on Algeria Gas Plant" - Petra News Agency
Headline]

Amman, 19 January (Petra) - Jordan on Saturday [19 January] condemned the
terrorist attack on a remote gas complex in Algeria and expressed solidarity
with the Algerian government.

State Minister for Media Affairs and Communications and Government Spokesman
Samih al-Ma'ayitah stressed Jordan's firm position in rejection of all forms of
terrorism and violence, expressing solidarity with the Algerian government and
sympathy with the victims of the terrorist attack.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 0120 gmt 20 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 20, 2013 Sunday

Two killed after Nigerian army attack on suspected terrorist hideout in Gombe

LENGTH: 349 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper This Day website on 19 January

[Report by Segun Awofadeji: "Three killed in suspected terrorist hideout in
Gombe"]

Three people were feared dead early this morning among them a student of the
Federal College of Education (Technical) Gombe with four seriously injured when
soldiers raided a suspected terrorists base in Gombe, the Gombe State.

Narrating the incident to reporters, a student of FCE and a survivor of the
raid, Abubakar Adamu stated that the soldiers came to their house around 3:30 am
in London-Maidoruwa, a suburb of Gombe town which is directly behind FCE and
started pooling down the mud house they were staying in with their armoured
vehicle. He said a gun battle ensued much latter which terrified and forced them
out of the house through the window as a result of which three people including
a student of FCE, Aliyu Jibrin, a prelim student was killed while he said he
couldn't identify the other two dead bodies.

However, the Commandant of the 301 Battalion of the Nigerian Army Gombe, Colonel
Joseph Iwara told newsmen on phone that the Army, acting on a tip off, raided
the suspected criminals' hideout but said only one person was killed.

He said the suspected criminals were heavily armed which made the army to
strategize before attacking the area adding that on reaching the place, the
criminals opened fire on them.

He regretted the death of the student during the operation saying it was
unfortunate that one of the rooms in the house was housing some students.

Reacting on the incident, the Provost of the Federal College of Education
(Technical) Gombe, Dr Abbas Adamu Gimba described the incident as unfortunate
even though it did not affect any of his staff but the students who were
seriously injured with one of them killed. He stated however that the school
would not be closed down but that the management of the school would make an
immediate provision for all students residing in the area into the school even
though the school was facing inadequate student's accommodation.

Source: This Day website, Lagos, in English 19 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      January 20, 2013 Sunday 11:14 PM GMT

Terror group warns of more attacks

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 429 words


The group that claimed to have masterminded the storming of the Algerian gas
plant has warned of more attacks against any country backing France's military
intervention in neighbouring Mali,

In a statement, the Masked Brigade said: "We stress to our Muslim brothers the
necessity to stay away from all the Western companies and complexes for their
own safety, and especially the French ones,"

The statement came as the death toll from the terrorist siege at the In Amenas
natural gas plant in the Sahara climbed past 80.

Algerian forces searching the refinery for explosives found dozens more bodies,
many so badly disfigured it was unclear whether they were hostages or militants,
a security official said.

Special forces stormed the plant on Saturday to end the four-day siege, moving
in to thwart what the government said was a plot by the Islamist militants to
blow up the complex and kill all their hostages with mines laid throughout the
site.

Algeria said after the assault by government forces at least 32 extremists and
23 hostages were killed. Algerian bomb squads sent in to blow up or defuse the
explosives later found 25 more bodies, said a security official. "These bodies
are difficult to identify. They could be the bodies of foreign hostages or
Algerians or terrorists." In addition, a wounded Romanian who had been evacuated
died, raising the overall death toll to at least 81.

"Now, of course, people will ask questions about the Algerian response to these
events, but I would just say that the responsibility for these deaths lies
squarely with the terrorists who launched a vicious and cowardly attack," Prime
Minister David Cameron said. Three Britons were killed and another three were
feared dead.

The dead hostages were also known to include at least one American as well as
Filipino and French workers. Nearly two dozen foreigners by some estimates were
unaccounted for. It was unclear whether anyone was rescued in the final assault
on the complex, which is run by the Algerian state oil company along with BP and
Norway's Statoil.

Two private Algerian TV stations and an online news site said security forces
scouring the plant found five militants hiding out and learned that three others
had fled. That information could not be immediately confirmed by security
officials.

Authorities said the bloody takeover was carried out on Wednesday by 32 men from
six countries, under the command from afar of the one-eyed Algerian bandit
Moktar Belmoktar, founder of the Masked Brigade, based in Mali. The attacking
force called itself "Those Who Sign in Blood".

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 20, 2013 Sunday 7:35 PM GMT

Did gas workers in Algeria know attackers? Some of Al Qaeda terrorists 'were
working for BP and could precisely plan their attack'

BYLINE: PETER ALLEN and NABILA RAMDANI

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 816 words


Some of terrorists 'given short-term contracts by the oil and gas giant'
Five of Al Qaeda operatives were 'taken alive' by Algerian army today
Witness describes one terrorist speaking with a 'perfect English accent'

Some of the terrorists involved in the Algeria hostage crisis in which up to
five Britons died had been working at the BP plant where the atrocity took
place, it was claimed today.

They had been given short-term contracts by the oil and gas giant, allowing them
to plan their attack with lethal precision.

Five of the Al Qaeda operatives were 'taken alive' by the Algerian army today,
while some 32 were killed during four days of fierce fighting with special
forces.

Now there are claims that some of the Islamist radicals had been hired over the
past year at the vast facility in the Sahara desert, close to the town of In
Amenas.

This raises the possibility that the 23 gas workers who died, as well as those
who were wounded and escaped, might have known their attackers.

Witnesses have already described one of the terrorists speaking with a 'perfect
English accent', and appearing to have a good knowledge of the compounds around
the gas field.

A report in Norway's Aftenposten said one of the attackers was tall and white
with blue or green eyes, spoke English and read the Koran.

An Algerian security source said: 'The suspicion is that some of the militants
were placed inside the plant as drivers, cooks and even guards.

'This gave them detailed knowledge of the facility, and indeed its top level
security measures.

'There were many hundreds of workers of all nationalities at the site, and
applications for work would have been made to BP. There would have been some
kind of background checks, of course.'

'The suspicion is that some of the militants were placed inside the plant as
drivers, cooks and even guards. This gave them detailed knowledge of the
facility, and indeed its top level security measures'

Algerian security source

BP would not comment on the claims, which have begun to appear in the Algerian
media.

But the security source said that Mokhtar Belmokhtar, the Algerian terrorist
said to have masterminded the operation, is thought to have coordinated the
placing of his men inside the plant.

His gang, the Signed in Blood Brigade, is a ruthless Islamist group which has
been behind numerous crimes around Africa, including bomb attacks and
kidnappings.

As with so many Al Qaeda operatives, many of its recruits would have
considerable experience of infiltrating western targets.

At least 25 burned bodies were today found in the Algerian gas plant, meaning
that the death toll is likely to rise well above the 23 currently said to have
lost their lives.

Mohammed Said, Algeria's communications minister, confirmed that that the
charred corpses were found lying inside a heavily fortified compound, adding
that 'the number feared dead will unfortunately be revised upwards.

He said that the terrorists had strapped Semtex explosives around the torsos of
many of their captives, threatening to blow them up at a moment's notice.

Other Algerian officials insisted that the army launched its assault after the
Islamist militants began killing foreign hostages they described as 'Christians
and infidels'.

Prime Minister David Cameron today confirmed that three Britons are confirmed
dead, while three more are feared killed.

Mr Cameron said that a captive who was resident in the UK resident had also lost
his life in the four day stand-off in the Sahara which which came to a dramatic
end on Saturday.

'I know the whole country will want to join with me in sending our sympathy and
our condolences to the families who have undergone an absolutely dreadful
ordeal,' Mr Cameron said at Chequers.

Despite the already high death toll , the Prime Minister refused to criticise
the uncompromising tactis used bythe Algerian government.

The British survivors had flown back home on government and BP chartered flights
overnight.

The crisis began on Wednesday when militants attacked two buses carrying foreign
workers to the remote site in south-eastern Algeria.

Terrorists then took Algerians and foreign workers hostage at the complex, which
was soon surrounded by the army, who attacked on Thursday using helicopter
gunships.

The army later recovered a terrorist arsenal of six machine guns, 21 rifles, two
shotguns, two 60mm mortars with shells, six 60mm missiles with launchers, two
rocket-propelled grenades with eight rockets and 10 grenades in explosive belts.

A statement from the kidnappers said the assault on the gas plant was launched
in retaliation for French intervention against Islamist groups in neighbouring
Mali.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                January 20, 2013

National: A final assault ends the siege - but the questions remain: Algerian
special forces prevented destruction of the gas plant, but failed to save
hostages. And little is known about the terror group behind the attack, reports
Peter Beaumont

BYLINE: Peter Beaumont, foreign affairs editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1156 words


Until yesterday morning few outside the specialised world of those who track
North African jihadist groups affiliated with al-Qaida had heard of Abdul Rahman
al-Nigeri: a photograph of him depicts a slim and bearded Arab fighter in his
30s from Niger.

Within a few hours of being identified as the leader of the Islamists that
seized the In Amenas gas-production plant, Nigeri was presumed to have died,
shot down in the final assault launched by Algerian special forces to try to
secure the last seven foreign hostages being held in a workshop by him and his
group.

First accounts of that raid suggest those hostages, reportedly including a
Briton, had already been murdered by Nigeri and his last 10 fellow fighters -
having given up hope that they would be allowed to leave with their captives.
All the jihadis were killed.

The death of the hostages was confirmed yesterday afternoon by the French
president, Francois Hollande.

"It is over now, the assault is over, and the military are inside the plant
clearing it of mines," a local source familiar with the operation told Reuters.

Shortly before, Nigeri had said the Algerian government must choose between
negotiating with the kidnappers and leaving the hostages to die, adding that he
would blow up the complex if the Algerian military used force.

The initial Algerian assault last Thursday to try to free the hostages was
heavily criticised for the loss of life it led to; yesterday's second attack was
launched after it became clear that the terrorists were preparing to make good
on their threat.

In an apparent confirmation of Nigeri's death, the Algerian newspaper El Watan
listed him as one of four terrorist leaders killed during the assault. It named
the other "terrorist emirs" as Lamine Moucheneb, Abou al-Bara'a al-Jaza'iri and
Abdallahi Ould Hmeida, a Mauritanian. In total it claimed 29 terrorists of
various nationalities had been killed.

The bloody denouement of the crisis, however, has left as many questions
unanswered as it has thrown up, not least over the real motive for the group's
attack on the plant. Claims emerged that it had almost certainly been planned
long in advance of the French military assault on Islamist groups in
neighbouring Mali just over a week ago.

As Algerian special forces moved through the gas facility jointly run by BP,
Norway's Statoil and Algeria's state-owned oil company Sonatrach, witnesses
nearby reported sporadic bursts of gunfire.

The final intervention was launched, according to Algerian security sources,
when it became clear that the hostage takers were trying to sabotage the plant,
perhaps to set the complex on fire. Sixteen other hostages were reported freed
during the final operation.

As the first confused accounts of the assault on the terrorists' last hiding
places began to emerge, Algerian media outlets were reporting that troops had
come across 15 badly burned bodies as they began to search the compound.

The death of the remainder brings the total to 27 workers killed since the
attack was launched last Wednesday. Among that number are understood to be at
least two Britons, a US citizen, two Japanese, and a French national. One
British citizen died when the gunmen seized the plant on Wednesday.

Hundreds of hostages escaped on Thursday when the army first launched an
offensive, but many were killed in the assault. Algerian forces destroyed four
trucks holding hostages, according to the family of a Northern Irish engineer
who escaped from a fifth truck and survived. Stephen McFaul told his family the
attackers had strapped Semtex plastic explosive to his neck, bound his hands and
taped his mouth.

But what little is known about Nigeri and the militants with whom he died,
suggests that the early identification of Mokhtar Belmokhtar, an Algerian, as
the mastermind behind the audacious bid to seize the plant was correct. For
Nigeri has long been a close associate of Belmokhtar, a former leader of
al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb, or AQIM, who broke away late last year to form
his own group, the Those Who Sign in Blood Brigade. This was its first major
attack. According to reports from the region yesterday, Nigeri's role was as the
figure who undertook "hard tasks" for Belmokhtar, in this case leading the two
groups of fighters who infiltrated the sprawling desert gas plant.

The Libyan government yesterday denied as "baseless" claims that the attackers
had crossed into Algeria from a base in south-west Libya. Other claims have
suggested that the group - some 40 strong, equipped with four-wheel drive
vehicles and satellite phones and heavily armed - started from Niger, according
to a Mauritanian news agency with contacts with jihadists operating in the
Sahara region.

Although the reason for the attack was initially linked to the continuing French
assault in Mali - where Belmokhtar and his group have also been active - a new
motive emerged yesterday in claims that the group was seeking the release of two
jailed jihadi figures in the US.

The group was demanding the release of Omar Abdel Rahman - known as "Blind
Sheikh", an Egyptian imprisoned in the US - and Aafia Siddiqui, a US-Pakistani
neuroscientist who was sentenced to 86 years in jail in the US for attempting to
shoot her interrogators after being arrested in Afghanistan.

According to the few details known about him, Nigeri joined the Algerian
Salafist Group for Call and Combat in 2005 (GSPC, which was later renamed AQIM).
It is in this group that Nigeri first encountered Belmokhtar, a prominent
smuggler and jihadi widely reported to be the mastermind of the assault on the
In Amenas plant. But Belmokhtar appears not to have been present during the
raid. Reports also suggested that Abu al-Bara'a al-Jaza'iri, had been killed
earlier at the gas field's residential complex when it was retaken by the army.

Algerian security sources appeared anxious to insist that the raid on the gas
field had probably been months in preparation, rather than in connection with
the French military operation in Mali. Several former Algerian security
officials, quoted in the French newspaper Le Figaro, suggested that the raid was
of such sophistication that it would have been impossible to "improvise in a few
days."

Among evidence to support this theory were claims that the members of Nigeri's
group seemed to be very familiar with the layout of the plant and appeared to
have had contacts inside who helped them. Some were reported to have dressed in
Algerian military uniforms they had acquired in advance. Other sources
speculated that the group may have spent a considerable period in the desert en
route to the gas plant.

Captions:

Above: a still image broadcast by Algeria's Ennahar TV yesterday reportedly
shows gas plant workers surrendering to the Islamist gunmen last week.

Right: two freed Britons, named initially simply as Alan, left, and Peter.
Below: a minibus drives freed hostages to safety.

Ennahar TV, Louafi Larbi/Reuters, AFP


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 20, 2013 Sunday 9:09 PM GMT

Survivor David Murray tells of 'horrors' still to come from Algeria hostage
crisis;
Survivor David Murray told yesterday how each worker at the gas plant had seen
their own "horrors" during the terror attack and still had more to face.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 392 words


The 47-year-old father-of-two said he was grateful to be back home with his
family but that he had "lost too many dear friends".

Mr Murray, who had worked as a lead engineer at In Amenas for seven years,
returned to his home in Kirkby, Liverpool over the weekend and his wife, Anna,
and two sons Jonathon, 19 and 12-year-old AJ.

In a message posted on his Facebook site, he said: "I am now home with Anna and
the boys, and I am grateful to everyone for their love and support.

"I can't stop thinking of what we all went through out there.

"We all had our own horrors and we still have many more horrors to face.

"Deep down I am hoping that as many of my dear friends have made it through this
nightmare of the last few days but I am finding it hard to face the truth that,
although many of us have survived, we have lost too many dear friends.

"God bless us all and God look after fallen friends xxx."

The Everton FC fan is understood to have escaped the carnage at the remote
Algerian gas plant along with three colleagues before coming across Algerian
soldiers at an army checkpoint several miles away.

His son Jonathon had made a direct request to Prime Minister David Cameron on
Twitter during the tense 48 hours his father was being held.

He later said hearing his father was safe was "the best news I have ever had".

The relieved teenager tweeted: "He has said he is safe and well and being looked
after.

"He has not told us the ins and outs of what happened.

"He just wanted us to know he is OK and is coming home.

"We are made up. AJ is only 12 and he is over the moon.

"We all are."

He added: "I cannot put it into words how I felt when I found out he was OK.

"I tried to stay positive but we had heard nothing except for what was on the
news.

"Dad usually phones all the time when he is over there but we just did not hear
anything.

"I was up all night crying - I was just so relieved when the call came. I cannot
put it into words.

"It was the best news I have ever had."

Two other survivors were identified yesterday as Lou Fear, 56, from Louth in
Lincolnshire and Allen McCloud, 53, from Plymouth in Devon.

Mr McCloud's brother, Malcolm, told the BBC: "We are all very relieved that
Allen is now safe, it's been a long stressful four days for the family. Our
thoughts are now with the other families who were not so lucky as us."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            January 21, 2013 Monday

'I escaped terror attack carnage'

BYLINE: Ron Plowman

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 100 words


A north-east worker has relived his ordeal and his eventual escape from the
carnage of the terrorist attack on an Algerian desert gas plant.

Father-of-two Alan Wright, 37, from Portsoy, was able to break out through a
hole in a fence, while gunfire rang out around him.

The confirmed death toll of 23 hostages was set to rise. The prime minister said
the militants who attacked the BP facility represented a "global threat" which
required a "global response". Mr Wright and other workers taped paper to windows
so no one could see inside a locked office where they were hiding.

Full story, Pages 6 and 7

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2013 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                                January 21, 2013

Terror group warns of more attacks

SECTION: NEWS - WORLD

LENGTH: 886 words


The group that claimed to have masterminded the storming of the Algerian gas
plant warned tonight of more attacks against any country backing France's
military intervention in neighbouring Mali.

In a statement, the Masked Brigade said: "We stress to our Muslim brothers the
necessity to stay away from all the Western companies and complexes for their
own safety, and especially the French ones,"

The statement came as the death toll from the terrorist siege at the In Amenas
natural gas plant in the Sahara climbed past 80.

Algerian forces searching the refinery for explosives found dozens more bodies,
many so badly disfigured it was unclear whether they were hostages or militants,
a security official said.

Special forces stormed the plant yesterday to end the four-day siege, moving in
to thwart what the government said was a plot by the Islamist militants to blow
up the complex and kill all their hostages with mines laid throughout the site.

Algeria said after the assault by government forces at least 32 extremists and
23 hostages were killed.

Today Algerian bomb squads sent in to blow up or defuse the explosives found 25
more bodies, said a security official.

"These bodies are difficult to identify. They could be the bodies of foreign
hostages or Algerians or terrorists."

In addition, a wounded Romanian who had been evacuated died, raising the overall
death toll to at least 81.

"Now, of course, people will ask questions about the Algerian response to these
events, but I would just say that the responsibility for these deaths lies
squarely with the terrorists who launched a vicious and cowardly attack,"
British prime minister David Cameron said. Three Britons were killed and another
three were feared dead.

The dead hostages were also known to include at least one American as well as
Filipino and French workers. Nearly two dozen foreigners by some estimates were
unaccounted for.

It was unclear whether anyone was rescued in the final assault on the complex,
which is run by the Algerian state oil company along with BP and Norway's
Statoil.

Two private Algerian TV stations and an online news site said security forces
scouring the plant found five militants hiding out and learned that three others
had fled. That information could not be immediately confirmed by security
officials.

Authorities said the bloody takeover was carried out on Wednesday by 32 men from
six countries, under the command from afar of the one-eyed Algerian bandit
Moktar Belmoktar, founder of the Masked Brigade, based in Mali. The attacking
force called itself "Those Who Sign in Blood".

The Masked Brigade said today the attack was payback against Algeria for
allowing overflights of French aircraft headed to Mali and for closing its long
border with the country. In an earlier communication, the group claimed to have
carried out the attack in the name of al Qaida.

Armed with heavy machine guns, rocket launchers, missiles and grenades, the
militants singled out foreign workers at the plant, killing some of them on the
spot and attaching explosive belts to others.

Algeria's tough and uncompromising response to the crisis was typical of its
take-no-prisoners approach in confronting terrorists, favouring military action
over negotiation. Algerian military forces, backed by attack helicopters,
launched two assaults on the plant, the first one on Thursday.

The militants had "decided to succeed in the operation as planned, to blow up
the gas complex and kill all the hostages," Algerian communications minister
Mohammed Said said.

Norwegian foreign minister Espen Barth Eide said the terrorists had tried to
blow up the plant yesterday, but managed only to start a small fire. "That's
when they started to execute hostages and the special forces intervened," he
said. Statoil said five Norwegians were still missing.

An audio recording of Algerian security forces speaking with the head of the
kidnappers, Abdel Rahman al-Nigiri, on the second day of the drama indicated the
hostage-takers were trying to organise a prisoner swap.

"You see our demands are so easy, so easy if you want to negotiate with us,"
al-Nigiri said in the recording broadcast by Algerian television. "We want the
prisoners you have, the comrades who were arrested and imprisoned 15 years ago.
We want 100 of them."

In another phone call, al-Nigiri said that half the militants had been killed by
the Algerian army on Thursday and that he was ready to blow up the remaining
hostages if security forces attacked again.

An organisation that monitors videos from radicals posted one showing al-Nigiri
with what appeared to be an explosive belt around his waist.

The Algerians' use of forced raised an international outcry from some countries
worried about their citizens.

But French foreign minister Laurent Fabius said today on French television: "The
terrorists ... they're the ones to blame."

David Plouffe, a senior adviser to President Barack Obama, said al Qaida and al
Qaida-affiliated groups remained a threat in North Africa and other parts of the
world and the US was determined to help other countries destroy those networks.

Speaking on Fox News Sunday, Mr Plouffe said the tragedy in Algeria shows once
again "that all across the globe countries are threatened by terrorists who will
use civilians to try and advance their twisted and sick agenda".

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Latin America - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 21, 2013 Monday

Colombian president says government ready to neutralize terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 375 words


Text of report by Colombian Office of the President website on 20 January

[Press release from the Presidency of the Republic of Colombia: "President
Santos: We Are on the Offensive To Neutralize Terrorist Actions."]

President Juan Manuel Santos held a National Security Council Meeting at Narino
Palace on Sunday Jan presidenciagovco Jan [1]

Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos held a National Security Council Meeting
at Narino Palace on Sunday, 20 Jan 2013 (presidencia.gov.co, 20 Jan 2013)

Bogota, 20 Jan (SIG) - President Juan Manuel Santos said Sunday that every
precaution is being taken to neutralize possible terrorist actions after the
truce offered by the FARC ends.

"We are on the offensive with everything. We had a broad discussion and I
received a lot of intelligence information about alleged operations this
organization had planned and is planning after this moment, after the 20th.
Every precaution is being taken, every measure to neutralize those actions," the
president said Sunday after a National Security Council meeting ended at Narino
Palace.

The head of state said the FARC complied with the truce to a certain extent and
he offered Colombians some peace of mind, saying that "the Armed Forces are at
full capacity throughout the country and are more than willing to continue the
work they have been doing."

"We analysed what actually happened during that truce and the truth is that
there was a significant reduction in the number of actions by this organization.
There was a significant reduction in the number of our soldiers and police
officers killed or wounded. With this we can conclude that they did comply with
the truce, but they complied to a certain extent, because actions did also take
place," President Santos said.

He added that they analysed certain statistics during the meeting, particularly
the significant increase in demobilized [guerrillas].

"We can point to and highlight the increase in the number of demobilized
[guerrillas] in the recent past; that is a good sign. And those who demobilized,
since the information we received tells us that we are on the right track and
that the actions now underway are effective," he said.

Source: Colombian Office of the President website, Bogota, in Spanish 20 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 21, 2013 Monday

Romanian PM expresses regret for death of second victim in terrorist attack

LENGTH: 275 words


Text of report by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

[Unattributed report: "Victor Ponta: We Immensely Regret Death of Second
Romanian in Algeria; Government, To Support Family"]

Bucharest, Jan 21 /Agerpres/ - Premier Victor Ponta voiced his regret for the
death of the second Romanian citizen following the terrorist attack in Algeria
and gave guarantees that the Government would support the mournful family.

'Unfortunately, today brought us a tragic piece of news concerning a second
Romanian involved, against his will, in the terrorist attack in Algeria.
Yesterday, when we announced the first pieces of news related with this tragic
attack, we were aware of his difficult situation, he was still in hospital and
we hoped he would be saved. It did not happen and today his family is mourning
and two children are left without a father,' Victor Ponta wrote on his Facebook
page.

The Foreign Affairs Ministry had previously announced that another Romanian died
in Algeria, the death occurring in hospital, because of serious injuries. On
Saturday [19 January], MAE informed about the death of the first Romanian of the
five who were in the gas facility of In Amenas, attacked on Wednesday by an
Islamic group.

'We immensely regret this thing and the Government will do all possible at the
moment to support the mournful family. Our thoughts are together with the family
hit by this tragedy,' the chief of Government says.

The Foreign Affairs Ministry informs it will secure the repatriation of the
bodies of the two Romanian nationals who died following the developments in
Algeria.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 0637gmt 21 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 21, 2013 Monday

Romanian president urges protection measures after terrorist attack in Algeria

LENGTH: 244 words


Text of report by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

[Unattributed report: "Basescu: We Do Not Have Final Assessment of What Happened
in Algeria; We Cannot Overlook it Without Giving Answer"]

Bucharest, Jan 21 /Agerpres/ - President Traian Basescu said on Monday [21
January] that Romania did not have yet a final assessment of what has happened
in Algeria, but that as soon as the authorities had it they would make it known,
adding that one must not overlook the event in question without giving an
answer.

'We have seen these days that terrorism is on the southern border of the EU. The
events in Algeria have once more confirmed the fact that powerful terrorist
groups are capable of killing our citizens. And here we must ask ourselves a
question: how do we protect our citizens? We cannot overlook the events in
Algeria without asking ourselves this question. When they leave with our
companies to work in foreign territories, they have the feeling that the state
will protect them. We do not yet have a final assessment of what has happened in
Algeria, but as soon as we have it, we shall make it known. What is certain is
that our innocent citizens died there. We do not have the right to overlook this
event without giving an answer. What are we responsible for from what has
happened in Algeria?' Basescu told the annual meeting with the ambassadors
accredited to Romania on Monday.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 1019gmt 21 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 21, 2013 Monday

Syrian minister says power outage in Damascus caused by "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 87 words


Text of report by M. Nassr published in English by state-run Syrian news agency
SANA website

["Electricity Minister: Power outage in Damascus caused by a terrorist attack"]

Damascus - Minister of Electricity Eng Imad Khamis said that the power outage in
the southern area of Damascus is caused by a terrorist attack on a main
electricity cable.

In a statement to SANA on Sunday [20 January], Minister Khamis said that
authorities are working on restoring the power.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 20 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      January 21, 2013 Monday 8:04 PM GMT

PM vow over Algeria terror attack

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 445 words


Britain will provide intelligence and counter-terrorism assets to help an
international effort to track down and dismantle the terror network responsible
for last week's attack on an Algerian natural gas plant, Prime Minister David
Cameron told MPs.

Mr Cameron said that the world was involved in a "generational struggle" against
al Qaida-inspired Islamist terrorism in North Africa, and vowed to show "iron
resolve" in his response to the challenge.

He stressed that the international community's action must be "tough,
intelligent and patient" and combine a strong security response with political
moves to tackle instability and resolve grievances as well as a long-term drive
to counter the "poisonous" ideology of violent extremism.

Mr Cameron confirmed that Britain will provide troops to a French-led EU mission
to train the Malian military to take on Islamist militants who have taken over
the north of the country. The mission, due to deploy in February or March, is
expected to include around 250 trainers and 250 force protection troops and Mr
Cameron said that the British contribution would number "in the tens, not the
hundreds", with aides saying it would be at the lower end of that range.

The PM also revealed that the National Security Council will tomorrow discuss
what further transport and surveillance assistance Britain can offer to French
troops who are fighting rebels in northern Mali.

The meeting is expected to approve the continued use of RAF C17 airlift planes
to move French troops and hardware. He promised to put the issue of terrorism
"right at the top of the agenda" for Britain's presidency of the G8 group of
rich nations in 2013.

After the end of the terror siege at the In Amenas desert complex, which is
believed to have claimed the lives of six British nationals and one foreign-born
UK resident, Mr Cameron said that the immediate priority was to identify and
repatriate the bodies of those who died.

Three of the Britons killed have been named as 46-year-old security expert Paul
Morgan, systems supervisor Garry Barlow, 49, from Liverpool, and 59-year-old
planning manager Kenneth Whiteside, from Glenrothes, Fife. Colombian BP
executive Carlos Estrada, who lived in London, is also believed to have died.

The Algerian authorities today said that 37 foreign hostages were confirmed dead
at the site - part-operated by BP - and a further five are missing. Some 29 of
the hostage-takers died, while three were captured by Algerian troops.

Labour leader Ed Miliband offered the Government his party's "full support" in
bringing to justice those responsible for what he termed "pre-meditated,
cold-blooded murder of the most brutal kind".

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      January 21, 2013 Monday 12:03 PM GMT

Terror group warns of more attacks

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 393 words


Bomb squads have been searching for booby-traps at the Algerian gas refinery as
the discovery of more bodies across the site raised the toll from the terrorist
siege past 80.

Teams were finding and defusing the explosives planted in what the Algerian
government said was a plot by Islamic extremists to blow up the complex and kill
all their captives.

The Masked Brigade, the group that claims to have masterminded the takeover,
warned of more attacks against any country backing France's military
intervention in neighbouring Mali, where the French are trying to stop an
advance by Islamic extremists.

"We stress to our Muslim brothers the necessity to stay away from all the
Western companies and complexes for their own safety, and especially the French
ones," it said.

Algeria said after Saturday's assault by government forces that at least 32
extremists and 23 hostages were killed. On Sunday the Algerian bomb squads found
25 more bodies, said a security official. "These bodies are difficult to
identify. They could be the bodies of foreign hostages or Algerians or
terrorists," he said.

In addition, a wounded Romanian who had been evacuated died, raising the overall
death toll to at least 81. Three Britons were confirmed killed at the complex
and another three were feared dead. The dead hostages were also known to include
at least one American and a French worker. Nearly two dozen foreigners by some
estimates were unaccounted for.

It was unclear whether anyone was rescued in the final assault on the complex,
which is run by the Algerian state oil company along with BP and Norway's
Statoil.

The raid was carried out last Wednesday by 32 men from six countries, under the
remote command of the one-eyed Algerian bandit Moktar Belmoktar, founder of the
Masked Brigade, based in Mali. The attacking force called itself "Those Who Sign
in Blood".

The Masked Brigade said the attack was revenge against Algeria for allowing
over-flights of French aircraft headed to Mali and for closing its long border
with Mali. Earlier it claimed to have carried out the attack in the name of al
Qaida.

Algeria's tough and uncompromising response to the crisis was typical of its
take-no-prisoners approach in confronting terrorists, favouring military action
over negotiation. Algerian military forces, backed by attack helicopters,
launched two assaults on the plant.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 21, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fears of 'inside job', with employees said to be among Islamist attackers;
SECURITY Terror in Algeria

BYLINE: Abdelatif Belkayem; Henry Samuel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 647 words


AS MANY as five of the al-Qaeda-linked Islamists who carried out the attack on
the gas plant were employees, security sources have disclosed.

One of those was of French nationality, the sources told The Daily Telegraph, in
what appears to be a blow to those in charge of safety at the In Amenas plant,
which accounts for 12 per cent of Algeria's gas production.

The unnamed Frenchman is said to have changed sides once his comrades had broken
into the desert site in southeast Algeria after attacking buses carrying workers
at a false checkpoint. He then took part in the kidnapping operation before
being killed during the Algerian army assault on the site.

Some terrorists were reported to have known internal procedures at the plant as
well as the room numbers of expatriates.

Gendarmes are understood to have opened an investigation into four other workers
who survived the attack on suspicion of helping the kidnappers enter the
tightly-guarded facility.

In a further development, as many as five of the hostage-takers are believed to
have been captured alive. The Algerian government earlier said that all 32
kidnappers had been "neutralised", leaving open the possibility that not all
were dead.

"One gave himself up after running out of munitions, while two more were picked
up by Algerian special forces after being injured," a local security source told
The Daily Telegraph.

With the military operation over, forensic scientists from Algeria's national
gendarmerie arrived yesterday to begin the task of identifying the bodies. Civil
protection workers said they spent yesterday retrieving body parts as they tried
to identify who had been killed. Security services said a further 25 bodies were
recovered yesterday, with differing reports over how many were hostages.

Citing security sources, Ennahar television said all 25 were captives, but The
Daily Telegraph was told that 15 were militants.

Mohamed Said, Algeria's communications minister, admitted that previous
provisional figures for the number of dead - 23 hostages and 32 kidnappers -
would likely have to be "revised upward". A civil protection source said the
total number of deaths was between 55 and 60, with about half foreign hostages.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said yesterday some of the hostages were
probably executed. "That sort of thing is quite likely to have happened," he
said.

Last night, bomb squads were still combing the area for explosive devices, with
the army saying that the kidnappers had placed mines both around the factory to
hinder the army's advance, and also inside the plant. Mr Said said the
terrorists had planned to blow up the gas complex and kill all the hostages.

The possibility of an "inside job" follows expressions of surprise by security
experts at the apparent ease with which the plant was penetrated by the
terrorists - loyal to Mokhtar Belmokhtar, the oneeyed Islamist who formed his
own brigade, "Those who Sign with Blood". It was the first successful terrorist
attack against a petrol or gas plant in Algeria.

"These installations are highly-protected," said Louis Caprioli, an adviser at
GEOS, the risk management group, and a former domestic intelligence agent. "The
operation must have been prepared over quite some time. Either there was a
slipup or it was internal complicity."

A spokesman for BP, which ran the plant along with Sonatrach, the Algerian state
oil company, and Norway's Statoil, refused to comment on the possible security
beach.

It was confirmed yesterday that the apparent leader of the militants, Abdul
Rahman al-Nigeri, was ready at any time to blow up the hostages.

Another of the kidnappers was identi-fied as Abdallahi Ould Hmida. An al-Qaeda
veteran of 14 years, he played a role in the killing of French tourists in
Mauritania in 2010.

The Algerian prime minister will hold a press conference today at In Amenas.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ECHOROUK ELYAOUMI/ LOUAFI LARBI/ STR/ AFP/GETTY
Clockwise from left: the wreckage of a vehicle near the In Amenas gas plant;
smoke rises from the plant; weapons seized by the Algerian authorities; hostages
surrendering to Islamist gunmen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            January 21, 2013 Monday

Security Council condemns terrorist attack in Algeria

LENGTH: 245 words


January 19, 2013

Members of the Security Council have strongly condemned this week's terrorist
attack at the gas facility in Amenas, Algeria, that resulted in numerous deaths
and injuries.



"They expressed their deep sympathy and sincere condolences to the victims of
these heinous acts and their families and to the people and Governments of
Algeria and those countries whose nationals have been affected," said a
statement issued to the press last night by Ambassador Masood Khan of Pakistan,
which holds the rotating Council presidency for January.

The siege at the facility began on 16 January when militants stormed the gas
plant and took the foreign and Algerian workers there hostage. The crisis has
reportedly ended, but not before several hostages and militants were killed.

"The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to
justice, and urge all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with the Algerian authorities in this regard," said the statement.

Council members also reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by
whomsoever committed.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                      January 21, 2013 Monday 6:44 PM BST

PM VOW OVER ALGERIA TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Andrew Woodcock, Press Association Political Editor

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 1531 words


Britain will provide intelligence and counter-terrorism assets to help an
international effort to track down and dismantle the terror network responsible
for last week's attack on an Algerian natural gas plant, Prime Minister David
Cameron told MPs today.

Mr Cameron said that the world was involved in a ``generational struggle''
against al Qaida-inspired Islamist terrorism in North Africa, and vowed to show
``iron resolve'' in his response to the challenge.

He stressed that the international community's action must be ``tough,
intelligent and patient'' and combine a strong security response with political
moves to tackle instability and resolve grievances as well as a long-term drive
to counter the ``poisonous'' ideology of violent extremism.

Mr Cameron confirmed that Britain will provide troops to a French-led EU mission
to train the Malian military to take on Islamist militants who have taken over
the north of the country. The mission, due to deploy in February or March, is
expected to include around 250 trainers and 250 force protection troops and Mr
Cameron said that the British contribution would number ``in the tens, not the
hundreds'', with aides saying it would be at the lower end of that range.

The PM also revealed that the National Security Council will tomorrow discuss
what further transport and surveillance assistance Britain can offer to French
troops who are fighting rebels in northern Mali. The meeting is expected to
approve the continued use of RAF C17 airlift planes to move French troops and
hardware.

He promised to put the issue of terrorism ``right at the top of the agenda'' for
Britain's presidency of the G8 group of rich nations in 2013.

After the end of the terror siege at the In Amenas desert complex, which is
believed to have claimed the lives of six British nationals and one foreign-born
UK resident, Mr Cameron said that the immediate priority was to identify and
repatriate the bodies of those who died.

Three of the Britons killed have been named as 46-year-old security expert Paul
Morgan, systems supervisor Garry Barlow, 49, from Liverpool, and 59-year-old
planning manager Kenneth Whiteside, from Glenrothes, Fife. Colombian BP
executive Carlos Estrada, who lived in London, is also believed to have died.

Mr Cameron told MPs that forensic experts from the UK, US and Norway are working
with the Algerian authorities to formally identify a number of bodies found at
the site, thought to include three further Britons, but warned that the process
``may take some time''.

The Algerian authorities today said that 37 foreign hostages were confirmed dead
at the site - part-operated by BP - and a further five are missing. Some 29 of
the hostage-takers died, while three were captured by Algerian troops.

Mr Barlow's widow Lorraine today said his family was ``devastated'' by the news
of the death of a husband she described as ``a loving, devoted family man (who)
loved life and lived it to the full''.

There was some criticism from other relatives of British authorities' failure to
keep them informed.

Mr Whiteside's brother Bob said his family first learnt of his death on social
media website Facebook, and were only later told by police that he had been
``executed''.

And the family of survivor Allen McCloud, 53, from Plymouth, said the standard
of information provided by the British authorities, fuel company BP and
recruitment company Orion was ``very poor''.

A Foreign Office spokesman said that its priority throughout the crisis was
always ``the welfare of British nationals caught up in this terrible incident''
and that it had always tried to provide as much support and information to
relatives as possible.

In a statement to the House of Commons, Mr Cameron said his deepest condolences
were with the families of the victims and said work to clear the site of
potential traps was continuing, to clear the way for the identification and
removal of all bodies.

``Now our most vital work is bringing home those who died,'' he told MPs.

``We want this process to happen as swiftly as possible but it will involve some
intensive forensic and policing work and so may take some time.''

The Prime Minister warned against allowing ``fragile and broken states'' in
North Africa, such as northern Mali, to become a safe haven for terror, as parts
of Afghanistan, Yemen and Somalia have been in the past.

``To date, the threat it poses has been to these North African states themselves
and, of course, to Western interests in those states,'' said Mr Cameron.

``But as it escalates it is also becoming a magnet for jihadists from other
countries who share this poisonous ideology. Indeed there are already reports of
non-Algerian nationals involved in this attack.

``More than ever, this evolving threat demands an international response. It
must be one that is tough, intelligent, patient and based on strong
international partnerships.''

He added: ``In sum, we must frustrate the terrorists with our security; beat
them militarily; address the poisonous narrative they feed on; close down the
ungoverned space in which they thrive; and deal with the grievances they use to
garner support.''

Labour leader Ed Miliband offered the Government his party's ``full support'' in
bringing to justice those responsible for what he termed ``pre-meditated,
cold-blooded murder of the most brutal kind''.

A poll for ITV today found fewer than one in five (18%) thought British troops
should be deployed on the ground in Mali, against 47% who disagreed. Some 41%
said the UK should play no part at all in the French-led operation, against 25%
who said it should. Nearly half (47%) of those questioned by ComRes said cuts to
the UK defence budget should be rethought in the light of the developing
situation in North Africa.

ComRes interviewed 2,013 British adults for ITV News from January 18 to 20.

Mr Cameron told MPs it was ``important to put on record'' the scale of what
happened at the gas field, which is near the Libyan border.

He added: ``There is still some uncertainty around the precise facts, but we
believe that in total there were some 800 employees working at the In Amenas
site at the time of the attack, about 135 of whom were foreign nationals.

``At least 12 were killed with at least a further 20 unaccounted for and feared
dead.

``The Algerian prime minister has said today 37 foreign hostages were killed.

``The number of terrorists was over 30. Most were killed during the incident but
a small number are in Algerian custody.''

Despite telling MPs last week he was ``disappointed'' not to have been told in
advance by the Algerian government of its plans to send in its military forces,
Mr Cameron said Britain should ``recognise all that the Algerians have done to
confront this attack''.

He added: ``I am sure the House will understand the challenges that Algeria
faced in dealing with over 30 terrorists bent on killing innocent people in a
large and extremely remote and dangerous industrial complex.

``This would have been a most demanding task for security forces anywhere in the
world and we should acknowledge the resolve shown by the Algerians in
undertaking it.

``Above all the responsibility for these deaths lies squarely with the
terrorists.''

The first of the British victims to be officially named was 46-year-old Paul
Morgan, reported to be a former Foreign Legion soldier and Gulf War veteran who
was in charge of security at the In Amenas plant.

Mr Morgan was described by his mother Marianne, 65, and partner Emma Steele, 36,
as a ``true gentleman'' who died doing the job he loved.

Kenneth Whiteside, a 59-year-old from Glenrothes, Fife, who lived in
Johannesburg with his wife and two daughters, and Garry Barlow, 49, a married
father of two from Liverpool, who was a system supervisor for BP at the In
Amenas plant, were also killed.

Carlos Estrada, a Colombian executive for BP who lived in Chelsea is also
reported to have died.

Labour leader Ed Miliband said his thoughts were with the families enduring an
``unimaginable nightmare'' as they received news of loved ones killed in the
crisis.

``This was pre-meditated, cold blooded murder of the most brutal kind. And
behind each lost life is a family of loved ones who are in our thoughts today,''
he said.

Labour would give its ``full support'' to both bringing those behind the
terrorist outrage to justice and dealing with the wider issue of al Qaida-linked
groups in the region.

Mr Cameron said terrorist activity in North Africa had often been fed by hostage
ransoms and wider criminality but the area was also becoming a ``magnet for
jihadists'' from other countries.

That threat demands a ``tough, intelligent and patient'' international response,
he added.

``We must be realistic and hard headed about the threats we face.

``Our role is to support the Governments of the region in their resolve to
combat this menace, as many are doing at great cost.

``So we will work closely with the Algerian government to learn the lessons of
this attack, and to deepen our security cooperation.

``And we will contribute British intelligence and counter-terrorism assets to an
international effort to find and dismantle the network that planned and ordered
the brutal assault at In Amenas.''

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2013 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            January 21, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

My keepsake from rebuilding Afghanistan is a Taliban bullet lodged deep in my
back;
IRISHMAN'S AMAZING TALE OF ATTACK BY TERRORISTS

BYLINE: ANN MOONEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 683 words


AN Irish builder blasted by the Taliban in Afghanistan has been left with a
bullet lodged permanently in his back.

Adrian Hennessy, 39, cheated death after his taxi was targeted by terrorists
attacking an army checkpoint.

As he tried desperately to release his seat-belt and take cover, a bullet
smashed through the back window and hit him during the incident in November.

Adrian told the Irish Sun: "I was involved in a building project outside Camp
Bastion where we were building a fort for the Afghan National Army.

"I was on my way to Geresk when my taxi was stopped at a checkpoint.

"We were sideswiped by a white car.

"Then all hell broke loose and we were caught in a hail of gunfire between the
Taliban and the army.

"My driver hit the accelerator as the glass shattered in the cab.

"I felt something hit me like a sledgehammer as we were trying to escape.

"I felt my back and my hand came away covered in blood.

"The bullet came from the Taliban judging by the angle.

"I was shocked and the driver just took off as fast as he could.

"He drove to the US base and dropped me off outside the garrison.

"I shook hands with him because he saved my life.

"I managed to stumble the last 300 yards to the base with my arm hanging limp
and blood pouring down my body.

"I was wearing native gear and covered in dust.

"The way I was the guards at the checkpoint thought I was a native so they were
wary of me.

"I think they are always on the alert for strangers who could be suicide
bombers.

"I saw the army man's name was O'Flynn and I said, 'I'm Irish like you.'" Adrian
was rushed into the base camp medical centre where his wound was covered with
bandage packs.

He was taken to hospital where he was hailed as "the million dollar man".

When someone is shot by the Taliban and lives to tell the tale the wound is
called a "million dollar wound". In hospital the injury was treated and days
were spent draining off the blood from it because of a fear of infection.

The doctors' report described it as "a deep penetrating wound which has been
cleaned and drained. Bullet not found".

Adrian, from Ballymacoda, Co Cork, said: "I was alive and kicking and feeling
very lucky.

"I had priorities and the first was to contact my wife Amanda at home and tell
her what happened."

Amanda said: "When Adrian said he had been shot the blood drained from my body,
I got such a fright.

"I wanted to be removed from what was happening in Afghanistan because of Adrian
being there so I never watched the news.

"I thanked God he was okay and that he was coming home to me and our two
children Mary Kate, two, and Josh, six." Adrian had made friends with one of the
commanders of the Afghan National Army Abdul Siad, who visited him in hospital
and told him he "had the luck of the Irish".

Siad gave him an army flak jacket to replace his hoodie that was covered in
blood.

Adrian was flown home to Ireland in a private jet by the American company he
worked for in the Afghanistan warzone.

While working on his family home in Ballymacoda he began to suffer extreme pain
in his shoulder and was admitted to Cork University Hospital where they
discovered the bullet.

However because of where it is lodged on a nerve a decision was taken not to
remove it as yet.

Adrian said: "I would obviously prefer if it wasn't in my body and I know it is
there because I can feel it. But it is on a nerve and if it was removed now it
could leave my arm useless. That is not an option because I am a stonemason and
I need my arms to work".

Hennessy decided to take up the lucrative position of project manager for the US
military in Afghanistan.

Adrian was forced to leave recession-hit Ireland like so many others because of
the lack of work. He explained: "I was self-employed and barely scraping a
living. A friend told me about the opportunity and I decided I would go for
three months which turned into five before I returned home to visit the family.

"Every time I said I was leaving they upped my salary and because of the
situation back home it was hard to refuse.

"I started in May 2011 so I was there 16 months when I got shot."

irishsun@the-sun.ie

Blood

Refuse

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Irish base . . sleeping quarters
Project . . workers on military site pose for group snap
Support . . Adrian and base chief
Lucky to be alive . . Adrian's injury and bloodied top
Brave . . driver who saved Adrian and, below, window

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 21, 2013 Monday 10:02 PM GMT

BBC criticised for calling Algeria terrorists 'militants';
David Cameron criticised the BBC for describing the perpetrators of the Algeria
hostage attack as "militants" instead of condemning them as "terrorists"

BYLINE: By Tim Ross Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 321 words


The Prime Minister said the attack that killed six Britons should be "condemned
utterly" after a Conservative MP expressed "surprise and disappointment" at the
broadcaster's reporting.

The BBC, which has strict guidelines for reporters on the terms they should
adopt, described the attackers as "militants" 12 times in one report on its
website.

However, in the same report, the only use of the term "terrorists" occurred in a
quotation from remarks by the Algerian prime minister.

During a debate on the hostage crisis in the Commons, Andrew Bridgen the
Conservative MP for North West Leicestershire, asked the Prime Minister: "Are
you as surprised and disappointed as I am that the BBC have consistently
described the perpetrators of these heinous crimes as militants rather than the
terrorists which they are?"

Mr Cameron said his colleague had made a "good point" adding: "These are
terrorists and they should be described as such.

"This was a terrorist attack, it was to take hostages, to kill them, to kill
innocent people and it should be condemned utterly."

The BBC has been criticised before for its political correctness.

In February last year, BBC journalists were told not to call Abu Qatada, the
preacher with links to al-Qaeda, an "extremist".

In order to avoid making a "value judgement" about Qatada, the corporation's
managers ruled that he could only be described as "radical".

Journalists were also cautioned against using footage suggesting the preacher is
overweight.

During the summer riots in 2011, the broadcaster repeatedly referred to looters
and rioters as "protesters".

According to the Oxford Paperback Dictionary, a "militant" is defined as someone
"prepared to take aggressive action in support of a political or social cause".

A BBC spokesman said: "We always think very carefully about the language we use.
We do not ban words but the BBC does have guidelines depending on the context of
a story".

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 21, 2013 Monday 1:59 PM GMT

Algeria crisis: family of victim find out about his death on Facebook;
The family of one of the victims of the British Algerian terrorist attack said
that they had to learn that he had been executed on Facebook.

BYLINE: By Telegraph reporters

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 398 words


Friends of Kenneth Whiteside, 59, originally from Glenrothes, Fife, said on the
social networking website that he was killed in the attack.

However Mr Whiteside's brother, Robert, was only officially informed by police
last night. He said: "We know what's happened to Kenny, but we had to find out
for ourselves.

"We were not given any official information, it was on Facebook of all things.
My daughter found a message from one of his Algerian colleagues.

"The police came last night and informed us that what was on Facebook was true,
and that Kenny had been executed."

He told BBC Scotland that the family does not hold any "grudges" against the
Algerian military for the botched rescue operation.

He said: "They weren't bothered with the hostages as such, they just wanted to
get the camp cleared of terrorists. That was their main objective."

Allen McCloud, 53, from Plymouth, was one of 22 Britons who survived and is now
back in the UK. However his brother, Malcolm criticised authorities for failing
to keep the family informed.

Mr McCloud's father, who lives in Thailand, was told he would be "the first to
know" any information about his son yet heard little.

Mr McCloud's brother, Malcolm, criticised the British authorities, fuel company
BP and recruitment company Orion for failing to keep their father, who lives in
Thailand, informed.

He said: "None of these fed any information, despite being told he would be the
first to know.

"The lack of information from all the relevant sources was very poor. We were
kept up to date from friends who worked in the oil and gas industry and the
news."

He added: "We are all very relieved that Allen is now safe. It's been a long,
stressful four days for the family."

DC Sarah Northcott, from Devon and Cornwall Police, read a short statement on
behalf of escaped hostage Mr McCloud from Devon. I'd like to thank my family and
friends for their support.

"I'm happy to be home but my thoughts are with the families who lost their loved
ones."

DC Northcott added: "It's been very difficult for the family but obviously
they're really pleased now that Allen is home and back safely with them in
Plymouth.

"Their thoughts are with other families that haven't been quite so lucky as
they've been.

"It's been very difficult - they've been watching the news avidly over the last
few days - they're really pleased Allen is now home safe and well."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 21, 2013 Monday 12:41 PM GMT

PM vows to hunt down terrorists behind Algeria hostage attack;
Britain will hunt down the terrorists behind the Algerian gas plant siege,
Downing Street has said, but the government stopped short of threatening
military action in Africa.

BYLINE: By Tim Ross Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1130 words


The Prime Minister's spokesman said there was "no change" in the position that
there would not be a "combat role" for British forces in the French-led
operation in Mali.

However, the government promised to supply intelligence resources to help the
French military action against terrorist rebels in the region.

David Cameron will update MPs on the aftermath of the Algerian hostage crisis in
a Commons statement later on Monday afternoon.

Mokhtar Belmokhtar, the terrorist leader linked to al-Qaeda, has claimed
responsibility for the siege at the gas complex in the Sahara, and blamed the
attack on the West for bombing "Mali's muslims".

At a regular briefing for reporters in Westminster, the Prime Minister's
official spokesman said Mr Cameron was determined to root out the terrorists
responsible for killing up to 81 people, including six Britons and "bring them
to justice".

"We are going to be working with our international partners to bring them to
justice," the spokesman said.

The terrorists claimed their raid on the BP gas complex was in direct
retaliation for the French-backed military action in Mali, across the border
with Algeria. Britain has supplied two RAF transport plans to aid the operation,
which is being conducted to support the Malian government's conflict with rebels
linked to terrorism.

Mr Cameron's spokesman said the French government was best placed to lead the
military action in Mali.

"Where we are best able to help is through the provision of logistical and
intelligence support," the spokesman said.

He refused to comment on reports at least one of the terrorist involved may have
been British.

Nor would the spokesman confirm or deny that Abdel Rahman el-Nigeri, one of the
terrorists leading the raid on the In Amenas gas plant, had made contact with
British officials, insisting that the government did not "negotiate" with
terrorists.

Downing Street's tone towards the Algerian government over their military
operation to rescue the hostages has changed markedly since Friday, when the
Prime Minister made his disappointment at their tactics plain.

"We should be clear: the responsibility for the loss of life lies with the
terrorists," the No 10 spokesman said. "We recognise what the Algerians have
done to coordinate with us. The Prime Minister thanks them for that."

Mr received the latest update this morning when he chaired a meeting of Cobra,
the Cabinet's crisis committee. He will discuss how to respond to the new terror
threat in the Sahel and north Africa at a meeting of the National Security
Council later this week.

Three British nationals are now known to have died in the four-day siege, which
finally ended on Saturday, and three more are believed to be dead. A UK resident
is also thought to have died.

The first of the British victims to be officially named was 46-year-old Paul
Morgan, reported to be a former Foreign Legion soldier and Gulf War veteran who
was in charge of security at the In Amenas plant.

Mr Morgan was described by his mother Marianne, 65, and partner Emma Steele, 36,
as a "true gentleman" who died doing the job he loved.

In a statement they said: "Paul was a true gentleman, a family man, he very much
loved his partner Emma, his mum, brothers and sister, of whom he was very proud.

"He loved life and lived it to the full. He was a professional man proud to do
the job he did and died doing the job he loved.

"We are so proud of him and so proud of what he achieved in his life. We are
devastated by Paul's death and he will be truly missed.

"We would like to thank the Family Support officers who are helping us through
this difficult time."

Others were reported to be Scot Kenneth Whiteside, a 59-year-old from
Glenrothes, Fife, who lived in Johannesburg with his wife and two daughters, and
Garry Barlow, 49, a married father of two from Liverpool who was a system
supervisor for BP at the In Amenas plant.

Carlos Estrada, a Colombian executive for BP who lived in Chelsea, west London,
is also reported to have died.

The <em class="bold">Algerian</em> authorities warned last night that the
confirmed toll of 23 hostages killed at the remote In Amenas facility was set to
rise sharply.

Bomb squads searching for booby-trap devices left by the Islamist militants
discovered 25 bodies, some so badly disfigured they could not be identified.

Thirty-two terrorists also died and there were reports last night that five
others had been captured alive. In addition, a Romanian who had been evacuated
died, bringing the death toll to at least 81.

The veteran jihadist Mokhtar Belmokhtar sent a video to a Mauritanian-based news
website in which he claimed one of his cells, known as "Those Who Sign In
Blood", was responsible for the attack.

In the video - which was said to have been recorded while the siege was still
going on and was not posted on the Sahara Media website - he offered to
negotiate with Algeria and the West if they halted the bombing of Muslims in
Mali.

Mr Cameron said the attack was a "stark reminder" of the continuing threat from
international terrorism and vowed to use Britain's presidency of the G8 to
ensure the issue was right at the top of the international agenda.

"This is a global threat and it will require a global response. It will require
a response that is about years, even decades, rather than months," he said.

"It requires a response that is patient and painstaking, that is tough but also
intelligent, but above all has an absolutely iron resolve, and that is what we
will deliver over these coming years."

His language carried striking echoes of Tony Blair's rhetoric before Britain's
military interventions in Afghanistan and Iraq. Despite the heavy loss of life,
Mr Cameron refused to criticise the hardline tactics of the Algerian government
which right from the start ruled out any negotiation with the terrorists.

"The responsibility for these deaths lies squarely with the terrorists who
launched these vicious and cowardly attacks," he said.

The Algerian interior ministry said it had had to send in special forces to
mount a final assault after the militants tried first to flee with their
hostages and then to blow up the entire facility.

Troops later recovered a terrorist arsenal of six machine guns, 21 rifles, two
shotguns, two 60mm mortars with shells, six 60mm missiles with launchers, two
rocket-propelled grenades with eight rockets and 10 grenades in explosive belts.

Meanwhile, the 22 British nationals at the plant who survived the attack were
recovering at home with their families having been flown back to the UK in
aircraft chartered by BP and the Foreign Office.

The bodies of two Canadians, who were among Islamists killed during the crisis,
have been recovered from the site of the siege, according to private television
Ennahar.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday

PM says "Indian adventures", terror attacks challenges before Pakistan - PTI

LENGTH: 336 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Islamabad, 22 Jan: Pakistan Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf on Tuesday [22
January] cited "Indian adventures on the Line of Control" and a wave of
terrorist attacks as examples of security challenges faced by Pakistan as it
moves toward a general election, which is expected to be held in May.

"Recent Indian adventures on the Line of Control and a wave of terrorist attacks
in the country amidst political flux ahead of national elections point towards
the magnitude, scale and enormity of the challenges faced by the country,"
Ashraf said.

Addressing participants of a course on "national security and war" at the
National Defence University, the Premier said Pakistan had "initiated a
composite dialogue process with India to resolve all issues, including the core
issue of Jammu and Kashmir."

He did not go into details of recent ceasefire violations along the LoC.

Ashraf said his government is "fully aware of the criticality of the situation
and is taking all possible measures to maintain stability, national cohesion and
preserve national interests."

Several ceasefire violations were reported along the LoC this month. They were
the worst violations of the ceasefire put in place in 2003. Two Indian soldiers
were killed while Pakistan claimed three of its soldiers died in the incidents.

The Directors General of Military Operations of both sides recently discussed
the issue.

The Pakistan Premier said there was "national consensus on fighting and
eliminating extremism and terrorism which threaten not only our national
security but also our way of life."

"We will not allow terrorists and extremists to subdue our will or frighten us.
Terrorism has changed our lifestyles. Though the people of Pakistan, its law
enforcement agencies, particularly the armed forces, have rendered unprecedented
sacrifices...in the fight against terrorism, yet the international clamour to do
more refuses to die," he added.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1244gmt 22 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday

Terrorist attack on gas plant aimed to drag Algeria into Mali war - minister

LENGTH: 723 words


Text of report by Hamed Yas, entitled: "Communication minister interprets
Tiguentourine attack: 'The  terrorists targeted the livelihood of Algerians to
instigate protest at home'", published on website of privately-owned Algerian
newspaper El-Khabar on 21 January

Communication Minister Mohamed Said [also known as Mohand Oussaid Belaid] has
said that the aim of the perpetrators of the attack on the gas installation
which involved the abduction of the employees was "to destabilise Algeria and
drag it into the Malian war which is essentially not our war". He added that the
Tiguentourine incident "was an opportunity for Algeria's enemies to settle an
old score".

In a statement to radios 1 and 3 yesterday [20 January], the minister said that
to the capital cities which expressed reservations about the operation which was
led by our special forces against the abductors under the pretext that we did
not seek their views "we say that secrecy was required in the circumstances and
the issue concerned sovereignty and we took into consideration the interests of
Algeria and its people". In the same context, he said: "Some countries did not
understand the military operation at first but then they changed their position
and officials in Europe said that Algeria did what it had to do."

He explained that Algeria "understands the dismay of some capitals for not
having been briefed about the operation, but their rejection was perhaps for
internal consumption because some of those countries are about to have elections
and that is a matter we understand".

He added: "These capitals subsequently changed their position and adopted a
position dictated by the need to free the hostages at minimum cost. Whether it
was Britain, USA or France; they all appreciated Algeria's position and the way
our special forces behaved."

According to Mohamed Said, our special forces "had no choice but to launch an
attack on the abductors because time was running out for us. We warned the
terrorists in the first 24 hours of their attack but they were determined to
flee and take the hostages with them otherwise they would have blown up the gas
facility. Therefore, a decision had to be made very quickly to reduce loss of
lives and we succeeded in doing so. It is true that 23 hostages were killed but
it could have been much worse and I may have been talking now about hundreds of
victims and a real massacre."

The minister of communication made the following interpretation of the attack on
the gas facility: "The idea of targeting hydrocarbon installations in our
country such as In Amenas, Hassi Messaoud or Hassi R'mel is tantamount to
targeting the Algerian people's livelihood. The aim of the Tiguentourine
operation was to stop gas production and, consequently, the Algerians' source of
living. The aim was also to stop economic development and instigate popular
protests which would have led to instability in the country."

The minister justified the scarcity of information on developments in the
operation from the authorities and said that the special forces' intervention
was "sensitive to the extent that any information could have been used by the
terrorists as a weapon against us".

Regarding the criticism made of the authorities in that aspect, he said: "Should
priority be given to media scoops or saving the hostages? I am aware of the
disappointment felt by journalists but we offered the information that was
appropriate, correct and came from the field. We did not mislead as others did
by disseminating conflicting reports which changed from one minute to another
and did not reflect what was really happening in the field, and the plan was to
publish false information in order to force us to provide the true information
with a view to serving the interests of the perpetrators of the operation by
giving them the opportunity to change their plan in line with the new
information given by us, but we sussed the plan and avoided falling into the
trap. Yes, we deliberately deprived the media of information in order to ensure
the success of the operation."

Mohamed Said did not explain which media outlets he was referring to with regard
to the accusation of "cooperating with the terrorists"; whether they were
newspapers, radio or TV and whether they were Algerian or foreign?

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 21 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PM says bringing home bodies is top priority after terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 260 words


BRINGING home the bodies of the victims of the Algerian terror siege is
Britain's top priority, but it might take some time, David Cameron has said.

The Prime Minister confirmed to MPs yesterday that three British nationals were
known to have been killed in the attack on the In Amenas gas field and a further
three were believed to be dead, along with a Colombian who lived in the UK.

Mr Cameron said his deepest condolences were with the families of the victims
and told the Commons work to clear the site of potential traps was continuing.

He said: "Now our most vital work is bringing home those who died. An
international team of British, American and Norwegian experts is in close
co-operation with the Algerian ministry of justice undertaking the task of
formally identifying their bodies.

"We want this process to happen as swiftly as possible but it will involve some
intensive forensic and policing work and so may take some time." Mr Cameron told
MPs it was "important to put on record" the scale of what happened at the gas
field, near the Libyan border.

He added: "There is still some uncertainty around the precise facts, but we
believe that in total there were some 800 employees working at the In Amenas
site at the time of the attack, about 135 of whom were foreign nationals. "At
least 12 were killed with at least a further 20 unaccounted for and feared dead.
The Algerian prime minister has said 37 foreign hostages were killed.

"The number of terrorists was over 30. Most were killed during the incident but
a small number are in Algerian custody."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DET


                     Copyright 2013 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 22, 2013 Tuesday 11:00 PM GMT

Trains to be 'bomb proofed' as study identifies simple design changes that could
lessen impact of terrorist attack;
Scientists have devised a set of key changes to train coaches that could contain
an explosive blast and reduce the amount of flying debris in a carriag

BYLINE: Steve Connor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 347 words


Train carriages could soon be built to give passengers better protection against
bomb explosions following a three-year study that identified simple design
changes to lessen the impact of a terrorist attack.

Scientists have devised a set of key changes to train coaches that could contain
an explosive blast and reduce the amount of flying debris in a carriage, which
can injure passengers as well as hinder the emergency services.

After a three-year EU-funded study into the problem, which included test
explosions on a decommissioned metro carriage, researchers have produced a
check-list of safety improvements that could be incorporated into new passenger
trains within the next decade, they said.

The research was commissioned in the aftermath of the Madrid bombings in 2005
and the 7/7 London Underground bombings a year later. The results will be passed
on to train manufacturers and could be integrated into national and European
safety standards, said Conor O'Neil of Newcastle University.

Changing the features of existing carriages and incorporating new technology and
materials rather than a total re-design could make relatively simple and
cost-effective improvements to passenger safety in the event of an explosion, Dr
O'Neil said.

"Preventing flying objects is the key. Tethering ceiling panels reduced the risk
of fatalities and injury from flying shrapnel and also meant the gangways were
kept relatively clear of debris, allowing emergency staff quick access to the
injured," Dr O'Neil said.

"The window coating we developed was also incredibly effective. Without it the
windows are blown outwards, putting anyone outside, such as those standing on a
platform, at risk from flying glass," he said.

"A bomb on a train is always going to be devastating but what we are trying to
do is find a way in which the vehicle itself can help to mitigate the impact of
an attack. These are all low-cost, simple solutions that can be put on existing
trains which could not only save lives but also reduce the attractiveness of our
railways for potential terrorist attacks," he added.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PM's vow over Algeria terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 405 words


BRITAIN will provide intelligence and counter-terrorism assets to help an
international effort to track down and dismantle the terror network responsible
for last week's attack on an Algerian natural gas plant, Prime Minister David
Cameron told MPs.

Mr Cameron said the world was involved in a "genera-tional struggle" against al
Qaida-inspired Islamist terrorism in North Africa, and vowed to show "iron
resolve" in his response to the challenge. He stressed that the international
community's action must be "tough, intelligent and patient" and combine a strong
security response with political moves to tackle instability and resolve
grievances as well as a long-term drive to counter the "poisonous" ideology of
violent extremism.

Mr Cameron confirmed that Britain will provide troops to a French-led EU mission
to train the Malian military to take on Islamist militants who have taken over
the north of the country.

The mission, due to deploy in February or March, is expected to include about
250 trainers and 250 force protection troops.

Mr Cameron said the British contribution would number "in the tens, not the
hundreds", with aides saying it would be at the lower end of that range.

The PM also revealed that the National Security Council will today discuss what
further transport and surveillance assistance Britain can offer to French troops
who are fighting rebels in northern Mali.

The meeting is expected to approve the continued use of RAF C17 airlift planes
to move French troops and hardware.

He promised to put the issue of terrorism "right at the top of the agenda" for
Britain's presidency of the G8 group of rich nations in 2013.

After the end of the terror siege at the In Amenas desert complex, which is
believed to have claimed the lives of six British nationals and one foreign-born
UK resident, Mr Cameron said that the immediate priority was to identify and
repatriate the bodies of those who died.

Three of the Britons killed have been named as 46-yearold security expert Paul
Morgan, systems supervisor Garry Barlow, 49, from Liverpool, and 59-year-old
planning manager Kenneth Whiteside, from Glenrothes, Fife. Colombian BP
executive Carlos Estrada, who lived in London, is also believed to have died.

Mr Cameron told MPs that forensic experts from the UK, US and Norway are working
with the Algerian authorities to formally identify a number of bodies found at
the site, thought to include three further Britons.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2013 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday

Terrorist Attack in Algeria

LENGTH: 148 words


January 21, 2013

Victoria Nuland

Department Spokesperson , Washington, DC

We can now confirm the death of three U.S. citizens in the terrorist attack in
Algeria: Victor Lynn Lovelady, Gordon Lee Rowan, and Frederick Buttaccio. We
extend our deepest condolences to their families and friends. Out of respect for
the families' privacy, we have no further comment. We are also aware of seven
U.S. citizens who survived the attack. Due to privacy considerations, we have no
further information to provide.



As the President said, the blame for this tragedy rests with the terrorists who
carried it out, and the United States condemns their actions in the strongest
possible terms. We will continue to work closely with the Government of Algeria
to gain a fuller understanding of the terrorist attack of last week and how we
can work together moving forward to combat such threats in the future.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 22, 2013 Tuesday 3:06 AM GMT

Three Americans confirmed dead in Algerian gas complex attack by Al Qaeda-linked
terrorists bringing death toll up to 38 as seven foreign workers still missing

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1237 words


First American victim, Frederick Buttaccio, announced last week
Victor Lynn Lovelady and Gordon Lee Rowan were revealed as the second and third
U.S. casualties today                     Al Qaeda-linked terrorist took control
of remote oil rig last week                     Tried to exchange hostages with
two terrorists held prisoner in U.S.

Three U.S. citizens were killed in last week's hostage standoff at a natural gas
complex in Algeria, while seven Americans made it out safely, Obama
administration officials said today.

The State Department confirmed that gas workers Victor Lynn Lovelady, 57, of
Houston, Texas, and Gordon Lee Rowan, 58, of Sumpter, Oregon, were killed at the
Ain Amenas field in the Sahara. U.S. officials identified Texas resident
Frederick Buttaccio as the first death last week.

'I'm glad we were able to get some rescued, but we did lose three Americans,'
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said as he was leaving the Capitol, where he
attended President Barack Obama's second inauguration.

'That just tells us that al-Qaeda is committed to creating terror wherever they
are and we've got to fight back.'

Scroll down for video

A U.S. official had told The Associated Press earlier Monday that the FBI had
recovered Lovelady's and Rowan's bodies and notified their families. The
official had no details on how the Americans died.

Militants who attacked Ain Amenas had offered to release Lovelady and Rowan in
exchange for the freedom of two prominent terror suspects jailed in the United
States.

They were Omar Abdel Rahman, a blind sheik convicted of plotting to blow up New
York City landmarks and considered the spiritual leader of the 1993 World Trade
Center bombing, and Aafia Siddiqui, a Pakistani scientist convicted of shooting
at two U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan.

The Obama administration rejected the offer outright.

State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said the U.S. was still working
with Algeria's government to gain a fuller understanding of the attack and to
enhance their counterterrorism cooperation in future.

'We extend our deepest condolences to their families and friends,' she said in a
statement.

'The blame for this tragedy rests with the terrorists who carried it out, and
the United States condemns their actions in the strongest possible terms.'

Last week's desert siege began Wednesday when Mali-based, al-Qaida-linked
militants attempted to hijack two buses at the plant, were repelled, and then
seized the gas refinery.

They said the attack was retaliation for France's recent military intervention
against Islamist rebels in neighboring Mali, but the captured militants told
Algerian officials it took two months to plan.

Five Americans had been taken out of the country before Saturday's final assault
by Algerian forces against the militants.

The U.S. official said the remaining two Americans survived the four-day crisis
at an insecure oil rig at the facility. They were flown out to London on
Saturday.

The State Department's Nuland confirmed that seven Americans made it out safely,
but said she couldn't provide further details because of privacy considerations.

The situation at the plant remains unclear, with reports that 16 foreign
nationals, including two Americans, two Germans and a Portuguese person, were
freed.

A friend of Gordon Lee Rowan said that the Sumpter, Oregon resident headed up
the fracking program that BP was operating at the Amenas Gas Field in Algeria.

Myron Woodley, a bar owner in the town said that he warned his friend about the
potential dangers in the volatile North African nation, but the low-key Rowan
told his friends there was nothing to worry about.

'I mentioned to him that it's not good over there,' said Woodley to
Oregonlive.com.

'Oh,' he said, 'It's safe. It is fine.'

The widower grew up in the Snake River town of Onatrio and completed a petroleum
engineering program at the University of Oklahoma, said Woodley who had known
him for a decade.

He said that Rowan had been married, but that his wife had died around
five-years ago and the couple had two grown sons, both of whom work as
engineers.

He added that Rowan had been working on 30-days-on, 30-days-off shifts in
Algeria and had told him that he was planning to retire in just a few weeks.

'He was a wonderful man,' said Claudia Wilcox of Weiser, Idaho, another of
Rowan's friends. 'He was a very private guy. That was a terrible thing that
happened. I can't even imagine what he went through.'

In addition, the family of Victor Lovelady told KFDM.com that he had only been
in Algeria for 10 days when the militants attacked the plant.

He told his family he wasn't scared to work there and felt safe. They had
protection at the plant where he lived and worked.

'He was a great father,' Erin Lovelady, his daughter said to KFDM News.

'I have so many wonderful memories of my dad. He taught me the tools to live as
an adult. He was very kind, loving and laid back.

'I could talk to my dad about anything. He gave great advice.'

Two BP employees suffered injuries although they are not life-threatening.

SO WHO WAS ON THE GROUND CONTROLLING THE ATTACK?

The field commander of the Islamist group that attacked a gas plant in the
Algerian desert this week and seized many hostages is a veteran fighter from
Niger called Abdul Rahman al-Nigeri, Mauritanian news agencies reported.

Nigeri is said to be close to the overall commander of the kidnappers, Mokhtar
Belmokhtar, a veteran of fighting in Afghanistan in the 1980s and Algeria's
civil war of the 1990s who now has links with al Qaeda in the region.

Nigeri was reported to be holed up in the plant near the town of In Amenas and
holding seven hostages, according to the Mauritanian reports carried by the SITE
monitoring service.

Another of the group's leaders, Abu al-Bara'a al-Jaza'iri, had been killed at
the gas field's residential complex, which has been retaken by the Algerian
army, according to the ANI news agency.

'Our focus remains on our colleagues, who we have not yet been able to locate,
and on supporting their families through a time of agonising uncertainty. BP is
a company that cares about its people,' said a spokesperson for the company.

Algerian special forces stormed the natural gas complex in the Sahara desert on
Saturday to end the standoff, and the government said all 32 militants were
killed.

Earlier Sunday, Algeria's chief government spokesman said he feared the toll of
hostages - which stood at 23 on Saturday - would rise as the special forces
teams finished their search.

In the wake of the violence, energy companies will have to study operations for
possible flaws and upgrade contingency plans with information gleaned from the
shock attack.

Algeria has taken a strong tack against the terrorists, rejecting offers of help
from Britain, the U.S. and other to go it alone in a typical tough and
uncompromising response. BP and Statoil were compelled to entrust their
employees lives to the Algerian security forces, and that won't change - at
least immediately. Algeria insists that it has the know-how to assure the
security of energy plants.

VIDEOAlgerian TV claims new video show executed hostage
VIDEOAlgerian PM: Canadian led gas plant attack

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday

Get out of Mali or we'll attack again, terrorists tell France

LENGTH: 143  words


The extremist group behind the hostage crisis in Algeria has threatened more
attacks against foreign targets if France does not bring an immediate halt to
its military operation in Mali.

In a statement, the Masked Brigade, led by Moktar Belmoktar, warned of more such
attacks against any country backing France's military intervention in Mali. "We
promise all the countries that participated in the Crusader campaign ... that we
will carry out more operations if they do not reverse their decision," it said.

France began its military offensive in Mali on 11 January  and has said that
African nations must take the lead in the action, though it could be some weeks
before they are ready to do so.

France said that some 400 troops from Nigeria, Togo and Benin had arrived on
Sunday in the Malian capital Bamako to help train an African force for the
country.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS thescotsman


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PM's 'iron resolve' over terror attack;
AROUND THE UK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 62 words


POLITICS BRITAIN will help an international effort to dismantle the terror
network responsible for last week's attack on an Algerian natural gas plant,
David Cameron told MPs.

The Prime Minister said the world was involved in a "generational struggle"
against al Qaida-inspired Islamist terrorism in North Africa.

He vowed to show "iron resolve" in his response to the challenge.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 22, 2013 Tuesday 11:00 PM GMT

Newcastle University scientists develop bomb-proof trains;
Train carriages could be bomb-proofed to prevent a repeat of the carnage left by
the London Underground terrorist attacks.

LENGTH: 540 words


British engineers have developed blast-resilient rolling stock after drawing on
lessons learned from the July 7, 2005 suicide bombings.

They hope to offer advice to the rail industry on how to protect passengers.

The EU-funded SecureMetro project was launched three years ago to test designs
for overground and Tube carriages that minimise death and injury in the event of
a bomb attack.

Experts focused on two main areas - containing the blast impact and reducing
levels of debris that kill and maim and impede emergency services.

The research involved a controlled explosion on a decommissioned Tube carriage.
High speed cameras were used to slow down the blast, allowing its impact on the
vehicle's structure and interior to be analysed in detail.

A similar test was later carried out on a prototype carriage specially built to
reduce the devastating damage caused by a bomb detonating inside it.

Blast-protection measures included tethering down heavy components such as
ceiling panels with retention wire, plastic coatings on windows, and the use of
lighter energy-absorbing materials.

Conor O'Neill, who leads the team from Newcastle University's School of
Mechanical and Systems Engineering, said: "Preventing flying objects is the key.

"Tethering ceiling panels reduced the risk of fatalities and injury from flying
shrapnel and also meant the gangways were kept relatively clear of debris,
allowing emergency staff quick access to the injured.

"The window coating we developed was also incredibly effective. Without it the
windows are blown outwards - putting anyone outside, such as those standing on a
platform, at risk from flying glass. With the plastic coating you see a clear
rippling effect as the blast moves through the train but every window remains
intact apart from the safety windows which are designed to be easily knocked
out."

The engineers also investigated dividing carriages with materials that soak up
energy and reduce the impact of a blast wave.

"The Madrid bombings in 2004 and the 7/7 attack in London the year after
highlighted how vulnerable our trains are to attack - particularly busy metro
and commuter trains," said Mr O'Neill.

"At the same time we have to be realistic. Completely replacing existing
vehicles just isn't an option. Instead, we have developed and incorporated new
technology and materials into existing carriages to improve performance.

"What we've shown is that companies could make some relatively cost-effective
and simple modifications that would significantly improve the outcome of an
attack."

The team is now in a position to advise rail industry chiefs on the best design
approach, he said.

He added: "A bomb on a train is always going to be devastating but what we are
trying to do is find a way in which the vehicle itself can help to mitigate the
impact of an attack.

"These are all low-cost, simple solutions that can be put on existing trains
which could not only save lives but also reduce the attractiveness of our
railways for potential terrorist attacks."

Four Islamist suicide bombers took part in the 7/7 attacks, blowing themselves
up on three London Underground trains and a double-decker bus. Fifty-two people
were killed and almost 800 injured.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 22, 2013 Tuesday 3:12 PM GMT

Algeria hostage crisis: five foreigners missing in Sahara desert;
The search is on for five foreigners unaccounted for from the terrorist attack
on the Algerian natural gas site, with fears that they may be lost in the Sahara
desert.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 566 words


An <em class="bold">Algerian</em> official, a member of Prime Minister
Abdelmalek Sellal's office, said the missing foreigners may have tried to escape
into the desert and got lost.

An <em class="bold">al-Qaeda</em> -affiliated band of fighters attacked the vast
natural gas complex last week and 37 hostages, including an Algerian security
guard, died in the four day standoff.

Many foreigners escaped from the site during the attack and were found by the
army wandering through the desert, the official said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because he was not authorised to speak to the press.

Work at the plant meanwhile is said to have begun, but it will take about a week
for everything to return to normal, a source told the AFC News agency.

Meanwhile a well-informed source told AFP that militants who seized an Algerian
gas plant before they were killed received logistical aid from Islamists in
Libya.

"Logistical support was provided from Libya," said the source close to hardline
Islamist groups in Libya, which has seen a rise in extremism since the fall of
Muammar Gaddafi.

The source did not specify the exact nature of such aid but acknowledged that
Libyan Islamists were responsible for establishing contacts between the captors
and the media.

A total of 29 militants were killed and three captured in the siege, which ended
in a final showdown on Saturday when Algerian special forces stormed the
sprawling gas complex.

Algeria has said its special forces managed to free 685 Algerian and 107 foreign
hostages, most of them on Thursday, during their first rescue operation.

Algerian website TSA cited a security source saying the kidnappers had entered
Algeria from Libya in official Libyan vehicles, while other outlets argued that
the weapons the kidnappers used came from Libya.

When questioned by AFP, Libyan officials simply reiterated the words of their
prime minister, Ali Zeidan, who denied that the kidnappers entered Algeria from
Libya, saying the Libyan territory was not being used for launching operations
that threaten security of neighbouring countries.

Mr Sellal said on Monday that the militants had crossed from northern Mali.

The Libyan source said that Libyan Islamists had no organisational link with the
group, "Signatories in Blood" which led the four-day siege of the gas complex.

The group is led by one-eyed Mokhtar Belmokhtar, one of the founders of al-Qaeda
in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM). Belmokhtar left al-Qaeda in October to create his
own group.

Jaber al-Abidi, an analyst, has no doubt Libyans were involved.

"It is clear that there is a link between Libyan extremist groups and those who
led the In Amenas operation," said Jaber al-Obeidi, an analyst and political
activist.

"Libyan extremists are present in northern Mali and helped carry weapons from
Libya after the fall of the regime" of Kadhafi, he added.

The "Signatories in Blood" group had said that its attack on the gas complex was
in retaliation for French intervention in northern Mali.

Mr Sellal dismissed this, saying the assault had been planned for nearly two
months, long before France intervened in northern Mali.

According to the Libyan source, the Islamists who attacked the gas facility
entered Mali "transiting through Niger and Libya from the Salvador triangle," a
barren stretch of desert that borders Libya, Algeria and Niger.

Libya has long struggled to monitor its 2,500-mile land border.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron's 'iron resolve' after terrorist attack

BYLINE: ANDREW WOODCOCK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 484 words


BRITAIN will provide intelligence and counter-terrorism assets to help an
international effort to track down and dismantle the terror network responsible
for last week's attack on an Algerian natural gas plant, Prime Minister David
Cameron told MPs.

Mr Cameron said that the world was involved in a "generational struggle" against
al Qaida-inspired Islamist terrorism in North Africa, and vowed to show "iron
resolve" in his response to the challenge.

He stressed that the international community's action must be "tough,
intelligent and patient" and combine a strong security response with political
moves to tackle instability and resolve grievances as well as a long-term drive
to counter the "poisonous" ideology of violent extremism.

Mr Cameron confirmed that Britain will provide troops to a French-led EU mission
to train the Malian military to take on Islamist militants who have taken over
the north of the country.

The mission, due to deploy in February or March, is expected to include around
250 trainers and 250 force protection troops and Mr Cameron said that the
British contribution would number "in the tens, not the hundreds", with aides
saying it would be at the lower end of that range.

The PM also revealed that the National Security Council will discuss what
further transport and surveillance assistance Britain can offer to French troops
who are fighting rebels in northern Mali. The meeting is expected to approve the
continued use of RAF C17 airlift planes to move French troops and hardware.

He promised to put the issue of terrorism "right at the top of the agenda" for
Britain's presidency of the G8 group of rich nations in 2013.

After the end of the terror siege at the In Amenas desert complex, which is
believed to have claimed the lives of six British nationals and one foreign-born
UK resident, Mr Cameron said that the immediate priority was to identify and
repatriate the bodies of those who died.

Three of the Britons killed have been named as 46-year-old security expert Paul
Morgan, systems supervisor Garry Barlow, 49, from Liverpool, and 59-year-old
planning manager Kenneth Whiteside, from Glenrothes, Fife.

Colombian BP executive Carlos Estrada, who lived in London, is also believed to
have died.

Mr Cameron told MPs that forensic experts from the UK, US and Norway are working
with the Algerian authorities to formally identify a number of bodies found at
the site, thought to include three further Britons, but warned that the process
"may take some time".

The Algerian authorities said that 37 foreign hostages were confirmed dead at
the site - part-operated by BP - and a further five are missing.

Some 29 of the hostage-takers died, while three were captured by Algerian
troops.

Mr Barlow's widow Lorraine said his family was "devastated" by the news of the
death of a husband she described as "a loving, devoted family man (who) loved
life and lived it to the full".

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Prime Minister David Cameron updates MPs in the House of Commons
following the Algerian terror siege
Algerian firemen carry a coffin containing the body of a person killed during
the terrorist attack on the gas plant in In Amenas

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 23, 2013 Wednesday

SAfrican government condemns Algeria gas plant terrorist attack

LENGTH: 220 words


Text of report by website of South African Department of International Relations
on 22 January

[Statement issued by South Africa's Department of International Relations and
Cooperation on its official website on 22 January: "The Government of South
Africa Condemns the Hostage Situation in Algeria"]

The Government of the Republic of South Africa strongly condemns the terrorist
attack that took place at the Tigantourine gas processing facility outside
Amenas in Algeria on 16 January 2013.

The South African Government would like to express its heartfelt condolences to
the families of the victims of the attack.

South Africa continues to support the global fight against terrorism and
supports all multilateral efforts, especially within the United Nations (UN) and
African Union (AU), aimed at eradicating terrorism.

The South African Government has noted the dire humanitarian situation and
continued terrorist threat in the Sahel region and re-iterates the need for all
African States to work together with the AU, in partnership with the rest of the
international community, to redouble efforts to address the situation.

South Africa stands ready to support Algeria in its fight to eradicate terrorism
in all its forms and manifestations.

Source: Department of International Relations website, Pretoria, in English 22
Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                           January 23, 2013 Wednesday

American sentenced in Illinois for role in 2008 Mumbai terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 177 words


U.S: American David Coleman Headley sentenced after pleading guilty in Mar 2010
to scouting the Indian city of Mumbai for the 2008 terror attacks that left at
least 164 dead and hundreds more wounded. Headley pleaded guilty to all 12
federal terrorism charges that he faced, incl conspiracy to bomb public places
in India; conspiracy to murder and maim persons in India; six counts of aiding
and abetting the murder of U.S. citizens in India; conspiracy to provide
material support to terrorism in India; conspiracy to murder and maim persons in
Denmark; conspiracy to provide material support to terrorism in Denmark; and
conspiracy to provide material support to Lashkar. Headley could have faced
execution by lethal injection if the case had gone to trial, but prosecutors
agreed not to seek the death penalty or to extradite him to India, Pakistan or
Denmark in return for his plea and full cooperation with U.S. authorities.
 Case no. 1:09-cr-00830

Event Start Date: 2013-01-24

Event End Date: 2013-01-24

Event URL: http://www.ilnd.uscourts.gov/

Event time: 10:00 CST

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Journal

                           January 23, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Keeping track of safety;
Cutting impact of terror bomb train attacks

BYLINE: Tony Henderson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 645 words


THE North East is leading a project to make train carriages better able to
withstand terrorist bomb attacks.

Headed by Conor O'Neill in the NewRail research centre at Newcastle University,
the three-year operation has focussed on containing the impact of a blast and
reducing flying debris, which is the main cause of death and injury in an
explosion and the key obstacle for emergency services trying to reach
passengers.

Analysing the carriages involved in the London Underground bombings, the team of
experts from four EU countries has re-designed current vehicles and has just
completed full-scale tests on a prototype.

Mr O'Neill, based in the School of Mechanical and Systems Engineering at
Newcastle University, said: "The Madrid bombings in 2004 and the 7/7 attack in
London the year after highlighted how vulnerable trains are to attack -
particularly busy metro and commuter trains.

"At the same time we have to be realistic - completely replacing existing
vehicles isn't an option. Instead, we have developed and incorporated new
technology and materials into existing carriages to improve performance. "What
we've shown is that companies could make relatively cost-effective and simple
modifications that would significantly improve the outcome of an attack.

"This is a unique project not least for the sheer scale of the testing we have
done.

"We have concentrated on metro vehicles because large volumes of people use
them, but the technologies also apply to local passenger and high speed national
trains."

In a controlled, full-scale explosion on a decommissioned metro carriage, the
team measured the impact that a terrorist attack can have.

Understanding the progression of the blast wave as it travels the length of the
coach was key to understanding how the interior furnishings reacted.

Filming the explosion - which takes less than a second - the team used
high-speed cameras to slow down the blast footage in order to understand the
mechanics of the explosion.

Learning lessons from this experiment, a similar test was carried out on a
prototype, designed and built specifically with blast resilience in mind.

Tethering down heavy equipment such as ceiling panels using retention wire,
plastic coatings on windows and the replacement of heavier structures with
lighter-weight and energy-absorbing materials were some of the key modifications
made.

"Preventing flying objects is the key," said Mr O'Neill. "Tethering ceiling
panels reduced the risk of fatalities and injury from flying shrapnel and also
meant the gangways were kept relatively clear of debris, allowing emergency
staff quick access to the injured.

"The window coating we developed was also incredibly effective. Without it the
windows are blown outwards - putting anyone outside, such as those standing on a
platform, at risk from flying glass.

"With the plastic coating you see a clear rippling effect as the blast moves
through the train, but every window remains intact apart from the safety windows
which are designed to be easily knocked out."

The researchers also investigated the benefits of dividing up the carriages
using energy-absorbing materials that reduce the impact of the blast.

The team is now in a position to advise the rail industry and EU Commission on
which approach will improve the resilience of rail vehicles to blasts.

Mr O'Neill said: "A bomb on a train is always going to be devastating, but what
we are trying to do is find a way in which the vehicle itself can help to
mitigate the impact of an attack. These are all low-cost, simple solutions that
can be put on existing trains which could not only save lives but also reduce
the attractiveness of railways for potential terrorist attacks.

"How this will be implemented will now be assessed by the industry and the EU
Commission."

Companies could make cost-effective and simple modifications that would improve
the outcome

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAKING IT SAFE The research team from Newcastle University is looking
at how to reduce the impact of a bomb attack on a carriage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2013 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 23, 2013 Wednesday 5:43 PM GMT

Youngest British hostage killed in Algeria terror attack was 26-year-old who had
just become a father

BYLINE: SAM WEBB

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 892 words


Sebastian John had only been in Algeria a week and was on a BP training course
He died in the siege at the desert facility, which was overrun by Jihadists
Mr John is the fourth British victim to be named

The youngest British hostage killed by terrorists in Algeria was today revealed
to be a 26-year-old who had recently become a father for the first time.

Sebastian John, 26, was a civil engineer for BP and and only arrived in Algeria
a week before the siege, which has claimed the lives of six UK nationals.

His wife, Nicola, with whom he had a seven-month-old baby, said: 'Sebastian was
the most amazing person. He was a fantastic husband, father, son and brother.
There won't be a moment that goes by where we won't think of him.

'We are so proud of Sebastian for all he achieved in his life. He was taken away
from us too early and in the most tragic circumstances.'

'We will always love him, he will be forever in our hearts and eternally
missed.'

The Daily Telegraphreported he had recently moved from Nottingham to
Sunbury-on-Thames in Surrey, where BP's HQ is located.

Mr John was privately educated at Norwich School between 1997 and 2004and
attained a first class honours degree in civil engineering from Loughborough
University in 2009.

He worked as a graduate trainee at the civil engineering firm Arup in Solihull
and at another firm called Tony Gee and Partners.

He was chairman of the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) East Midlands
Graduates and Students Group last year and wrote on the organisation's website
that civil engineering was a 'discipline which affects everyone in every walk of
life'.

Richard Coackley, former president of the ICE, said: 'Sebastian was a talented
young civil engineer with the world at his feet.

'His mild-mannered, supportive nature made him a pleasure to be around and his
commitment and passion for his work and his young family shone through in all
that he did.

'It was an absolute honour and a pleasure to have him as my apprentice last year
and I know he will be greatly missed by all.'

His brother's church, the Priestly Fraternity of St Peter, issued a statement
which read: 'We have learnt of the execution of Sebastian at the hands of his
Muslim captors.

'Please pray for the repose of his soul, for his widow and baby boy, and for the
conversion of his assassins.'

The announcement comes as efforts continued to repatriate the victims' bodies.

A total of 37 foreign workers are believed to have died at the remote desert
facility - part-operated by BP - which was overrun by heavily-armed terrorists
on Wednesday January 16.

Some 29 of the hostage-takers died, while three were captured by Algerian troops
during a special forces mission to end the four-day stand-off.

Three of the Britons killed have been named as 46-year-old security expert Paul
Morgan, systems supervisor Garry Barlow, 49, from Liverpool, and 59-year-old
planning manager Kenneth Whiteside, from Glenrothes, Fife.

Colombian BP executive Carlos Estrada, who lived in London, is also believed to
have died.

The family of a British survivor said today they were overjoyed that he is safe
and well, but need time to come to terms with what has happened.

In a statement issued through the Foreign Office, Lou Fear's loved ones said:
'The family is greatly relieved by Lou's safe return.

'This has been a very traumatic experience for the whole family, especially Lou.
Our thoughts are with Lou's colleagues and their families.

'We now need to start the process of coming to terms with what has happened and
need time alone to do this. We therefore ask that the media respect our
privacy.'

The Foreign Office refused to confirm any further details but Mr Fear, 56, who
reportedly lives in Louth, Lincolnshire, and was working as a team leader for
BP, hid when the raid on the refinery began, then walked for 20 hours to reach
safety.

Another Briton reported to died in the siege is Carson Bilsland, from
Perthshire.

He had reportedly worked in Algeria for around two years as a testing technician
and was a former member of the British speed ski team.

The Government is considering increasing logistical support for the French-led
military campaign against rebels in neighbouring Mali.

Prime Minister David Cameron has insisted the UK is 'not seeking a combat role',
but armed forces units have reportedly been placed on 'high readiness' to
deploy.

Mr Cameron has said there will be a global 'generational struggle' against Al
Qaeda-inspired Islamist terrorism in North Africa.

He pledged to provide intelligence and counter-terrorism assets to help track
down and dismantle the terror network responsible for the attack in Algeria.

BP group chief executive Bob Dudley has said the company 'feared the worst' for
four of its 18 employees who have not been found safe.

'We have been gravely concerned for these colleagues and feared one or more
fatalities among their number,' he said.

'It is with great sadness that I now have to say that we fear the worst for them
all. We are doing all we can to support their families and ask everyone to show
them consideration and to respect their privacy.'

Forensic experts from the UK, US and Norway are working with the Algerian
authorities formally to identify a number of bodies found at the site.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 23, 2013 Wednesday 4:36 PM GMT

Youngest British hostage killed in Algeria terror attack was 26-year-old who had
just become a father

BYLINE: SAM WEBB

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 905 words


Sebastian John had only been in Algeria a week and was on a BP training course
He died in the siege at the remote desert facility, which was overrun by
Jihadists                     He is the fourth British victim to be named

The youngest British hostage killed by terrorist in Algeria was today revealed
to be a 26-year-old who had recently become a father for the first time.

Sebastian John, 26, was a civil engineer for BP and and only arrived in Algeria
a week before the siege, which has claimed the lives of six UK nationals.

His wife, Nicola, with whom he had a seven-month-old baby, said: 'Sebastian was
the most amazing person. He was a fantastic husband, father, son and brother.
There won't be a moment that goes by where we won't think of him.

'We are so proud of Sebastian for all he achieved in his life. He was taken away
from us too early and in the most tragic circumstances.

'We will always love him, he will be forever in our hearts and eternally
missed.'

The Daily Telegraph reported he had recently moved from Nottingham to
Sunbury-on-Thames in Surrey, where BP's HQ is located.

Mr John went to Norwich School where he was an Arkwright scholar and attained a
first class honours degree in civil engineering from Loughborough University in
2009.

He worked as a graduate trainee at the civil engineering firm Arup in Solihull
and at another firm called Tony Gee and Partners.

He was chairman of the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) East Midlands
Graduates and Students Group last year and wrote on the organisation's website
that civil engineering was a 'discipline which affects everyone in every walk of
life'.

Richard Coackley, former president of the ICE, said: 'Sebastian was a talented
young civil engineer with the world at his feet. His mild-mannered, supportive
nature made him a pleasure to be around and his commitment and passion for his
work and his young family shone through in all that he did.

'It was an absolute honour and a pleasure to have him as my apprentice last year
and I know he will be greatly missed by all. I join everyone in mourning with
Sebastian's family and friends for the tragic loss of a great young man and
civil engineer.'

His brother's church, the Priestly Fraternity of St Peter, issued a statement
which read: 'We have learnt of the execution of Sebastian at the hands of his
Muslim captors.

'Please pray for the repose of his soul, for his widow and baby boy, and for the
conversion of his assassins.'

A total of 37 foreign workers are believed to have died at the remote desert
facility - part-operated by BP - which was overrun by heavily-armed terrorists
on Wednesday January 16.

Some 29 of the hostage-takers died, while three were captured by Algerian troops
during a special forces mission to end the four-day stand-off.

Three of the Britons killed have been named as 46-year-old security expert Paul
Morgan, systems supervisor Garry Barlow, 49, from Liverpool, and 59-year-old
planning manager Kenneth Whiteside, from Glenrothes, Fife.

Colombian BP executive Carlos Estrada, who lived in London, is also believed to
have died.

The family of a British survivor said today they were overjoyed that he is safe
and well, but need time to come to terms with what has happened.

In a statement issued through the Foreign Office, Lou Fear's loved ones said:
'The family is greatly relieved by Lou's safe return.

'This has been a very traumatic experience for the whole family, especially Lou.
Our thoughts are with Lou's colleagues and their families.

'We now need to start the process of coming to terms with what has happened and
need time alone to do this. We therefore ask that the media respect our
privacy.'

The Foreign Office refused to confirm any further details but Mr Fear, 56, who
reportedly lives in Louth, Lincolnshire, and was working as a team leader for
BP, hid when the raid on the refinery began, then walked for 20 hours to reach
safety.

Another Briton reported to died in the siege is Carson Bilsland, from
Perthshire.

He had reportedly worked in Algeria for around two years as a testing technician
and was a former member of the British speed ski team.

The Government is considering increasing logistical support for the French-led
military campaign against rebels in neighbouring Mali.

Prime Minister David Cameron has insisted the UK is 'not seeking a combat role',
but armed forces units have reportedly been placed on 'high readiness' to
deploy.

Mr Cameron has said there will be a global 'generational struggle' against Al
Qaeda-inspired Islamist terrorism in North Africa.

He pledged to provide intelligence and counter-terrorism assets to help track
down and dismantle the terror network responsible for the attack in Algeria.

BP group chief executive Bob Dudley has said the company 'feared the worst' for
four of its 18 employees who have not been found safe.

'We have been gravely concerned for these colleagues and feared one or more
fatalities among their number,' he said.

'It is with great sadness that I now have to say that we fear the worst for them
all. We are doing all we can to support their families and ask everyone to show
them consideration and to respect their privacy.'

Forensic experts from the UK, US and Norway are working with the Algerian
authorities formally to identify a number of bodies found at the site.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           January 23, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 40 words


BEN DOUGLAS, 36, was floored by a fox at home. He said: "A ball of fur and teeth
came at my face and sent me flying." He added about the 2009 London attack:
"Experts say foxes are afraid of us, but this one could not have been more
brazen."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FEAR ... Ben

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 23, 2013 Wednesday 8:32 PM GMT

Algeria BP attack terrorists 'also took part in Benghazi US consulate attack';
Terrorists who laid siege to Amenas gas plant in Algeria also took part in the
attack on the US consulate in Benghazi that killed the American ambassador to
Libya, it was claimed on Wednesday.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham and Raf Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 518 words


An Algerian security official told the New York Timesthat three of the surviving
terrorists said they were aided by Egyptian extremists who were involved in the
September 11 attack on the US consulate in eastern Libya.

The Egyptians were reportedly all killed during the special forces raid on the
gas plant and Hillary Clinton, the outgoing Secretary of State, said on
Wednesday the US was still investigating the link.

"This information is coming from the Algerian government related to their
questioning of certain of the terrorists that they took alive," Mrs Clinton said
as she testified about the Libyan attack that killed Ambassador Chris Stevens
and three other Americans.

She added that there was "no doubt" that the Algerian terrorists had been armed
with weapons obtained from Libya.

The link between the two major terrorist attacks was claimed as it emerged that
one of the Egyptian militants killed in Algeria was a former driver for BP who
provided key inside knowledge.

Security sources claimed that the attackers gained inside knowledge of the plant
from an unnamed former worker who resigned from BP a year ago. He was reportedly
killed along with 28 other hostage-takers.

The Foreign Office on Wednesday identified Sebastian John, a 26-year-old civil
engineer and the father of a seven-month-old baby, as the fifth Briton to be
killed at the Algerian desert facility.

At least 38 hostages are thought to have been killed including Mr John, who
started working for the company last year and arrived in Algeria a week earlier
on a training course.

His wife, Nicola, said: "Sebastian was the most amazing person. He was a
fantastic husband, father, son and brother. There won't be a moment that goes by
where we won't think of him.

"We are so proud of Sebastian for all he achieved in his life. He was taken away
from us too early and in the most tragic circumstances."

Further information about the militants came as The Daily Telegraph uncovered a
video of them training in the desert more than a year before their attack.

The attackers were led by Mohamed Lamine Boucheneb, who was killed on the second
day of the siege by Algerian helicopter gun ships.

The nine-minute video features his "katiba," or fighting unit, called the
Movement of Sons of the Sahara for Islamic Justice (MSJI).

It is accompanied by a soundtrack of Islamic songs that extol the virtues of
martyrdom, and shows 15 militants wearing camouflage clothing and turbans as
they train in the desert driving four Toyota pickup trucks and a four wheeled
drive vehicle similar to the ones described as being used in the Amenas attack.

Boucheneb is the only fighter whose face is not masked and he can be seen
parading in front of his troops.

A voice-over calls for the young people of Algeria to overthrow their
government, pitting it as a tale of Muslims fighting imperialists.

"The Movement of the Sons of the Sahara opens the door for sacrifice," it says
in Arabic. "Your movement, O Youth of Algeria, is waiting for your support, to
respond to injustice and aggression so the regime learns the bitterness of what
is to come."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           January 23, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bid to bomb-proof train carriages after London terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 85 words


Train carriages could be bomb-proofed to prevent a repeat of the carnage left by
the London Underground terrorist attacks. British engineers have developed
blast-resilient rolling stock after drawing on lessons learned from the July 7,
2005 suicide bombings. They hope to offer advice to the rail industry on how to
protect passengers. The EU-funded SecureMetro project was launched three years
ago to test designs for overground and Tube carriages that minimise death and
injury in the event of a bomb attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2013 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           Dereham and Fakenham Times

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday

Terror attack on guide dog

BYLINE: Melanie Bygrave

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 356 words


The Dereham owner of a guide dog which was attacked in central Norwich has
spoken of the terrifying incident and her dog's lucky escape.

Lesley Smith, 32, could only listen and hope as her guide dog, Unis, was
attacked outside the Back of the Inns entrance to the Castle Mall on January 11.



The attack happened shortly before 9.30am outside the Game store, when an
unleashed dog described as a 'bull terrier-type' attacked the guide dog.

Now Ms Smith is appealing for dog owners to make sure their dogs are on leads
and, if necessary, muzzled.

She said: "This dog just came out of nowhere and then vanished quite quickly
after it was got off my dog. There was a woman with a bag and she was hitting it
with her bag to get it off Unis.

"We are taught to drop the handle if your dog is being attacked so that they can
try and escape and luckily this dog wasn't able to sink its teeth into her and
didn't bite any deeper than her coat.

"But all I could hear was Unis screaming and I've never heard her make a noise
like that before, but the dog didn't seem to care about me."

Ms Smith has had her guide dog for two years and was just relieved they had both
escaped relatively unscathed.

She went and sat on the windowsill of the nearby Blacks store and staff there
checked over her dog and brought it some water.

Ms Smith, who is totally blind in her right eye and has limited vision in her
left, then called the Peterborough office of the the Guide Dogs for the Blind
Association for advice. A local Police Community Support Officer (PCSO) also
came and assisted Ms Smith.

The association is campaigning for compulsory microchippng of all dogs in
England and Wales, for police forces to take attacks on guide dogs more
seriously and for attacks on guide dogs to be treated in law as an attack on its
owner.

Shaun Basham, the association's guide dogs engagement manager, said: "An attack
on any dog is frightening, but for a guide dog owner it is much worse.

"With more than eight reported attacks on guide dogs a month, the trauma caused
by these unprovoked attacks could leave a blind or partially sighted person a
virtual prisoner in their own home."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DFT


                    Copyright 2013 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday

Terrorist Attack in Benghazi: The Secretary of State's View

LENGTH: 2051 words


January 23, 2013

Hillary Rodham Clinton

Secretary of State Opening Remarks Before the House Foreign Affairs Committee

Washington, DC

Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and I thank you and the Ranking Member and
members of the committee, both of longstanding tenure and brand new members, and
I appreciate your patience for me to be able to come to fulfill my commitment to
you, actually to the former chairwoman, that I would be here to discuss the
attack in Benghazi. I appreciate this opportunity. I will submit my full
testimony for the record. I want to make just a few points.



First, the terrorist attacks in Benghazi that claimed the lives of four brave
Americans -- Chris Stevens, Sean Smith, Tyrone Woods, and Glen Doherty -- are
part of a broader strategic challenge to the United States and our partners in
North Africa. I think it's important we understand the context for this
challenge as we work together to protect our people and honor our fallen
colleagues.

Any clear-eyed examination of this matter must begin with this sobering fact:
Since 1988, there have been 19 Accountability Review Boards investigating
attacks on American diplomats and their facilities. Since 1977, 65 American
diplomatic personnel have been killed by terrorists. In addition to those who
have been killed, we know what happened in Tehran with hostages being taken in
1979, our Embassy and Marine barracks bombed in Beirut in 1983, Khobar Towers in
Saudi Arabia in 1996, our embassies in East Africa in 1998, consulate staff
murdered in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia in 2004, the Khost attack in Afghanistan in
2009, and too many others.

But I also want to stress the list of attacks that were foiled, crises averted,
and lives saved is even longer. We should never forget that the security
professionals get it right more than 99 percent of the time, against difficult
odds, because the terrorists only need to get it right once. That's why, like
all my predecessors, I trust the Diplomatic Security professionals with my life.


Let's also remember that, as the Chairman and the Ranking Member pointed out,
administrations of both parties, in partnership with Congress, have made
concerted and good faith efforts to learn from the tragedies that have occurred,
to implement recommendations from the Review Boards, to seek the necessary
resources to better protect our people in a constantly evolving threat
environment.

In fact, Mr. Chairman, of the 19 Accountability Review Boards that have been
held since 1988, only two have been made public. I want to stress that because
the two that have been made public, coming out of the East Africa Embassy
bombings and this one, are attempts, honest attempts by the State Department, by
the Secretary -- Secretary Albright and myself -- to be as transparent and open
as possible. We wanted to be sure that whatever these independent, nonpartisan
boards found would be made available to the Congress and to the American people,
because, as I have said many times since September 11  th  , I take
responsibility, and nobody is more committed to getting this right. I am
determined to leave the State Department and our country safer, stronger, and
more secure.

Now, taking responsibility meant not only moving quickly in those first
uncertain hours and days to respond to the immediate crisis, but also to make
sure we were protecting our people and posts in high-threat areas across the
region and the world. It also meant launching an independent investigation to
determine exactly what happened in Benghazi and to recommend steps for
improvement. And it also meant intensifying our efforts to combat terrorism and
support emerging democracies in North Africa and beyond. Let me share briefly
the lessons we have learned up until now.

First, let's start on the night of September 11  th  itself and those difficult
early days. I directed our response from the State Department and stayed in
close contact with officials from across our government and the Libyan
Government. So I did see firsthand what Ambassador Pickering and Chairman Mullen
called timely and exceptional coordination -- no delays in decision making, no
denials of support from Washington or from our military. And I want to echo the
Review Board's praise for the valor and courage of our people on the ground,
especially our security professionals in Benghazi and Tripoli. The board said
our response saved American lives in real time, and it did.

The very next morning, I told the American people, and I quote, "heavily armed
militants assaulted our compound," and vowed to bring them to justice. And I
stood later that day with President Obama as he spoke of an act of terror.

Now you may recall, at this same time period, we were also seeing violent
attacks on our embassies in Cairo, Sana'a, Tunis, and Khartoum, as well as large
protests outside many other posts, from India to Indonesia, where thousands of
our diplomats serve.

So I immediately ordered a review of our security posture around the world, with
particular scrutiny for high-threat posts. And I asked the Department of Defense
to join Interagency Security Assessment Teams and to dispatch hundreds of
additional Marine Security Guards. I named the first Deputy Assistant Secretary
of State for High Threat Posts so that missions in dangerous places get the
attention they need. And we reached out to Congress to help address physical
vulnerabilities, including risks from fire, and to hire additional Diplomatic
Security Personnel and Marine Security Guards.

Second, even as I took these steps, I quickly moved to appoint the
Accountability Review Board because I wanted them to come forward with their
report before I left, because I felt the responsibility and I wanted to be sure
that I was putting in motion the response to whatever they found; what was
wrong, how do we fix it.

I have accepted every one of their recommendations. Our Deputy Secretary for
Management and Resources, Deputy Tom Nides, who appeared before this committee
last month, is leading a task force to ensure all 29 are implemented quickly and
completely, as well as pursuing additional steps above and beyond the board.

I pledged in my letter to you last month that implementation has now begun on
all 29 recommendations. We've translated them into 64 specific action items.
They were all assigned to specific bureaus and offices with clear timelines for
completion. Fully 85 percent are on track to be completed by the end of March,
with a number completed already. But we are also taking a top-to-bottom look to
rethink how we make decisions on where, when and whether our people should
operate in high-threat areas, and how we respond.

We are initiating an annual High Threat Post Review chaired for the first time
in American history, I suppose, by the Secretary of State, and ongoing reviews
by the Deputy Secretaries, to ensure that pivotal questions about security reach
the highest level. And we will regularize protocols for sharing information with
Congress.

Now, in addition to the immediate action we took and the review board process,
we're moving on a third front: addressing the broader strategic challenge in
North Africa and the wider region. Benghazi did not happen in a vacuum. The Arab
revolutions have scrambled power dynamics and shattered security forces across
the region. Instability in Mali has created an expanding safe haven for
terrorists who look to extend their influence and plot further attacks of the
kind we just saw last week in Algeria.

And let me offer our deepest condolences to the families of the Americans and
all the people from many nations killed and injured in the Algerian hostage
crisis. We remain in close touch with the Government of Algeria, ready to
provide assistance if needed, and also seeking to gain a fuller understanding of
what took place so we can work together to prevent such terrorist attacks in the
future.

Now, concerns about terrorism and instability in North Africa are not new, of
course. Indeed, they have been a top priority for this entire national security
team. But we need to work together to accelerate a diplomatic campaign to
increase pressure on al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb and the other terrorist
groups in the region.

I've conferred with the President of Libya, the Foreign Ministers and Prime
Ministers of Tunisia and Morocco. Two weeks later, after the attack, I met with
a very large group of regional leaders at the UN and was part of a special
meeting focused on Mali and the Sahel. In October, I flew to Algeria to discuss
the fight against AQIM. In November, I sent Deputy Secretary Bill Burns on an
interagency group to Algiers to continue that conversation. And then in my
stead, he co-chaired the Global Counterterrorism Forum that was held in Abu
Dhabi and a meeting in Tunis working not only on building new democracies but
reforming security services.

These are just a few of the constant diplomatic engagements that we are having
focused on targeting al-Qaida's syndicate of terror -- closing safe havens,
cutting off finances, countering their extremist ideology, slowing the flow of
new recruits. We continue to hunt the terrorists responsible for the attacks in
Benghazi and are determined to bring them to justice. And we are using our
diplomatic and economic tools to support the emerging democracies, including
Libya, in order to give them the strength to provide a path away from extremism.


But finally, the United States must continue to lead in the Middle East, in
North Africa, and around the globe. We've come a long way in the past four
years, and we cannot afford to retreat now. When America is absent, especially
from unstable environments, there are consequences. Extremism takes root; our
interests suffer; and our security at home is threatened.

That's why Chris Stevens went to Benghazi in the first place. I asked him to go.
During the beginning of the revolution against Qadhafi, we needed somebody in
Benghazi who could begin to build bridges with the insurgents and to begin to
demonstrate that America would stand against Qadhafi. Nobody knew the dangers or
the opportunities better than Chris, first during the revolution, then during
the transition. A weak Libyan Government, marauding militias, even terrorist
groups; a bomb exploded in the parking lot of his hotel. He never wavered. He
never asked to come home. He never said, "Let's shut it down, quit, and go
somewhere else." Because he understood it was critical for America to be
represented in that place at that pivotal time.

So Mr. Chairman, we do have to work harder and better to balance the risks and
the opportunities. Our men and women who serve overseas understand that we do
accept a level of risk to represent and protect the country we love. They
represent the best traditions of a bold and generous nation. They cannot work in
bunkers and do their jobs. But it is our responsibility to make sure they have
the resources they need to do those jobs and to do everything we can to reduce
the risks they face.

For me, this is not just a matter of policy. It's personal, because I've had the
great honor to lead the men and women of the State Department and USAID, nearly
70,000 serving here in Washington and at more than 275 posts around the world.
They get up and go to work every day, often in difficult and dangerous
circumstances thousands of miles from home, because they believe the United
States is the most extraordinary force for peace and progress the earth has ever
known.

And when we suffer tragedies overseas, the number of Americans applying to the
Foreign Service actually increases. That tells us everything we need to know
about the kind of patriots I'm talking about. They do ask what they can do for
their country, and America is stronger for it.

So today, after four years in this job, traveling nearly a million miles and
visiting 112 countries, my faith in our country and our future is stronger than
ever. Every time that blue and white airplane carrying the words "United States
of America" touches down in some far-off capital, I feel again the honor it is
to represent the world's indispensible nation. And I am confident that, with
your help, we will continue to keep the United States safe, strong, and
exceptional.

And now I would be very happy to answer your questions.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A LIFE CUT SHORT IN TERROR ATTACK;
Family pay tribute to Notts engineer, 26, killed in Algeria

BYLINE: Alexander Britton

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 403 words


THE family of a Notts engineer killed in Algeria say he will be "eternally
missed" and "forever in our hearts".

Sebastian John, of Eskdale Court, Gamston, was a civil engineer for BP and had
been in Algeria for only a week when the In Amenas plant was overrun by
heavily-armed terrorists. S

A four-day stand-off started with an attempted bus hijacking and ended when
special forces stormed in as the attackers began to prepare to explode bombs
across the massive gas plant.

Mr John, 26, was formerly chairman of the Institution of Civil Engineers' (ICE)
East Midlands Graduates and Students Committee, based in Triumph Road,
Nottingham.

He leaves wife Nicola and a seven-month-old baby.

Mrs John said: "Sebastian was the most amazing person.

"He was a fantastic husband, father, son and brother. There won't be a moment
that goes by where we won't think of him.

"We are so proud of Sebastian for all he achieved in his life.

"He was taken away from us too early and in the most tragic circumstances.

We will always love him. He will be forever in our hearts and eternally missed."

Thirty-seven foreign workers are believed to have died at the remote desert
facility - part-operated by BP - which was attacked on January 16. It is
believed al-Qaeda-linked terrorists were behind the attack, which lasted for
four days before Algerian special forces intervened.

Colleagues have paid tribute to Mr John, who worked for Ove Arup, in Solihull,
before taking up his role at BP.

Nick Baveystock, director gen-eral of ICE, said: "We were extremely shocked and
saddened to hear that Sebastian John, a valued and respected civil engineer and
member of our Institution, has lost his life during the Algerian hostage
attack." Past ICE president Richard Coackley, for whom Mr John worked as an
apprentice, said: "Sebastian was a talented young civil engineer with the world
at his feet. "His mild-mannered, supportive nature made him a pleasure to be
around and his commitment and passion for his work and his young family shone
through in all that he did. It was an absolute honour and a pleasure to have him
as my apprentice last year and I know he will be greatly missed by all. "I join
everyone in mourning with Sebastian's family and friends for the tragic loss of
a great young man and civil eng ineer." Robert Care, director of the Arup Group,
added: "He was hugely respected by his colleagues and had a very bright future
ahead of him."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bloody siege: A road sign near the gas plant at Ain Amenas, in southern
Algeria.
Tragedy: Sebastian John, of Gamston, was married with a seven-month-old baby.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2013 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 24, 2013 Thursday 7:05 PM GMT

Mumbai 26/11 plotter David Headley sentenced to 35 years;
An American has been sentenced to 35 years in prison for his role in helping
Pakistani terrorists plan the deadly 2008 Mumbai attacks.

BYLINE: By Barney Henderson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 382 words


David Coleman Headley, 52, had pleaded guilty to carrying out spying missions on
downtown Mumbai for the Pakistani terrorist organisation Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT)
that was behind the attacks.

He was sentenced on 12 counts in a Chicago jail but had struck a plea deal with
prosecutors to avoid the death penalty or extradition to <em
class="bold">India</em> .

Headley, a Pakistani American from Chicago, visited India five times between
2006 and 2008, and created maps and took video footage and GPS coordinates of
several of the attack sites, including the Taj Mahal hotel, Oberoi hotel and
Nariman House Jewish centre.

His surveillance work provided vital information for the 10 LeT terrorists and
their handlers, who launched the attack on November 26, 2008, holding the city
under siege for three days and leaving 166 people dead, including British
millionaire Andreas Liveras.

"I don't have any faith in Mr Headley when he says he's a changed person and
believes in the American way of life," said Judge Harry Leinenweber. "The
sentence I impose, I'm hopeful it will keep Mr Headley under lock and key for
the rest of his natural life."

He added that Headley "deserved" the death penalty, but that he opted for the
35-year sentence after a motion by the government.

But US attorney Patrick Fitzgerald had urged leniency, telling the judge that
Headley's decision to turn informant had "saved lives".

In a plot that reads like a spy thriller, Headley spent two years casing out
Mumbai, even taking boat tours around the city's harbour to find landing sites
for the attackers and befriending Bollywood stars as part of his cover.

Prosecutors described it as a supporting but "essential" role in the terrorist
attack. He had begun plotting a second India attack during a March 2009
surveillance trip, but evidence from the only surviving gunman, Ajmal Amir
Kasab, helped lead to his arrest later that year.

The Washington-born son of a former Pakistani diplomat and American woman,
Headley's Western appearance and US passport helped him slip under the radar for
much of the seven years he spent working with militant groups.

He was born Daood Gilani but changed his name to David Coleman Headley in 2006
"to present himself in India as an American who was neither Muslim nor
Pakistani", prosecutors said.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 24, 2013 Thursday 3:33 PM GMT

Terrorist group behind Algerian gas plant attack filmed training in the desert;

The terrorists who took over an Algerian gas plant killing at least 38 hostages
made a video of themselves training in the desert more than a year before they
launched their assault, it can be disclosed.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 589 words


A fighting group calling itself the Movement of Sons of the Sahara for Islamic
Justice spearheaded the al-Qaeda attack on the Aminas gas plant in the early
hours of January 16.

Their leader Mohamed Lamine Boucheneb was killed the following day by Algerian
helicopter gun ships which attacked the terrorists as they tried to move
hostages from the living area to the gas production area of the plant.

The nine-minute video, uncovered by the Daily Telegraph, features a soundtrack
of Islamic songs known as nasheeds which extol the virtues of martyrdom.

It shows around 15 militants wearing camouflage clothing and turbans as they
train in the desert driving four Toyota pick-up trucks and a four wheeled drive
vehicle similar to the ones described as being used in the Amenas attack.

Heavy machineguns similar to those used at the gas plant are mounted on the back
of the vehicles and the militants demonstrate them along with smaller light
machineguns.

Other weapons on display include mortars and rocket propelled grenade launchers
as the vehicles manoeuvre through the desert scrub.

They carry with them a flag and what appear to be barrels of water and equipment
for long-distance travel. The last scene shows black smoke billowing across the
dunes of the Sahara.

Boucheneb is the only fighter whose face is not masked and he can be seen
parading in front of his troops.

A voice-over calls for the young people of Algeria to overthrow their
government, pitting it as a tale of Muslims fighting imperialists.

"The Algerian mujahideen struggled for the liberation of Algeria from the grip
of the French occupation only to establish an Islamic state," it says in Arabic.

"They sacrificed their lives and their blood to raise the word of Allah. How
come the sons abandoned the trust established by their parents?

"Do not let these villains of the regime make mischief in the land and enslave
the people.

"Here is the Movement of the Sons of Sahara, determined not to let the armed
struggle fall or the war finish with the unjust regime, until dignity returns to
the people and they secure their honor and property."

It goes on: "The Movement of the Sons of the Sahara opens the door for
sacrifice. Your movement, O Youth of Algeria, is waiting for your support, to
respond to injustice and aggression so the regime learns the bitterness of what
is to come."

Boucheneb, also known as Amir Tahir, was a field commander, believed to be under
the direction of Mokhtar Belmokhtar, the al-Qaeda mastermind behind the attack,
who is thought to have run the attack from neighbouring Mali.

At least 32 terrorists in 14 vehicles are said to have made the most the absence
of authority in Libya to cross the border into Algeria, 30km (18.6miles) from
the plant.

When Boucheneb died in the unsuccessful rescue, his place was taken by Abdul
Rahman al-Nigeri, a fighter from one of the Arab tribes in Niger, who issued
statements from inside the besieged compound and was then killed in the final
assault.

Others who died included Abu al-Bara al-Jazairi - said to be in his late
thirties, who had served in the Algerian army before joining the Salafist Group
for Preaching and Combat (GSPC), a fore-runner of al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb (AQIM).

Another was named as 18-year-old Abdallahi Ould Hmeida, also known as Zarqhawi
Al-Mouritani because he came from Mauritania.

According to reports, the 29 dead militants and three who were captured, came
from Algeria, Mali, Niger, Mauritania, Egypt and Canada. The Algerians have said
11 were Tunisian.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland

                                January 24, 2013

NORTH AFRICA: Terrorist attack could impact region's tourism, Tui warns

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 165  words


Tui Travel has voiced concerns the recent terrorist attack in Algeria could
impact tourism to North Africa this year.

Speaking at a TTG Travel Leaders event on Monday, Tui Travel's chief executive
Peter Long said tourism to the region was likely to be impacted by the recent
attack on a gas plant in Algeria.

Although the terrorism attack took place deep in the Algerian desert, the
country does share a border with Morocco and Tunisia, which attracted more than
329,000 visitors from the UK last year.

Wahida Jaiet, UK and Ireland director for the Tunisia National Tourist Office,
insisted there had been no immediate impact from the attack on the neighbouring
country, on arrivals. "We understand that people may be concerned by the tragic
events in Algeria, but we have not seen any immediate effect on tourism to
Tunisia," she said.

"Our promotional plans and activities are progressing as normal and we hope that
Britons will continue to visit Tunisia in 2013."

Copyright: UBM Information Ltd.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                      Copyright 2013 CMP Information Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 25, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britons told to flee Benghazi after threat of terror attack

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham; Rowena Mason; Richard Spencer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 614 words


BRITONS and all other Westerners were told to leave the Libyan city of Benghazi
yesterday after diplomats received warnings of an "imminent" terrorist threat in
the wake of the Algerian hostage siege.

The Foreign Office has been advising against travel to the area since September,
but stepped up its warning yesterday in response to "specific" intelligence,
telling British nationals to leave "immediately".

One intelligence source told The Daily Telegraph that MI6 had picked up a
"credible threat" linked to last week's Algerian raid, in which al-Qaeda
terrorists stormed a BP gas complex and killed dozens of foreign workers.

Sources in the Libyan city suggested that the threat had been made against the
British School of Benghazi, which announced it would close for a week at least,
and other international "institutes".

There have already been several reports of links between Libya and the Algerian
hostage-takers.

The weapons used by the kidnappers were said to have come from the country,
while some of those who took part are also reported to have been involved in
last year's attack on the US consulate in Benghazi.

Mokhtar Belmokhtar, the one-eyed al-Qaeda militia leader who masterminded the
Algerian operation, is still on the loose and has close ties to Libya.

Yesterday's warning is a serious blow to Libya's post-revolution credibility and
raises fears of a dangerous "security vacuum" in the country following the
Natobacked uprising which toppled Colonel Muammar Gaddafi. Michael Aron,
Britain's new ambassador to Libya, told The Daily Telegraph that he feared
terrorists could use the country as a base from which to attack Britain.

In the past week, North Africa has become the focus of the international war on
terror, with the Algerian hostage crisis and France's military intervention
against the al-Qaeda insurgency in Mali, leading David Cameron to warn of a
"generational struggle" in the region.

The Foreign Office warned against all travel to Benghazi after last September's
Islamist raid on the US consulate, which claimed the life of the American
ambassador Christopher Stevens.

Its advice now adds: "We are aware of a specific and imminent threat to
Westerners in Benghazi, and urge any British nationals who remain there against
our advice to leave immediately."

It said the British embassy in Tripoli had been in contact with nationals, where
they had contact details.

The International News Safety Institute issued a separate warning, saying it had
been advised of a threat to Libya's oil fields.

The intelligence source said it was not clear whether the latest threat had been
planned or was in retribution for the deaths of lieutenants, such as Mohamed
Lamine Boucheneb, during the Algerian siege. One source said it was possible
that Libyan terrorists were planning another Algerian-style hostage taking.

On June 11 last year, Sir Dominic Asquith, Mr Aron's predecessor, survived when
a rocket-propelled grenade was fired at his convoy in Benghazi.

Mr Aron told the Telegraph that he believed there was now a "security vacuum" in
Libya and a "real risk" that terrorists would attack Westerners.

"The fact is that there is a security vacuum and there is a real risk that these
people will use Libya as a place they can operate," he said. "Eventually the
risk is that it will come to the UK."

The Libyan government criticised the warning. The deputy interior minister,
Abdullah Massoud, said he was "astonished at the strong tone".

Ali al-Sheikh, a spokesman for the army chief of staff, told this newspaper that
it knew of no threat.

"We are aware of a specific and imminent threat to Westerners and urge any
British nationals to leave'

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Evening Star

                            January 25, 2013 Friday

Dog attack terror

SECTION: FRNT

LENGTH: 162 words


FELIXSTOWE: Teenager Sapphire Worlledge today re-lived the terrifying moment
that she and her dog were attacked by two other dogs running loose on a playing
field.



The 16-year-old and her Siberian husky Kaiser were both bitten in the incident -
and both suffered infections in their wounds.

Sixth-former Sapphire, of Capel Drive, Felixstowe, who was unable to work at her
part-time job at McDonald's because of her injuries, was shocked to discover her
hand was dripping blood - with her thumb sliced, middle finger cut and palm
punctured by teeth marks.

"I have been up to the Felixstowe Community Hospital so many times since to have
my hand bandaged, cleaned and treated and re-dressed," she said. "It was very
frightening."

The incident took place at Orwell Green, Grange Farm Avenue, an open space for
the Cricket Hill and Orwell Green estates where children play, which is also the
site of a skatepark.

Police are appealing for help to trace the man and two dogs involved.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            January 25, 2013 Friday

International: Algerian terror attack: Tuareg rebels: Ansar Dine has 'split in
two'

BYLINE: Peter Beaumont and agencies

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 296 words


Ansar Dine, the Tuareg-dominated Malian Islamist group under pressure from the
escalating French-led military assault in the country, has split in two,
according to reports.

Former fighters, once loyal to its leader Iyad Ag Ghali, have said they are
prepared both to negotiate with and also fight their one-time comrades.

The fracturing of Ansar Dine - if confirmed - would be a major blow to the
confederation of Islamist groups which seized northern Mali last year.

Some reports say former members of the Tuareg separatist MNLA group had also
joined the new faction, named the Islamic Movement for Azawad, led by Algabass
Ag Intallah. The group insisted on Wednesday that it was composed entirely of
Malians and was seeking an "inclusive political" dialogue to bring its conflict
with Bamako to an end. It added that it rejected terrorism and extremism.

Ansar Dine fighters have long been seen as vulnerable to being split from allies
in al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) and the Movement for Unity and Jihad
in West Africa (MUJAO). Ag Intallah is an important tribal leader from one of
the Tuareg ruling clans based around Kidal, about 900 miles north of the
capital, Bamako. He had been sent to represent Ansar Dine in talks in Burkina
Faso where, it appears, he was persuaded to change sides.

According to France's RFI radio, he has been joined in the dissident group by
Ansar Dine's former spokesman Mohamed Ag Arib. RFI said the new group sought a
ceasefire in the region around Kidal and Menaka, formerly controlled by Ansar
Dine. Other areas, including Gao and Timbuktu, are held by AQIM and MUJAO.

"We want to wage our war and not that of AQIM," said Ag Intallah, who said rebel
demands were for a broad autonomy rather than independence for the north of the
country.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            January 25, 2013 Friday

International: Algerian terror attack: Profile: Raid could weaken 'God of
Algiers' spy chief

BYLINE: Ian Black, Middle East editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 577 words


If anyone in Algeria knows the full story of what happened at the In Amenas gas
facility it is General Mohamed "Tewfik" Mediene. And he, characteristically, is
not talking.

As the echoes of the hostage drama reverberate across north Africa, the
mysterious head of the DRS intelligence agency is leading the effort to hunt
down the jihadists who orchestrated the raid.

His deputy, General Bashir Tartag, commanded the assault that ended the most
high-profile terrorist incident to take place in Algeria. Tartag, known as "Le
Bombardier", also has a reputation for brutality and ambition.

Mediene, 73 and in poor health, has stayed in the shadows. Described as "the God
of Algiers", the spymaster is the most powerful man in the country after
President Abdelaziz Bouteflika - and perhaps a candidate to succeed him; some
say he is even more powerful.

"Algeria has long been governed, alternately more and less behind the scenes, by
varying groups of men known collectively as 'le pouvoir' (the power)," US
diplomats said in a 2007 cable released by WikiLeaks. "It has become
increasingly clear that the "pouvoir" now consists primarily of Mediene and
Bouteflika."

The 75-year-old president was absent throughout the crisis, undergoing medical
treatment in Geneva. Mediene and the army, say well-placed sources, kept him out
of the picture because they were angry that his agreement to let French planes
fly over Algeria to attack Islamist rebels in Mali was leaked from Paris.

Photos of Mediene are rare - at official ceremonies cameras avoid his face.
"Mediene meets other security chiefs. The French, the Americans, the Russians,
probably the Saudis and maybe the Egyptians. But only the big boys," says a
European analyst.

Born in Kabylie in 1939, Mediene served in the French colonial army and deserted
after the start of the FLN revolt in 1958. Trained by the KGB, he was promoted
after the 1988 riots and became head of the DRS in 1990.

Mediene was a tough and influential figure at a crucial moment in 1991 when the
military cancelled elections that Islamists were poised to win, triggering a
bloody civil war that claimed about 200,000 lives. He was with the hardline
"eradicateurs", not the "conciliateurs" who backed negotiations.

Under his command the DRS infiltrated armed groups and was accused of committing
massacres to discredit its enemies - some of whom later morphed into al-Qaida in
the Islamic Maghreb. Claims of torture were rife.

"Their operating manual was straight KGB," says Jeremy Keenan, an Algeria expert
at London University. "That means creating your own terrorists, setting up
parallel trade unions so nobody knows what's going on, and then atomise them.
It's the most stunning form of control. Mediene is absolutely ruthless."

It is a backhanded tribute to his reputation that some have suggested In Amenas
was another DRS dirty trick designed to "prove" the danger of jihadi extremism.
Details about the raid remain confused, but there is no evidence that it was not
a genuine terrorist incident. It looks much more like a cock-up than a
conspiracy.

In Amenas may well turn out to have weakened Mediene. "People know there was a
level of incompetence that is frightening and a level of brutality that was
probably unnecessary. That raises questions about the competence of the DRS,"
says George Joffe, a consultant on Algeria.

Captions:

Head of the DRS, General Tewfik Mediene is considered the most powerful figure
in Algeria after the president

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 25, 2013
                                 First Edition

American jailed over terror attacks;
UNITED STATES

BYLINE: David Usborne US EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 279 words


David Headley, the Pakistani-American who played a key role scouting terrain for
the terrorists behind the 2008 Mumbai terror rampage, was sent to prison for 35
years yesterday, a reduced sentence that recognised his co-operation with
prosecutors.

Addressing a packed Chicago courtroom, US District Judge Harry Leinenweber noted
he had recently received a letter from Headley, 52, who had previously entered
guilty pleas to 12 different charges.

In the letter, Headley, pictured, expressed remorse for his role in the Mumbai
attacks but the judge said he had trouble believing the sentiments.

"I don't have any faith in Mr Headley when he says he's a changed person and
believes in the American way of life," he said.

Born to a Pakistani father and an American mother, Headley changed his name from
Daood Gilani in 2006 and then travelled to Mumbai where he spent months
conducting reconnaissance for the al-Qa'ida-linked Pakistani militant group
Lashkar-e-Taiba. He chose locations for the November 2008 attacks, including the
renowned Taj Mahal Palace Hotel.

Prosecutors had asked for 35 years because of the assistance received from
Headley from the moment of his arrest while he was boarding a plane overseas to
Chicago airport. In addition to giving background on the Mumbai attacks which
left 166 people dead, he also described a never-carried-out plot to attack a
Danish newspaper that had published a cartoon image of Mohamed.

Headley testified against Tahawwur Rana, a Chicago businessman convicted last
week of aiding Lashkar in the aborted Denmark plot.

For his co-operation, Headley ensured he would not be extradited to India and
would not face the death penalty in the US.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               ICIS Chemical News

                            January 25, 2013 Friday

Third Statoil worker confirmed dead in Algeria terror attack

LENGTH: 127 words


(updates throughout)

LONDON (ICIS)--Statoil on Friday informed media about the death of a third
worker who had been missing since the terrorist attack on the In Amenas natural
gas site in Algeria on 16 January.

[1]Statoil said the worker was Hans Bjone, a Norwegian resident.

Earlier on Friday, the Norway-based international energy major already said that
two workers had been [2]confirmed dead.

Meanwhile, two other Statoil employees are still missing after the [3]terrorist
attack last week.

References

1. http://www.statoil.com/en/Pages/default.aspx 2.
file://localhost/Articles/2013/01/25/9635086/statoil-confirms-death-of-two-worke
rs-in-in-amenas-attack.html 3.
file://localhost/Articles/2013/01/17/9632855/Hostages-killed-in-operation-to-ret
ake-Algerian-gas.html

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Reed Business Information Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 25, 2013 Friday 6:36 AM GMT

Algerian terrorists were outnumbered by guards;
The Amenas gas plant in Algeria was guarded by around 100 armed gendarmes but
they failed to fend off an attack by less than half the number of terrorists, it
can be disclosed.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 556 words


A base for the gendarmes was built between the residential compound and the
drilling area which are several miles apart in the desert, sources told the
Daily Telegraph.

But they failed to react in time when a convoy of around 14 vehicles arrived at
the base at 5.40am on January 16 with heavy machine guns mounted on the back and
carrying at least 32 terrorists.

Gendarmes accompanying a bus heading for the airport managed to beat off the
first attack and Huw Edwards, a British gas worker on the bus, said he owed his
life to them.

However the al-Qaeda-backed militants were able to get into the residential
compound and take dozens of Westerners hostage.

The army arrived to provide back up from a base around 30km (18.5m) away but
their two attempts to launch a rescue ended in a bloodbath and the death of at
least 37 foreign workers.

Questions are now likely to be asked about how the terrorist convoy was able to
cross the border from Libya 30km away without being detected and why the
security failed to respond.

The gendarmes were said to have done a "very good job in a passive environment"
but a security source admitted they appear to have "come up short" when tested.

"BP is going to have to ensure there is adequate safety and security if they
reopen the plant because no one is going to want to go back there otherwise,"
one worker said.

The gas drilling operation in the remote region of southern Algeria, close to
the border with Libya, was identified as a dangerous spot when work began in
2006, sources said.

Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), which operates in the Saharan area known
as the Sahel, has earned at least £13m in ransoms for kidnapping Westerners and
executed captives where no money was paid.

Initially the site at In Amenas was secured by British ex-military guards but
around 2007 the Algerian government asked them to hand in their weapons so that
they could take over the security operation.

The drilling takes placed in a militarized zone with check points on major roads
and an army base around 30km (18.5miles) away

BP largely ran the security operation on behalf of the joint venture with
Statoil of Norway and Sonatrach of Algeria.

BP prefers to use local law enforcement to guard their bases in order to avoid
the appearance of hiring a private army but they used a private security firm
called Stirling Group to liaise with the Algerians.

However the private guards - made up largely of former British military and
French Foreign Legion soldiers - were not allowed to carry weapons, or train the
local gendarmes and were responsible only for liaising with the local officials.

Paul Morgan, a former French legionnaire from Liverpool who worked for Stirling,
died on the bus in the early stages of the attack.

A source at BP said: "The host government was responsible for security and there
were several layers, including a military presence in the vicinity.

"What happened was unprecedented and the question of why it happened is crucial
but we are not at the stage of looking at the yet."

Stirling is run by Mike Lord, a former sergeant in the Royal Military Police,
who has been working in Algeria for 20 years.

His company has a turn-over of £10m in the country and contracts with the US
company Hess, the Australian company Oil Search Ltd and the British company
Petrofac as well as BP.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 25, 2013 Friday 6:36 AM GMT

Algerian terrorists were outnumbered by guards;
The Amenas gas plant in Algeria was guarded by around 100 armed gendarmes but
they failed to fend off an attack by less than half the number of terrorists, it
can be disclosed.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 556 words


A base for the gendarmes was built between the residential compound and the
drilling area which are several miles apart in the desert, sources told the
Daily Telegraph.

But they failed to react in time when a convoy of around 14 vehicles arrived at
the base at 5.40am on January 16 with heavy machine guns mounted on the back and
carrying at least 32 terrorists.

Gendarmes accompanying a bus heading for the airport managed to beat off the
first attack and Huw Edwards, a British gas worker on the bus, said he owed his
life to them.

However the al-Qaeda-backed militants were able to get into the residential
compound and take dozens of Westerners hostage.

The army arrived to provide back up from a base around 30km (18.5m) away but
their two attempts to launch a rescue ended in a bloodbath and the death of at
least 37 foreign workers.

Questions are now likely to be asked about how the terrorist convoy was able to
cross the border from Libya 30km away without being detected and why the
security failed to respond.

The gendarmes were said to have done a "very good job in a passive environment"
but a security source admitted they appear to have "come up short" when tested.

"BP is going to have to ensure there is adequate safety and security if they
reopen the plant because no one is going to want to go back there otherwise,"
one worker said.

The gas drilling operation in the remote region of southern Algeria, close to
the border with Libya, was identified as a dangerous spot when work began in
2006, sources said.

Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), which operates in the Saharan area known
as the Sahel, has earned at least £13m in ransoms for kidnapping Westerners and
executed captives where no money was paid.

Initially the site at In Amenas was secured by British ex-military guards but
around 2007 the Algerian government asked them to hand in their weapons so that
they could take over the security operation.

The drilling takes placed in a militarized zone with check points on major roads
and an army base around 30km (18.5miles) away

BP largely ran the security operation on behalf of the joint venture with
Statoil of Norway and Sonatrach of Algeria.

BP prefers to use local law enforcement to guard their bases in order to avoid
the appearance of hiring a private army but they used a private security firm
called Stirling Group to liaise with the Algerians.

However the private guards - made up largely of former British military and
French Foreign Legion soldiers - were not allowed to carry weapons, or train the
local gendarmes and were responsible only for liaising with the local officials.

Paul Morgan, a former French legionnaire from Liverpool who worked for Stirling,
died on the bus in the early stages of the attack.

A source at BP said: "The host government was responsible for security and there
were several layers, including a military presence in the vicinity.

"What happened was unprecedented and the question of why it happened is crucial
but we are not at the stage of looking at the yet."

Stirling is run by Mike Lord, a former sergeant in the Royal Military Police,
who has been working in Algeria for 20 years.

His company has a turn-over of £10m in the country and contracts with the US
company Hess, the Australian company Oil Search Ltd and the British company
Petrofac as well as BP.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 26, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Dolours Price;
IRA terrorist who later attacked Sinn Fein and its president Gerry Adams

BYLINE: David McKittrick

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1064 words


Dolours Price came from a family which was one of the mainstays of militant
Belfast republicanism, its involvement stretching back generations to a time
when the IRA consisted of a small tightly-knit structure. The family of Gerry
Adams had a similar pedigree, and in her teenage years Price greatly admired
him. But in more recent times she raged against him, regarding him not as a hero
but as a traitor.

Her opposition was deeply personal, since she was affronted by his public
insistence that he was never in the IRA. She insisted he had been a senior
commander who had sent her on missions including killings and bombings. He
denied this. She admitted involvement in murders but expressed no regret. She
felt Adams had betrayed republicanism, first by denying his IRA involvement and
then by constructing a peace process which led to the organisation's
disbandment.

"I think the peace process should be destroyed in some way," she declared. "And
I think Gerry Adams deserves to admit to his part in all of the things that
happened." Later the journalist Liam Clarke found her "charming, chatty and
flamboyant, more like a fading diva or retired actress than a terrorist." But he
also described her as a very troubled soul. Her body was found at her County
Dublin home which was filled with republican memorabilia.

She and her sister Marian - who is in custody for suspected involvement in
dissident republican violence - became notorious figures in the early 1970s
after receiving life sentences for one of the IRA's early bombing forays into
England. The Prices had been steeped in militancy, with her father, mother,
aunts and grandmother all active in the republican movement.

Price attended grammar school and teacher-training college before she and her
sister joined the IRA in their late teens, making it clear that they wished to
be front-line activists rather than helpers in its women's section. They were
undeterred by the fact that their Aunt Bridie had been maimed when a bomb
exploded prematurely during a previous IRA campaign, losing her sight and her
hands.

Republican folklore has it that Dolours was the first female member sworn into
the IRA. The sisters played highly active roles in 1972, the most violent year
of the Troubles, in which almost 500 people died. Price maintained that the
tactic of "bringing the war to Britain" was her idea. The sisters were two of
the leading members of a gang despatched to England with a number of bombs, one
of which blew up at the Old Bailey, injuring more than 200. A caretaker later
collapsed and died of a heart attack.

The team was quickly arrested, receiving lengthy prison terms and in some cases
life sentences. The sisters, Kelly and another prisoner then went on hunger
strike, demanding to serve their time with IRA colleagues in Northern Ireland
rather than Britain.

The authorities responded by force-feeding them. The procedure entailed four
male prison officers tying each inmate tightly to a chair, clamping their jaws
open and forcing a wooden clamp into the mouth. Food was then poured in through
a funnel.

But they lost weight rapidly and tensions rose. The then Home Secretary Roy
Jenkins later recalled that it was assumed a death would produce "massive
retaliatory violence." He wrote in his memoirs: "They were the stuff of which
Irish martyrs could be made - two young, slim, dark girls, devout yet dedicated
to terrorism. The consequences of the death of these charismatic colleens was
incalculable."

After many tense moments he let it be known that if the hunger strikes were
ended transfers would soon follow. They accepted food and within a few weeks
were moved to Northern Ireland. Seven years later they were released on medical
grounds after serving unusually short sentences.

Once freed they largely dropped out of public notice, Dolours marrying the
well-known Irish actor Stephen Rea (they later divorced). However, both sisters
became active again within the last decade, making clear that they were opposed
to the peace process.

Price accused Sinn Fein of "treachery beyond all anticipation" and "craving
power and money." Of Gerry Adams she declared: "The man is an ignoramus and his
ego has affected his head. He has lost all sense of proportion in his greed for
attention."

Such onslaughts did nothing to halt the rise in the Sinn Fein vote in both parts
of Ireland. When she accused Adams of sanctioning the Old Bailey bombing and
ordering her to drive alleged informers and agents to their deaths he said he
would not sue her, saying: "I am not of a mind to trail Dolours Price through
the courts. She is unwell."

Price had a history of psychiatric problems and alcohol and substance abuse. She
had been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder and was repeatedly taken
to hospital and treated for anxiety, stress and depression.

Journalist Aisling Scally, a fellow-student on a law course in 2006, remembered
her "wearing a bright green hat and a jacket that would have put Joseph's
Technicolor Dreamcoat to shame." She heckled lecturers, particularly on
prisoners' issues, and during one session became incensed and "stormed out in a
rainbow of rage."

In the last few years she was at the centre of a long-running international
legal controversy as US courts sought access to statements she made to a
research project associated with Boston College. Researchers Ed Moloney and
Anthony McIntyre have fought a long-running battle against a handover of
documents which they promised would remain confidential until after the deaths
of those interviewed.

Price said she had given statements about the role of Adams in IRA violence,
including the Old Bailey attack, and a number of killings including that of the
widowed mother of 10, Jean McConville. In a newspaper interview with Allison
Morris Price said she did not regret her part in the McConville murder,
commenting coldly: "Informers know the penalty. She knew the penalty." But when
asked about driving another IRA member to his death she broke down and cried.

While Moloney said she made no mention of the McConville killing it is widely
assumed she made other allegations concerning the Sinn Fein president. It
remains unclear whether her interviews will remain under wraps.

Dolours Price, IRA volunteer and political activist: born Belfast 21 June 1951;
married Stephen Rea (marriage dissolved; two sons); died Co Dublin 23 January
2013.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 26, 2013 Saturday 10:46 PM GMT

Algeria terrorist attack puts BP's Libya drilling on hold;
Plans for BP to begin drilling for oil and gas in Libya are in serious doubt in
the aftermath of the terrorist attack on its gas production plant in
neighbouring Algeria.

BYLINE: By Robert Mendick

SECTION: FINANCE

LENGTH: 216 words


The company is to launch a review into drilling in the country amid serious
concerns over security in the region.

BP signed a $900m (£569m) exploration and production agreement with Libya's
National Oil Corporation in 2007 but suspended the contract in February 2011
because of the civil war that eventually led to the overthrow of Colonel Muammar
Gaddafi.

BP subsequently announced a resumption of exploratory drilling - due to begin in
September - but has put that on hold following the murder of Westerners working
at the Tigantourine facility in the Saharan desert in Algeria. Four BP employees
were among 37 foreign hostages who died in the siege.

BP's problems in the region are compounded by a Foreign Office warning last week
of a "specific, imminent threat to Westerners" in the Libyan city of Benghazi.
The Foreign Office urged British nationals to leave the city immediately.

A BP spokesman told The Sunday Telegraph: "We were due to drill in the second
half of this year but we are now reviewing that as a result of the situations in
Algeria and in Benghazi.

"What has happened in Algeria is absolutely tragic.

"We are committed to returning to Algeria and obviously we are heavily involved
in Libya as well but it is only natural we review security and take a look at
what we are doing."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 26, 2013 Saturday 7:30 AM GMT

Al-Qaeda terrorists 'plotted suicide attack to kill British soldiers';
A gang of al-Qaeda terrorists plotted to kill British soldiers in an attack
using suicide vests, rucksack bombs and guns, a court heard.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 366 words


Irfan Naseer and Irfan Khalid from Birmingham are accused of travelling to
Pakistan for terrorist training, making suicide videos and buying chemicals to
make home made bombs.

They were under surveillance by MI5 for weeks before their arrest in September
2011 and were heard discussing their plans in bugged conversations.

But it was only after their arrest that Ashik Ali, a co-defendant accused of
being part of their plans, told police that they planned to kill soldiers.

Brian Altman QC told the jury at Woolwich Crown Court: "If Ali was telling the
truth in interview then the plan was for him and the others to don suicide vests
or jackets and rucksack bombs and to carry and use guns to kill British soldiers
in April or May 2012, about eight or nine months thence

"This was, as Khalid put it, 'revenge for everything' and 'another 9/11' that
would be celebrated on its anniversary day."

Ali told police he had noticed a change in the other two men when they returned
from Pakistan in July 2011 but still did not believe they would go through with
their plan.

They have told the jury they were only boasting to Ali in order to scare off
gangsters who were threatening them for sending four young men to Pakistan for
terrorist training.

Mr Altman said their defences were "contradictory, contrived, perverse and
deliberately dishonest."

"They defy sanity and individual logic and the plain truth is there is only one
sensible answer that you can be absolutely sure about, these defendants are
guilty of each and every one of the offences," Mr Altman added.

Jonathan Whitfeld QC for Naseer said his client was an "overweight, lazy mummy's
boy" obsessed with "food and farting" who would have been a "rubbish terrorist".

"The only thing he shot off was his mouth," Mr Whitfield said, adding that
Naseer had never been to the al-Qaeda stronghold of Waziristan and was merely
pretending that he had.

"The wonderland he sometimes inhabits is Naseer-istan," Mr Whitfield added. "He
doesn't deserve to be called a terrorist."

Naseer, 31, Khalid 27, and Ali, 27, all unemployed, deny charges of terrorist
fund raising, recruiting others and planning a terrorist bombing campaign. The
trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     January 26, 2013 Saturday 12:01 AM GMT

Terrorist attackers 'were given information by BP plant mole'

BYLINE: Martin Fletcher and Michael Evans, Pentagon Correspondent

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 694 words


The Islamic terrorists who stormed the BP plant in Algeria had inside help,
several sources say.

For three years the plant had employed a trucking company run by the brother of
Abu Zeid, a particularly brutal leader of al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb
(AQIM), according to a local report.

Mohamed-Lamine Bencheneb, an Algerian jihadist who led the attack, used that
connection to have relatives employed by the company, and thus acquired
priceless inside knowledge of the plant, according to the Algerian newspaper <em
class="italic">Liberté</em>.

BP neither confirmed nor denied the report. A spokesman said that the plant was
jointly run by BP, Norway's Statoil and Algeria's Sonatrach, with the Algerians
largely responsible for its security, and he could not say who had the freight
contract.

The gunmen knew that a bus was taking employees to the nearby airfield before
dawn a week last Wednesday, and attacked it. They knew exactly where to go
inside the sprawling plant and which rooms were occupied by foreigners,
according to Noman Benotman, a former Libyan jihadist who now runs the Quilliam
Foundation, a counter-extremism think-tank in London.

Espen Barth Eide, the Norwegian Foreign Minister, said: "We have reports that
the terrorists had people on the inside who laid the groundwork over time." He
added that they had stored weapons in the complex.

The assailants "knew the facility's layout by heart," Abdelmalek Sellal, the
Algerian Prime Minister, has acknowledged. He disclosed that one of the dead
gunmen, from Niger, was a former driver at the plant.

The BP spokesman emphasised how heavily the plant was protected - by 160
gendarmes, 3,000 soldiers, tanks and helicopters, with no employee going beyond
its perimeter fences without armed escorts. "It's a thoroughly militarised
zone," he said.

But if the plant was such a fortress, how could 32 Islamic militants seize it?

The attack was well planned. An amateurish video on Youtube appears to show
Bencheneb, who was under a death sentence for terrorist attacks in Algeria,
training with a group calling itself the "Movement of the Sons of the Sahara for
Islamic Justice" in scrubby desert in the Sahel in September 2011.

To a voiceover extolling martyrdom, the video shows machineguns mounted on
pick-ups and men in fatigues with rocket-propelled grenade launchers and AK47
rifles. They may have taken part in the BP attack. Mr Sellal said the attackers
included 11 Tunisians, three Algerians and others from Mauritania, Mali, Niger
and Egypt.

He also insists that two were Canadians, including a man he identified only as
"Shaddad" who apparently liaised with news outlets in Mauritania. Survivors said
one attacker spoke fluent English. "One terrorist shouted 'open the door' with a
North American accent," an Algerian survivor named Riad said. The Canadian
Government has sent police to Algeria to investigate.

Algerian officials claim that planning for the operation lasted two months,
starting about the time that Mokhtar Belmokhtar, the one-eyed Algerian jihadist
who masterminded it, left AQIM to form the group called "Signed in Blood" which
claimed responsibility for the Algerian attack.

The gunmen travelled across unguarded desert borders from north Mali through
Niger to Libya, a country that has become a haven for Islamic militants since
the Nato-backed uprising of 2011 ousted Colonel Gaddafi. "The Arab revolutions
have scrambled power dynamics and shattered security forces," Hillary Clinton,
the US Secretary of State, acknowledged in Senate testimony this week.

Mrs Clinton confirmed that the attackers used Libyan weapons - heavy
machineguns, rifles, rocket-propelled grenades, landmines, mortars and
explosives were found at the BP complex after the attack.

She said that Chris Stevens, the US Ambassador to Libya who was killed in
Benghazi in September last year, had gone there to try to stop shoulder-launched
surface-to-air missiles and other potent weaponry falling into terrorist hands.

According to Mr Sellal, the attackers crossed into Algeria from Ghat, a Libyan
town not far from the BP plant but well beyond Tripoli's writ. At least 38
hostages died, including five Britons.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                                January 27, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EXTREMISTS IN BRUM QUIZZED;
ALGERIA TERROR ATTACK ; EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: AMARDEEP BASSEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 810 words


COUNTER-Terrorism detectives have been questioning alleged Algerian Islamic
extremists in the Midlands after fears that the hostage crisis may have been
planned and directed from abroad.

Special Branch officers from Scotland Yard's elite SO13 unit are in Birmingham
and Leicester in an effort to track down alleged militants with links to an Al
Qaida-affiliated group which attacked the In Amenas gas plant in Algeria,
killing four British hostages.

Detectives have already questioned a number of men in the region who have
previously been under surveillance.

The secret raids centred on addresses in Birmingham and Leicester as the
security services executed a shakedown of known extremists.

Detectives are particularly keen to trace an Algerian suspect, who was believed
to be living in the Sparkbrook area of Birmingham, and is alleged to be a high
ranking member of Tafkir-Wal-Hijra, which is associated with Al Qaida.

A security source told the Sunday Mercury: "A team of detectives has been sent
to the Midlands to gather intelligence from a number of known Algerian Islamists
who may have some knowledge of the events that led to the hostage crisis.

"We will be checking their movements and correspondence over the last few
months.

"We are especially keen to speak to a high-ranking Algerian suspect who was a
leading figure in an Algerian terror group called Tafkir-Wal-Hijra, which is now
allied to Al Qaida.

"The suspect falsely sought asylum in the UK in 1998 and is believed to have
settled in Birmingham, but has been on and off our radar ever since."

Hundreds of Algerians are believed to have sneaked into Britain with false
papers, claiming political asylum after civil war broke out in Algeria in 1991
when Muslim hardliners clashed with the country's secular rulers.

The mass influx led to the Algerian ambassador in London to complain to the
Foreign Office about its 'loose legislation' which he claimed was allowing known
Algerian terrorists to operate in the UK with 'near impunity.' Group Most of
them belong to the Islamic extremist group The Armed Islamic Guard (GIA).

The GIA and its offshoot organisations, which include Tafkir-Wal-Hijra, aims to
overthrow the secular Algerian regime and replace it with an Islamic state.

It began its campaign of violence in 1992 and has claimed responsibility for
several hijackings and civilian massacres in Algeria.

More than 120,000 people died during the civil war, including 100 expatriate
Europeans living in Algeria. Several GIA members are known to have settled in
Birmingham, but went underground after the GIA was banned under the Terrorism
Act along with another splinter group The Salafi Group for Preaching and Combat
(GSPC).

A spokesman for the Algerian embassy in London told the Sunday Mercury last
night: "We believe there are scores of GIA members still in the UK, with many of
them based in Birmingham.

"We know that the GIA produced newsletters which originated in Birmingham and
also raised funds in the Midlands until the group was officially banned by the
British authorities."

The GIA and its splinter groups recently announced that they had merged and
changed their name to Al Qaida in the Magreb, vowing allegiance to the
pan-Islamic group. A number of British Muslims have been convicted in foreign
courts or have fought for, or trained with, terrorist or extreme Islamist groups
in North Africa.

Algeria's communications minister Mohamed Said last week described the
kidnappers as a "multinational terrorist organisation" that "wants to
destabilise Algeria and push it into the war in Mali".

And David Cameron said North Africa was becoming a "magnet for jihadists,"
making experts fear it could eventually become a springboard for attacks on the
West.

The Midland link to plots THE Midland connection is further reinforced because
of the large numbers of Algerians arrested in Leicester since the September 11
hijackings more than a decade ago.

Weeks after the Twin Towers atrocity, three Algerian terrorists were arrested in
Leicester, suspected of being involved in a plot to crash a helicopter into the
US embassy building in Paris.

They were all members of Tafkir-Wal-Hijra and were captured after the arrest of
the group's leader, Djamel Begal, in Dubai.

Begal, 35, had confessed to police that he ran three Tafkir-Wal-Hijra groups in
Europe, including one in Leicester where he had lived for a short time in the
1990s.

Then, in January 2002, a number of Algerian terror suspects were arrested in
Leicester by Special Branch officers during a pan-European anti-terrorism
offensive. Most of the suspects were later charged with immigration and fraud
offences but Baghdad Meziane, 36, and Brahim Benmerzouga, became among the first
people in Britain to be convicted of being linked with the Al-Qaida network.

They were found guilty of plotting to raise money for terrorist activities in
2003.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEARCH: Terrorists killed four Brits at the In Amenas gas plant in
Algeria.
SEARCH: Terror cops are keen to talk to a man who was believed to live in
Sparkbrook

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMY


               Copyright 2013 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            January 28, 2013 Monday

Iraq: Ban strongly condemns latest wave of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 200 words


January 25, 2013

United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today strongly condemned a recent
wave of terrorist attacks across Iraq that killed hundreds of people and left
many more wounded, while he called on Iraqi political leaders to bolster the
unity and security of the country.



"The Secretary-General renews his call of last December to Iraqi political
leaders and Members of the Council of Representatives to engage in an inclusive
dialogue, so as to strengthen the unity and security of the country," Mr. Ban's
spokesperson said in a statement .

Through the statement, Mr. Ban expressed particular regret over the killing and
injuring of a number of protestors today in Fallujah. "Recognizing the right to
peaceful assembly, he calls on all parties to exercise maximum restraint," he
added.

According to media reports, at least four people where killed and 42 wounded in
Fallujah when Iraqi soldiers fired on protesters demanding that Prime Minister
Nuri al-Maliki step down.

Mr. Ban confirmed that the UN, through its Assistance Mission for Iraq ( UNAMI
), remained committed to assisting the people and the Government of Iraq in
building a peaceful, democratic, and prosperous country.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 28, 2013 Monday 5:31 PM GMT

Algeria gas pipeline attack kills two guards;
Two security guards protecting a gas pipeline were killed and seven others
wounded in an attack southwest of the Algerian capital, as Islamist terrorists
once again targeted the country's vital oil and gas industry.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 269 words


Militants from al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb launched a series of homemade
rockets late on Sunday night towards a pipeline that runs north from the Sahara
desert's Hassi R'Mel field.

The largest in <em class="bold">Algeria</em> and the second largest gas field in
the world, most of its product passes through coastal cities and on to southern
Europe.

Army units were alerted and searched for the attackers in vain around Ain Chikh,
on the southern edge of the Kabylie mountain region that has become the last
hideout of al-Qaeda's branch in northern Algeria. The frequency of terrorist
attacks has dropped in Algeria's populated north in the past few years, though
in August 2011 militants showed their ability to target local security forces
with a suicide bombing of the military academy.

Their associates operating hundreds of miles south in the Sahara have proved
more potent, profiting handsomely from smuggling cigarettes and drugs and
kidnapping foreigners for ransom.

Two weeks ago they launched a bold attack on a BP gas facility at In Amenas,
close to the Libyan border. A four-day standoff was ended by an Algerian army
assault. In all at least 37 workers at the plant died, including six Britons,
along with 29 hostage-takers.

The BP assault was planned by the Algerian Mokhtar Belmokhtar, who reportedly
fell out with AQIM'S northern-based leader Abdelmalek Droukdel last year.

Most analysts think Belmokhtar was acting independently, timing the carefully
planned attack to retaliate for France's intervention in northern Mali, where
Belmokhtar and other Algerian leaders had moved their centre of operations.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                     January 29, 2013 Tuesday 5:48 PM  EST

MINISTER FOR AFRICA SIMMONDS CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN MOGADISHU

LENGTH: 143 words


LONDON, Jan. 29 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

Foreign Office Minister for Africa condemns terrorist attack in Mogadishu and
underlines UK support for Somali government.

The Minister for Africa, Mark Simmonds, said today:

I am deeply concerned by this morning's attack on Villa Somalia and utterly
condemn this terrorist action. I offer my sincere condolences to the family and
friends of those caught in the attack. Somalia's people have suffered terribly
from desperate levels of violence over the past 20 years. These actions will not
stop the Somali Government and their international partners in building a more
peaceful country. The UK remains firmly committed to supporting those efforts."
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                     January 29, 2013 Tuesday 9:40 AM  EST

MINISTER FOR AFRICA CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN MOGADISHU

LENGTH: 147 words


LONDON, Jan. 29 -- The United Kingdom Foreign & Commonwealth Office issued the
following press release:

Foreign Office Minister for Africa condemns terrorist attack in Mogadishu and
underlines UK support for Somali government.

The Minister for Africa, Mark Simmonds, said today:

I am deeply concerned by this morning's attack on Villa Somalia and utterly
condemn this terrorist action. I offer my sincere condolences to the family and
friends of those caught in the attack. Somalia's people have suffered terribly
from desperate levels of violence over the past 20 years. These actions will not
stop the Somali Government and their international partners in building a more
peaceful country. The UK remains firmly committed to supporting those efforts.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 30, 2013 Wednesday

Over 35,000 Turks killed in terror attacks in 30 years - report

LENGTH: 228 words


Text of report in English by Turkish privately-owned, mass-circulation daily
Hurriyet website on 29 January

Terror attacks have taken the lives of 35,576 people in Turkey in the last 30
years, according to a report published today by Parliament's Human Rights and
Terrorism Commission.

The report states that most of the casualties were between 14 and 25 years old,
and it is also says that 386,360 people in 14 provinces have been forced to
leave their homes. Some 187,861 of those who were forcibly displaced have
returned home, due to a rehabilitation project launched in 1999.

Based on the sources of terrorism experts, the report says more than 11,795
soldiers and police officers have been killed in conflicts, while according to
the police directorate 22,049 militants were killed in the same period.

The report also touches on the profiles of the militants who retreat to the
mountains between Turkey, iraq and Syria. According to the statistics, 88 per
cent of the militants are men, while 50 per cent become involved in these groups
between the ages of 17 and 20. The youngest person to become a member of an
outlawed group was nine-years-old, while the oldest person was 42-years-old. The
youngest militant to die was 14-years-old, and the average time that a militant
spends in the mountains is 6.9 years.

Source: Hurriyet website, Istanbul, in English 29 Jan 13

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           January 30, 2013 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Cameron in Algeria after terror attack

BYLINE: MICHAEL SETTLE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 196 words


DAVID CAMERON will today visit Algeria, just two weeks after a terrorist attack
at a desert gas plant which resulted in the deaths of six British people,
including two Scots.

In a highly unusual move, Downing Street, which normally keeps the Prime
Minister s itinerary a secret until the last minute, confirmed last night that
he would meet his Algerian counterpart, Abdelmalek Sellal, later  today.

Mr Cameron s original plan was to attend an international development conference
in the Liberian capital, Monrovia, but, in light of recent events he has now
decided to extend his  trip.

The Prime Minister has  said that the challenge of  al Qaeda in north Africa
requires a global response and could take decades to overcome.

Some 37 foreigners, at  least 10 Algerians and dozens of terrorists died in the
attack on the In Amenas gas plant, which is jointly operated by BP.

The Algerian government took the controversial decision to storm the site in the
Sahara desert with Mr Cameron and other world leaders protesting about not being
notified in advance

Mr Cameron s talks with Mr Sellal are likely to touch on the military campaign
against al Qaeda terrorists in neighbouring Mali.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 30, 2013 Wednesday 1:57 AM GMT

New IRA 'plotting terrorist attack on G8': Security sources warn dissidents
could target summit when it is held in Northern Ireland this summer

BYLINE: JASON GROVES

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 543 words


Security 'cannot rule out' an IRA attack on the G8 summit in Northern Ireland
A source said although the venue is secure, the republican threat is growing
G8 leaders will gather at the Lough Erne resort, near Enniskillen, in June

Republican dissidents are plotting a terrorist outrage in the run-up to the G8
summit in Northern Ireland this summer, British sources have warned.

Ministers are said to be alarmed by the resurgence in hardline republicanism in
recent months, with hundreds of youngsters signing up to join the shadowy 'New
IRA', which has vowed to continue the armed struggle to create a united Ireland.

Two recent attacks also indicate that extremists have now obtained access to
former IRA weapons, which were meant to have decommissioned as part of the peace
process.

Semtex plastic explosive supplied by Libyan dictator Colonel Gadaffi in the
1980s was used in a failed car bomb attack on an off-duty Northern Ireland
policeman last month.

And a rifle used in the murder of prison officer David Black in November has
been linked to previous IRA attacks more than a decade ago.

The planned arrival of world leaders for the G8 summit in June is posing a major
headache for security forces dealing with the upsurge in republicanism and the
recent outbreak of loyalist violence in the Belfast flags protests.

Ministers are confident that the venue for the summit at the Lough Erne resort,
near Enniskillen, is secure, and insist there is no consideration being given to
changing the venue to the mainland.

But they acknowledge there is a growing risk that republican extremists will
attempt to mount a terrorist 'spectacular' in the run-up to the event, when the
eyes of the world are on Northern Ireland.

A British source said: 'The venue is secure - we are absolutely confident about
that. But we cannot rule out a cowardly attack beforehand. The republican threat
is growing.' Any attack would raise questions about the decision to stage the G8
in Northern Ireland, which was meant to show the world that life in the Province
had been transformed for good.

Dissident republican groups have never entirely gone away, but until recently
they were comprised mainly of veteran hardliners who were never reconciled to
the peace process.

The so-called New IRA was formed last year from a loose alliance of hardline
republican groups.

Unlike former groups it is enjoying success in attracting fresh support from the
Province's disaffected youth. Sources claim the group has attracted up to 700
new members and is 'actively recruiting'.

Like previous groups it operates on fear, doling out punishment beatings and
shootings on a weekly basis, as well as plotting attacks on the security
services and other British targets.

Sources acknowledge that its leaders are beyond the control of Sinn Fein.

There are fears that the group also has ambitions to mount a new campaign on the
mainland. Recent events suggest it may have access to the equipment needed to
conduct a campaign, but there are doubts about whether it yet has the logistical
and organisational skills to sustain a series of attacks on the mainland.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 31, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Professor tells of knife attack terror at Barbados villa

BYLINE: Mark Hughes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 239 words


A BRITISH professor has told how he fought to save his wife as she was
repeatedly stabbed by a knife-wielding intruder at a holiday villa in Barbados.

Prof James Bridges, one of Britain's leading experts on toxicology, and his wife
Olga were attacked minutes after arriving at their rented villa.

Prof Bridges, 72, was stabbed three times while his wife suffered seven stab
wounds, including a punctured spleen and diaphragm.

Dr Olga Bridges, 62, had emergency surgery at a hospital in the Barbados capital
Bridgetown, where she is said to be in a stable condition.

Prof Bridges described the "sheer terror" of the attack, which happened on
Friday only 40 minutes after they had arrived. "We had only just let ourselves
into the villa," he said. "I was downstairs and my wife was upstairs. I heard
screaming and rushed upstairs and saw her being stabbed by a masked man with a
knife. I tried to pull him off, but he just started stabbing me. It was awful,
just terrifying. After he stabbed me he just went back to stabbing my wife who
was lying on the floor."

Prof Bridges said the intruder demanded to know where their money was. After
searching their bedroom, he returned and continued to attack them.

A spokesman for Barbados police said a local man was being questioned over the
attack.

Prof Bridges, from Guildford, Surrey, is the chairman of the European
Commission's committee on emerging and newly identified health risks.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           January 31, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Girl, 18, terror attack on way home;
GARDAI PROBING ASSAULT MOTIVE

BYLINE: GARRETH MacNAMEE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 297 words


AN 18-year-old girl was recovering in hospital last night after a vicious attack
just a mile from her home.

The young woman was walking to her apartment when she was set upon at around
10.30pm on Tuesday at Compass Quay in Kinsale, Co Cork.

It is understood she had left to go for a walk along a popular local route to
Dromderrig Bridge at approximately 9.30pm.

She then became worried for her safety and rang a close friend to say she
thought she was being followed.

Moments later she was attacked and left with serious injuries and in a
semi-conscious state.

Emergency services took her to Cork University Hospital where she is described
as being in a stable condition.

Gardai are now probing whether or not this was a random robbery or a
premeditated attack.

Councillor Michael Frawley said the whole community is in shock.

He added: "We're all in shock down here. It's what everyone's been talking
about. The crime rate is virtually none here. That's why it's so unbelievable.

"We're known as one of Ireland's nicest tourist towns, so it's hard to know what
to say.

"It looks as though she's from Clare and had come down to study at the Kinsale
College of Further Education.

"The thing that baffles me is the area is so densely populated. You're talking
five or six housing estates."

One source stressed that the precise details of the attack will only be known
once forensic results are available and the teen is able to give an interview.

He added: "This appears to have been a very nasty incident, so we're looking for
as much information as possible and we would appeal for public assistance."

Anyone with information is asked to contact Kinsale Garda station at 0214772302
or call into their nearest station.

The crime rate is virtually none. That's why it's so unbelievable MICHAEL
FRAWLEY

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENE Officer in Co Cork

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 31, 2013 Thursday 9:16 PM GMT

First visit inside Algeria's hostage gas plant reveals final moments of terror;

The final hostages to die in the terror attack on the BP joint-operated gas
plant in Algeria were strapped to machinery as a huge bomb was detonated,
managers at the plant said yesterday.

BYLINE: By Alex Spillius In Amenas

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 672 words


As Western media - including The Daily Telegraph - visited the remote plant at
In Amenas for the first time, detailed accounts were provided of the terrifying
end met by a group of eight to 10 expatriate workers.

Lufti Benadouda, the Algerian general manager of the site, recounted how there
was a major explosion on the night of Thursday Jan 17 at the central production
facility, where the hostage-takers, who arrived in two groups, had gathered for
a final stand.

Mr Benadouda said Western hostages had been tied to the gas construction
complex, some at ground level, some a bit higher up, while the terrorists built
a bomb in one of their vehicles. Many of the hostage takers had been wearing
suicide vests.

"There was one big explosion and we saw the fire burning all night," said Mr
Benadouda. "We found the hostages had been tied to the structure and put close
to each other. Some were on the ground near the car, some were up a bit.

"The terrorists wanted a big explosion. They wanted to destroy the plant and
make a big impression. They didn't destroy the plant. The next day we arrived at
the plant. It was my job to identify the bodies of my colleagues, but I could
not, except one, an American."

Among the dead were a Norwegian, and, he thinks, a Briton. He said he saw the
remains of three terrorists that suggested they had detonated suicide vests. On
Thursday, evidence of the carnage remained on view with parts of the
infrastructure at the plant showing signs of considerable blast damage.

After the bomb site was inspected on Friday, final mopping up, which led to the
capture of three militants, lasted until early on Saturday.

Calling themselves the Signatories in Blood Battalion, the attackers appeared
out of the desert at dawn on Wednesday Jan 16. Mr Benadouda was quickly
identified by terrorists who stormed through the gates of the accommodation
compound as a senior figure and was used to relay messages to Algerian forces.

Having missed the initial attack, the army quickly encircled the facility, which
sprawls over 37 acres, is surrounded by scrub and sand and is circled by a 12ft
barbed-wire fence.

At first, Mr Benadouda said, the terrorists' mood was "quite calm" but they soon
demanded that the plant be restarted. It had been closed after a security guard
sounded the alarm. Moments later he was shot in the head.

"After some time they realised they were not getting out alive, and they wanted
to blow up the plant. They asked me to start it again, but I said it was too
difficult." His defiance may have saved the plant from much greater destruction.

Expatriates have yet to return, but 120 Algerians, seen Thursday on the site in
hard hats and blue overalls, are preparing for the day when the plant, which BP
runs with Norway's Statoil and Algeria's Sonatrach, can resume producing gas
with a daily average output worth $14 million (£9.4 million).

The attack, which claimed the lives of 38 foreign workers, including six
Britons, has stunned Algeria, which thought it had contained the internal threat
posed by al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb.

Instead, it now finds itself on a new, front line of the war on terrorism that
spreads west to Mali, where the French intervened to quell an Islamist advance,
south to Niger and east to Libya, where the weapons for the attack were procured
and from where it was launched.

Personal ties between Britons and locals on the site evidently run deep. Several
people fondly recalled Paul Morgan, the head of security who was shot dead in
one of two buses as they left the accommodation for the airport of In Amenas, 40
minutes away. "He was a very nice guy, very patient, very cooperative," said
Hamou Sahel, a logistician.

Salim, who did not want to give his surname, recalled helping Gary Roberts, a
Briton, to hide in the false ceiling of the canteen with a couple of other
foreigners as they heard the first shots.

With the Algerian army, he returned the next day to retrieve Mr Roberts, whom he
said lives in Thailand. "We have spoken, he is doing OK," smiled Salim.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 31, 2013 Thursday 8:47 PM GMT

First visit inside Algeria's hostage gas plant reveals final moments of terror;

The final hostages to die in the terror attack on the BP joint-operated gas
plant in Algeria were strapped to machinery as a huge bomb was detonated,
managers at the plant said yesterday.

BYLINE: By Alex Spillius In Amenas

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 798 words


As Western media - including the Daily Telegraph - were allowed to visit the
remote plant at In Amenas for the first time, detailed accounts were provided of
the terrifying end met by a group of eight to ten expatriate workers.

Lufti Benadouda, the <em class="bold">Algerian</em> general manager of the site,
recounted how there was a major explosion on the Thursday night at the central
production facility, where the hostage-takers, who arrived in two groups, had
gathered for a final stand.

Mr Benadouda said Western hostages had been tied to the gas construction
complex, some at ground level, some a bit higher up, while the terrorists
constructed a bomb in one of their vehicles. Many of the hostage takers had been
wearing suicide vests.

"There was one big explosion and we saw the fire burning all night," said Mr
Benadouda. "We found the hostages had been tied to the structure and put close
to each other. Some were on the ground near the car, some were up a bit.

"The terrorists wanted a big explosion, they wanted to destroy the plant and
make a big impression. They didn't destroy the plant.

"The next day we arrived at the plant. It was my job to identify the bodies of
my colleagues but I could not, except one, an American."

Among the dead were a Norwegian, and, he thinks, a Briton.

Mr Benadouda said he saw the remains of three militants that suggested they had
detonated suicide vests, as all that was left of them was their head and chest.

Yesterday at the In Amenas site evidence of the carnage still remained on view
with a parts of the infrastructure at the plant showing signs of considerable
blast damage, a central column blackened all the way to the top.

Calling themselves the Signatories in Blood Battalion, the attackers appeared
out of the desert at dawn on Wednesday January 16.

Drawn from across the region, their number included one who spoke very good
English and poor Arabic, according to Mr Benadouda, and may have been one of two
Canadians referred to by the Algerian authorities.

On the first day, Mr Benadouda was quickly identified by the attackers who
stormed through the gates of the accommodation compound as a senior figure and
was used to relay messages to Algerian forces.

Having missed the initial attack, the army quickly encircled the facility, which
is surrounded by a 12ft high fence and rolls of barbed wire. Sprawling over 37
acres, it is surrounded by nothing but scrabble and sand.

At first, Mr Benadouda said, the terrorists' mood was "quite calm" but they soon
demanded that the plant be restarted. It had been shut down after a security
guard sounded the alarm. Moments later he was shot in the head.

"After some time they realised they were not getting out alive, and they wanted
to blow up the plant. They asked me to start it again, but I said it was too
difficult."

His defiance may have saved the plant from much greater destruction.

Expatriates have yet to return, but 120 Algerians, seen yesterday on the site in
hard hats and blue overalls, are readying the day when the plant, which BP runs
with Norway's Statoil and Algeria's Sonatrach, can resume producing gas with a
daily average output worth $14 million.

The attack, which claimed the lives of 38 foreign workers, including six
Britons, has stunned not only the oil and gas industry, but Algeria itself,
which thought it had contained the internal terror threat posed by al-Qaeda in
the Islamic Maghreb.

Instead, it now finds itself on a new, front line of the war on terror that
spreads west to Mali, where the French intervened to quell an Islamist advance,
and south to Niger and east to Libya, where the weapons for the attack were
procured.

It is believed the assailants came across the tabletop flat terrain from Libya,
which is 35 miles away as crow flies.

The assault on the plant jointly operated by a British flagship company prompted
a hurried visit by David Cameron this week, where he called for a "strong,
strategic partnership" between Britain and Algeria.

Personal ties between Britons and locals on the site evidently run deep. Several
people fondly recalled Paul Morgan, the head of security who was shot dead in
one of two buses as they left the accommodation for the airport of In Amenas, 40
minutes away.

"He was a very nice guy, very patient, very cooperative, and he was not a snob,"
said Hamou Sahel, a logistician.

Salim, who did not want to give his surname, recalled helping Briton Gary
Roberts to hide in the false ceiling of the canteen with a couple of other
foreigners as they heard the first shots.

With the Algerian army, he returned the next day to retrieve Mr Roberts, whom he
said lives in Thailand. "We have spoken, he is doing OK," smiled Salim.

The Algerian government has said security is being reviewed at the country's 17
production facilities.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 1, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror of horsewoman as she fled gun attacker

BYLINE: Victoria Ward

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 362 words


A FORMER show jumper allegedly shot by her "foul-tempered" former lover told a
court yesterday of her "absolute terror" as she crawled through her house to
escape the gunman.

Louise Leggatt, 54, had gone outside to tend to her horses before bed when she
was shot in the leg. Brian Fraser, a hunt master, is accused of attempting to
kill her "in a fit of pique" after she rejected his attempts to rekindle their
romance.

Miss Leggatt told Maidstone Crown Court in Kent that she was alerted to a
disturbance by her dog and was shot as she shone a torch towards the noise.

"I heard the sound and then I had a horrendous pain in my leg and hip, and I
realised what had happened," she said. "I pulled the [patio] door to but I
didn't manage to lock it. I was just desperate to get to a phone.

"I crawled across the dining room where the house phone was and I managed to
dial 999.

"I had never been so terrified in all my life. I was really, really scared that
whoever had done it was going to come in." Miss Leggatt said it "seemed like
forever" before paramedics arrived as an emergency operator told her that a
firearms unit would have to be deployed first.

Miss Leggatt first thought that her former husband may have been responsible for
the incident at her farmhouse in Benenden, Kent, at 9.30pm on March 15 last
year, but also suspected Fraser, 63.

Fraser, a master of the Ashford Valley Hunt, told police he was at home with his
wife that evening but CCTV footage from his home showed that he had gone out at
about 8.30pm and returned two hours later.

His attempts to renew their relationship had previously been rejected by Miss
Leggatt, who told him: "We can remains friends but that is all."

She admitted that his behaviour had "frightened" her on occasion and that he had
previously hurt her. "He had such a foul temper that it could be sparked off by
nothing in particular, and then it was as if it never happened," she told the
jury.

The court heard that some shotgun pellets remain in her leg and she has suffered
a loss of feeling below the knee.

Fraser, of Shadoxhurst, near Ashford, denies attempted murder but admits
possessing a firearm without a licence.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 1, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terror of horsewoman as she fled gun attacker

BYLINE: Victoria Ward

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 302 words


A FORMER show jumper allegedly shot by her "foul-tempered" former lover told a
court yesterday of her "absolute terror" as she crawled through her house to
escape the gunman.

Louise Leggatt, 54, had gone outside to tend to her horses before bed when she
was shot in the leg. Brian Fraser, a hunt master, is accused of attempting to
kill her "in a fit of pique" after she rejected his attempts to rekindle their
romance.

Miss Leggatt told Maidstone Crown Court in Kent that she was alerted to a
disturbance by her dog and was shot as she shone a torch towards the noise.

"I heard the sound and then I had a horrendous pain in my leg and hip, and I
realised what had happened," she said.

"I was just desperate to get to a phone. I crawled across the dining room where
the house phone was and I managed to dial 999. I had never been so terrified in
all my life. I was really, really scared that whoever had done it was going to
come in."

Miss Leggatt first thought that her former husband may have been responsible for
the incident at her farmhouse in Benenden, Kent, at 9.30pm on March 15 last
year, but also suspected Fraser, 63.

Fraser, a master of the Ashford Valley Hunt, told police he was at home with his
wife that evening but CCTV footage from his home showed that he had gone out at
about 8.30pm and returned two hours later.

His attempts to renew their relationship had previously been rejected by Miss
Leggatt, who told him: "We can remains friends but that is all."

She admitted that his behaviour had "frightened" her on occasion and that he had
previously hurt her.

The court heard that some shotgun pellets remain in her leg and she has suffered
a loss of feeling below the knee. Fraser, of Shadoxhurst, near Ashford, denies
attempted murder but admits possessing a firearm without a licence.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            February 1, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Dog attack terror for deaf postie

BYLINE: Sally Hind

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 132 words


A DEAF postie has been left too scared to do his job after he was attacked by a
dog he couldn't hear barking.

Graham Duff told yesterday how the large collie-mix sank its teeth into his leg
as he delivered letters.

Graham, who has been deaf since birth, was doing his rounds in Inverkeithing,
Fife, when the dog struck.

The postie, who has worked for Royal Mail for four years, said: "I feel very
angry because I want to be safe and happy in my job, not risking myself."

Union rep Garry Haldane said: "With Graham being deaf, he didn't hear the dog
barking and carried on. He couldn't go out for a few days because he was scared.

"More precautions need to be put in place. This is about owners not having their
dog under control."

Police said last night they were investigating the attack on Graham.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRIGHTENED J Graham

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            February 1, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Dog attack terror for deaf postie

BYLINE: Sally Hind

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 132 words


A DEAF postie has been left too scared to do his job after he was attacked by a
dog he couldn't hear barking.

Graham Duff told yesterday how the large collie-mix sank its teeth into his leg
as he delivered letters.

Graham, who has been deaf since birth, was doing his rounds in Inverkeithing,
Fife, when the dog struck.

The postie, who has worked for Royal Mail for four years, said: "I feel very
angry because I want to be safe and happy in my job, not risking myself."

Union rep Garry Haldane said: "With Graham being deaf, he didn't hear the dog
barking and carried on. He couldn't go out for a few days because he was scared.

"More precautions need to be put in place. This is about owners not having their
dog under control."

Police said last night they were investigating the attack on Graham.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRIGHTENED J Graham

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      February 1, 2013 Friday 5:51 PM GMT

Terror attack on U.S Embassy in Turkey: Westerners warned to 'be vigilant' as
suicide bomber blows himself up at security gates

BYLINE: LEON WATSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 894 words



     ·    Bomb appeared to have exploded inside embassy's security checkpoint
     ·    Turkish television said a security guard was killed at the entrance
     ·    British Foreign Secretary William Hague condemns the attack


Westerners in Turkey have been warned to be vigilant after a suicide bomber
detonated an explosive today in front of the U.S. Embassy in Ankara.

The blast in the capital killed the bomber and a guard at the entrance gate
before the British mission in Istanbul made clear officials feared there could
be further outrages.

The White House condemned the attack on the U.S. Embassy as 'an act of terror'
while the British embassy warned Westerners to 'be vigilant'.

Scroll down for video

There was no immediate claim of responsibility, but Turkey's interior minister,
Muammer Guler, said the bomber was likely connected to a domestic left-wing
militant group. He did not explain why.

The president's spokesman says it is not yet known who is responsible, but a
suicide bombing on the perimeter of an embassy is, by definition, a terrorist
act. A Turkish woman was also seriously wounded and two other guards sustained
lighter wounds in the 1.15pm blast in the Turkish capital, Guler told reporters.

A police official, meanwhile, said the bomber is most likely a suspected member
of the outlawed Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front. He spoke on
condition of anonymity because he was not permitted to speak to the press.

The group has been designated a terrorist organisation by the United States but
had been relatively quiet in recent years.

The explosion occurred inside the security checkpoint at the side entrance to
the U.S. embassy, which was being used by staff.

A guard standing outside the checkpoint was killed and while the two other
guards 'were standing in a more protected area,' Guler said.

Police and ambulances swarmed the area and authorities immediately cordoned it
off.

TV footage showed the embassy door blown off its hinges. The windows of nearby
businesses were also shattered by the power of the blast, and debris littered
the ground and across the road. The inside of the embassy did not appear to be
damaged.

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said the attack demonstrated a need
for international cooperation against terrorism and was aimed at disturbing
Turkey's 'peace and prosperity.'

'But we will stand firm and we will overcome this together,' he said.

In a statement, the U.S. Embassy thanked Turkey for 'its solidarity and outrage
over the incident.'

The embassy building is heavily protected and located near several other
embassies in Ankara, including that of Germany and France.

The Hurriyet newspaper said staff at the embassy took shelter in 'safe room'
inside the compound soon after the explosion.

Guler identified the injured woman as 38-year-old Didem Tuncay, a television
journalist and a hospital official said she was 'not in a critical condition.'

News reports said she was at the embassy to get a U.S. visa.

'We can confirm a terrorist blast at a check point on the perimeter of our
embassy compound in Ankara, Turkey, at 1.13pm local time,' State Department
spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said in Washington.

'We are working closely with the Turkish national police to make a full
assessment of the damage and the casualties, and to begin an investigation,' she
said.

Turkish police were examining security cameras around the embassy.

U.S. diplomatic facilities in Turkey have been targeted previously by
terrorists. In 2008, an attack blamed on al-Qaida-affiliated militants outside
the U.S. Consulate in Istanbul left three assailants and three policemen dead.

Elsewhere, terrorists attacked a U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya, on Sept. 11
last year, killing U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans. The
attackers in Libya were suspected to have ties to Islamist extremists, and one
is in custody in Egypt.

Britain's Foreign Secretary William Hague condemned Friday's attack 'in the
strongest terms,' and said Turkey and the U.S. will get the U.K.'s full support
as they seek to hold those responsible to account.

Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, speaking to reporters during a visit
to Belgrade, Serbia, said he was saddened that the attacked had occurred in
Turkey.

'We have always shown great sensitivity to the protection of foreign missions
and we will continue to do so,' he said.

Homegrown Islamic militants tied to al-Qaida have also carried out suicide
bombings in Istanbul, Turkey's bustling commercial center. In a 2003 attack on
the British consulate, a suspected Islamic militant rammed an explosive-laden
pickup truck into the main gate, killing 58 people, including the British
consul-general.

Turkey is also being deeply affected by the brutal civil war in neighboring
Syria, and has become a harsh critic of President Bashar Assad's regime there.
The war has left at least 60,000 people dead so far, according to the U.N., and
Turkey is sheltering tens of thousands of Syrian refugees.

The first of six Patriot missile batteries being deployed to Turkey to protect
the country against attack from Syria was just declared operational and placed
under NATO command. Others are expected to become operational in the coming
days.

VIDEO Chaotic scenes after suspected suicide bomb kills two in Turkey

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                            February 1, 2013 Friday

January's top stories: terrorist attack kills at least 68 at In Amenas field

SECTION: WATER & WASTE WATER MANAGEMENT; Features

LENGTH: 738 words



HIGHLIGHT: One of the worst terrorist attacks for decades hit In Amenas gas
field in Algeria, killing at least 39 hostages, while Iran announced plans for
an Iraq-Syria border pipeline. Hydrocarbons-technology.com wraps up the key
headlines from January 2013.


Canada-based oil and gas company Petromanas Energy decided to abandon the
Juban-1 well in January due to the insignificant amounts of hydrocarbons found.

Petromanas completed the logging operations of the well on 30 December 2012 and
drilled it to a total depth of 1,716m on 27 December 2012.

The company, which holds a 100% working interest in Blocks A-B of the well, had
spent about $6.5m to drill the well.

US-based Forest Oil last month signed an agreement to divest all of its oil and
gas properties in south Texas, excluding Eagle Ford Shale oil properties, for
$325m.

During the third quarter of 2012 the properties produced 66 million cubic feet
equivalent each day, of which 86% is natural gas.

As of 31 December 2011, the South Texas properties have estimated proved
reserves of 272 billion cubic feet equivalent, of which 85% is natural gas, and
generated about $60m of lease-level income during 2012.

Cavalier Energy confirmed oil reserves at the Grand Rapids formation in its 100%
owned in-situ oil sands leases in the Hoole area of Alberta, Canada, through an
independent evaluation.

The evaluation showed that the Grand Rapids formation had 93 million barrels of
probable reserves, with a net present value of about $379m to Cavalier's
preliminary 10,000 barrel per day in-situ SAGD oil sands development, which
covers about two sections of the Hoole Lands.

The formation also included 719 million barrels of economic contingent
resources, with a net current value of $1.949bn to the remaining about 54
sections of Cavalier's Hoole Lands.

In January Iran announced it is planning to build a new pipeline across the
Iraq-Syria border in order to provide gas to three gas-burning power plants in
neighbouring countries.

The new 56in gas pipeline, which is called Friendship, will start from
Assaluyeh, include onshore installations at the South Pars Gas Field and reach
the Iran-Iraq border.

Iran's petroleum ministry spokesperson Alireza Nikzad Rahbar said that Iran and
Iraq have taken certain steps for construction of the pipeline.

Islamist militants attacked the In Amenas gas field in Algeria on 16 January,
killing one Briton and an Algerian and holding at least 20 western contractors
hostage.

A standoff between the militants and Algerian troops ensued the same night at
the Statoil, BP and Sonatrach joint venture gas facility. The attack was
believed to be in response to France's military intervention in nearby Mali.

The gas field is located about 1,300km (800 miles) south-east of Algiers, and
about 60km (37 miles) west of the Libyan border.

The death toll of a four-day siege at the In Amenas gas field on 17 January in
Algeria, five days after the original attack, was said to be about 70 people,
making it one of the worst international hostage crises in decades.

By the end of the siege at least 39 foreign hostages were killed, six of which
were British, along with an Algerian security guard and 29 militants.

During the siege, when the militants were driven from the residential barracks,
around 700 Algerian workers and more than 100 foreigners managed to escape;
however, a number of captors remained in the industrial complex until Saturday.

Scotland-based energy and mining research consultancy group Wood Mackenzie last
month said that a record $232bn was spent on upstream mergers and acquisitions
(M&A) activity in 2012.

Major M&A activities that took place in the second half of 2012 include the
transactions between Rosneft and TNK-BP, CNOOC and Nexen and Freeport and
Plains, where the total spend was $138bn.

According to Wood Mackenzie, the three largest transactions of the year were
Rosneft's purchase of TNK-BP for $58bn, China National Offshore Oil
Corporation's (CNOOC) acquisition of Nexen for about $18.5bn and Freeport's
acquisition of Plains E&P for $17.2bn.

The rise in unconventional oil and gas exploration added $62bn to the US federal
and state treasury in 2012 and created nearly 1.7 million jobs, according to a
study published by IH in January.

Global information and analytics provider IHS released the report, 'Energy and
the New Global Industrial Landscape: A Tectonic Shift', at the World Economic
Forum 2013 Annual Meeting in Davos-Klosters, Switzerland.

The report is mainly focused on the impact of unconventional energy (shale gas
and tight oil) on the world energy markets, automotive and chemical industries,
as well as on the improving manufacturing competitiveness in the US.

LOAD-DATE: February 04, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 2, 2013 Saturday 10:53 PM GMT

BP profits fall dramatically amid multi-billion dollar court case and terror
attacks

BYLINE: JON REES

SECTION: MONEY

LENGTH: 372 words


BP will unveil a dramatic slump in profits on Tuesday as it faces a
multi-billion dollar court case in New Orleans and questions over its future in
terrorist-hit Algeria.

Results for 2012 are set to give striking evidence of the ongoing effects of the
oil giant's 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster in the Gulf of Mexico.

It lost a third of its stock market value and has since disposed of $38 billion
(£25.3 billion) of assets.

The company's profits are likely to have fallen more than a fifth from $21.7
billion to $16.97 billion, reckon City analysts.

As well as weaker oil and US gas prices, this is due in part to the sale of BP's
half of its TNK-BP venture in Russia to Kremlin-controlled oil and gas giant
Rosneft.

BP has stopped booking profits from the venture. Chief executive Bob Dudley is
expected to give more details on when the sale will close.

However, the City believes Rosneft will be a poor substitute for TNK-BP in terms
of cash generation and Rosneft's below-par results last Friday gave little cause
for optimism.

BP last week reached a settlement in US courts over criminal charges arising
from the Deepwater Horizon disaster. It pleaded guilty to 11 counts of
manslaughter over the workers who died and it paid $1.3 billion in fines.

It is also paying the  Securities and Exchange Commission $500 million for
misleading investors over the amount of oil spilt into the Gulf of Mexico.

On February 23 in New Orleans the company faces further legal proceedings over
alleged breaches of the US Clean Water Act. Analysts reckon it could be fined
$10 billion.

Dudley will be quizzed over the future of the company's operations in Algeria
after terrorists struck at a gas facility, killing at least three BP staff.

BP increased its dividend to nine cents a share in the third quarter. This is
still below the 14 cents level when it was the biggest dividend payer in the
FTSE 100 before Deepwater Horizon, but there are fears that the rise was
premature and a fall in oil prices could hit BP hard.

BP has sold its Texas City refinery in the US to Marathon Petroleum for $2.4
billion. Fifteen workers died in an explosion at the plant in 2005. BP admitted
failing to have adequate maintenance procedures and paid a $50 million fine.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 3, 2013 Sunday

Kenyan soldier killed in northeast terror attack

LENGTH: 352 words


Text of report by Rose Welimo/KNA entitled "KDF soldier killed in Wajir terror
attack" published by state-owned Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (KBC) website on
3 February

A Kenya Defence Force [KDF] soldier was Saturday [2 February] evening killed in
Wajir town when a hand grenade was hurled at security officers on patrol.

Two administration police officers on night patrol at the town and a woman were
seriously injured during the 7.30 p.m. incident. The injured were rushed to
Wajir Level Four Hospital where they were admitted.

Police from Wajir police station collected the mutilated body of the slain KDF
officer and took it to the hospital mortuary.

Wajir [Officer Commanding Police Station] OCPD James Mutungi could not be
reached for comment as his phone went unanswered. KDF officers Wajir base
visited the hospital and identified their deceased colleague. Wajir OCPD James
Mutungi declined to comment on the incident.

In December last year 10 people lost their lives in a grenade attack in
Nairobi's Eastleigh estate. Many others including the area MP Yusuf Hasan was
admitted in hospital with serious injuries.

In November 2013, Kenya accused Al-Shabab of launching a grenade attack on a bus
in Eastleigh, killing seven people.

During the same month, an administration police officer died and 13 people were
injured in a grenade attack on a church in Garissa.

The officer who served as a pastor of the Utawala Interdenominational Church
that is inside an anti-shifta AP camp died while undergoing treatment at the
Garissa Provincial Hospital.

Three of the injured were airlifted to Nairobi by the Kenya Red Cross for
treatment.

During the attack, suspected Al-Shabab militants hurled a grenade on the roof of
the church that had about 30 worshippers. And in July, attacks on two churches
in Garissa killed 17.

Kenya has suffered a spate of grenade and gun attacks last year, often blamed on
ruthless criminals linked to Somalia's Al-Shabab militants and sometimes aimed
at police targets, following Kenya's incursion in Somalia to fish out the
militias.

Source: KBC Online text website, Nairobi, in English 3 Feb 13

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            February 3, 2013 Sunday

BP PROFITS FALL AMID COURT CASE AND TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: By JON REES

LENGTH: 371 words


BP will unveil a dramatic slump in profits on Tuesday as it faces a
multi-billion dollar court case in New Orleans and questions over its future in
terrorist-hit Algeria.

Results for 2012 are set to give striking evidence of the ongoing effects of the
oil giant s 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster in the Gulf of Mexico.

It lost a third of its stock market value and has since disposed of
$38[0/00]billion (£25.3[0/00]billion) of assets.

The company s profits are likely to have fallen more than a fifth from
$21.7[0/00]billion to $16.97[0/00]billion, reckon City analysts.

As well as weaker oil and US gas prices, this is due in part to the sale of BP s
half of its TNK-BP venture in Russia to Kremlin-controlled oil and gas giant
Rosneft.

BP has stopped booking profits from the venture. Chief executive Bob Dudley is
expected to give more details on when the sale will close.

However, the City believes Rosneft will be a poor substitute for TNK-BP in terms
of cash generation and Rosneft s below-par results last Friday gave little cause
for optimism.

BP last week reached a settlement in US courts over criminal charges arising
from the Deepwater Horizon disaster. It pleaded guilty to 11 counts of
manslaughter over the workers who died and it paid $1.3[0/00]billion in fines.

It is also paying the Securities and Exchange Commission $500[0/00]million for
misleading investors over the amount of oil spilt into the Gulf of Mexico.

On February 23 in New Orleans the company faces further legal proceedings over
alleged breaches of the US Clean Water Act. Analysts reckon it could be fined
$10[0/00]billion.

Dudley will be quizzed over the future of the company s operations in Algeria
after terrorists struck at a gas facility, killing at least three BP staff.

BP increased its dividend to nine cents a share in the third quarter. This is
still below the 14 cents level when it was the biggest dividend payer in the
FTSE 100 before Deepwater Horizon, but there are fears that the rise was
premature and a fall in oil prices could hit BP hard.

BP has sold its Texas City refinery in the US to Marathon Petroleum for
$2.4[0/00]billion. Fifteen workers died in an explosion at the plant in 2005. BP
admitted failing to have adequate maintenance procedures and paid a
$50[0/00]million fine.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 3, 2013 Sunday 8:30 AM GMT

ADD PICS PLEASEAfter an appalling terrorist attack, can Algeria come out of its
shell?;
Algeria, North Africa's biggest nation, is a secretive and isolationist place.
In the week David Cameron visits, and after a new war is launched on its
borders, a Telegraph writer asks will that now change?

BYLINE: By Alex Spillius In Algiers

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 957 words


When the president of Algeria appeared in public with David Cameron last week,
he let his young guest do all the talking.

Before the cameras at the presidential palace, Abdelaziz Bouteflika stood, as if
mummified, while the Prime Minister made introductory remarks and then answered
all four questions from the press, through a French translator.

The Algerian's reticence might have be explained by the illness - rumoured to be
pancreatic cancer - that periodically removes the 75-year-old from public view
for months at a time. His voice may simply have been too weak for the occasion.
No one knows for sure, because Algeria is still a secretive place.

Whatever his current state of health, Mr Bouteflika has always been a president
of few words, but events forcing him his inward-looking ruling elite to come out
of their shell and confront some tough issues.

First France requested fly-over rights for its intervention to suppress an
al-Qaeda advance in its southern neighbour Mali. Permission was reluctantly
given.

Then Algerian-led terrorists calling themselves the Signatories in Blood
launched a fatal attack on a BP plant in the Algerian Sahara, leading to the
deaths of 38 foreigners, and lo and behold a British prime minister comes
knocking, demanding closer collaboration on counter-terrorism.

Algeria's colonial experience of 130 years of direct French rule, which ended in
a bloody war of independence from 1954-1962, led it to adopt a strict
isolationist foreign policy. Combative interference in the affairs of other
states is forbidden by its constitution. It has only rarely provided troops to
United Nations peace-keeping missions.

Yet much as Algeria has wanted to be let alone and leave others alone, it also
yearns to be regarded as the pre-eminent power in north Africa. The hard part is
that now it has to act like one.

"There is a grand ambiguity here," says Mohamed Chafik Mesbah, a former army
colonel who advised the previous president. "Algeria's doctrine means it doesn't
want to be involved, but it doesn't want to lose influence." Following the
partition of Sudan in 2010, Algeria is now the largest country in Africa. The
distance from the capital Algiers to London - a two and a half hour flight - is
less than from Algiers to Tamanrasset, the southernmost city deep in the Sahara.

Blessed by substantial reserves of oil and gas, it is also one of the richest
states on the continent, and one that dependent European customers such as Italy
and Spain are keen should remain stable. Sonatrach, the national oil and gas
company, is the largest in Africa.

For all the misgivings about the uncompromising approach to the safety of
hostages at BP's In Amenas plant, it boasts one of the continent's few
professional armies.

Its secret service, the Département du Renseignement et de la Sécurité, or DRS,
knows a lot about Islamic militancy, having confronted it - at times brutally -
since the onset of the 1990s.

The capital has been diminished by years of neglect, but it could be, and indeed
once was, regarded as one of the great Mediterranean cities. Its downtown
architecture, courtesy of the French, has the elegance of Marseille. Its
sweeping sea front evokes the energy of Naples or Istanbul.

Its people are friendly, curious and animated, not least about le ballon -
football. The muezzin calls five times a day for prayer, but in hotels and
discreet bars imported beers and perfectly drinkable Algerian wines flow easily.

Proud, packed with potential and closer culturally and geographically to
Barcelona than Bahrain, it is not only one of the nicest police states you could
visit, but vital if Islamist extremism is to be contained in the region.

Which is of course why Mr Cameron became the first British prime minister to
visit Algiers since 1962, bringing with him Kim Darroch, the National Security
Adviser, and John Sawers, the head of MI6.

The Prime Minister sought, and won, promises of greater cooperation on defence,
counter-terrorism and intelligence.

In diplomatic-speak, the other "deliverable" achieved was an agreement to
re-open an English language school at the British Council, which was closed 20
years ago when a spiral of pitiless internecine killing made the capital a
virtual no-go zone.

So these two countries that, apart from BP's massive investments, have had
little to do with each other for some while have clearly been pushed closer
together by tragedy.

The rejuvenated British Council school may give French a linguistic poke in the
eye. The broad-minded young are increasingly keen to add English, the
international language of commerce and popular culture, to French. Trade
relations are likely to grow.

Yet doubts remain about how deep the Algerians will want to take the security
relationship with Britain.

"This invitation was only to show the public that we do actually have relations
with Great Britain, but relations will not really change.

Bouteflika did this because he knew he had to and it is popular with the
people," is the view of Col Mesbah.

Obsessed for 20 years with internal security, cooperation on sensitive issues
with a relative newcomer may not come easily.

In future dealings with the British, the colonel forecast, "the president will
be like the vegetables on the couscous - flattening, spreading." Mr Bouteflika
may understand the need for expanding his country's foreign friendships, but
because of his age, upbringing and the contacts he made when foreign minister,
remains more at ease with Paris than London. The same goes for most of the
Algerian elite over 60.

Speculation is rife that the president will seek a fourth term in 2014. Mr
Cameron may have to wait some time before an Algerian president is prepared to
speak jointly in public, in French or English.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 4, 2013 Monday

Algeria condemns terrorist attack on American embassy in Turkey

LENGTH: 156 words


Text of report by Algerian electronic daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on 2
February

Algeria "strongly" condemns the terrorist attack that targeted the United States
embassy in Ankara on Friday [1 February], Amar Belani, the spokesman for the
Foreign Ministry, declared this Saturday, 2 February. "We express all our
solidarity with the families of the victims of this attack," Mr Belani indicated
in a statement to Algerie Presse Service [APS].

Algeria, the Foreign Ministry spokesman added, has expressed its support of the
Turkish authorities in their fight against terrorism.

On Friday, a suicide attack on the American embassy in Ankara killed two and
wounded several. The suicide bomber, who has been described by the press as a
former prisoner and hunger striker who was seriously ill, blew up a six-kilogram
TNT device in front of the American embassy in the Turkish capital city.

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website, in French 2 Feb 13

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 4, 2013 Monday

Albania condemns terrorist attack on US embassy in Ankara

LENGTH: 124 words


Text of report in English by Albanian state news agency ATA

Tirana,1 February (ATA) - Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Friday [ 1 February]
strongly condemned as an act of terror the suicide bomb blast at the US embassy
in Ankara, Turkey, killing a Turkish security guard and a civilian, and
expressed Albania's solidarity at this difficult moment.

In a press statement the Ministry of Foreign Affairs extended condolences to the
governments of Turkey and the United States and the families of victims in this
difficult moment.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also reaffirms Albania's commitment to fight
international terrorism, as a joint challenge of maintaining peace and stability
in the world.

Source: ATA, Tirana, in English 1819 gmt 1 Feb 13

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                     February 5, 2013 Tuesday 2:40 PM  EST

PERPETRATORS OF BOURGAS TERROR ATTACK SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO ACCOUNT

LENGTH: 266 words


LONDON, Feb. 5 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

Foreign Secretary William Hague calls on Lebanese government to cooperate with
the Bulgarian government's investigation into terrorist act.

Commenting on today's announcement of the results of the Bulgarian investigation
into the terrorist act in Bourgas on 18 July 2012, the Foreign Secretary,
William Hague said:

"The attack on a bus carrying Israeli tourists in Bourgas was an appalling and
callous act of terrorism whose perpetrators need to be brought to account. I
welcome today's announcement by the Bulgarian Interior Minister, Tsvatan
Tsvetanov, of the conclusions of the painstaking investigation carried out into
this crime. I pay tribute to the Bulgarian authorities for their excellent
investigatory work.

"The Bulgarian government has said, based on the detailed findings of the
investigation, that there is a justified assumption that two individuals
belonging to Hizballah's military wing were involved in the bombing. We call on
the Lebanese government to fully co-operate with the investigation.

"It is important that the EU respond robustly to an attack on European soil.
Every act of terror is an attack on our shared values. In committing an attack,
terrorists seek to undermine our resolve, but they should only serve to
strengthen it. The Home Secretary and I will be talking to our EU colleagues
about the measures we can now take to continue to make our citizens safer." For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 6, 2013 Wednesday 7:28 PM GMT

America's secret drone base in Saudi Arabia revealed;
The United States has been operating a secret drone base in Saudi Arabia for the
past two years as a launch pad for attacks on terror targets in Yemen, it
emerged on Wednesday.

BYLINE: By Alex Spillius Diplomatic Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 458 words


The revelation came after a news blackout on reporting the existence of the base
was broken by two US newspapers. The blackout had been agreed by American media
organisations and the Obama administration bceause of the national security
issues involved.

The first pilotless CIA mission flown from the base killed Anwar al-Awlaki, a
US-born cleric and senior figure in al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, and a
deputy in September 2011, reports said.

Another Predator drone strike killed Awlaki's 16-year-old son Abdulrahman weeks
later, though US officials claimed in the Washington Post that he was not the
target of the attack.

There have been at least 64 drone attacks on the unstable Arab state since 2002,
though President Barack Obama dramatically escalated their frequency to an
estimated one a week at times last year.

The disclosure of the drone airfield will embarrass the Saudi royal family,
which still faces anger from powerful conservative clerics for allowing the US
to establish military bases after the 1991 Gulf war.

Those bases closed by 2003, but the presence of non-Muslim troops on holy soil
was effectively deployed as a casus belli by al-Qaeda leaders.

The Washington Post said several US media organisations knew of the drone base
but abided by official requests not to disclose its location because of the risk
to counter-terrorism cooperation with Saudi Arabia.

The Post said that when it learned that another news organisation - the New York
Times - planned to break the agreement, it decided to publish what it knew.

President Barack Obama's decision to nominate John Brennan as CIA director has
brought into focus the quasi-official lethal drone programme, which has killed
an estimated 3,000 militants and civilians in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Yemen.

Mr Brennan faces a confirmation hearing in Congress on Thursday that provides
critics a rare chance to question the ethics of using drone missiles.

As chief counter-terrorism adviser in the White House, Mr Brennan has been
central to drawing up a hit list of "high value" al-Qaeda targets for Mr Obama's
approval.

Administration officials have credited the attacks by the unmanned aircraft for
wiping out most senior figures in al-Qaeda's original leadership. Critics say
many of those targeted are foot soldiers rather than leaders and described the
death of the Awlaki father and son as extra-judicial killing.

A leaked US justice department memo cited legal advice on pre-emptive military
action provided by Lord Goldsmith, attorney general to Tony Blair, as an
effective justification of the drone programme.

Previously the CIA's station chief in Saudi Arabia, Mr Brennan also played a key
role in negotiations with Riyadh over locating the drone base inside the
kingdom.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 6, 2013 Wednesday 12:51 PM GMT

After an appalling terrorist attack, can Algeria come out of its shell?;
Algeria, North Africa's biggest nation, is a secretive and isolationist place.
In the week David Cameron visits, and after a new war is launched on its
borders, a Telegraph writer asks will that now change?

BYLINE: By Alex Spillius In Algiers

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1020 words


When the president of Algeria appeared in public with David Cameron last week,
he let his young guest do all the talking.

Before the cameras at the presidential palace, Abdelaziz Bouteflika stood, as if
mummified, while the Prime Minister made introductory remarks and then answered
all four questions from the press, through a French translator.

The Algerian's reticence might have be explained by the illness - rumoured to be
pancreatic cancer - that periodically removes the 75-year-old from public view
for months at a time. His voice may simply have been too weak for the occasion.
No one knows for sure, because Algeria is still a secretive place.

Whatever his current state of health, Mr Bouteflika has always been a president
of few words, but events forcing him his inward-looking ruling elite to come out
of their shell and confront some tough issues.

First France requested fly-over rights for its intervention to suppress an
al-Qaeda advance in its southern neighbour Mali. Permission was reluctantly
given.

Then Algerian-led terrorists calling themselves the Signatories in Blood
launched a fatal attack on a BP plant in the Algerian Sahara, leading to the
deaths of 38 foreigners, and lo and behold a British prime minister comes
knocking, demanding closer collaboration on counter-terrorism.

Algeria's colonial experience of 130 years of direct French rule, which ended in
a bloody war of independence from 1954-1962, led it to adopt a strict
isolationist foreign policy. Combative interference in the affairs of other
states is forbidden by its constitution. It has only rarely provided troops to
United Nations peace-keeping missions.

From its perspective, the foreign intervention in Libya was a disaster. Algiers
warned at the time that overthrowing Muammar Gaddafi would probably lead to the
rise of extremist Islamist forces, and they have proved right. The considerable
firepower of the assault on the BP In Amenas facility furthermore came from
Libya, which was used as a staging post.

Yet much as Algeria has wanted to be let alone and leave others alone, it also
yearns to be regarded as the pre-eminent power in north Africa. The hard part is
that now it has to act like one.

"There is a grand ambiguity here," says Mohamed Chafik Mesbah, a former army
colonel who advised the previous president. "Algeria's doctrine means it doesn't
want to be involved, but it doesn't want to lose influence." Following the
partition of Sudan in 2010, Algeria is now the largest country in Africa. The
distance from the capital Algiers to London - a two and a half hour flight - is
less than from Algiers to Tamanrasset, the southernmost city deep in the Sahara.

Blessed by substantial reserves of oil and gas, it is also one of the richest
states on the continent, and one that dependent European customers such as Italy
and Spain are keen should remain stable. Sonatrach, the national oil and gas
company, is the largest in Africa.

For all the misgivings about the uncompromising approach to the safety of
hostages at BP's In Amenas plant, it boasts one of the continent's few
professional armies.

Its secret service, the Département du Renseignement et de la Sécurité, or DRS,
knows a lot about Islamic militancy, having confronted it - at times brutally -
since the onset of the 1990s.

The capital has been diminished by years of neglect, but it could be, and indeed
once was, regarded as one of the great Mediterranean cities. Its downtown
architecture, courtesy of the French, has the elegance of Marseille. Its
sweeping sea front evokes the energy of Naples or Istanbul.

Its people are friendly, curious and animated, not least about le ballon -
football. The muezzin calls five times a day for prayer, but in hotels and
discreet bars imported beers and perfectly drinkable Algerian wines flow easily.

Proud, packed with potential and closer culturally and geographically to
Barcelona than Bahrain, it is not only one of the nicest police states you could
visit, but vital if Islamist extremism is to be contained in the region.

Which is of course why Mr Cameron became the first British prime minister to
visit Algiers since 1962, bringing with him Kim Darroch, the National Security
Adviser, and John Sawers, the head of MI6.

The Prime Minister sought, and won, promises of greater cooperation on defence,
counter-terrorism and intelligence.

In diplomatic-speak, the other "deliverable" achieved was an agreement to
re-open an English language school at the British Council, which was closed 20
years ago when a spiral of pitiless internecine killing made the capital a
virtual no-go zone.

So these two countries that, apart from BP's massive investments, have had
little to do with each other for some while have clearly been pushed closer
together by tragedy.

The rejuvenated British Council school may give French a linguistic poke in the
eye. The broad-minded young are increasingly keen to add English, the
international language of commerce and popular culture, to French. Trade
relations are likely to grow.

Yet doubts remain about how deep the Algerians will want to take the security
relationship with Britain.

"This invitation was only to show the public that we do actually have relations
with Great Britain, but relations will not really change.

Bouteflika did this because he knew he had to and it is popular with the
people," is the view of Col Mesbah.

Obsessed for 20 years with internal security, cooperation on sensitive issues
with a relative newcomer may not come easily.

In future dealings with the British, the colonel forecast, "the president will
be like the vegetables on the couscous - flattening, spreading." Mr Bouteflika
may understand the need for expanding his country's foreign friendships, but
because of his age, upbringing and the contacts he made when foreign minister,
remains more at ease with Paris than London. The same goes for most of the
Algerian elite over 60.

Speculation is rife that the president will seek a fourth term in 2014. Mr
Cameron may have to wait some time before an Algerian president is prepared to
speak jointly in public, in French or English.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 7, 2013 Thursday

Afghan intelligence agency sees foreign agencies behind group terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 349 words


Text of report by Afghan Tolo News TV on 6 February

[Presenter] The Taleban do not have the ability to carry out group and suicide
operations in the country and these attacks are masterminded by terrorist
groups. Spokesman for the National Directorate of Security [NDS] said that the
latest attacks in Kabul with new tactics could never be the work of the Taleban.
He reported that a six-member suicide bomber gang was arrested in Kabul three
days ago which planned to attack government and private offices in this city.

[Correspondent] All group terrorist attacks have failed in the country and
mostly civilians have been the victims of these attacks. The NDS said that it
arrested a six-member suicide bomber gang along with weapons. It also reported
that four coordinators of the latest terrorist attack on the Kabul Traffic
Department and one suicide bomber along with his three colleagues were arrested
in various parts of Kabul city.

[Shafiqollah Taheri, NDS spokesman, captioned, speaking at news conference] In
fact, the nature of carrying out these operations is not the work of a single
individual, a group or a few individuals in the name of seminary pupils or
clergy. Very expert, skilled and elite members of spy agencies and terrorist
groups are behind these attacks.

[Correspondent] The spokesman also reported that the directorate arrested
Mawlawi Abdorrahman, Taleban's nominal governor for Konduz Province, and seized
more than 1,200 km explosives along with two insurgents in northern Parwan
Province.

[Taheri] Every suicide vest we seized from these suicide bombers has six kg
explosives and even the buttons of these suicide vests were water gelled with
explosives to increase the strength of explosion.

[Correspondent] The directorate also said that it seized nearly 700 km of
explosives and 150 heavy and light weapons in Paktia, Samangan, Ghazni, Balkh
and Helmand provinces.

[Video shows suicide bombers, suicide vests, weapons, NDS spokesman speaking at
news conference, archive footage of sites of suicide attacks in Kabul city]

Source: Tolo News, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 6 Feb 13

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                           February 7, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Yob jailed over terror on bus;
Menace attacked driver and screamed at passengers

BYLINE: ROB KENNEDY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 475 words


BUS menace Jamie Brown terrorised passengers then attacked the driver and
threatened to shoot him for his takings.

Brown pushed his way on to the X21 and immediately started pestering other
people on the bus, leaving one man so terrified he got off before his stop.

When the driver asked Brown to get off he punched him twice then smashed a
bottle, showering the inside of the bus with glass.

Not content with the chaos he had already caused, Brown then waited for the bus
to turn round at the end of its route and got on again.

Brown, already with 120 previous convictions, demanded the driver hand over his
cash box and twice threatened to shoot him.

As the thug was jailed, Newcastle Crown Court heard the driver of the bus was
left so scared he was unable to return to his job.

He said in a statement read to the court: "I can usually look after myself, but
I've been left extremely shaken up due to his actions.

"I genuinely thought he was going to shoot me. I've taken time off work and I'm
scared to return to the buses."

Brown got on the X21, which was on its way from Newcastle to Newbiggin, at
Bedlington Station. He rushed past the driver without paying as he was taking
money from other passengers and went upstairs.

The driver could see Brown was pestering other people and began shouting in the
face of a man who had asked the driver about a particular stop.

Michael Bunch, prosecuting, said: "The driver told the defendant to get off the
bus and he punched the driver twice to the chest.

"The driver warned him, but he went to punch him a third time and the driver
took hold of his clothing and removed him from the bus."

The bus completed its route and then changed to a different service bound for
Morpeth.

When the driver stopped at Newbiggin to let an elderly woman get on, Brown
rushed aboard without paying and ran upstairs.

Brown ignored requests for him to get off and due to the fact he had other
passengers, the driver continued on his way.

As the bus slowed down for an elderly woman to get off, Brown approached the
driver's cab and punched the plastic screen protecting the driver.

Mr Bunch said: "The defendant told the driver 'I want your money' and the driver
said he would not give him it.

"The defendant twice said he would shoot the driver, making a motion towards his
pocket as if to get a weapon."

The driver pressed the panic alarm and Brown eventually fled.

Brown, 24, of Eastgate, Choppington, near Ashington, pleaded guilty to affray
after the incident last January and was jailed for 14 months. Judge Brian
Forster told him: "This was an outrageous offence, you distressed everyone
travelling on the X21 bus."

Tony Cornberg, defending, said Brown was high on drink and drugs at the time but
is now on a methadone programme.

Mr Cornberg said: "He knew he did not have a weapon with him, but the driver and
passengers did not know that."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JAILED Jamie Brown attacked the driver and frightened passengers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2013 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 7, 2013 Thursday 3:09 PM GMT

Obama orders the release to Congress of a memo showing he BACKS drone attacks on
American-born terrorists

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS and DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 806 words


Obama directed the Justice Department to provide access to the secret document
to members of the Senate and House intelligence committees, opening the tight
circle of politicians who know the inner-workings of the secretive program.

An unclassified memo leaked this week says it is legal for the government to
kill U.S. citizens abroad if it believes they are senior al Qaeda leaders
continually engaged in operations aimed at killing Americans, even if there is
no evidence of a specific imminent attack.

That unclassified memo is based on classified advice from the Office of Legal
Counsel that is being made available to the intelligence committees' members,
the official said.

Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein, who heads the committee leading the
hearing, said the legal memo would be provided to her committee by Thursday
morning.

The decision to share information with the Senate and House intelligence
committees comes just hours before they will grill President Barack Obama's
choice to head the CIA in his confirmation hearing.

John Brennan, the White House counterterrorism chief and Obama's nominee to run
the nation's spy agency, helped manage the drone program, making the news even
more closely tied to his confirmation.

The hearing Thursday sets the stage for a public airing of some of the most
controversial programs in the covert war on al Qaeda, from the deadly drone
strikes to the CIA's use of interrogation techniques like waterboarding during
President George W. Bush's administration.

Brennan laid out the administration's policy for targeting al Qaeda with lethal
drone strikes ahead of the hearing, defending the use of such strikes but
disavowing the harsh interrogation techniques used when he was at the CIA.

In answers to pre-hearing questions released Wednesday by the Senate
Intelligence Committee, Brennan said no further legislation was necessary to
conduct operations against al Qaeda wherever it's operating.

Brennan answered some of his critics who charged him with backing the detention
and interrogation policy while he served at the CIA. Those allegations stymied
his attempt to head the intelligence agency when the Obama administration began
in 2009.

Brennan said in his written answers that he was 'aware of the program but did
not play a role in its creation, execution, or oversight.'

He added that he 'had significant concerns and personal objections' to the
interrogation techniques and voiced those objections to colleagues at the agency
privately.

Brennan went on to describe how individuals are targeted for drone strikes,
saying whether a suspect is deemed an imminent threat - and therefore
appropriate for targeting - is made 'on a case-by-case basis through a
coordinated interagency process' involving intelligence, military, diplomatic
and other agencies.

Human rights and civil liberties groups have decried the methods for targeting
terror suspects, especially U.S. citizens.

Brennan defended the missile strikes by unmanned Predator or Reaper drones as a
more humane form of war, but he acknowledged 'instances when, regrettably and
despite our best efforts, civilians have been killed.'

'It is exceedingly rare, and much rarer than many allege,' he added.

Aides have portrayed Brennan as cautious in the use of drones, restraining
others at the CIA or military who would use them more often, even though as the
White House's counterterror adviser, he has presided over an explosion of drone
strikes in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia.

Fewer than 50 strikes took place during the Bush administration while more than
360 strikes have been launched under Obama, according to the website The Long
War Journal, which tracks the operations.

Administration officials say Brennan would further limit the use of drones by
the CIA and leave the majority of strikes to the military.

Brennan signaled in his written answers that he would not seek to expand the
CIA's paramilitary operations.

'While the CIA needs to maintain a paramilitary capability... the CIA should not
be used, in my view, to carry out traditional military activities,' Brennan
wrote, referring to activities like the special operations raid that killed al
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.

The CIA's drone strikes primarily focus on al Qaeda and Taliban targets in the
tribal regions of Pakistan, while the military has launched strikes against al
Qaeda targets in Yemen and Somalia.

The agency also carries out strikes in Yemen, where three American citizens with
al Qaeda connections have been killed: Anwar al-Awlaki, his 16-year-old-son and
Samir Khan.

Brennan said he would work to improve the CIA's intelligence collection and
performance across the Arab world after a spate of unanticipated unrest, from
the revolts of the Arab Spring to the terror attack that killed the U.S.
ambassador and three other Americans in Benghazi, Libya.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            February 8, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

oap in stairs attack;
Terror of shopper, 81

BYLINE: Nicola Stow

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 176 words


AN 81-year-old shopper fell down stairs as she was assaulted and robbed by a
teenager.

The pensioner was climbing steps to a shopping centre when the thief grabbed her
handbag.

As she tried to fight him off, she tumbled down the steps, injuring her arm and
shoulder.

The thug fled the scene at Wester Hailes Plaza in Edinburgh with the bag and was
chased by a passer-by but escaped.

A man rushed to the aid of the woman and helped her home.

She was later taken to Edinburgh Royal Infirmary where her condition was stable
last night. Lothian and Borders Police are appealing for witnesses to the
attack, which happened at about 7pm on Wednesday.

They are keen to trace the man who walked the victim home.

The suspect is described as white, 16 or 17 years old and wearing a light
two-tone hooded top, light jogging bottoms and trainers.

Police said: "As well as being extremely upset by the theft of her bag, the
elderly woman suffered a painful injury to her arm and shoulder "Anyone who was
in the area and remembers seeing anything suspicious is asked to contact us."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Post

                            February 8, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Two jailed for hammer attack terror;
ANGLESEY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 44 words


TWO thugs involved in a racist hammer attack have been handed lengthy jail
terms.

Gary Lee Richardson, 26, and Tristan Raymond Oldham, 20, both of Benllech had "a
score to settle" with their victim. The offences involved two incidents in
Llangefni and Benllech PAGE 11

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      February 8, 2013 Friday 3:41 PM GMT

Vandal daubs graffiti referring to the 9/11 terrorist attacks over one of
France's most iconic paintings

BYLINE: IAN SPARKS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 324 words


A female vandal has daubed one of France's most iconic paintings with graffiti
referring to the 9/11 terrorist attacks at the new Louvre museum in the northern
city of Lens.

The 28-year-old woman used a red permanent marker pen to scrawl 'AE911' in
three-inch high letters on Eugene Delacroix's 1830 masterpiece Liberty Leading
the People - which dramatically depicts a bare-breasted raising the French flag
against oppression.

AE911 is the name of a website calling for an independent inquiry into the 2001
attacks on the Pentagon and New York's World Trade Centre.

The woman was immediately grabbed by security guards after she wrote on the
painting on Thursday evening, and remained in custody on Friday.

A specialist restorer was rushed to the scene and the Louvre believes that the
inscription can be removed.

Liberty Leading the People is one of France's best-known images that represents
popular resistance to tyranny.

It had been loaned to the Louvre in Lens by the Paris Louvre to help with launch
the museum's regional offshoot.

In 2009, a Russian woman tourist was arrested after hurling a mug at the world's
most famous painting the Mona Lisa, at Louvre in Paris.

The mug which she had just bought in the gift shop bounced off the bullet-proof
glass shielding the Mona Lisa and shattered on the floor, causing no damage.

In 2007, another woman was prosecuted for kissing a 1.5 million pounds painting
by American artist Cy Twombly and leaving a lipstick smudge on the canvas.

She claimed in court that her act was an 'artistic gesture', telling the court:
'I just gave it a kiss. It was an act of love, I wasn't thinking. I thought the
artist would understand."

And in 2006, pensioner Pierre Pinocelli smashed a porcelain urinal - a modern
'artwork' by Marcel Duchamp - with a hammer.

He told a court in Paris: 'I am not the cheap vandal that some would have me to
be. I wanted to pay homage to the spirit of Dadaism, which is all about
disrespect."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     February 9, 2013 Saturday 5:03 AM GMT

Man hanged over India terror attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 173 words


A Kashmiri man convicted over the 2001 attack on India's Parliament has been
hanged after a final mercy plea was rejected.

Afzal Guru was executed in New Delhi's Tihar prison after more than a decade on
death row.

Home secretary RK Singh said: "It was the law taking its course."

Guru was convicted by India's top court in 2002, and a mercy petition sent to
India's president, the last step in the judicial process, was turned down
earlier this week.

Several rights groups including political groups in Indian Kashmir have said
that Guru did not get a fair trial.

Government prosecutors have said that Guru was a member of the militant group
Jaish-e-Mohammed, a charge he denied.

Thousands of police and paramilitary troops were fanning out across Indian
Kashmir preparing for any protests and violence that might break out following
the announcement of the execution. A curfew was also imposed in the Himalayan
state.

Six security troops and a gardener were killed in the December 2001 attack. All
five men who launched the attack were also killed.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Coventry Telegraph

                           February 9, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WE WILL SLIT YOUR THROAT;
Terror as masked knifemen storm pub, attack barmaid then threaten landlord and
customers

BYLINE: Sam Dimmer

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 397 words


A GANG of masked robbers stormed into a Coventry pub armed with knives and a
hammer and threatened to slit the landlord's throat.

The five armed thugs terrified customers at the Nursery Tavern in Chapelfields -
and also attacked a barmaid.

Drinkers were herded into a downstairs room at the popular local, in Lord
Street, on Wednesday at 9.40pm. When landlord St John Berisford, aged 54, came
downstairs to find out what the commotion was about the gang forced him back and
ordered him to open a safe.

He tried to fight back, even refusing to open the safe, but when a robber
threatened to slit his throat with a Stanley knife, he gave them the right
combination.

Before the robbers escaped, they forced the customers upstairs to give
themselves extra time to get away.

Police have launched an investigation into the robbery and are appealing for
witnesses to come forward. Mr Berisford, who has been at the pub for 20 years,
said: "Everybody stayed calm and nobody was badly hurt, that's the main thing.
The barmaid had a few bruises but we're still here and we'll carry on doing what
we do. "When I came downstairs I wasn't really 100 per cent sure what was
happening. "I went for one of them but I got a smack in the face - then the
barmaid said they had knives. "They corralled everyone into a downstairs room
before they saw the safe.

"They took me to it and asked me to open it. I got it wrong a couple of times
before he saw a Stanley knife I leave there to open boxes of crisps. "He then
told me he would slit my THROAT if I got it wrong again. "I'm ok though. It's
the first time it's happened. My barmaid is still a bit shaken up by it all."
There were about 15 drinkers in the pub - which is surrounded by terraced houses
- at the time of the attack. All five men were dressed in black and wearing
balaclavas. They were captured on CCTV leaving the road and police are keen to
speak to anyone who knows about the raid. Det Con Barry Heal, who is
investigating, said: "The offenders made off with a considerable amount of cash
and left the pub customers extremely shaken by their ordeal. The landlord
suffered cuts and bruises but fortunately was not seriously injured. "We are
appealing for any witnesses who we have not already spoken with to come forward.
In particular we would like to hear from anyone who saw anything suspicious
outside the pub at the time of the robbery."

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORRIFYING RAID: The Nursery Tavern, in Chapelfields, Coventry

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2013 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      February 10, 2013 Sunday 2:28 AM GMT

Following his arrest Afzal Guru was remorseless about his role in the 2001
terror attack

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 605 words


It was chilly as usual in December 2001, but the national Capital was highly
charged in the aftermath of the most defining terror attack launched on the 13th
day of the month.

The seat of political power had been attacked during the winter session. I was
covering the crime beat and was going through the grind as usual to find my "big
story" of the day following the attack.

I still remember with crystal clarity that it was December 20 and a bunch of
journalists, including me, was idling around the Delhi Police Special Office in
Lodhi Colony looking for our "exclusive" story.

Perhaps, destiny was smiling on me that day as DCP (special cell) Ashok Chand
allowed me (from print media) and Shams Tahir Khan (from Aaj Tak) to talk to
their "prize catch and co-conspirator in the Parliament attack case" - Mohammed
Afzal Guru.

My thoughts flashed back to the 15 minutes I managed to spend with Guru that day
the moment I heard the news of his hanging on Saturday morning.

Guru was cold in his response, remorseless and defiant even as he was chained
and constantly under police monitoring. He admitted in the very first minute
that his conscience did not prick him even once before the attack.

Guru said: "Had I thought what I was doing was wrong, I would not have done it.
Had I not been caught, I would probably have gone on to help some other
terrorist group for money."

His next statement was enough to make a headline: "It was I who brought the
terrorists to Delhi." As the talk progressed, I got more engrossed in reading
the psyche of the "terrorist".

Guru went on: "It was not religion that motivated me to help the terrorists. I
am a businessman and I was helping them because of the money I was promised.

I was to get Rs 50,000 for my role and a safe passage to Pakistan."

He told me "categorically" that the five terrorists involved in the attack were
"a close-knit, highly motivated and fanatically religious group".

He aided and assisted them in carrying out the attack, he claimed, saying: "They
used to pray regularly and were always focused on the attack.

"They spent much time in studying the photographs of Parliament they had
downloaded from various websites."

Afzal opened up as the police left us alone.

"The suicide squad would regularly go over their attack strategy. They, however,
used to hide behind the facade of a westernised lifestyle. They would wear
western clothes. The idea was to mislead the intelligence agencies. While
Mohammed appeared to be a well-read man, Rana could barely read or write.

The others had not studied beyond secondary school," he said, adding that "no
doubt Mohammed was the same man who had hijacked IC- 814 to Kandahar in 1999 and
killed Rupen Katyal (the only passenger murdered by the hijackers)".

The militants had made calls to their families in Pakistan, he claimed, and said
he was the best bet for this information as the facilitator.

"During their last conversation, they said they were going for a tough
examination and if 'Inshallah' they passed, they would be home for Id," Afzal
recalled.

On the day of the attack, the terrorists called Afzal and asked him to keep a
watch on the proceedings on television.

"I was at my sister-inlaw's house in Azadpur at that time. There was a power
failure there, so I could not watch the proceedings on television," he
explained.

Afzal may have confessed about his role, but he gave a clean chit to his
co-accused Shaukat Hussain and SAR Geelani, saying: "Their only crime is that
they let me use their phones on a few occasions. At one point of time they were
even reluctant to lend their vehicle to the terrorists," he claimed.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                               February 10, 2013

World: Liberal backlash against Obama's 'extreme' tactics over terrorism: Drone
attacks and new defence law under fire as critics fear US civil liberties are
being undermined

BYLINE: Paul Harris, New York

SECTION: OBSERVER WORLD NEWS PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 966 words


President Barack Obama is facing a liberal backlash over his hardline national
security policy, which critics say is more extreme and conservative than that
pursued by George W Bush.

The outrage comes after a week in which Obama's nominee to be the next head of
the CIA, current White House adviser John Brennan, faced a grilling from the
Senate intelligence committee over his enthusiastic support of using unmanned
drones to strike suspected Islamic militants all over the globe.

It also comes after a court hearing in New York last week in which numerous
liberal activists and journalists argued that a new Obama law - the National
Defence Authorisation Act (NDAA) - has dealt a serious blow to civil liberties
by allowing American citizens to be detained indefinitely without trial.

Both developments also add to liberal frustration with an Obama administration
that has ruthlessly cracked down on whistleblowers, especially on matters of
national security, and failed to implement a promise to close down the
Guantanamo Bay prison camp.

"If Bush had done the same things as Obama, then more people would have been
upset about it. He is a Democrat though, and to an extent can get away with it,"
said Daniel Ellsberg, who as a government official leaked the Pentagon Papers in
1971 and helped to expose the truth about the Vietnam war. Ellsberg is now one
of the plaintiffs in the case against the NDAA and insists that the
administration has used the law to give itself widespread and unconstitutional
new powers: "We have been losing our guaranteed freedoms one by one."

The government denies that the NDAA represents any sort of threat to ordinary
citizens and has appealed against a judge's ruling that it is unconstitutional,
saying that the White House needs such powers to fight terrorism. However,
critics say its use of broad language to define what constitutes a terrorist or
what actions make up support for terrorist groups could drag in journalists,
activists and academics. The case, which is currently on appeal in New York,
could go all the way to the supreme court. Liberal film-maker Michael Moore has
attacked the Obama administration for backing the NDAA. "In order to protect us
from terrorism, the government is taking away our constitutional rights," said
Moore, who made the anti-Bush documentary Fahrenheit 9/11

But much of the real focus of liberal ire has been the administration's huge
expansion of its use of drones. Brennan has been at the forefront of that
programme and its "kill list", maintained by the White House, which targets
specific Islamist militants in countries such as Afghanistan, Yemen, Pakistan
and Somalia. The programme is backed by military and intelligence chiefs but
independent groups that track the attacks say it has caused hundreds of civilian
casualties. It has also been criticised for killing radical cleric Anwar
al-Awlaki and his 16-year-old son, who were American citizens.

The administration is facing intense pressure to make public secret documents
that lay out its legal rationale for the killings. But it has so far resisted,
prompting many groups to compare Obama's national security policy to Bush's
drawing-up of secret legal memos justifying torture techniques such as
waterboarding. "The parallels to the Bush administration torture memos are
chilling," said Vincent Warren, executive director for the Centre for
Constitutional Rights. "Those were unchecked legal justifications drawn up to
justify torture; these are unchecked justifications drawn up to justify
extrajudicial killing."

Obama's policy has put him in political alliance with some strange bedfellows.
Three hawkish Republican senators, including 2008 presidential candidate John
McCain, filed a brief in support of the NDAA law during the court hearing. They
defended Obama's stance on national security grounds.

Another source of anti-Obama anger for liberal groups has been the
administration's attitude to whistleblowers. Obama has used an arcane piece of
first world war legislation, the 1917 Espionage Act, six times to pursue cases,
more than all his predecessors combined. One case involved former CIA agent John
Kiriakou, who was prosecuted for leaks after he went public with allegations of
torture of suspects. He has now been jailed, which critics point out means that,
while no one has been prosecuted for torture, a man who sought to end the
practice is behind bars. Jesselyn Radack, a director of the Government
Accountability Project, which helps to defend whistleblowers, said using the
Espionage Act was a strategy designed to intimidate those exposing government
wrongdoing. "They are being labelled enemies of the state," she said.

One of those is Thomas Drake, a National Security Agency worker who has been
prosecuted after leaking details of waste and overspending at the organisation.
The case against him collapsed in 2011 after he agreed to plead guilty to a
misdemeanour, and the government dropped more serious charges that could have
jailed him for 35 years.

But the experience has left Drake a strident critic of the administration. At a
meeting in Manhattan last week where numerous civil rights activists including
Ellsberg and Moore gathered to discuss the NDAA case, Drake said that first Bush
and then Obama had increasingly used secret powers to carry out national
security policy since the World Trade Centre terrorism attacks of 2001.

"Everything that has happened since 9/11 has simply increased the power of that
secret government. The constitution for them is just a piece of paper. It is an
inconvenient truth," he said.

Captions:

The wreckage of a car destroyed in an unmanned drone attack in Yemen a week ago.
Photograph by Khaled Abdullah/Reuters

John Brennan, Obama's nominee as CIA head, before the Senate hearing last week.


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            February 11, 2013 Monday

Terrorist Attack on Camp Hurriya in Iraq

LENGTH: 175 words


February 9, 2013

Victoria Nuland

Department Spokesperson , Washington, DC

The United States condemns in the strongest terms the vicious and senseless
terrorist attack that took place this morning at Camp Hurriya killing 6 people
and injuring dozens more. We offer our condolences to the families of the
victims and hope for the swift recovery of those who were injured.



We understand the Government of Iraq has undertaken to promptly investigate the
attack. We call on it to earnestly and fully carry out that investigation and to
take all appropriate measures to enhance the security of the camp consistent
with its commitment and obligation to the safety and security of the camp's
residents. The terrorists responsible for this attack must be brought to
justice.

We are consulting with the Government of Iraq and the United Nations Assistance
Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) on the circumstances surrounding this tragedy, and we
remain committed to assisting the Government of Iraq and UNAMI in their efforts
to implement the December 25, 2011 agreement.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            February 11, 2013 Monday

Doctors die in attack by Nigerian terror group

BYLINE: Mohammed Abubakar

LENGTH: 272  words


Three North Korean doctors have been murdered in north-eastern Nigeria, with one
beheaded, in the latest attack on health workers in a nation under assault by a
radical Islamic sect.

The deaths of the doctors on Saturday night in Potiskum, a town in Yobe state
long under attack by the sect known as Boko Haram, comes after gunmen killed at
least nine women administering polio vaccines in Kano, the major city of
Nigeria's predominantly Muslim north.

The two attacks raise new questions over whether the extremist sect, targeted by
Nigeria's police and military, has picked a new soft target in its guerrilla
campaign.

The attackers apparently struck at the North Korean doctors inside their home,
said Dr. Mohammed Mamman, chairman of the Hospital Managing Board of Yobe State.
The North Korean doctors had no security guards at their residence.

By the time soldiers arrived at the house, they found the doctors' wives hiding
in a flower bed outside their home. At the property, they found the corpses of
the men, all bearing what appeared to be machete wounds.

Initially, doctors at the hospital who worked with the physicians identified
them as being from South Korea, while police identified the dead as being from
China. However, Dr Mamman said that those killed were from North Korea and had
lived in the state since 2005 as part of a technical exchange  programme.

There are more than a dozen other North Korean doctors posted to the state under
the programme, as well as engineers, Dr Mamman said. He said all will receive
immediate protection from security forces.

"It is very unfortunate," Dr Mamman said of the killings.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 12, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hollande vows to rid Mali of terrorists after surprise attack

BYLINE: Our Foreign Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 288 words


FRANÇOIS HOLLANDE vowed yesterday to rid Mali of "terrorists", as French
soldiers and Malian troops hunted house by house for Islamist insurgents in Gao.

Speaking in the wake of a surprise attack on the northern city at the weekend,
the French president said he would let "not one space of Mali's territory be
under the control of terrorists".

The raid caught French and Malian troops off guard, and posed the risk that
France's forces could become entangled in a messy guerrilla war.

It had followed successive attacks by two suicide bombers at a northern
checkpoint.

The attacks suggested that the French, who have 4,000 soldiers on the ground in
Mali in an intervention now in its fifth week, were vulnerable to hit-and-run
guerrilla attacks by the jihadists behind their forward lines.

French and Malian soldiers in armoured vehicles reinforced key locations and
sandbagged road checkpoints at the entrances to Gao yesterday, alert to the
threat of further attacks from insurgents reportedly hiding in the surrounding
desert scrub.

Officials in Gao said the risks of infiltration, shootings and bomb blasts
remained high.

France's leaders have said they intend to start pulling troops out of Mali in
March, and want to hand over security operations to an 8,000-strong force
currently being assembled and drawn mostly from West African states.

But the African contingent is struggling to deploy, raising the risk that the
French could be obliged to stay on longer to guarantee security in the face of
rebel guerrilla tactics.

"There is no doubt that the Islamists will find weak spots," said Jakkie
Cilliers, executive director of the Pretoria-based Institute for Security
Studies. "Now it becomes complex and messy".

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 12, 2013 Tuesday 3:53 PM GMT

BP names final Briton to die in Algerian gas plant attack;
BP has named the sixth Briton to die in the terrorist attack on its Algerian gas
plant a month ago.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 343 words


The company said it was with the "deepest regret" that BP was now able to
confirm the identity of the final BP employee who was killed in the attack.

Steve Green, 47, from Fleet, Hampshire, was a health a safety specialist with
over 23 years of experience on major international projects.

He joined BP in 2012, where he worked on the joint venture at In Amenas in
Algeria as health and safety manager.

The company released his name after an inquest was opened and adjourned. It is
understood that identification had been particularly difficult in his case.

BP no longer has anyone working in Algeria. Bob Dudley, BP's chief executive,
described the attack as a "calculated and evil act."

"These men were murdered while carrying out their jobs on a normal working day,"
he said.

"It was a calculated and evil act. As BP mourns the loss of our colleagues, our
thoughts are also with the families and friends of all of those who lost their
lives in this terrible incident."

Mr Green's colleague, Colin Browning, described him as "very professional and
committed" and added: "Steve was a friendly and likeable guy, working well with
everyone he met."

He was educated at Farnborough College of Technology and the Open University and
was studying for a masters in oil and gas engineering at Robert Gordon
University in Aberdeen.

He had previously worked for the oil company Agip in Kazakhstan, where he was
responsible for 23,000 workers, and as a senior health and safety manager for
the engineering firm KBR.

A total of 38 workers died at the remote desert facility which was overrun by
terrorists in the early hours of Wednesday January 16.

The other Britons have been named as Paul Morgan, 46, from Liverpool, the head
of security, Garry Barlow, 49, from Liverpool, a systems supervisor, Kenneth
Whiteside, 59, from Glenrothes, Fife, a planning manager, Carson Bilsland, 46,
from Perthshire, a testing technician, and Sebastian John, 26, from Norwich, a
civil engineer.

Carlos Estrada a senior manager at BP who lived in London and was originally
from Colombia also died.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          February 13, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE DEAD ARE RISING TO ATTACK THE LIVING;
TV zombie alert terror

BYLINE: HARRY HAWKINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 112 words


TV viewers were sent into a panic when a chat show was interrupted by news of
zombie attacks.

A klaxon sound heralded the verbal announcement: "The bodies of the dead are
rising from their graves and attacking the living."

Viewers were told not to "approach or apprehend" the "extremely dangerous"
undead. At least four people called cops believing the prank to be true.

Montana TV Network in the US blamed hackers. Before it cut the signal, viewers
were told the station would lose power and advised to listen to radios. They
were issued locations of "zombie attacks".

In 1938, Orson Welles' radio show The War Of The Worlds caused mass panic in the
US. h.hawkins@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Grave hoax ... fake zombie

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 13, 2013 Wednesday 6:18 AM GMT

India govt under fire over terrorist's 'rushed' execution;
The Indian government has rejected criticism that it rushed to execute Mohammad
Afzal Guru for his role in the 2001 terrorist attack on the Lok Sabha Parliament
and denied it was obliged to allow him any further appeals.

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson New Delhi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 414 words


The hanging of Afzal Guru last Saturday has been widely criticised by human
rights campaigners and Jammu and Kashmir state's chief minister Omar Abdullah
after it was revealed his family had not been told of his imminent execution or
given a chance to say goodbye. His relatives instead received official
notification by letter which arrived two days after he was hung in Delhi's Tihar
Jail. He was convicted for his role in helping Islamic militants in the raid in
which ten people were killed.

Three people, including a child, have been killed in violent protests throughout
Kashmir and concerns have been raised over the detention of 40 separatist
leaders and a de facto curfew to stifle further demonstrations.

Critics have alleged the government had carried out the execution in a hurry,
and ahead of others sentenced to death, to challenge claims that the
Congress-led coalition is soft on terrorism. It followed the execution of
Mohammad Ajmal Kasab, the last surviving terrorist behind the 2008 Mumbai
attacks, in November last year.

Home minister Sushilkumar Shinde suggested that if the government had allowed
the condemned man any further appeals, as those convicted for the murder of
former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi had, his execution could have been delayed
for years.

"In Rajiv Gandhi and former Punjab chief minster Beant Singh's cases, the cases
are still pending in the Supreme Court. After rejection, Rajiv Gandhi's killers
filed a petition in the Tamil Nadu Court and subsequently to the Supreme Court.
Those cases have been under the consideration of judiciary. And hence, they
differ from this case. The president signed on the 3rd [Feb] and I signed on 4th
and immediately action had to be taken, same action I had taken in Ajmal's case
also," he said.

"Usually the president signs, then home ministry immediately sends it for
execution, that's the practice. In other cases, if you see the chronology, the
home ministry sent it but state governments went into docking [delaying]," he
added.

Meenakshi Ganguly of Human Rights Watch said questions over Afzal's confession
and trial highlighted the need for India to abandon the death penalty.

"A man has been killed and it has caused enormous controversy. The chief
minister did not want this to happen, people asked about the fairness of his
trial and why this case [for execution] and not others. This is why we say India
should abolish the death penalty. Questions will always be asked because it is
so final," she said.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 15, 2013 Friday

Ukrainian prosecutor says terrorist attack among possible plane crash causes

LENGTH: 257 words


The plane crash in the Ukrainian city of Donetsk which killed five passengers on
13 February may have been caused by a terrorist attack, Deputy
Prosecutor-General Viktor Voytsyshen has said.

On 15 February, the private channel ICTV quoted him as saying that this theory
was under consideration because there were three unregistered passengers on
board. Other versions are being discussed as well, he noted.

"First of all, this is the inadequacy of actions by the plane crew and
inadequate actions by the employees of the directorate for air traffic control,
meaning the ground services. Also, a version of a terrorist attack is being
considered," the channel showed him saying.

Voytsyshen added that the crash was unlikely to have been caused by a collision
with a 10-metre mast, which was initially thought to be the cause of the
accident.

"It only touched it slightly," the Interfax-Ukraine news agency quoted him at
0948 gmt on the same day as saying.

Voytsyshen also defended the 34-year-old captain, saying that he had enough
experience flying the An-24 aircraft, Interfax-Ukraine said in a later report.

In the meantime, Deputy Prime Minister Oleksandr Vilkul, who is in charge of
investigating the causes of the crash, said that the probe would be completed in
less than a month, the agency reported at 0951 gmt on 15 February.

Sources: ICTV television, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1045 gmt 15 Feb 13;
Interfax-Ukraine, Kiev, in Russian 0948 gmt 15 Feb 13; Interfax-Ukraine, Kiev,
in Russian 1028 gmt 15 Feb 13; Interfax-Ukraine 0951 gmt 15 Feb 13

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                            February 15, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TEEN MUM TELLS OF ARSON ATTACK TERROR;
Woman flees fire with baby

BYLINE: KRYSTA EAVES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 407 words


A SHOCKED mum has told how she dragged her one-year-old son to safety after an
arsonist targeted their home - less than four feet from where he was playing.

Kirby Churchill says she is still in shock that someone could "mess with" her
son's life, following the afternoon arson attack on her Grangetown home.

Detectives are now investigating the blaze, which saw flames reach the roof of
the two-storey mid-terraced building.

Kirby, who was upstairs at the time the fire broke out, rushed downstairs and
grabbed her one-year-old son, Logan, who had been playing in the living room
less than four feet away from the inferno.

The 18-year-old said: "I panicked.

I was frozen for about two seconds then I ran. I opened the back door and all I
could see was flames and smoke coming into the house.

"I could feel the heat on my face. I slammed the door shut and ran out the front
with my son.

"I was in shock. It was really scary. I dragged my son out the house and took
him to my nana's next door."

Kirby, who had been decorating at the time with her boyfriend, was alerted to
the blaze by their friend who saw the flames through the bathroom window.

They all managed to escape without injury.

But Kirby, who moved into the property last March, said she can't believe that
someone would put her child's life in danger by starting the fire.

It is believed the arsonist entered her back garden on Caernarvon Close through
an unlocked gate and started the fire by setting some cardboard and plastic toys
alight.

The former Huntcliff pupil said: "I just want to know who did it. There's no
words for how I feel about it.

"I can't believe that someone would mess with my son's life. It's scary to think
that someone could do this."

The blaze cause substantial damage to the outside of the home, melting cladding
and guttering at the top of the house. The heat from the fire has also caused
the glass in the double-glazed windows to crack.

There was also some smoke damage to the inside as smoke entered the home through
air vents above the windows.

Kirby now says she uses a padlock to keep her back gate secure and that she's
been visited by the fire brigade to make sure her property was safe.

The arsonist struck at about 3.40pm on Sunday and police are urging anyone who
might know who is responsible to contact them.

¦ Anyone with any information is asked to contact DC Dan Oldroyd on Cleveland
Police's non-emergency number 101 or contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL: Damage to the mid-terrace property, right, in Grangetown after
an arsonist is believed to have set fire to items outside, as reported
yesterday, below. A friend had spotted the flames through a window Picture by
PETER REIMANN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EGM


                    Copyright 2013 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            February 15, 2013 Friday

Ram Gopal Varma's Mumbai terror attack drama in cinemas

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT

LENGTH: 26 words


'The Attacks of 26/11', drama directed by Ram Gopal Varma based on the 2008
terrorist attacks in Mumbai

Event Start Date: 2013-03-01

Event End Date: 2013-03-01

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 15, 2013 Friday 10:34 PM GMT

'Dump f***ing everyone': the inside story of how Michael Gove's vicious attack
dogs are terrorising the DfE;
Divisions within the department 'could have come straight from an Iannucci
script'

BYLINE: James Cusick

SECTION: EDUCATION NEWS

LENGTH: 1055 words


The day David Cameron and Nick Clegg smiled at each other in Downing Street's
rose garden in 2010, promising their coalition would deliver a "bold and
reforming government", Michael Gove and his special adviser, Dominic Cummings,
walked to No 10 expecting to be handed the helm of the Department for Education.

The Prime Minister shook hands with Gove, giving him a seat in his Cabinet. But
the handshake given to Cummings came with nothing to celebrate. Andy Coulson,
then in No 10 as Cameron's Communications Director, regarded Gove's aide as
untrustworthy and a liability. Coulson believed that three months earlier, when
Cameron, George Osborne and Gove held private discussions in Notting Hill over
failures of Conservative policy, Cummings had leaked details of the meeting.

Coulson wanted Cummings' head and finally got it. But the rising heat on Coulson
from the phone-hacking scandal, and his resignation in 2011, changed everything.
With Coulson gone, Gove quickly brought Cummings back into the fold.

It is now two years since Cummings began radically reshaping the Department for
Education. Gove promised the Treasury he would "do more with less", would halve
the £580m annual running cost of the DfE by 2016, and slim down his department's
workforce by 1,000 people.

What the Gove-Cummings redesign means for those working for the DfE inside the
Great Smith Street headquarters opposite Westminster Abbey, is now only
beginning to emerge.

According to sources contacted by The Independent, along with evidence taken
from internal complaints lodged by staff on the receiving end of what many
regard as an "us-and-them aggressive, intimidating culture", Gove's policy
reform masks a hard-line ideological revolution.

One of the department's senior staff said he was no longer sure what the future
held, adding "DfE probably now stands for 'Dump F***ing Everyone'."

The expletive is no accident. An internal grievance report, prepared for a
tribunal that was scheduled to be heard this month, highlighted the
complainant's belief that events surrounding the attempted removal of a senior
civil servant were "more reminiscent of an episode of The Thick of It than a
reflection of acceptable behaviour of employees of the Department for
Education".

So, who qualifies as the DfE's Malcolm Tucker equivalent? This is a
long-standing joke across all eight floors of Great Smith Street. The conduct of
Cummings, however, along with the former director of communications, James
Frayne, a former lobbyist, has been criticised after episodes that have
contributed to staff simply walking from their jobs. Two separate Fleet Street
editors are alleged recently to have told Gove that he should end Cummings'
reign as a special adviser for the good of the party. Gove dismissed the advice
as misplaced.

It took a private settlement of £25,000 last month to stop details of
allegations of bullying and intimidation being heard in the London Central
Employment Tribunal.

Disciplinary action was not taken against Cummings or Frayne, but the director
who carried out the internal report said "the department handled the situation
in a regrettable way".

The report, which centred on a DfE staffer of 27 years, said she had made
allegations of being marginalised, promoted over, categorised as "difficult",
and was told on a stairwell that her role was no longer needed. Her complaint
describes a "macho culture of intimidation, favouritism and 'laddism'" in
Frayne's communications department, with Cummings singled out as "widely known
to use obscene and intimidating language". The report records that Frayne denied
swearing on a regular basis.

How deeply divided are the DfE's staff? An internal survey of the way Gove's
regime has changed the culture inside the education department has never been
published. Although the fast-track internal investigation found no "strong"
evidence of "aggressive or bullying behaviour", the "them-and-us" atmosphere
inside the DfE was acknowledged. "Dysfunctional" was another description used in
the report. This has been officially denied.

The us-and-them divisions inside the communications management team, according
to one former DfE employee, "could have come straight from an Armando Iannucci
script. A Have I Got News For You session, supposed to engender insight, turned
sour. An 'away day' almost required another away day to fix, and plans for an
anti-bullying week campaign ended up with some staff being turned on. You
couldn't make it up."

The source, who asked not to be named, said: "Cummings and Frayne want what Gove
wants: to put a firework up the DfE. You challenge that, and there's no place
for you." Frayne is reported to have said at one meeting: "Wind your neck in,
you're acting like a t***." Frayne admits to "heated" exchanges, but denied
calling anyone a "t***". "F*** it," or "let's just f***ing do it", and "what the
f*** do you mean?" are described by the complainant in a grievance report as the
routine retort to those who might be showing signs of slowing down the Gove
revolution.

The grievance process leading to the £25,000 settlement has one document in
which the complainant describes the elite group of special advisers close to
Gove as having created a culture of "untouchable entitlement" surrounding
themselves, with the belief that "their behaviour is not open to challenge".
Cummings is also alleged to have said "You're not on the same page, love".
Cummings denies ever using the word "love".

Cummings holds ideological credentials Gove values: campaign director of the
1999 anti-euro campaign, setting up the campaign for a referendum on the EU
constitution, establishing the New Frontiers Foundation which pushed for an
alternative to Britain's partnership with the EU. And both he and Gove are now
in a position to do what they said was necessary when the Tories were in
opposition.

A source close to Michael Gove said tonight: "This case was a wide-ranging
grievance against the department, not specifically against special advisers. No
departmental inquiry has found that special advisers did anything wrong. James
Frayne was right to restructure the communications department and the
allegations against Dominic Cummings were dismissed by internal inquiries." A
spokesman for the DfE said: "It would not be appropriate to comment on
individual employment matters."

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            February 15, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A dog-gone nuisance;
ATTACKS ; Pooches are terrorising our posties

BYLINE: Lynn Jolly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 500 words


Dog owners have been urged to keep their four-legged friends under control ...
amid concerns over the number of posties being attacked by the pets.

Using Freedom of Information (FOI) legislation, the Paisley Daily Express can
exclusively reveal that more than 50 posties have been attacked by dogs and
other animals while on their rounds in Renfrewshire over a four-year period.

That works out at an average of more than one attack every month.

A Royal Mail spokesman told the Express: "The safety of our employees is of
paramount importance and, whilst we have a legal commitment to deliver to all
addresses, we also have a duty under health and safety law to reduce risks and
prevent injury to our people.

"Unfortunately, dog attacks are a hazard faced by our postmen and women every
working day.

"These attacks cause great distress and, in too many cases, serious injuries.

"Through our own campaigns and that of our union colleagues in the Communication
Workers Union, attacks are decreasing, although there has been one more attack
in Paisley this year than the previous year."

Pet owners have been warned that if they have an unruly pooch - or other animal
- which attacks a postie, then deliveries could be suspended or legal action
undertaken.

The spokesman added: "Royal Mail has invested resources into equipment to help
its postmen and women reduce risk of injury when out on delivery.

"This includes 90,000 posting pegs being issued to staff, which helps postmen
and women put letters through letter boxes whilst protecting their fingers."

Our FOI findings looked at delivery offices in Paisley, Barrhead, Erskine,
Johnstone, Renfrew and Bridge of Weir and covered postcodes from PA1 to PA12, as
well as G78.

The deliver office in Bridge of Weir reported no incidents but, between the
other five, there were: ¦¦14 dog attacks in 2008/09 ¦¦11 dog attacks, plus two
by other animals, in 2009/10 ¦¦Seven dog attacks in 2010/11 ¦¦Eight dog attacks,
one by another animal and two by unknown anim in 2011/12 ¦¦Six by dogs and four
by unknown animals during 2012 and the start of this year.

In November last year, an independent inquiry, commissioned by Royal Mail and
prepared by Sir Gordon Langley, called for tougher legislation against owners of
dangerous dogs.

It also found that Royal Mail should actively pursue legal action against the
owners of dogs which attack postal workers.

More than 3,000 postmen and women were attacked across the UK by dogs between
April 2011 and April 2012.

Donald Brydon CBE, chairman of the Royal Mail Group, said: "Dog attacks cause
injuries and terrible trauma to our staff.

"Nobody should have to endure this and our staff are at an increased risk of
such attacks, simply because of the job they do."

In July 2007, the Express exclusively revealed how terrified postie Mary Nola
was being forced to flee her round after being attacked by crazy seagulls.

The birds dive-bombed Mary as she delivered mail in Erskine.

Dog attacks cause injuries and terrible trauma to our staff

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MuttVicious dogs are making postal rounds dangerous

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 17, 2013 Sunday

France may label Hezbollah as terror group in light of Bulgaria attack findings

LENGTH: 422 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese news website Naharnet on 16 February

[Paris May Label Hizbullah as Terrorist Group in Light of Findings of Burgas
Attack Investigation" - Naharnet Headline]

France does not rule out the possibility of labelling Hizbullah as a terrorist
organization in light of Bulgaria's accusation against it of being involved in
the 2012 Burgas bus attack, reported Al-Nahar daily Saturday [16 February].

French Foreign Ministry Spokesman Philippe Lalliot said that the European Union
may discuss this issue should one of the EU ministers make such a proposal, said
the daily.

The issue is not on the EU's agenda, but it could be addressed should the
Bulgarian foreign minister, for example, suggest it, explained the spokesman.

Lalliot stressed that France condemns terrorist attacks, but criticized
Bulgarian Interior Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov latest press conference for
failing to present any tangible evidence of the party's involvement in the bus
attack.

Paris is awaiting the results of the investigations, said the French official.

Given tangible evidence, then the EU may unanimously label Hezbollah as a
terrorist organization, he added.

Meanwhile, European diplomatic sources told Al-Jumhuriyah daily Saturday that EU
ministers will discuss during a meeting in Brussels on Monday the position to be
taken over Hezbolllah given the Bulgarian accusations.

Monday's discussions may study the possibility of labelling Hezbollah as a
terrorist organization, imposing sanctions on some of its members, or not taking
any action and keeping the situation as it is at the moment, said the sources.

The ministers are expected to receive a report on the evidence gathered over the
party's involvement in the Burgas attack.

Tsvetanov had announced on Friday [15 February] that Canada and Australia had
provided Bulgaria with information that allowed it to verify that Hezbollah had
funded the attack that targeted Israeli tourists.

Five Israeli tourists and their Bulgarian driver were killed in a bus bombing at
Burgas airport on the Black Sea in July, the deadliest attack on Israelis abroad
since 2004.

Bulgaria recently formally blamed the attack on Hezbollah, triggering renewed
pressure on the European Union to follow Canada, the United States and others in
formally designating the movement a "terrorist group."

The Bulgarian government said two people behind the attack held Canadian and
Australian passports, but lived in Lebanon and were members of Hezbollah.

Source: Naharnet, Beirut, in English 1830 gmt 16 Feb 13

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 17, 2013 Sunday 5:09 PM GMT

Briton 'kidnapped in Nigeria attack';
A British construction worker was among eight expatriates kidnapped in northern
Nigeria in the worst such incident in a region beset by terror attacks from
al-Qaeda-linked fundamentalists.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 606 words


Teams of armed men in four-wheel-drive vehicles stormed the Lebanese
construction company Setraco's walled compound, killing a Nigerian security
guard and taking the hostages with little resistance.

A Briton, a Greek, an Italian and five Lebanese including a woman and her baby
girl were kidnapped, state police said.

The raid comes close to a year since a failed SBS mission to rescue Chris
McManus, a 28-year-old engineer from Oldham who had been held hostage in
northern Nigeria for 10 months.

He and his colleague, Franco Lamolinara, from Italy, were executed by their
Islamist kidnappers as the special forces launched an operation to free them
that was ordered by David Cameron.

No group has yet claimed responsibility for the raid.

The semi-arid region in Nigeria's majority-Muslim far north has been plagued by
armed Islamic fundamentalists and bandits taking advantage of the insecurity.

Boko Haram, the best-known extremist group in the area, was last week suspected
of killing three North Korean doctors working in a town only 80 miles to the
east of Jamaale, where yesterday's attacks took place.

The kidnappers initially launched coordinated raids on the prison and the police
station in the town, which lies more than 350 miles north of Abuja, the Nigerian
capital.

This was understood to have been a diversion tactic to focus the attention of
the town's security forces while a section of the kidnap group peeled off and
instead launched the raid on the construction compound.

"Eight hostages were taken, they were from Britain, Italy, Greece and Lebanon,"
said Adamu Aliyu, the local government chairman in Jamaale.

"The Lebanese included a woman with her baby, a girl." Hassan Auyo, the police
spokesman in the state capital, Bauchi, 120 miles to the south, confirmed the
kidnapping and said that an investigation had already been launched. The
whereabouts of the hostages was not known, Mr Auyo added.

Foreign Office diplomats in Abuja were working to confirm details of the missing
Briton, who had not been named.

A Foreign Office spokesman refused to speculate on who may have been responsible
for the attack.

Mr McManus, the hostage who was killed in last year's botched rescue, was held
by a previously unknown outfit calling itself Al-Qaeda In The Land Beyond The
Sahel. It has not been heard of since.

Ansaru, a Boko Haram splinter with close ties to Islamists in northern Mali, was
last night the main suspect for yesterday's kidnappings.

The group, which emerged in June 2012, said it kidnapped a French engineer in
December in an area close to Katsina, a border city in northern Nigeria.

The eight people seized on Sunday were working for Setraco, a construction
subsidiary of a Lebanese company that has been operating in Nigeria for 35
years.

It is understood it had won the contract to upgrade major roads through the
region, and has other residential and construction compounds in other towns in
northern Nigeria.

There was no suggestion that the company had specifically been targeted, police
said.

In December Setraco closed all its projects in the southern Delta State after
three foreign workers, thought to be Lebanese, were kidnapped in separate
attacks.

A soldier protecting the workers was killed in one attack on the firm, which has
been involved in the construction of an East-West road across the region. The
kidnappers are said to have demanded a ransom of N900 million (£3.6m).

Nigeria is one of the world's most dangerous countries for kidnappings of
foreign workers. Some 24 Britons and 200 other expatriate staff were taken
hostage between 2007 and 2011 in the country's oil-producing south.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 18, 2013 Monday
                                 First Edition

Pakistan close to boiling point after slaughter of Shia minority;
Balochistan governor vents fury at 'scared' intelligence services after latest
terror attack

BYLINE: OMAR WARAiCH in Islamabad

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 643 words


The governor of Pakistan's Balochistan province has launched a blistering attack
on the military for failing to protect the local Hazara Shia community as the
death toll from a bomb attack by Sunni militants continued to rise yesterday.

"[The intelligence services] are either too scared to go after the
terror-mongers or too clueless to even know who they are dealing with," said
Zulfiqar Ali Magsi. "The terrorist attack on the Hazara Shia community in Quetta
is a failure of the intelligence and security forces." Mr Magsi, who took direct
control of Balochistan last month after the provincial civilian government was
fired following another Sunni strike, added that he had given the military a
"free hand" to deal with the militants but they had failed to do their job and
"pre-empt such attacks".

The death toll from Saturday's attack, which struck near the main bazaar in
Quetta city, has risen to 84 people. More than 20 shops in the area have been
destroyed and rescuers were yesterday searching for survivors amid the rubble of
a two-storey building that had collapsed.

Most of those killed belong to Quetta's long-suffering Hazara community,
adherents of Shia Islam who migrated to the area from Afghanistan over a century
ago. Saturday's assault is the second deadly attack the Hazara community has
faced in a matter of weeks after nearly 100 people perished in twin suicide
bombings at a billiards hall in January.

After that attack federal rule was imposed in Balochistan after days of
countrywide protests. Control of security in the province was handed over to the
army-controlled paramilitary Frontier Corps, who were ordered to take action
against anti-Shia militant groups operating in the area.

Mr Magsi's condemnation of the intelligence and security forces, however, is
being seen by some as a shifting of blame. Saturday's bombing has heightened
denunciations of Pakistan's collective power elites, including politicians and
the judicial system.

"The government is responsible for terrorist attacks and killings in the Hazara
community because its security forces have not conducted operations against
extremist groups," Aziz Hazara, vice-president of the local Hazara Democratic
Party, told Reuters.

In 2012, an estimated 100 members of the Hazara community were killed in various
attacks. They are easily identifiable because of their distinct central Asian
features. The killings are one element in a broader campaign of violence against
Shias across Pakistan, with some 400 slain last year in total.

Pakistan is home to the second largest Shia population in the world. Shia
Muslims represent about a fifth of the country's 18 million population.

Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, a notorious anti-Shia group that has cells based in
Balochistan, has taken responsibility for the two bombings. The group,
considered close to al-Qaida, continues to operate with impunity despite the
huge death toll of recent attacks.

As mourners continued to search through the devastation wrought by the bombing
yesterday, members of the Hazara community vowed to return to the streets if
real action wasn't taken soon against their attackers. "We are giving the
government 48 hours to arrest the culprits involved in the killing of our
people," said Mr Aziz of the Hazara Democratic Party, "and after that we will
launch strong protests". Following the suicide attacks in January, victims'
families refused to bury the dead until they were promised greater protection
from the government in Islamabad. Muslim doctrine dictates that bodies must be
buried by sunset the day after death, and the symbolism of the Hazaras' protest
sparked outpourings of support across the country.

The attacks do not augur well for the security of Pakistan just months ahead of
this year's general elections. A further slide into violence may make it
difficult for voters to go to the polls safely.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            February 18, 2013 Monday

UN envoy strongly condemns terrorist attacks on civilians in Iraqi capital

LENGTH: 164 words


February 17, 2013

The top United Nations envoy in Iraq has strongly condemned the series of
bombings that struck several neighbourhoods in Baghdad on Sunday, killing and
injuring dozens of people.



Several car bombs exploded across the Iraqi capital, including in busy outdoor
market areas. At least 20 people were killed and scores more were wounded in the
attacks, which reportedly targeted mainly Shia areas.

"Once again, innocent civilians going about their daily business have been
targeted, bringing great grief to their families and communities. Nothing can
justify these terrorist attacks," said Martin Kobler, the Secretary-General's
Special Representative and head of the UN Assistance Mission for Iraq ( UNAMI ).


"All Iraqi leaders have a responsibility to stand up against these atrocious
crimes targeting the social fabric of the country."

Mr. Kobler extended his sincere condolences to the families of the victims and
wishes for a speedy recovery to those who were injured.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            February 18, 2013 Monday

UN chief deplores latest terrorist attack against Pakistan's Shia community

LENGTH: 172 words


February 18, 2013

Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has strongly condemned the terrorist attack
carried out on Saturday in Quetta, Pakistan, targeting the Shia Muslim Hazara
community which resulted in more than 80 deaths and the wounding of nearly 200,
many of them women and children. "This is the second terrorist bombing in the
same city and against the same community since last month," said a statement
issued last night by Mr. Ban's spokesperson. "In the face of this latest attack
on religious and ethnic minorities in Pakistan, the Secretary-General calls for
swift and determined action against those claiming responsibility and
perpetrating such actions," it added. Mr. Ban conveyed his heartfelt condolences
to the families of all the victims of the attack in Quetta, the capital of the
south-western province of Balochistan. "He reiterates the strong support of the
United Nations for efforts by the Government and people of Pakistan to protect
religious and ethnic minorities and to combat the scourge of terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            February 18, 2013 Monday

Family terrorised in road rage gang attack

BYLINE: Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 207 words


THREE generations of the same family have been taken to hospital following a
brutal road rage attack in Burnage.

A father and son were beaten with a spanner after getting out of their Honda
Civic when it was shunted from behind by a BMW 3 Series.

A gang of three men travelling in the BMW then smashed the back window of the
car with the weapon showering three people on the back seat with glass.

Two men have been arrested and police are hunting the third attacker following
the incident on Mauldeth Road shortly after 6pm on Thursday.

The Honda was shunted as it stopped at the roundabout leading to Burnage Lane
and was then rammed another two times.

The 54-year-old dad got out of the car and was immediately punched in the face
and hit with the spanner. His 25-year-old son then got out and was also punched
and hit the tool.

Both were taken to hospital with bruising and wounds along with the 80-year-old
grandad who collapsed due to shock.

The thugs got back into the car and sped off towards Stockport. A short time
later two men, aged 25 and 28, were arrested on suspicion of causing grievous
bodily harm with intent and remain in police custody.

Anyone with information should call police on 101 or Crimestoppers, anonymously,
on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            February 18, 2013 Monday

Family terrorised in road rage gang attack

BYLINE: Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 207 words


THREE generations of the same family have been taken to hospital following a
brutal road rage attack in Burnage.

A father and son were beaten with a spanner after getting out of their Honda
Civic when it was shunted from behind by a BMW 3 Series.

A gang of three men travelling in the BMW then smashed the back window of the
car with the weapon showering three people on the back seat with glass.

Two men have been arrested and police are hunting the third attacker following
the incident on Mauldeth Road shortly after 6pm on Thursday.

The Honda was shunted as it stopped at the roundabout leading to Burnage Lane
and was then rammed another two times.

The 54-year-old dad got out of the car and was immediately punched in the face
and hit with the spanner. His 25-year-old son then got out and was also punched
and hit the tool.

Both were taken to hospital with bruising and wounds along with the 80-year-old
grandad who collapsed due to shock.

The thugs got back into the car and sped off towards Stockport. A short time
later two men, aged 25 and 28, were arrested on suspicion of causing grievous
bodily harm with intent and remain in police custody.

Anyone with information should call police on 101 or Crimestoppers, anonymously,
on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 18, 2013 Monday 3:43 PM GMT

David Cameron lays wreath for Mumbai terror victims;
The Prime Minister lays a wreath at a memorial for police and uniformed
personnel who lost their lives in the 2008 terror attacks in Mumbai.

LENGTH: 35 words


David Cameron has laid a wreath at the memorial to the 16 Indian police officers
who died in the terror attacks.

Over 150 people were killed in a series of coordinated shootings and bomb
attacks in Mumbai in 2008.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 19, 2013 Tuesday

Romanian intelligence service denies support for terrorist attack in Bulgaria

LENGTH: 530 words


Text of report by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

[Unattributed report: "SRI on Attack in Burgas: No Indications That Identified
People Would Have Made Preparatory Activities in Romania"]

Bucharest, Feb 19 / Agerpres / -- The Romanian Intelligence Service (SRI) said
in a press release remitted to AGERPRES, on Tuesday [19 February], that so far
there are no elements or indications that the persons identified in the attack
in Burgas would have carried out preparatory activities or of support for that
terrorist attack in Romania.

"Immediately after the terrorist attack in Burgas, Bulgaria, close to Romania's
border, SRI, as the national authority for preventing and combating terrorism,
together with other institutions of the National System for the Prevention and
Combating Terrorism (SNPCT) has initiated a series of specific measures
connected to this situation, including cooperation with the Bulgarian
authorities and with other international partners. Thus, as a result of
painstaking measures taken by SRI at national level, in the framework of SNPCT
(especially with MAI -- IGPR), as well as in cooperation with external partners,
a number of relevant issues resulted for the ongoing investigation.
Specifically, within the joint verification and evaluation measures, the
suspects for being involved in the terrorist attack in Bulgaria were identified.
So far, there are no elements or clues that the identified persons would have
carried out, on Romania's territory, preparation activities or of support! for
the attack in Burgas", SRI release also reads.

At the same time, the quoted source underlined that the Romanian authorities
have no legal means to act preventively in case of people who have no travel
restrictions, or those who do not appear on the international lists with
terrorism suspects and who transit Romania.

"All relevant information in this case were made available, in useful time, to
Bulgarian authorities and to the foreign partners, to support the investigation,
namely to deepen and complete verifications. Also, referring to the results
obtained, SRI informed the legal beneficiaries, as well as the country's Supreme
Defense Council (CSAT), within which a range of measures were decided, in order
to limit terror threats in Romania", the quoted release also informed.

SRI mentions that, because the investigation is in progress, it can not provide
additional information.

The Bulgarian Minister of Interior, Tvetan Tvetanov, said in an interview,
published on Friday, by Sofia-based daily 24 Ceasa, that it is believed that the
people who committed the attack in Burgas would have crossed on foot the border
between Romania and Bulgaria a few days ahead of the anti-Israeli attack on July
18, 2012.

According to Tvetanov, the three came to Romania from different parts of Europe
and entered Bulgaria in turn, crossing on foot the 'so-called blue border' (most
likely, the 'green border', the land border in Dobrogea).

The terrorist attack committed on July 18, 2012 against a bus in Burgas airport
resulted in six dead -- five Israeli tourists and the Bulgarian driver.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 1227gmt 19 Feb 13

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 20, 2013 Wednesday

Commander says neighbour countries behind terror attacks in Iran

LENGTH: 126 words


The commander of the Ground Forces of Iran's Islamic Revolution Guards Corps has
accused unnamed neighbouring countries of organizing terrorist attacks in Iran,
Iranian Students News Agency ISNA reported.

"Unfortunately, security services of some neighbouring countries play a
fundamental role in organizing terrorist attacks [in Iran] and we have evidence
to prove it," Brig-Gen Mohammad Pakpur, was quoted as saying.

He said that terrorist groups operating in Iran's southeastern regions had been
armed and trained by security services of some foreign countries.

He added that many of the arrested "terrorists" had said that they were paid and
trained by security services of Persian Gulf countries.

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 0722 gmt 20 Feb 13

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 20, 2013 Wednesday

Terrorists attack medical drug factories, stores - Syria health minister

LENGTH: 208 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Health Minister: Providing all Drugs and Medical Equipment Despite Import
Difficulties" - SANA Headline]

Feb 20, 2013

(SANA) -DAMASCUS, (SANA) -Minister of Health, Dr Saad al-Nayef, stressed on
Wednesday the ministry's commitment to providing all drugs and medical equipment
in spite of the difficulties regarding import and transfer and offering medical
services to citizens free of charge.

During a meeting of the Services Committee's at the People's Assembly, al-Nayef
pointed out that the ministry is working to meet the needs of citizens in all
areas, adding that any license to new medical drugs factories should comply with
the rules and conditions set by the ministry.

He asserted that the armed terrorist groups have attacked drugs factories and
stores, noting that the increase witnessed in the prices of medicines is due to
the high prices of some raw materials.

For his part, Head of Doctor's Syndicate, Youssef Asaad, stressed the importance
of the citizens' cooperation with medical associations and health directorates
to dealing with any fault at the healthcare centres and pharmacies.

F.L/H.Said

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1440 gmt 20 Feb 13

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                          February 20, 2013 Wednesday

Somalia: UN Political Office condemns recent wave of terror attacks

LENGTH: 395 words


February 19, 2013

The United Nations political office for Somalia today condemned a series of
February terror attacks, urging Somalis to strengthen their resolve against
terrorism and work with the authorities to bring the perpetrators to justice.



"We will not let these cowardly acts unravel the remarkable progress of the past
ten months," the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General
for Somalia, Augustine Mahiga, said through a statement released today by the UN
Political Office for Somalia ( UNPOS ).

UNPOS, the statement states, "condemns the terror attacks that have occurred in
Somalia during the first half of February" including the killing of a popular
Islamic scholar and a bombing of a Mogadishu beach.

Through the statement, Mr. Mahiga offered his extends his heartfelt condolences
to the bereaved families and wished the injured a quick recovery.

The high-profile attacks include the assassination of a leading Somali Islamic
scholar, Sheikh Abdiqadir "Ga'amey" Nur Farah, in Garowe. Mr. Nun Farah was
reported killed while praying in a mosque.

His killing follows a suicide attack in the central town of Galkayo targeting
top police officials in the Somali state of Puntland.

During the same period there have been terror attacks in other regions of South
Central Somalia, including a car bomb attack at Mogadishu's Lido beach
restaurant on 16 February, and the killing of a Shibis District intelligence
chief in the capital's Nasib Buundo neighbourhood.

In today's statement, Mr. Mahiga calls on Somalis "to strengthen their resolve
to resist terrorism by working with the authorities to bring the perpetrators of
these heinous crimes to justice."

He also reiterated that UNPOS is committed to supporting security in Somali
through its Government.

Somalia marked a historic political watershed last August when it swore-in the
first formal parliament and ended a so-called "transition" phase which had begun
with the 2004 launch of a UN-backed interim government. The previous functioning
government ended in 1991 with the overthrow of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.

The improvements in security and political situations are allowing the UNPOS to
relocate more of its operations to Mogadishu over the next six to 12 months, the
Assistant Secretary-General for Political Affairs, Tayé-Brook Zerihoun, told the
Security Council last week.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 21, 2013 Thursday

Police foil terrorist attack in northern Afghan city

LENGTH: 198 words


Text of report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 21 February

A suicide attack has been prevented in Konduz Province [northern Afghanistan].

Lal Mohammad Ahmadzai, the spokesman for Pamir Police Zone No 303, has told
Channel One TV that a group of seven terrorists, who wanted to carry out
terrorist attacks, in the Khawaja Ghaltan area of Konduz city [capital of Konduz
Province], were identified and came under police forces' firing, and four of
these men were killed and three others detained. According to the spokesman, two
police soldiers were killed in this clash.

[Lal Mohammad Ahmadzai, captioned as the spokesman for Pamir Police Zone No 303,
reporting over the phone] Four opponents [of the Afghan government] were killed
and three others detained alive as a result of a clash with police forces when a
group of armed opponents of the government intended to carry out terrorist
attacks in Konduz city this morning. The incident took place in the Khawaja
Ghaltan area of Konduz city this morning. With regrets, two police soldiers were
killed in this clash.

Passage omitted: Video shows a map of Konduz Province]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 0530 gmt 21 Feb 13

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           February 21, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

terrorists planned attacks by 8 suicide bombers;
THREE GUILTY OF PLOTTING 'ANOTHER 9/11' ; Trio 'planned to storm synagogues'

BYLINE: Kiran Randhawa

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,7

LENGTH: 595 words


THREE men were convicted today of plotting to carry out a series of terror
atrocities that would have been more devastating than the 7/7 attacks.

Islamist extremists Irfan Naseer, Irfan Khalid and Ashik Ali planned explosions
at targets across the country, in a campaign lasting for up to two years and
involving the recruitment of up to eight suicide bombers.

Two of them made martyrdom videos at a terrorist training camp in Pakistan,
ready for release to the world once the suicide attacks had succeeded.

Today jurors at Woolwich crown court found the three guilty on 12 counts of
plotting to cause "death and injury on a massive scale". During the trial, it
emerged that Naseer, 31, and Khalid, 27, both unemployed, twice went to Pakistan
to learn about bomb-making, weapons and poisons.

When they returned to Birmingham they shared their knowledge with Ali, 27, who
ran a bike repair business, and used his council flat as a makeshift explosives
factory.

But bugging devices recorded them discussing attacks, with one boasting their
campaign would be "another 9/11". The judge, Mr Justice Henriques, told the trio
that they will face life in prison. Speaking to Naseer, he said: "You are a
Continued on Page 7

Continued from Page 1 a highly skilled bomb-maker and explosives expert. You
were seeking to recruit a team of between six and eight suicide bombers to carry
out a spectacular bombing campaign, one which would create an anniversary along
the lines of 7/7 or 9/11."

The trio from Birmingham were among 12 people held by police in the West
Midlands. Six others have already admitted their part. A further three will
stand trial later this year.

Naseer, Khalid and Ali, who prosecutors called the "ringleaders", were
radicalised by cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, who was killed in a US drone strike in
Yemen just days after their arrests.

Naseer, who has a pharmacy degree from Aston University, was found guilty of
five counts of engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorist acts , all
between Christmas Day 2010 and September 19, 2011. Khalid was convicted on four
counts and Ali on three. In March 2009 Naseer and Khalid flew to Pakistan for
terror training. Another trip began in December 2010, during which the duo
filmed the martyrdom videos. Security services were tipped off and bugging
devices were planted on their return in July 2011.

They were recorded plotting to detonate eight rucksack bombs. They also
discussed plans to storm synagogues armed with automatic weapons including
AK47s, and blow up British soldiers using suicide vests.

They were heard making veiled threats about David Cameron and his friends. The
gang were seized by police when they were overheard trying to make improvised
explosives in September 2011. To fund the mission, the cell duped members of the
public into donating thousands of pounds after they posed as collectors from
Muslim Aid. Charity bosses received just a fraction of the cash.

Law graduate Rahin Ahmed, 26, tried to invest the money through online trading
firm Forex, but they ended up losing £9,000. He has admitted preparing for an
act of terrorism and is to be sentenced. Karen Jones, of the Crown Prosecution
Service, said: "Evidence showed the defendants discussing 9/11 and 7/7. These
wanted to do something bigger. Had they not been stopped, the consequences would
have been catastrophic." Nobody in the plotters' community tipped police off
with concerns, despite finding out they were sending young men to terror
training camps in Pakistan. The three will be sentenced in April and May.

Continued from Page 1 a [...]

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 21, 2013 Thursday 9:47 PM GMT

Hundreds would have died in attack plotted by Islamic fanatics;
It would have been the most devastating terrorist attack on British soil leaving
hundreds dead - and by al-Qaeda inspired but "home-grown" Islamic fanatics.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1958 words


Up to eight suicide bombers carrying backpacks rammed with explosives and armed
with guns were to carry out a horrifying blend of the 7/7 and Mumbai atrocities.

The jihadi gang planned to walk in to crowded, public places shooting
indiscriminately before simultaneously detonating their terrible homemade
payloads killing hundreds on their wake.

Although no firm target was settled on, the 2012 Olympics may have been one
along with soldiers based in this country.

They even boasted about "hitting" David Cameron, his friends and other non -
believers in the "land of Satan".

The plot was the most significant since the plans to blow up transatlantic
aeroplanes with liquid bombs in 2006 and is likely to have led to the largest
loss of life from a terror attack on UK shores.

The ringleader, Irfan Naseer, 31, even criticised the 7/7 suicide bombers, who
left 52 innocent people dead, for not doing "enough damage".

It also marked a sea change in the influence of al-Qaeda and the ever growing
threat of self-motivated killers.

Unlike previous plots, this gang was not told what to do by al-Qaeda and the
terror group only provided the training and justification for it.

In a deeply worrying development for the police and intelligence services, the
planned attack was borne from the British extremists' desire to kill their
fellow citizens and they went in search of al-Qaeda.

Naseer was secretly recorded at one stage talking of: "Seven or eight in
different places with timers on at the same time, boom boom boom." and that it
will be revenge for the Danish cartoons mocking the prophet Mohammed.

His deputy, Irfan Khalid, 27, talked about "revenge for everything, another
9/11" and "It's the four suicide bombers driving around ready to take on
England."

Khalid said: "This is going to shake them all, the kufar, that go to the pub and
that (in mocking English accent) 'they've hit us in our own country, my god they
hit us'".

He described turning a Birmingham road in to a "little war zone".

Brian Altman QC, prosecuting, told the court: "Police successfully disrupted a
plan to commit an act or acts of terrorism on a scale potentially greater than
the London bombings in July 2005, had it been allowed to run its course.

"Although the finer details had not been worked out and agreed on, the
defendants were preparing to detonate up to eight rucksack bombs on a suicide
attack, and/or detonate bombs on targets in crowded areas to cause mass death
and casualties."

He said it would have led to "maximum death and destruction" and "carnage in the
name of Allah".

The driving force behind the plot was the "two Irfans" - Naseer, dubbed
"chubba'" or "big Irfan" because of his size, and his Deputy Khalid, or "little
Irfan".

Naseer, a pharmacy graduate, was the brains and came up with the idea of
extracting ammonium nitrate from dozens of sports injury cold packs to develop
the main charge for an explosive.

Although the risk from cold pack ingredients was known to the police and
security services, this was the first time it was used as part of a terror plot
in the UK.

The Irfans had known each other since 2006 and came from the same Sparkhill area
of Birmingham.

Unbeknown to the police or intelligence services, the pair first travelled out
to Pakistan in March 2009 and during an eight month stay underwent eight days of
terrorism training.

In December 2010, they returned to Pakistan for what became a far more
significant trip. After three months in Karachi they established al-Qaeda
connections and found their way to the key international arm of the terror group
in the ungoverned Miram Shah in north Waziristan.

With relative ease and in just a matter of months, they had found their way to
the "heart of the beast", as one security source described it.

They spent up to three months there including 40 days of intensive terror
training learning how to make homemade bombs, use firearms and develop poisons.

Later they boasted to their co-conspirators how they had to dodge drone attacks
while testing bombs in the countryside.

While there, the pair made martyrdom videos and left them there for al-Qaeda to
release on their deaths.

The videos were never recovered but once home Naseer told the others some of
what he said.

"You people think that by making these cartoons of the prophet, peace be upon
him, you are going to defame him. No you'll never achieve this.

"The only thing you will achieve is suicide bombers on your streets spilling so
much blood that you will remember, you will have nightmares for the rest of your
lives."

What the Irfans did not know was that MI5 had picked up on them before their
second trip to Pakistan and, working with the West Midlands counter-terrorism
unit, were ready to watch their every move on their return in June 2011.

Once back, they began recruiting others to their cause and turned their
attention to raising money to fund their plot.

During July and August, and under the cover of Ramadan, they carried out street
collections in Birmingham claiming to be raising money for Muslim Aid.

They had a legitimate licence for one day's fundraising for the charity, but
they continued collecting, raising in the end up to £20,000, of which just
£1,500 was handed over to the charity.

At one stage, one of them even joked to a Muslim Aid worker how he is going to
have to bank the collection because he is "stealing so much money".

Joining in the collections were Ashik Ali, 27, Rahin Ahmed and Mujahid Hussain.

Ahmed, 28, was the chief fundraiser and it was he who joked with Muslim Aid,
with whom he had strong connections.

He was given responsibility for handling the money and tasked with turning it
into a much larger pot by investing it.

The money was to pay to send other would-be suicide bombers to Pakistan for
training and to buy the necessary guns and equipment to carry out the attack.

The gang also planned to open a religious shop to act as a "beautiful cover" for
their activities. It would sell Muslim literature at the front and double as a
bomb factory at the rear.

But the move had to be abandoned when the gang hit their first major obstacle.

Ahmed was not as effective in the investment world as he made out. He invested
some £12,000 in the foreign exchange markets and over the space of two weeks
lost £9,000 because of "unwise and incompetent commodities trading", the jury
heard.

At one stage he went to make a cup of tea and in the five minutes he was out the
room, he lost £3,000.

Ahmed tried to blame the turmoil with the euro and the collapse on the price of
gold for his failures but he was ostracised by the group.

He previously pleaded guilty to encouraging acts of terrorism, collecting money
for terrorism and assisting others to travel to Pakistan for terror training.

After the loss of funds, the group thought about taking out high interest payday
loans because they would not be around to have to pay them back.

Instead, Ashik Ali's council flat at 23 White Street became the gang's safe
house and bomb factory and was fitted with blackout curtains.

The police and MI5 had listening devices in the property as well as in Naseer's
VW Passat and Ahmed's Honda Civic.

Ashik Ali was already earmarked as a would-be suicide bomber, along with the two
Irfans, and now others were sent to Pakistan for training.

Ishaaq Hussain, 20, Shahid Khan, 20, Naweed Ali, 24, and Khobaib Hussain, 20,
went but they had not told their families where they were going.

Their trip ended almost as soon as it began after family members discovered what
was happening when one of them phoned home.

They contacted relatives in Pakistan who intervened and, as a result, the four
spent just one day at the terror camp and received no training.

All four have pleaded guilty to travelling to Pakistan for terror training.

Despite another set back, the Irfans and Ashik Ali proceeded as planned and
turned their attentions to developing a bomb at their base in White Street.

They bought a sports cold pack from which they planned to extract ammonium
nitrate and develop a bomb and talked about drilling in to the wall to mask the
noise when they came to test it.

Naseer wrote the key ingredients and formula for making the device on a piece of
paper.

Fortunately for the police, Ashik Ali was told to destroy the note but only
managed to partially burn it and the discarded remains were found in a bin when
the house was raided.

It contained words such as ammonium nitrate, powder and bulb, nail polish
remover, sulphuric acid, xplosives and detonator, syringe, if not pure then
heat, get out of aluminium, hydrogen peroxide and clean wounds.

Police also found chemistry books and evidence of explosives research on the
internet.

What the group had not realised prior to their arrest was that they had bought
the wrong cold pack and it did not contain ammonium nitrate but rather a
different chemical known as urea.

However, police believe if left any longer they would have realised and bought
the right packs.

Lectures from al-Qaeda's now dead Yemen chief Anwar al-Awlaki. were found on a
laptop and there was a copy of 7/7 bomber Siddique Khan's martyrdom video

At one stage they even discussed mixing poisons in hand cream and smearing it on
car and door handles to kill a "thousand" people but there is no evidence of
them pursuing that.

On another occasion Khalid talked about putting blades on the front of a car and
driving it in to a crowd - known in an al-Qaeda magazine as the "ultimate mowing
machine".

They also joked about driving around as suicide bombers "ready to take on
England" and were heard in one car pretending to be Formula One commentators and
racing against Jenson Button and Nigel Mansell.

In another recording, when some of the cell were watching footage of David
Cameron, Khalid: "You think about it, you're hitting his friends, in their home,
his friends innit, these were Cameron and everyone they're his friends."

He added: "We're doing it in the land of the Shaytan [Satan] in the belly's
whale [sic]. This is going to shake them all, all the Kaffir [non - believers]
that go to the pub and that."

And in a direct refence to Mr Cameron he was then heard saying: "Who are you
telling us, you uncircumcised woman?".

Naseer believed non-believers deserved to be attacked because they "have sex
like donkeys", take part in orgies and take drugs.

He said the whole world was **** and people deserved to be terrorised.

In one recording, Ali alluded to being a suicide bomber and even joked about him
and his co-defendants being the "Three Lions" in reference to the film Four
Lions, about hapless would - be suicide bombers.

By now Mujahid Hussian, 21, and two other men, who cannot be named for legal
reasons, were being actively encouraged to be suicide bombers.

Hussain has pleaded guilty to a charge of fundraising and failing to inform the
authorities.

The other two will stand trial at a later date.

By mid-September, police and MI5 concluded the gang had entered the practical
stage of trying to develop bombs and were fully intent on carry out their
attacks so they moved in.

After his arrest, Ali provided the most frank admissions of a would-be suicide
bomber that the police have known.

He said his job was to wear "to put on a jacket (suicide vest) and have a gun"
to "shoot people".

He said "soldiers" was one possible idea but later back tracked claiming he had
made that up and he never intended to go through with any attack.

In court, the Irfans created an elaborate defence claiming they were pretending
to be al-Qaeda linked and terrorist plotters to protect themselves.

They said rival gangs and others in the community thought they were members of
the Pakistani intelligence services and needed to create an image to ward them
off.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 21, 2013 Thursday 2:31 PM GMT

Suicide bomb gang guilty of plotting 'worst ever terror attack in Britain';
The ringleaders of an al-Qaeda backed British jihadi group have been found
guilty of plotting the worst terror attack on UK soil.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 573 words


The Birmingham-based gang planned to use eight suicide bombers, armed with guns,
to cause "mass death" and "carnage" on the streets of Britain.

They planned to cause more damage than the 7/7 London bombings and wanted to
carry out "another 9/11".

Police believe had they been successful it would have been the largest terrorist
atrocity on home soil.

Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid, 27, and Ashik Ali, 27, were today found guilty
of planning a terror campaign after a four and a half month trial at Woolwich
Crown Court.

They were also guilty of raising money for terrorism and recruiting others for a
terror act

Six other men linked to the plot have already pleaded guilty to related terror
offences.

Naseer and Khalid were also convicted of travelling to Pakistan for terror
training, where they made martyrdom videos to be released by al-Qaeda after they
had blown themselves up.

In a first for the UK, Naseer, a pharmacy graduate, had planned to extract
ammonium nitrate - used as main explosive - from sports injury cold packs.

Although no target was settled on, Ali told police they had planned to attack
soldiers but they also talked hitting "crowded places" and turning a Birmingham
street in to a "little war zone".

Detective Inspector Adam Gough, of the West Midlands counter terrorism unit,
said: "They were the real deal. They were committed, passionate extremists hell
bent on pursuing their intention of killing as many people as they could in
coordinated suicide bomb attacks.

"They not only had that intention, they also had the capability, capacity and
determination to make it a reality."

The men were secretly recorded by MI5 and police for two months in 2011 and were
heard criticising the July 7 bombers, who killed 52 innocent people, for not
doing "enough damage".

They also considered other forms of attack such a putting poison in hand cream
to rub on car and door handles or even putting blades on the front of a vehicle
and driving it in to a crowd of people.

The gang raised more than £20,000 by claiming to be collecting for Muslim Aid to
fund their atrocity but lost large parts of it after investing it in the foreign
exchange markets.

Rahin Ahmed, 28, the group's chief fund - raiser who lost the money had already
pleaded guilty to fundraising and helping other travel to Pakistan for terror
training.

Four other men, Naweed Ali, 24; Ishaaq Hussain, 20; Khobaib Hussain, 20 and
Shahid Khan, 20, have pleaded guilty to travelling to Pakistan in August 2011
for terrorist training.

Mujahid Hussain, 21, who was heavily involved in raising money for terrorism,
has pleaded guilty to a charge of fundraising.

Mr Justice Henriques told the trio that they will all face life in prison when
they are sentenced in April or May.

Speaking to Naseer, he said he had been convicted on "overwhelming evidence" and
that he will face "a very long minimum term".

The judge said: "You are a highly skilled bomb maker and explosives expert. Your
mindset was similarly manifest.

"You sought to persuade others that a terror plot here in this country was by
far preferable to fighting jihad abroad.

"The scale and extent of your ambition was similarly manifest. You were seeking
to recruit a team of somewhere between six and eight suicide bombers to carry
out a spectacular bombing campaign, one which would create an anniversary along
the lines of 7/7 or 9/11.

"It's clear that you were planning a terrorist outrage in Birmingham."

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 21, 2013 Thursday 2:02 PM GMT

Birmingham police: Terror trio were hell bent on killing as many people as
possible;
The bomb plotters had the means, the will and the know-how to carry out mass
murder in what a senior detective on the case says could have been the biggest
terror attack on the British mainland "in a generation".

BYLINE: By Alastair Good

LENGTH: 126 words


Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid, 27, and Ashik Ali, 27, have been found guilty of
leading a terrorist bomb plot that could have been bigger than the July 7 2005
atrocities.

They were "central figures" in an Islamic extremist plot to set off up to eight
rucksack bombs and possibly other devices on timers in crowded areas.

Police believe it was the most significant terror plot to be uncovered since the
2006 conspiracy to blow up transatlantic airliners using bombs disguised as soft
drinks.

Detective Inspector Adam Gough was a senior investigating officer in the case:

"They were the real deal. They were committed passionate extremists, hell bent
of pursuing their intentions of killing as many people as they could in
coordinated suicide bomb attacks."

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                    February 21, 2013 Thursday 11:27 AM  EST

3 CONVICTED OF PLOTTING 'CATASTROPHIC' TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 253 words


LONDON, Feb. 21 -- The Crown Prosecution Service issued the following
statements:

Ashik Ali, Ifran Khalid and Ifran Naseer were today convicted at Woolwich Crown
Court of a total of 12 counts of committing acts in preparation for a terrorist
attack.

Karen Jones, specialist counter terrorism prosecutor for the Crown Prosecution
Service, said: "These men had dangerous aspirations and whilst the precise
targets remained unclear, the potential for damage and loss of life from their
plot should not be underestimated.

"The evidence we put to the court showed the defendants discussing with awe and
admiration the attacks of 9/11 and 7/7. These terrorists wanted to do something
bigger, speaking of how 7/7 had 'gone a bit wrong'.

"Having travelled to Pakistan for expert training and preparation, Naseer and
Khalid returned to the UK where they discussed attacks involving up to eight
rucksacks. Had they not been stopped, the consequences would have been
catastrophic.

"We pieced together over 25,000 pages of served evidence with video and audio.
It was like a complex jigsaw puzzle leading to a strong and compelling case.
Today has shown that even when some preparation for acts of terrorism takes
place abroad, perpetrators can and will face justice in British courts.

"The success of this case is largely down to the close working between police,
the Security Service (MI5) and the CPS." For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 22, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The 'Just Do It' bomb plotters;
Home-grown terrorists planned gun and explosives attacks in public places but
MI5 followed their every move

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1116 words


IT WOULD have been the most devastating terrorist attack on British soil,
leaving hundreds of likely victims and carried out by al-Qaeda-inspired
home-grown Islamic fanatics.

Up to eight suicide bombers carrying backpacks filled with explosives and armed
with guns were to carry out attacks mirroring both the July 7 bombings and
Mumbai attacks. The jihadi gang planned to walk into crowded, public places
shooting indiscriminately before detonating their bombs.

Although no targets had been chosen, the 2012 Olympics may have been considered,
along with soldiers based in this country. The gang also talked of "hitting"
David Cameron's friends.

The plot was the most significant since the plans to blow up transatlantic
aircraft with liquid bombs in 2006 and would almost certainly have led to the
largest loss of life in a terrorist attack in Britain.

The ringleader, Irfan Naseer, 31, even criticised the July 7 suicide bombers,
who left 52 innocent people dead, for not doing "enough damage". He was secretly
recorded talking of "seven or eight in different places with timers on at the
same time, boom boom boom".

His deputy, Irfan Khalid, 27, talked about "revenge for everything, another
9/11", adding: "It's the four suicide bombers driving around ready to take on
England." He talked of turning a Birmingham road into a "little war zone". Ashik
Ali provided the gang's safe house and bomb factory at his council flat.

Brian Altman QC, prosecuting, told Woolwich Crown Court that the attacks would
have led to "maximum death and destruction" and "carnage in the name of Allah".

The driving force behind the plot was the "two Irfans". Naseer was called
"chubba'" or "big Irfan" because of his size, while Khalid was "little Irfan".

Naseer, a pharmacy graduate, came up with the idea of extracting ammonium
nitrate from dozens of sports injury cold packs to develop the main charge for
an explosive.

He used gyms, a charity shop and a mosque to recruit the rest of his terrorist
cell from among the back-to-back houses of Sparkhill in Birmingham.

He met his two co-defendants at premises known as the 24/7 Gym in 2007 and 2008,
before later joining a second club, the Darul Ihsaan (Place of Excellence),
where further gang members were recruited.

The two Irfans travelled to Pakistan in March 2009 and returned in December 2010
for what became a far more signifi-cant trip. After three months in Karachi they
established contact with al-Qaeda in Miranshah, a town in the unruly province of
North Waziristan.

They spent up to three months there, including 40 days of intensive terrorist
training learning how to make bombs, use firearms and develop poisons.

They made martyrdom videos to be released on their deaths in which Naseer
explained that the attacks would have been in revenge for the Danish cartoons
that mocked the prophet Mohammed.

The videos were never recovered but Naseer was secretly recorded telling his
colleagues what he had said. "You people think that by making these cartoons of
the Prophet, peace be upon him, you are going to defame him. No you'll never
achieve this," he said.

"The only thing you will achieve is suicide bombers on your streets spilling so
much blood that you will remember, you will have nightmares for the rest of your
lives."

But MI5 had picked up on the Irfans before their second trip to Pakistan and,
with the West Midlands counter-terrorism unit, watched their every move on their
return in June 2011.

Once back, the Irfans began recruiting others to their cause and raising money
to fund the plot and send others to Pakistan.

It is believed they raised at least £20,000 during street collections in
Birmingham in which they claimed to be raising money for Muslim Aid. Just £1,500
was handed over to the charity.

They were joined by Ali, 27, Rahin Ahmed, Mujahid Hussain and one other. Ahmed,
28, was the chief fund-raiser and the gang planned to open a religious shop to
act as a "beautiful cover" for their activities. But the move had to be
abandoned when Ahmed invested £12,000 in the foreign exchange markets and over
the space of two weeks lost £9,000.

He previously pleaded guilty to encouraging acts of terrorism, collecting money
for terrorism and assisting others to travel to Pakistan for terrorist training.

Operations were instead centred on Ali's flat, where the police and MI5
installed listening devices.

Ali and the two Irfans were already earmarked as suicide bombers and now others
were recruited at Darul Ihsaan - Ishaaq Hussain, 20, Shahid Khan, 20, Naweed
Ali, 24, and Khobaib Hussain, 20 - and sent to Pakistan for training.

Their trip ended almost as soon as it began after family members discovered what
was happening and relations were sent to bring them back. All four have pleaded
guilty to travelling to Pakistan for terrorist training.

Despite the setback, the Irfans and Ashik Ali proceeded as planned. They bought
a sports cold pack from which they planned to extract ammonium nitrate and
develop a bomb.

Naseer wrote down the ingredients and formula for making the device, and
produced a diagram for a detonator. Experts said it would have made a viable
bomb.

Ali was told to destroy the note but only partly burned it and the discarded
remains were found when the cell was arrested in September 2011.

What the group had not realised was that the cold pack they bought contained a
different chemical that would have made any bomb unviable.

The cell also discussed mixing poisons in hand cream and smearing it on car and
door handles to kill "a thousand people".

Khalid talked about putting blades on the front of a car and driving it into a
crowd - known in an al-Qaeda magazine as the "ultimate mowing machine".

They also joked about driving around as suicide bombers and were heard
pretending to be Formula One commentators and racing against Jenson Button and
Nigel Mansell.

Lectures from Anwar al-Awlaki, the al-Qaeda chief killed by a drone strike in
Yemen in 2011, were found on a laptop and there was a copy of the martyrdom
video made by Siddique Khan, the July 7 bomber. Awlaki's urging of independent
fanatics to "Just Do It" has led to such people being called "Nike terrorists".

Naseer said non-believers deserved to be attacked because they "have sex like
donkeys" and took drugs. They even joked about being the "Three Lions" in
reference to the film Four Lions about hapless would-be suicide bombers.

Mujahid Hussian, 21, and two other men, who cannot be named for legal reasons,
were being encouraged to be suicide bombers. Hussain has pleaded guilty to a
charge of fund-raising and failing to inform the authorities. The other two will
stand trial at a later date.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: From left: Irfan Naseer, the ringleader, Irfan Khalid, his deputy, and
Ashik Ali, who housed the bomb factory. After receiving training in Pakistan,
from where the two Irfans are pictured returning in 2011, they set about making
a device, using a syringe in the detonator, chemicals from a sports injury cold
pack, and following Naseer's instructions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            February 22, 2013 Friday

International: Car bomb kills 53 in Damascus as leaders of opposition debate
ways to end conflict: Children injured in attack blamed on terrorists: Document
signals peace role for US and Russia

BYLINE: Ian Black, Middle East editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 698 words


Syria's government blamed terrorists for a car bomb it said killed 53 people in
central Damascus near the headquarters of the ruling Ba'ath party yesterday, as
pressure mounted for talks between the government and opposition.

Children from a nearby school and Nayef Hawatmeh, leader of the Democratic Front
for the Liberation of Palestine, were among more than 230 people reportedly
injured in the blast in the Mazra'a district of the capital. The explosion also
damaged the Russian embassy.

Sana, the state news agency, said the perpetrators were supported by "America,
Zionism and some Gulf states".

The explosion shattered windows and sent up a huge plume of smoke that was
visible across much of Damascus, which has mostly avoided the large-scale
violence that has destroyed other Syrian cities. However, car bombings have
targeted government buildings before.

The Free Syrian Army, the main armed opposition group, denied responsibility for
the blast and blamed it on the Assad regime. Opposition media claimed that
emergency services vehicles were waiting nearby shortly before - a charge often
made after attacks of this kind.

The Syrian National Coalition (SNC), the main opposition political formation,
said the regime was responsible for causing "terror and instability".

Opposition sources reported two or three other explosions elsewhere in the city.
Fighting erupted in Barzeh between government and rebel forces, according to
al-Jazeera TV. Artillery fire was reported from Qaboun and the Yarmouk
Palestinian refugee camp. Video posted online by opposition activists showed
smoke rising from Mount Qassioun overlooking Damascus.

On the political front, the SNC reiterated its willingness to negotiate an
agreement to end the war but insisted the president could not be a part of a
settlement, according to a communique drafted for an opposition meeting.

The document makes no direct reference to Bashar Assad's removal, an apparent
softening of tone compared with past positions that have demanded that he step
down as a precondition for any talks.

The document, debated at a meeting of the opposition leadership starting in
Cairo yesterday, says Assad and his aides must be held accountable for bloodshed
that has claimed the lives of 70,000 people since March 2011. It also states
that any peace deal must be under the auspices of the US and Russia - a
significant detail that hints at the potential role the two UN security council
members could play.

The outcome of the meeting will be closely watched in the light of the recent
call by the SNC leader, Moaz al-Khatib, for talks with representatives of the
regime, specifically with vice-president Farouq al-Sharaa.

Khatib's proposal unleashed furious controversy in opposition ranks but he
appears to enjoy support from key figures in exile as well as in Syria. Khatib
also demanded the release of thousands of prisoners as a precondition. Khatib
subsequently clarified that any talks would only be about the departure of the
Assad regime. Lakhdar Brahimi, Syria envoy for the UN and the Arab League, has
been in talks with Khatib and colleagues.

Both Russia and the US appear to be hoping that talks will be held, though
Khatib has so far not responded to an invitation to visit Moscow when the Syrian
foreign minister, Walid al-Mualim, is there next week.

Washington and London are gambling on a shift in Russia's stubbornly pro-Assad
position at the UN. Sergei Lavrov, Russia's foreign minister, warned on
Wednesday that if the current situation in Syria continued, it would lead to the
destruction of the country.

"It is time to end this two-year conflict. Neither party can afford a military
solution because this is a path to nowhere, a path toward mutual extermination
among the people," Lavrov said.

In other developments, Britain's foreign secretary, William Hague, announced an
additional $17m (£11m) in aid to support Syrian refugees and host communities in
Lebanon, bringing the total UK aid to $30m. There are now nearly 300,000 Syrian
refugees in Lebanon.

Captions:

Security agents carry away a body after the car bombing in central Damascus. The
government said 53 people died in the blast and 230 were injured Photograph: AP

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            February 22, 2013 Friday

Terrorists plotted bomb attack bigger than 7/7'

BYLINE: Emma Mountford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 545 words


THREE men have been found guilty of leading a terrorist bomb plot that could
have been bigger than the 7/7 atrocities.

Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid, 27, and Ashik Ali, 27, all from Birmingham, were
convicted at Woolwich Crown Court of planning the spectacular campaign' to kill
as many people as possible.

Police believe it was the most significant terror plot to be uncovered since the
2006 conspiracy to blow up transatlantic airliners using bombs disguised as soft
drinks.

Inspired by hate preacher Anwar al-Awlaki's online sermons, the trio led an
al-Qaeda backed plot to set off bombs and other deadly weapons in crowded
shopping centres and railway stations across Britain.

Mr Justice Henriques told the trio that they will all face life in prison.

Speaking to Naseer, he said he had been convicted on overwhelming evidence' and
that he will face a very long minimum term'.

The judge said: You are a highly skilled bomb maker and explosives expert. Your
mindset was similarly manifest.

You sought to persuade others that a terror plot here in this country was by far
preferable to fighting jihad abroad. The scale and extent of your ambition was
similarly manifest. You were seeking to recruit a team of somewhere between six
and eight suicide bombers to carry out a spectacular bombing campaign, one which
would create an anniversary along the lines of 7/7 or 9/11.

There were calamitous moments as Naseer, 31, Khalid, 27 and Ali, 29, worked on
their murderous plot. They tried to raise money through bogus charity
collections but ended up losing thousands playing foreign currency markets and
had to apply for loans.

And a note setting out the requirements for their homemade explosives was
supposed to have been burned in a pan, but it was never properly destroyed.

It was Naseer's training in chemistry and later training at a Pakistani terror
camp which gave him the know-how to draw up a blueprint of a viable improvised
explosive device.

The men's plans were financed by fundraising under the guise of genuine Muslim
charities during Ramadan'.

They duped the local Birmingham charity Muslim Aid and a mosque into believing
they were collecting charity funds on their behalf but returned only a fraction
of the money donated to those causes, spending the rest on the bomb plot buying
a car and transferring money into their own bank accounts.

Preparing for their attack, Khalid and Naseer known as The Two Irfans twice
visited Pakistan and stayed at terrorist training camps between 2009 and 2011
where police believe they were schooled in bomb-making, poisons and firearms
training.

In April 2011, the West Midlands counter-terrorism unit began investigating the
men.

The investigation, known as Operation Examine/Pitsford, grew to be the
450-strong counter-terror unit's largest ever, resulting in 12 arrests and
smashing one of the most serious terror bomb plots of recent years. Police
evidence-gathering involved 24-hour surveillance and the bugging of the men's
safe house.

By September 16 2011, the three men were experimenting with chemicals and
home-made explosives'. Late on the night of September 18, officers swooped on
the men's car when it drove along a suburban street as they were heading out to
get takeaway food.

They are expected to be sentenced in April.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR TRIO Irfan Khalid, Irfan Naseer and Ashik Ali have been found
guilty of being central figures' in a bomb plot. Right, the note detailing bomb
making found at their safe house

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            February 22, 2013 Friday

Terrorists plotted bomb attack bigger than 7/7'

BYLINE: Emma Mountford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 545 words


THREE men have been found guilty of leading a terrorist bomb plot that could
have been bigger than the 7/7 atrocities.

Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid, 27, and Ashik Ali, 27, all from Birmingham, were
convicted at Woolwich Crown Court of planning the spectacular campaign' to kill
as many people as possible.

Police believe it was the most significant terror plot to be uncovered since the
2006 conspiracy to blow up transatlantic airliners using bombs disguised as soft
drinks.

Inspired by hate preacher Anwar al-Awlaki's online sermons, the trio led an
al-Qaeda backed plot to set off bombs and other deadly weapons in crowded
shopping centres and railway stations across Britain.

Mr Justice Henriques told the trio that they will all face life in prison.

Speaking to Naseer, he said he had been convicted on overwhelming evidence' and
that he will face a very long minimum term'.

The judge said: You are a highly skilled bomb maker and explosives expert. Your
mindset was similarly manifest.

You sought to persuade others that a terror plot here in this country was by far
preferable to fighting jihad abroad. The scale and extent of your ambition was
similarly manifest. You were seeking to recruit a team of somewhere between six
and eight suicide bombers to carry out a spectacular bombing campaign, one which
would create an anniversary along the lines of 7/7 or 9/11.

There were calamitous moments as Naseer, 31, Khalid, 27 and Ali, 29, worked on
their murderous plot. They tried to raise money through bogus charity
collections but ended up losing thousands playing foreign currency markets and
had to apply for loans.

And a note setting out the requirements for their homemade explosives was
supposed to have been burned in a pan, but it was never properly destroyed.

It was Naseer's training in chemistry and later training at a Pakistani terror
camp which gave him the know-how to draw up a blueprint of a viable improvised
explosive device.

The men's plans were financed by fundraising under the guise of genuine Muslim
charities during Ramadan'.

They duped the local Birmingham charity Muslim Aid and a mosque into believing
they were collecting charity funds on their behalf but returned only a fraction
of the money donated to those causes, spending the rest on the bomb plot buying
a car and transferring money into their own bank accounts.

Preparing for their attack, Khalid and Naseer known as The Two Irfans twice
visited Pakistan and stayed at terrorist training camps between 2009 and 2011
where police believe they were schooled in bomb-making, poisons and firearms
training.

In April 2011, the West Midlands counter-terrorism unit began investigating the
men.

The investigation, known as Operation Examine/Pitsford, grew to be the
450-strong counter-terror unit's largest ever, resulting in 12 arrests and
smashing one of the most serious terror bomb plots of recent years. Police
evidence-gathering involved 24-hour surveillance and the bugging of the men's
safe house.

By September 16 2011, the three men were experimenting with chemicals and
home-made explosives'. Late on the night of September 18, officers swooped on
the men's car when it drove along a suburban street as they were heading out to
get takeaway food.

They are expected to be sentenced in April.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR TRIO Irfan Khalid, Irfan Naseer and Ashik Ali have been found
guilty of being central figures' in a bomb plot. Right, the note detailing bomb
making found at their safe house

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            February 22, 2013 Friday

Terrorists plotted bomb attack bigger than 7/7'

BYLINE: Emma Mountford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 545 words


THREE men have been found guilty of leading a terrorist bomb plot that could
have been bigger than the 7/7 atrocities.

Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid, 27, and Ashik Ali, 27, all from Birmingham, were
convicted at Woolwich Crown Court of planning the spectacular campaign' to kill
as many people as possible.

Police believe it was the most significant terror plot to be uncovered since the
2006 conspiracy to blow up transatlantic airliners using bombs disguised as soft
drinks.

Inspired by hate preacher Anwar al-Awlaki's online sermons, the trio led an
al-Qaeda backed plot to set off bombs and other deadly weapons in crowded
shopping centres and railway stations across Britain.

Mr Justice Henriques told the trio that they will all face life in prison.

Speaking to Naseer, he said he had been convicted on overwhelming evidence' and
that he will face a very long minimum term'.

The judge said: You are a highly skilled bomb maker and explosives expert. Your
mindset was similarly manifest.

You sought to persuade others that a terror plot here in this country was by far
preferable to fighting jihad abroad. The scale and extent of your ambition was
similarly manifest. You were seeking to recruit a team of somewhere between six
and eight suicide bombers to carry out a spectacular bombing campaign, one which
would create an anniversary along the lines of 7/7 or 9/11.

There were calamitous moments as Naseer, 31, Khalid, 27 and Ali, 29, worked on
their murderous plot. They tried to raise money through bogus charity
collections but ended up losing thousands playing foreign currency markets and
had to apply for loans.

And a note setting out the requirements for their homemade explosives was
supposed to have been burned in a pan, but it was never properly destroyed.

It was Naseer's training in chemistry and later training at a Pakistani terror
camp which gave him the know-how to draw up a blueprint of a viable improvised
explosive device.

The men's plans were financed by fundraising under the guise of genuine Muslim
charities during Ramadan'.

They duped the local Birmingham charity Muslim Aid and a mosque into believing
they were collecting charity funds on their behalf but returned only a fraction
of the money donated to those causes, spending the rest on the bomb plot buying
a car and transferring money into their own bank accounts.

Preparing for their attack, Khalid and Naseer known as The Two Irfans twice
visited Pakistan and stayed at terrorist training camps between 2009 and 2011
where police believe they were schooled in bomb-making, poisons and firearms
training.

In April 2011, the West Midlands counter-terrorism unit began investigating the
men.

The investigation, known as Operation Examine/Pitsford, grew to be the
450-strong counter-terror unit's largest ever, resulting in 12 arrests and
smashing one of the most serious terror bomb plots of recent years. Police
evidence-gathering involved 24-hour surveillance and the bugging of the men's
safe house.

By September 16 2011, the three men were experimenting with chemicals and
home-made explosives'. Late on the night of September 18, officers swooped on
the men's car when it drove along a suburban street as they were heading out to
get takeaway food.

They are expected to be sentenced in April.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR TRIO Irfan Khalid, Irfan Naseer and Ashik Ali have been found
guilty of being central figures' in a bomb plot. Right, the note detailing bomb
making found at their safe house

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 22, 2013 Friday 2:19 PM GMT

India criticised for failing to prevent Hyderabad attack;
The Indian government is facing fierce criticism over its failure to prevent
Thursday's terrorist attack on Hyderabad after police and intelligence agencies
had warned of a possible strike three days earlier.

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson New Delhi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 411 words


Terrorist suspects also had earlier confessed to carrying out a reconnaissance
mission on the neighbourhood where 16 people were killed.

Sushil Kumar Shinde, the home minister, had earlier dismissed suggestions that
the government could have done more to foil the attacks and said the warnings
they had received - of a potential strike in Coimbatore, Bangalore or Hyderabad
- had been too vague for action.

But opposition MPs ridiculed the government over its failure to increase
security in Dilsukh Nagar and one asked the home minister how much more detail
he would need to act.

The row erupted after terrorists detonated two improvised explosive devices,
each attached to stainless steel tiffin lunch boxes on bicycles, which killed 16
people and wounded 117 close to a cinema and bus station in a busy market in
Hyderabad.

India's                      security services had been on alert for a terrorist
attack following the execution earlier this month of Mohammad Afzal Guru, a
Kashmiri militant convicted for aiding the 2001 terrorist attack on the Indian
parliament. His hanging earlier this month had provoked violent demonstrations
in Kashmir and warnings from Hafiz Saeed, the founder of the Lashkar e Taiba
terror group in Pakistan that his 'matyrdom' would not be in vain.

Detectives are investigating the possible involvement of Indian Mujahideen, a
local terrorist group linked to the Pakistan-based Lashkar e Taiba, in these
latest attacks.

Opposition leaders yesterday raised the issue of earlier police and intelligence
warnings of terrorist strikes to ask how the government had responded. In
October last year police revealed that suspected militants arrested in
connection with a terrorist attack in Pune had told them they had surveyed
Dilsukh Nagar as a potential target.

But reports yesterday suggested their warnings had either been forgotten or not
taken seriously - after the explosion it was discovered that the cable of a CCTV
camera in the area had been severed.

B. Raman, a former senior Indian intelligence officer, last night said he agreed
the warnings had not been sufficiently specific but the attacks had nevertheless
been a physical security and intelligence failure. Following the suspects'
confession that they had done reconnaissance in the area, the neighbourhood
should have been registered as vulnerable and a review of its security carried
out. "It shows a certain carelessness," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     February 22, 2013 Friday 12:01 AM GMT

Bungling bombers who plotted suicide attack deadlier than July 7 terror

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill and David Sanderson

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 1040 words


Three men who wanted to carry out "another 9/11 or 7/7" on the streets of
Britain face life in jail after being found guilty of terror offences yesterday.

Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid, 27 and Ashik Ali, 27, were the al-Qaeda-trained
ringleaders of a cell that wanted to cause death and mayhem using explosives,
firearms and poisons.

The trio, from Sparkhill, Birmingham, were convicted of 12 charges of preparing
acts of terrorism after a four-month trial at Woolwich Crown Court.

When their bomb factory was raided in September 2011, they had not decided on
their targets. But they had discussed killing British soldiers, murdering young
women because of the way they dressed and carrying out rucksack bombings in
crowded places.

Police found a partially burnt bomb-making recipe drawn up by Naseer, a
chemistry graduate. Had their plot not been thwarted, they might have carried
out an attack in Britain's Olympic year.

Naseer and Khalid had both received terrorism training in Pakistan during two
visits. They recorded "martyrdom videos" that were left with al-Qaeda contacts
and were to be released after they accomplished their missions.

Mr Justice Henriques said it was clear that the group was planning "a terrorist
outrage in Birmingham".

He said: "You were seeking to recruit a team of somewhere between six and eight
suicide bombers to carry out a spectacular bombing campaign, one which would
create an anniversary along the lines of 7/7 or 9/11."

The court was told that the scale of the terror cell's ambition was huge. They
thought that the July 2005 London attacks, which killed 52 people, had "gone a
bit wrong" because the bombers had not packed their devices with nails. The
group talked of filling rucksacks with explosives, machinegun assaults on
synagogues, killing British soldiers and smearing poisoned handcreams on car
door handles to "kill about 1,000 people". From the online al-Qaeda magazine
Inspire, they took the idea of fitting a truck with blades and driving into a
crowd of female charity workers. Khalid was caught by a listening device,
boasting: "We are doing it in the land of the Shaytan [Devil], in the whale's
belly, is going to shake them all."

On another occasion, as he drove his car, Khalid shouted to his passengers:
"It's the four suicide bombers, driving around ready to take on England."

Behind the bravado, however, was a level of incompetence that could have
featured in the black comedy film Four Lions. The men siphoned off £20,000 from
Muslim Aid street collections, with which they intended to speculate on foreign
exchange markets and build up funds to buy weapons.

But turmoil in the eurozone meantthat their associate, Rahin Ahmed, lost £9,000.
One £3,000 reversal occurred while he was away from his computer making a cup of
tea.

An ingredient for their bombs was to have come from sports injury cold packs,
but the group bought the wrong type, containing urea rather than ammonium
nitrate. They shopped for components on eBay using the e-mail address
"be_terror@yahoo.co.uk" and the username "terrorshop".

Alarmed, the police and MI5 mounted an investigation that, at its peak, involved
400 police and intelligence agents. It was the biggest anti-terrorist operation
in Britain since the 2006 airline liquid bomb plot was intercepted.

There were reasons to be concerned. Naseer and Khalid had been to "the heart of
the beast", as one security source put it, attending al-Qaeda camps near Miram
Shah in north Waziristan. There they had learnt how to make and detonate bombs,
hidden from US drones, and immersed themselves in the writings of Anwar
al-Awlaki, the American-born extremist cleric.

Referring to the controversy over cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad, Naseer said
in his intended suicide video: "You people think that by making this cartoon of
the Prophet you're going to defame him - no, you'll never achieve this. The only
thing you'll achieve is suicide bombers on your streets, spilling so much blood
that you will remember, you'll have nightmares for the rest of your miserable
lives."

Khalid said on his video: "This is revenge for everything. What we're doing is
another 9/11."

Unlike in the case of previous plots, however, when they returned to Britain
there was no "command and control" from al-Qaeda in Pakistan. They were left to
select their own targets. Security sources described it as a "fire and forget"
mission from al-Qaeda.

The men flew back from Pakistan in June 2011 but MI5 was watching closely. They
heard Naseer raging at his friends: "Why shouldn't we terrorise them . . . slags
everyhere and these whores . . . having sex like donkeys on the street . . .
it's Allah's Earth."

The authorities constantly assessed whether they could "let them run" or whether
they had to arrest them. Strike too early, when there might be no evidence with
which to mount a prosecution, and the group could walk away.

Detective Inspector Adam Gough, of West Midlands counter-terrorism unit, said
that the cell was the "real deal". "They discussed how much chemicals they would
need," he said. "Naseer referred to 'seven or eight in different places - boom,
boom, boom'."

The crunch came in September 2011 when the group began to use Ali's flat and MI5
heard discussions about bomb-making ingredients and detonation methods. A
security source said: "We believed they were just days or weeks away from making
a viable device." Police moved in late on September 18, 2011, as the cell
leaders drove to pick up a takeaway meal.

Over the next day, in a carefully planned, low-key operation, 14 more arrests
were made.

Marcus Beale, West Midlands Police assistant chief constable, said: "No one
should underestimate the seriousness of what these men were plotting. The link
to training camps demonstrates the international dimension of the threat we
continue to face and is a stark reminder that there are still groups within our
communities who are motivated to plan such acts."

Karen Jones, from the Crown Prosecution Service, said: "These men had dangerous
aspirations and, while the precise targets remained unclear, the potential for
damage and loss of life from their plot should not be underestimated."

Six other men from Birmingham have admitted terror offences in relation to the
plot.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            February 22, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Trio facing life in prison for plotting terror attack

BYLINE: TERRY GULL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 697 words


THREE men are facing life in prison after being found guilty of a terror plot to
detonate up to eight suicide bombs and possibly other devices on timers.

Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid, 27, and Ashik Ali, 27, all from Birmingham, were
convicted at Woolwich Crown Court of planning the attack, which could have been
bigger than the July 7 atrocities. Police believe it was the most significant
terror plot to be uncovered since the 2006 conspiracy to blow up transatlantic
airliners using bombs disguised as soft drinks. Khalid even boasted that the
attack was "another 9/11".

After the trio were found guilty, Mr Justice Henriques said that they will all
face life in prison when they are sentenced in April or May.

Speaking to Naseer, he said: "You are a highly skilled bomb maker and explosives
expert.

"You sought to persuade others that a terror plot here in this country was by
far preferable to fighting jihad abroad.

"The scale and extent of your ambition was similarly manifest. You were seeking
to recruit a team of somewhere between six and eight suicide bombers to carry
out a spectacular bombing campaign, one which would create an anniversary along
the lines of 7/7 or 9/11."

The judge told Khalid he was "virtually inseparable" from Naseer.

"You were very much his confidant and his right-hand man." He said to Ali: "I
had mistakenly formed the view that you were a rather foolish recruit to this
terrorist cell and rather less dangerous than your co-accused.

"You have dissuaded me from that view. You are intelligent, devious and highly
manipulative."

Naseer was found guilty of five counts of engaging in conduct in preparation of
terrorist acts, Khalid four, and Ali three, all between Christmas Day 2010 and
September 19, 2011.

For Naseer, from Sparkhill, Khalid, from Sparkbrook, and Ali, from Balsall
Heath, this included planning a bombing campaign, collecting money for terrorism
and recruiting others for terrorism. Naseer and Khalid also travelled to
Pakistan for training where they learned about bomb-making, poisons and
firearms, and Naseer helped others travel to the country for the same purpose.

Speaking outside court, Assistant Chief Constable Marcus Beale, from West
Midlands Police Counter Terrorism Unit, said that the trio were "extremely
dangerous".

He said: "They said, in their own words, that they were critical of the 7/7
bombers because they didn't kill enough people. They wanted to create their own
9/11.

"As a group, had they been able to achieve their objective, we think they would
have killed numerous people."

He said the local community did not have the information to tip police off about
the plot.

"Did they have that golden piece of information to say that these people were
really bad and planned to cause mayhem? I don't think they did."

Mr Beale added that officers did not believe Birmingham was definitely the
target for the attacks, after Mr Justice Henriques had suggested that it was.

"Our interpretation of the evidence was that they hadn't settled on any specific
target," the assistant chief constable said.

The group tried to fund their plot by posing as Muslim Aid charity street
collectors, duping legitimate supporters into giving them money.

They raised £12,000 for themselves in this way, but were forced to apply for
tens of thousands of pounds in loans after losing more than £9,000 of the money
playing foreign currency markets.

The charity said it had been "a victim of fraudulent activity", and had improved
the security of its street collections.

In surveillance recordings, Naseer was heard talking about the possibility of
mixing poison into creams such as Vaseline or Nivea and smearing them on car
handles to cause mass deaths.

The trio even pondered welding blades to a truck and driving it into people.

In a reference to the black comedy film, Ali also told his estranged wife Salma
Kabal: "Oh, you think this is a flipping Four Lions. We're one man short."

Six other men, who are also from Birmingham, have admitted terror offences in
relation to the plot.

They are Rahin Ahmed 26, from Moseley; Mujahid Hussain, 21, from Yardley; Naweed
Ali, 25, Ishaaq Hussain, 21, Khobaib Hussain, 22, and Shahid Khan, 21, all from
Sparkhill.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A West Midlands Police photograph of Irfan Nasser, Rahin Ahmed and
Irfan Khalid street collecting to fund their terror plot
Irfan Khalid, left, Irfan Naseer, centre and Ashik Ali were accused by police of
wanting to create "their own 9/11"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            February 22, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terrorists boasted suicide bomb attacks would create 'another 9/11'

BYLINE: MARGARET DAVIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 711 words


Three men are facing life in prison after being found guilty of a terror plot to
detonate up to eight suicide bombs and possibly other devices on timers. Irfan
Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid, 27, and Ashik Ali, 27, all from Birmingham, were
convicted at Woolwich Crown Court of planning the attack, which could have been
bigger than the July 7 atrocities.

Police believe it was the most significant terror plot to be uncovered since the
2006 conspiracy to blow up transatlantic airliners using bombs disguised as soft
drinks. Khalid even boasted that the attack was "another 9/11".

After the trio were found guilty yesterday, Mr Justice Henriques said that they
will all face life in prison when they are sentenced in April or May.

Speaking to Naseer, he said: "You are a highly skilled bomb maker and explosives
expert. You sought to persuade others that a terror plot here in this country
was by far preferable to fighting jihad abroad. The scale and extent of your
ambition was similarly manifest. You were seeking to recruit a team of somewhere
between six and eight suicide bombers to carry out a spectacular bombing
campaign, one which would create an anniversary along the lines of 7/7 or 9/11."

The judge told Khalid he was "virtually inseparable" from Naseer.

"You were very much his confidant and his right-hand man."

He said to Ali: "I had mistakenly formed the view that you were a rather foolish
recruit to this terrorist cell and rather less dangerous than your co-accused.
You have dissuaded me from that view. You are intelligent, devious and highly
manipulative."

Naseer was found guilty of five counts of engaging in conduct in preparation of
terrorist acts, Khalid four, and Ali three, all between Christmas Day 2010 and
September 19 2011.

For Naseer, from Sparkhill, Khalid, from Sparkbrook, and Ali, from Balsall
Heath, this included planning a bombing campaign, collecting money for terrorism
and recruiting others for terrorism.

Naseer and Khalid also travelled to Pakistan for training where they learned
about bomb-making, poisons and firearms, and Naseer helped others travel to the
country for the same purpose.

Speaking outside court, Assistant Chief Constable Marcus Beale, from West
Midlands Police Counter Terrorism Unit, said that the trio were "extremely
dangerous".

He said: "They said, in their own words, that they were critical of the 7/7
bombers because they didn't kill enough people. They wanted to create their own
9/11."

The group tried to fund their plot by posing as Muslim Aid charity street
collectors, duping legitimate supporters into giving them money.

They raised £12,000 for themselves in this way, but were forced to apply for
tens of thousands of pounds in loans after losing more than £9,000 of the money
playing foreign currency markets.

Six other men, who are also from Birmingham, have admitted terror offences in
relation to the plot. They are Rahin Ahmed 26, from Moseley; Mujahid Hussain,
21, from Yardley; Naweed Ali, 25, Ishaaq Hussain, 21, Khobaib Hussain, 22, and
Shahid Khan, 21, all from Sparkhill.

Police were not tipped off about threat Nobody in the bomb plotters' own
community tipped the police off with their concerns, despite finding out they
were sending young men to terror training camps in Pakistan.

At no point during the 18-month investigation by the West Midlands
counter-terrorism unit did anyone in Birmingham's Muslim community inform on the
behaviour of Irfan Naseer, Irfan Khalid and Ashik Ali, raising questions over
the health of relations between officers and community leaders.

This was despite the fact the families of four other young men recruited from
Sparkhill all intervened to bring them back home the moment they found out the
real reasons for them travelling to Pakistan.

Detective Inspector Adam Gough, senior investigating officer, said the extended
families of the four men had "become aware" of why they went to Pakistan but, in
any case, "did not tell us".

"We know that they did reach a training camp," Mr Gough said. "But it is a
success story in that the families did bring those people back and it shows the
vast majority of the community abhor terrorism in the same way we do."

'They were critical of the 7/7 bombers because they didn't kill enough people'
Chief Constable Marcus Beale

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Irfan Khalid was Irfan Naseer's confidant and right-hand man
Irfan Naseer was a skilled bomb maker and explosives expert
Ashik AliI was 'intelligent, devious and highly manipulative'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2013 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Coventry Telegraph

                           February 23, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Attack terror for woman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 106 words


A WOMAN was assaulted as she walked home across a recreation ground in Nuneaton.

She had been followed by a group of men after leaving a Chinese takeaway in
Queen's Road.

After going along Beaumont Road, Vernons Lane and Barpool Road, she turned down
an alleyway to cut through Tomkinson Road playing fields. It was then that one
of the men carried out the attack.

He is described as aged about 19, with a muscular but slim build, light brown
skin and wearing tracksuit bottoms and a Chicago Bulls hat.

The incident was between 8-9pm on either Thursday, January 17 or Thursday,
January 24.

Anyone with information should contact 01926 415000.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2013 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 23, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terrorist attack warnings 'ignored';
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 77 words


The Indian government is facing fierce criticism over its failure to prevent
Thursday's terrorist attack on Hyderabad, which killed 16 people, after police
and intelligence agencies had warned three days earlier of a possible strike.

Security services had been on alert, but reports yesterday suggested the
warnings had either been forgotten or not taken seriously. After the explosion
it was discovered that the cable of a CCTV camera in the area had been severed.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 23, 2013 Saturday
                                 Third Edition

Birmingham terror suspects deny plotting EDL attack;
COURTS

BYLINE: JENNIFER COCKERELL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 197 words


Six men appearing in court in connection with terrorism charges pleaded not
guilty yesterday.

Jewel Uddin, 27, Omar Mohammed Khan, 28, Mohammed Hasseen, 23, Anzal Hussain,
24, and Mohammed Saud and Zohaib Ahmed, both 22, all appeared via prison
video-link at Woolwich Crown Court in south-east London charged under Section
5(1) of the Terrorism Act 2006.

They are jointly accused of preparing an act or acts of terrorism between 1 May
and 4 July last year.

The men, all from Birmingham, face an allegation that they took part in
activities including the manufacture of an improvised explosive device, the
acquisition of firearms and the purchase of motor vehicles connected with the
charges.

The charges follow a series of arrests by the West Midlands Counter Terrorism
Unit, assisted by the North East Counter Terrorism Unit.

Mr Uddin, Mr Khan and Mr Hasseen were arrested after a routine stop of a Renault
Laguna by police on the M1 near Sheffield on 30 June. It was alleged that a
cache of weapons was found in the vehicle along with a note addressed to the
English Defence League, which was planning a rally in South Yorkshire that day.

A provisional trial date has been set for 7 May.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Plymouth Herald

                           February 23, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Key witness recalls terror of mob attack

BYLINE: CARL EVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 740 words


THE mother caught up in the racist attack has said she is pleased her attackers
have not been jailed as 'they have young children... and those children need
their mothers'.

The mother's words were relayed to The Herald by the key witness in the case and
family friend, who has asked to be identified only as HK.

She was called by the mother as the family became increasingly fearful of the
raging mob near to the Istanbul kebab shop.

HK said she accompanied the husband as he went to his car by the pub to make a
delivery, leaving the mother, her 14-year-old daughter and eight-week old baby
boy at the shop.

HK said: "The mob were shouting 'Allah is a paedo'.

The husband said to them he was just trying to do his job, but he couldn't
reason with them. I could see they were working themselves up, chanting 'EDL'. I
told him to get into his car as they threw glasses and as I raced back to the
shop, telling everyone to get inside, they were all behind me. There was me
between the family and the mob. The daughter was shouting 'leave my dad alone'
and they told her to '**** off you Muslim s**g'.

"I'd called the police, saying 'we're being attacked by a racist mob' - they
could hear everything. The men were throwing glasses into the shop. I was
screaming at the family to get out the back - I didn't know how long I could
hold the door.

The family were at the back, crying. They said they didn't want to leave me
behind. I phoned the police again and told them to record what they heard,
record what happened to us when the mob got in."

HK said when the police arrived Wells and Watterson went in a different
direction to the mob. HK said she kept the door shut until police wielding
Tasers had deployed dogs and moved the mob back to the Wild Coyote pub.

As she opened the door, she spotted the pair walking past so she raced to an
officer and pointed them out.

She said: "They were swearing and shouting, even when they were taken to the
floor.

"When we went to the police station we all had glass in our clothes. Glass was
all over the baby boy.

"It was terrifying. I've done Human Rights work in conflict zones but this mob
were out of control." She said the husband sold his store for fear of being
attacked again.

HK said: "Every time he did a delivery, he was afraid it would be one of them,
fitting him up. He said he would sometimes turn around [on a delivery] because
he was so scared. I called the mother to tell her the sentence and she said:
'I'm very happy they've not gone to prison because I know they have young
children and babies and those children need their mothers with them.' "It shows
this family are worlds apart from the mob. When I told her she was being very
gracious, she said: 'You have to be kind to people - you can't be the same as
them."' 'THERE IS NO PLACE TO HIDE FOR RACIST HATE-MONGERS IN OUR CITY' THE
city's top police officer, Chief Supt Andy Bickley, said racism had no place in
Plymouth.

Responding to the case, he said: "These offences were extremely serious and led
to a thorough police investigation undertaken by specialist hate crime
detectives. The evidence was presented to the court and we've finally seen
convictions.

"I'd like to thank the witnesses who had the courage to give evidence and
support our investigation. It was a hugely intimidating and frightening
experience for the witnesses and the family.

"Many in the community may question the severity of sentences and the message it
sends.

"It's not for the police to question the decision of the courts.

"However, the sentences should not in any way detract from how seriously we have
taken this case and the efforts we've made to bring it to court for the evidence
to be presented. "A conviction for racism is nothing to be proud of and a shadow
of shame will haunt them for the rest of their lives. The victims have been
supported throughout the case by police and other agencies. It is shameful this
level of intimidation and hate contributed to their decision to leave the city.
We've lost not only a business, but also a hardworking family.

"The majority of Plymothians work hard to make this a welcoming city and we
mustn't lose sight of this. "I will not tolerate or accept this kind of
criminality. Those that choose to do this or support it in any way need to know
there will be no place to hide.

"People who are victims of any kind of hate crime can contact police, or our
partner agencies or Crimestoppers and they will be supported."

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PLH


                       Copyright 2013 The Plymouth Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 24, 2013 Sunday

Turkish police averts 284 terrorist attacks in three years due to wiretapping

LENGTH: 673 words


Text of report in English by Turkish privately-owned, mass-circulation daily
Hurriyet website on 23 February

A police report submitted to a parliamentary panel indicates that 284 terrorist
attacks have been averted and 138 bombers have been arrested thanks to
intelligence the police department has gathered through legal wiretapping.

Parliament's Eavesdropping Examination Commission started its works this week,
with senior police and military intelligence officers providing information on
how they used technical devices to stop criminal activities. Gursel Aktepe,
deputy head of the intelligence Department of the Police and Colonel Fuat Guney,
head of the Gendarmerie Technical intelligence Unit, briefed the commission on
Feb. 21.

Known as the "bug commission," the panel has been established upon the request
of opposition parties, after Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan revealed that
the secret service had discovered that his home and office were being listened
in on by anonymous persons. The commission started to work, first of all getting
information from security institutions that use legal wiretapping as part of
their daily work.

'138 bombers arrested'

As a result of the legal wiretapping of more than 1,000 phones and physical
surveillance in 2,300 cases, the police captured 125 kilograms of explosives,
four automatic rifles, seven rifles, eight pistols, and arrested 17 members of
al-Qaeda, Aktepe said. He added that the police's pursuit of al-Qaeda had taken
seven years to reach this result.

The number of terrorist attacks prevented in the last three years is 284 and the
number of bombers who were arrested before they could perpetrate bombing attacks
is 138, Aktepe said, adding that hundreds of kilograms of explosives and
chemical materials havd been captured in operations against terrorists.

A striking piece of information given by Aktepe was that six members of the
outlawed Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP/C) were arrested in
March last year, before they were able to commit terrorist attacks against the
house of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The police also nixed DHKP/C
members' plans to assassinate former justice minister Hikmet Sami Turk,
according to Aktepe.

Stressing that legal wiretappings constituted an important instrument in the
police's fight against criminal gangs, Aktepe said 26 tons of drugs, 1,099
weapons, 55 million Turkish Liras' worth of fake currency, more 1,200,000 opiate
drugs, and around 5,000 stolen artifacts have been taken in police operations.
Around 6,500 persons have been arrested as part of these operations.

Deputy head of the Telecommunication Directorate Nihat sen also informed the
commission members on the technicalities of wiretapping and how they could take
measures against it if they suspected it was being used against themselves.
Instead of using hi-tech android mobile phones, sen advised lawmakers to use
simple phones and told them to count the number of text messages they sent every
day. "if the number of SMS indicated in your account is higher than you actually
send, then it may be evidence that you are being wiretapped. Because your phone
conversations are sent via SMS to those who wiretap you," he explained.

During the commission's work, Hasip Kaplan, a lawmaker from the Peace and
Democracy Party (BDP) asked police officers whether they were taking care about
simple devices that could be used in wiretapping and which could be easily found
on the markets. Police officers replied that these devices could not be found in
markets and that it was not easy to purchase one, but Kaplan challenged them.

He called an online dealer of such devices and negotiated with the seller,
putting his phone on loudspeaker so the commission could hear. "if you buy this
device, you can easily wiretap. We have a lot of devices that would meet your
needs," the seller told Kaplan, who later urged police officers to take
efficient precautions in stopping the sale of such devices.

Source: Hurriyet website, Istanbul, in English 23 Feb 13

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     February 24, 2013 Sunday 10:51 PM GMT

Centre and states must share intelligence to thwart terror attacks, minister
says

BYLINE: MAIL TODAY BUREAU

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 445 words


Days after twin bomb blasts ripped through a marketplace in Hyderabad, Union
minister Sachin Pilot said the coordination between the central and state
governments on intelligence gathering needs to be improved.

Pilot, however, appealed to the Opposition and other groups not to politicise
the tragedy.

"There should be more collaboration and coordination between the Centre and
states on intelligence gathering; and the security apparatus in the country has
to work harder to achieve this. But let's not politicise a tragedy," he told
Rahul Kanwal in Aaj Tak's Seedhi Baat programme.

"The horrific blasts in Hyderabad are an attack on India, and we should unitedly
condemn the terror strikes," he added.

As the blame game escalates between the Andhra government and the Union home
ministry over missed terror alerts, Pilot said: "I don't think a two-line
message was issued from (home minister Sushil Kumar) Shinde's office.

"The state government also has a security apparatus in place comprising local
intelligence officers and CID. It's also their job to act."

On the National Counter Terrorism Centre (NCTC), which is stuck in a limbo, the
young Congress leader said the proposed anti-terror agency has been a victim of
a turf war between non-Congress states and the central government.

"The government decisively wants to act on NCTC, but Indian democracy has a
federal structure. Several states are opposing the nodal anti-terror agency as
they see it as an encroachment on their rights. We are particularly facing
opposition from Opposition-ruled states and we have to convince them," said
Pilot, who holds the corporate affairs portfolio.

On whether it's time for Shinde to quit office, he said: "I don't want to
comment on what Shinde said after the blasts. The government doesn't belong to
one person. Those in office have to understand their responsibility and feel the
pulse of the people and the ground situation."

An eloquent member of Rahul Gandhi's GenNext brigade, Pilot defended the
Congress vice-president's abysmal track record in Parliament.

"Just asking questions in Parliament does not make a mass leader. Rahul is the
inspiration behind government's policies, including the food bill, RTI or right
to education. The government executes his policy blueprint. He silently works
through the party."

But, can Rahul match up to Modi in the run-up to the mother of all battles in
2014?

"Modi is a regional satrap. His influence is restricted to Gujarat while Rahul
has a nationwide appeal and acceptance.

"Can Modi campaign in Kerala or Kashmir? If Modi has such a sweeping popularity,
why is the BJP dithering on declaring him as the PM's face?" Pilot said.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           February 26, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;

Mother's terror as family flee arson attack on home

BYLINE: DONNA DEENEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 516 words


A WOMAN has spoken of her terror as she and her two children were forced to flee
their home in the middle of the night after an arson attack.

Several neighbours including a man confined to a wheelchair were also evacuated
from their homes in the Creggan area of Londonderry because of the intensity of
the fire and the danger of oil tanks igniting.

Andrena Wilson wept at the thought of what could have happened if the fire that
razed a purpose-built storage shed at her home had spread.

She said she and her 17-year-old son and daughter aged 13 have been unable to
sleep since the attack.

Ms Wilson said the arsonists didn''t care if they were burned alive in the home
they have lived in for the past nine years.

The tearful mother pleaded with whoever carried out the attack to admit what
they have done and leave her and her family in peace.

She said: "I have lived here for nine years, this is our home, but now I can''t
even sleep in my bed I am so scared that whoever did this will come back and
burn us in our beds.

"There is no reason in this world why someone would target us.

"The only thing I can think is that my son''s scrambler bike was stolen a few
weeks ago but we got it back, and I think they came for that again but couldn''t
get it because I had it chained up.

"My gut instinct is that when they saw that, they decided that if they couldn''t
get the scrambler then no one was going to have it, and they set fire to the
shed.

"The shed was full of flammable things. There was a petrol strimmer and paint
and other stuff and it was completely terrifying watching the flames rise higher
and higher."

"  One of Andrena's neighbours, returning from work in the early hours of Friday
morning, spotted the flames and rang the Fire Service before alerting her and
her neighbours who were all evacuated before 5am.

The time of the fire leads Andrena to believe that this was not the work of
young children.

She added: "This is a quiet culde-sac and it''s not somewhere you pass by, you
have to come here intentionally, which makes me think that they singled me out.

"They meant to come here and I don''t think that it would have been young people
because it was 4.30am.

"That is a very scary thought. The firemen said another 10 minutes and the fire
would have reached my neighbours' oil tank and they could have been killed, and
that is what upsets me so much.

"It''s not the loss of the shed and everything in it, it''s the thought that my
neighbours or my own children could have been burned alive and I would have
blamed myself if that had happened.

"My next door neighbour is in a wheelchair and maybe his wife would not have
been able to get him out in time, and they have a wee young girl.

"I'"I'm too scared to sleep now at night in case they come back."

Local councillor Jim Clifford said anyone with information should take it to the
police.

He said: "Lives were put at risk here, there is not a shadow of a doubt about
that, and someone must have noticed something.

"Anyone arriving home at the early hours of the morning or with clothes smelling
of accelerant or smoke should raise suspicions."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Andrena Wilson and her burnt-out shed MARTIN MCKEOWN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2013 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           February 26, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Taxi driver's terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 276 words


A CABBIE has told a jury how he was punched in the face during a late-night
robbery.

Iftikhar Muhammad, 43, was giving evidence at Bradford Crown Court yesterday at
the trial of 25-year-old Richard William Powe who has denied being responsible
for the attack.

Powe, of Aysgarth Avenue, Lightcliffe, Brighouse, made contact with the police
himself after a still image from CCTV equipment was published in the local
press, but during questioning he denied robbing Mr Muhammad.

The prosecution has alleged that Powe was picked up by Mr Muhammad's taxi at the
Turkish Delight takeaway in Brighouse last April.

As they travelled towards a pub in Lightcliffe, Powe is alleged to have told the
driver to turn on to Aysgarth Avenue.

Giving evidence from behind a screen and with the assistance of an interpreter
Mr Muhammad alleged that his passenger verbally abused him and when he tried to
use his radio to contact his base the man grabbed it from him.

Mr Muhammad described how the taxi passenger then snatched about £70 to £80 in
notes from his jacket pocket before punching him once in the face causing his
nose to bleed.

The complainant said he felt very scared and as he tried to use his mobile phone
the man also took that from him.

Mr Muhammad, who described his passenger as a muscular skinhead, told the court
how he ran from his vehicle leaving his keys behind.

"I was too scared ... I just wanted to save my own life and I ran off," Mr
Muhammad told the jury.

Powe has pleaded not guilty to robbing the taxi driver of his night's takings
and mobile phone.

During a police interview Powe said he paid his fare for the taxi that night and
went home.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           February 26, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cabbie's attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 71 words


A TERRIFIED taxi driver told how he was attacked and robbed by a passenger in
Brighouse.

Cabbie Iftikhar Muhammad gave evidence to a court from behind a screen as
Richard Powe went on trial accused of robbery.

He was said to have punched the driver in the face and then stolen between £70
and £80.

Mr Muhammad said: "I just wanted to save my own life and I ran off."

Powe, of Lightcliffe, has denied the charge.

? Full story - Page 3

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 26, 2013 Tuesday 5:33 PM GMT

Radical preacher's al-Qaeda sermons still on YouTube, MPs warn;
The radical sermons of al-Qaeda preacher Anwar al-Awlaki are still easily
available on YouTube, MPs warned, despite his influence on a new breed of
terrorists plotting to attack Britain.

BYLINE: By Wesley Johnson Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 462 words


Keith Vaz, chairman of the Commons home affairs select committee, said he found
addresses by al-Awlaki, the al-Qaeda preacher killed in a drone attack in Yemen,
were still available on the site on Tuesday.

It comes after a judge heard last week that a gang of terrorists convicted for
plotting to attack Britain with suicide bombs were heavily influenced by the
dead Yemeni-based preacher.

His encouragement of people to launch attacks however they could spawned a new
breed of self-motivated fanatics nicknamed in the intelligence world as the
"Nike terrorists" because of the sports brand's motto, "Just Do It".

Mr Vaz, who is leading the committee's inquiry into e-crime, said: "The
preaching of Anwar al-Awlaki, who was head of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,
are still on YouTube and those addresses, some of which could be seen to be
inciting religious and racial hatred, are still on YouTube.

"Why is it that they are retained on there, given the record of that
individual?"

Sarah Hunter, head of UK public policy for Google, which runs YouTube, said: "We
in no way condone the use of YouTube for terrorist content and to that end we
have very strict community guidelines that go way beyond the law.

"So when a user flags to us there is content on there that is breaking those
guidelines, we review that content and we take it down.

"These flags are reviewed within the hour, so it's a very quick process."

With 72 hours of video being uploaded every minute, it was the most efficient
and effective way of stopping inappropriate content, she added.

But the committee members suggested that social media sites were not taking
enough action to prevent abusive and inappropriate content from being put
online.

Labour MP David Winnick said sites including YouTube and Twitter were "open
really to any hate merchants until, fortunately, hopefully, someone flags it
up".

Sinead McSweeney, director of public policy for Twitter, said: "The problem is
taking the bad speech away doesn't remove the thoughts from somebody's mind,
doesn't remove the sentiments from society and sometimes it is better to see
those thoughts and see them challenged, than to just remove them from the public
mind and the public view."

But Labour MP Steve McCabe accused her of "coming dangerously close to
describing yourself as the innocent arch facilitator" with little responsibility
for the actions of Twitter trolls.

The MPs warnings came after Irfan Naseer, Irfan Khalid, and Ashik Ali, all from
Birmingham, were found guilty at Woolwich Crown Court last week of planning an
attack that could have been bigger than the July 7 atrocities.

The three men viewed videos of al-Awlaki, once said to be number three to Osama
bin Laden, who was killed in a US unmanned drone strike in Yemen in September
2011.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 27, 2013 Wednesday 6:25 PM GMT

7/7 survivor tells how he met wife in bomb aftermath;
A survivor of the July 7 London Underground and bus bombings has told how love
triumphed in the wake of the terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Richard Alleyne

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 424 words


Bruce Lait, 39, a professional dancer, was on his way to a rehearsal for the
Simply Ballroom show when the explosion ripped through his carriage, killing
seven people.

Mr Lait, who suffered cuts, burns and perforated eardrums in the attack, debated
with his dance partner Crystal Yelland whether to carry on with their parts in
the performance.

But they decided the show must go on and it was on the tour that Mr Lait met his
future wife, with whom, eight years later, he now has two children.

Mr Lait related the romance as he joined the Queen in opening a new hospital
block in London.

Speaking after he met the Queen at the Royal London Hospital in Whitechapel,
east London, he said: "We didn't get there that day to the rehearsals and we
were thinking afterwards if it the show was something we wanted to do.

"There was a chance we were not going to carry on with that show.

"After the bombing we did not want anything to do with our previous lives.

"But we did the show and my wife was there.

"She was performing gymnastics in another show that was running alongside our
show and we met there."

Mr Lait, now a dance teacher, had travelled to London from Ipswich for a
rehearsal for the show and was in the second carriage of the Circle Line train
when the bomb went off.

He told the 2010 inquest into the 7/7 attack how he held the hand and tried to
comfort 29-year-old solicitor Fiona Stevenson, from Little Baddow, in Essex,
before she died in his lap.

He suffered burns and cuts and two perforated eardrums, only one of which fully
healed, leaving him partially deaf.

At the same time Mrs Yelland was sitting partially covered by the body of
24-year-old Carrie Taylor, from Billericay in Essex, a finance officer at the
Royal Society of Arts.

Mr Lait said that afterwards the two considered dropping out of the show before
deciding to carry on in a bid to get away from what they had experienced.

But they carried on.

It was while they were on tour in Blackpool, Lancashire, that he met Ildiko
Balog, now 35, a Hungarian gymnast who competed at the Olympic Games in
Barcelona in 1992 and four years later in Atlanta.

She was working on another show at the same venue and they met in the wardrobe
department.

They now have two children, Izabell, four, and nine-month-old Benjamin.

Mrs Yelland, who is still dancing and is currently touring the country with
Strictly star Brendan Cole's Licence To Thrill stage show, was known as Crystal
Main at the time of the atrocity.

She attended the hospital with husband Leon today when she met the Queen.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 28, 2013 Thursday

Kazakhstan condemns recent terror attacks in India's Hyderabad

LENGTH: 157 words


Text of report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 28 February: The Kazakh Foreign Ministry has condemned an act of
terrorism committed in the Indian city of Hyderabad, which killed civilians.

"Kazakhstan condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Kazakhstan
supports the idea of making collective efforts by the international community to
combat this phenomenon and calls for the early adoption of a comprehensive
convention on fighting against international terrorism," says a statement
released by the Kazakh Foreign Ministry today.

The Kazakh Foreign Ministry expresses deep condolences to the government and
people of India in connection with the deaths of Indian citizens and wishes
speedy recovery to the injured in the attack.

As you know, last week two bomb blasts in the Indian city of Hyderabad led to
the death of 20 people.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 1003 gmt 28 Feb 13

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Illford Recorder

                           February 28, 2013 Thursday

Spurs fan's terror at 'Nazi' thug attack

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 314 words


'An Ilford man witnessed last week's brutal attack on Tottenham Hotspur fans in
a Lyon bar which left three of them in hospital.

James Taylor, 22, drove through the night for Thursday's Europa League second
round clash and was in the Smoking Dog pub when up to 50 masked thugs smashed
the doors in what was thought to be an anti-Semitic attack. They made Nazi
salutes and threw chairs around at 10.30pm on the eve of the tie. There was
blood on the bar and the owners barricaded the pub between the two waves of
attacks.



Mr Taylor said: "It was pre-meditated, pre-arranged. It was nothing to do with
Spurs fans. We were in the pub having a few drinks at about 10pm. There were
about 150 Spurs fans singing. It was all in good nature.

"Then there was a bang. We ignored the first one and there was a second one,
suddenly. The windows were smashed and stools were thrown into the pub. We ran
back to hide.

"We were stuck in the back of the pub for about half an hour. We were worried.

"No Spurs fans were violent or too drunk."

Three fans were taken to hospital, one with a head injury. It came three months
after Tottenham fans were attacked in Rome before they faced Lazio.

Rabbi Richard Jacobi, of Woodford Liberal Synagogue in Marlborough Road, South
Woodford, fears the rise of far-right groups in Europe could lead to more
anti-Semitic attacks.

He said: "Tottenham Hotspur is identified as a Jewish club and using the word
"Yids" excites controversy.

"But I think it's become something entirely different to a racial identity for
the fans.

"The issue is what reaction it draws from other people but it's no different to
someone saying they're Jewish."

Rabbi Jacobi said security authorities and UEFA should do more to guard against
racism and anti-Semitism in football.

Spurs drew 1-1 with Lyon.

Police later arrested three men. One was a member of a far-right group and two
were Lyon "hooligans".

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ILF


                    Copyright 2013 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                                 March 1, 2013

Four admit discussing terror attack

SECTION: NEWS - NORTH OF ENGLAND

LENGTH: 70 words


Four men have admitted discussing carrying out a terror attack in the UK using
homemade bombs and firearms.

Zahid Iqbal, 31, Mohammed Sharfaraz Ahmed, 25, Umar Arshad, 24, and Syed Farhan
Hussain, 21, considered methods, materials and targets for an attack.

The men were arrested following a series of raids in April last year at their
homes in Luton.

They pleaded guilty to one terrorism charge at Woolwich Crown Court today.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Loughborough Echo

                                 March 1, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

COUNTER TERRORISM: 3 ARRESTED;
ALLEGATIONS OF PLANNED ATTACKS ON INDIVIDUALS AND PROPERTIES ; One due to appear
at the Old Bailey

BYLINE: Matt Jarram

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 86 words


COUNTER Terrorism of¿cers have arrested three Loughborough teenagers in a series
of early morning raids across the town, the Echo can exclusively reveal.

All three male youths were arrested under the Turn to page three Terrorism Act.
Greater Manchester Police, who ran the operation, told the Echo that material
had been found that, once put together, "could create an explosive device".

The police also told the Echo that the allegations included possible "attacks on
individuals and properties" in the Loughborough area.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LBE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 1, 2013 Friday 10:17 PM GMT

Four Islamic terrorists planned attack on British soil with guns and home-made
bombs

BYLINE: CHRIS GREENWOOD

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 363 words



     ·    Islamists collected thousands of pounds to fund terrorist plot on
          Britain
     ·    Police used bugs to uncover plans for improvised explosive device
          attack


Four Islamic extremists admitted plotting a terrorist attack on British soil
armed with guns and home-made bombs.

The men were caught after in a massive multi-million pound surveillance
operation by police and the security services.

Hidden bugs recorded them discussing methods, materials and targets for a
terrorist attack, including using improvised explosive devices.

They downloaded illicit online terrorist instructions, purchased survival
equipment and collected thousands of pounds to fund the plot.

Investigators looked on as they organised and undertook physical training and
prepared to send others to Al-Qaeda camps in Pakistan.

But they were arrested at their homes in Luton, Bedfordshire, following a huge
operation by the police and the security services.

The men involved were Zahid Iqbal, 31, Mohammed Sharfaraz Ahmed, 25, Umar
Arshad, 24, and Syed Farhan Hussain, 21.

They admitted a single terrorism charge at high-security Woolwich Crown Court
just weeks before they were due to face trial.

The court was told the offences took place between January 2011 and April last
year. All four men are of Pakistani origin.

Their plea came a week after three Birmingham men were convicted of the biggest
British terrorist plot for six years.

The home-grown terrorists boasted they would kill more people than the July 7
bombers and wanted to create another landmark date alongside 9/11.

Irfan Naseer, Irfan Khalid and Ashik Ali masterminded a conspiracy to attack
unknown targets in their home town.

They too were caught after a huge surveillance operation when two of them
returned from a terrorist training camp on the lawless Afghan border.

Naseer, a pharmacy graduate, was trained in making improvised bombs from
chemical sports injury cold packs but their plans were smashed by police.

The trio were also caught with material by Anwar Al Awlaki and worshipped
Mohammed Sidique Khan, who led the July 2005 atrocities.

The four Luton men face substantial prison sentences when they return to be
sentenced by Mr Justice Wilkie on April 15.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        March 1, 2013 Friday 6:20 PM GMT

Four British al-Qaeda inspired fanatics face jail after admitting terror plot;
Four British al-Qaeda inspired fanatics are facing jail after admitting they
were planning a terrorist attack using home-made bombs.

BYLINE: By Gordon Rayner Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 335 words


The gang, from Luton, Beds., downloaded computer files giving instructions on
how to launch an attack, discussed possible targets and took part in
military-style physical training.

They were due to stand trial next month but pleaded guilty in a hearing at
Woolwich Crown Court in London today.

Zahid Iqbal, 31, Mohammed Sharfaraz Ahmed, 25, Umar Arshad, 24, and Syed Farhan
Hussain, 21, admitted one charge of engaging in conduct in preparation for acts
of terrorism.

According to the details of the charge, between Jan 1, 2011 and April 25 last
year the four discussed "methods, materials and targets for a terrorist attack,
including firearms and improvised explosive devices" and downloaded files
"containing practical instruction for a terrorist attack".

They also facilitated and planned overseas travel, took part in physical
training, bought survival equipment and collected and supplied funds for
terrorist purposes overseas.

The men were arrested following a series of raids on their homes in April last
year.

Further charges of possessing documents including six copies each of the
al-Qaeda magazine Inspire will be ordered to lie on file following the guilty
plea to the first charge.

Iqbal, of Bishopscote Road, Luton, Ahmed, of Maidenhall Road, Luton, Arshad, of
Crawley Road, Luton and Hussain, of Cornel Close, Luton, were charged with
possessing copies of 44 Ways to Support Jihad - a manual written by Anwar Al
Awlaki, a radical American Muslim cleric of Yemeni descent who was killed last
year in a US drone strike in Yemen.

Ahmed and Arshad were also said to have held a copy of 21 Techniques of Silent
Killing, while the latter was claimed to have been in possession of The Al Qaeda
Manual.

Hussain was alleged to have possessed The Book of Jihad and a copy of The
Explosives Course 2.

Mr Justice Wilkie imposed a reporting order on the case which limits reporting
of the hearing to the fact of the guilty pleas and the particulars of the
charges. He adjourned the case for sentencing on April 15.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        March 1, 2013 Friday 3:55 PM GMT

Four men admit discussing UK terror attack using homemade bombs;
Four men have admitted discussing carrying out a terror attack in the UK using
homemade bombs and firearms.

BYLINE: By Telegraph reporters

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 254 words


Zahid Iqbal, 31, Mohammed Sharfaraz Ahmed, 25, Umar Arshad, 24, and Syed Farhan
Hussain, 21, considered methods, materials and targets for an attack.

The men were arrested following a series of raids in April last year at their
homes in Luton.

They pleaded guilty to one terrorism charge at Woolwich Crown Court today.

Iqbal, Arshad, Hussain and Ahmed downloaded computer files containing practical
instruction for an attack.

The men purchased survival equipment and collected funds for terrorist purposes.

They also admitted facilitating, planning and encouraging travel overseas, as
well as organising, encouraging and participating in physical training, contrary
to section 5 of the Terrorist Act 2006.

The offences took place between January 2011 and April last year.

They were due to stand trial next month but pleaded guilty in a hearing today.

Further charges of possessing documents including the al Qaida magazine Inspire
will be ordered to lie on file following the guilty plea to count one.

The men were charged with possessing copies of 44 Ways to Support Jihad - a
manual written by Anwar Al Awlaki, a radical American Muslim cleric of Yemeni
descent who was killed last year in a US drone strike.

Ahmed and Arshad were also said to have held a copy of 21 Techniques of Silent
Killing, while the latter was claimed to have been in possession of The Al Qaeda
Manual.

Hussain was alleged to have possessed The Book of Jihad and a copy of The
Explosives Course 2.

Mr Justice Wilkie adjourned the case for sentencing on April 15.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             March 2, 2013 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Four admit to plotting terrorist attack on UK

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 105 words


Four men have admitted discussing carrying out a terror attack in the UK using
homemade bombs.

Zahid Iqbal, 31, Mohammed Sharfaraz Ahmed, 25, Umar Arshad, 24, and Syed Farhan
Hussain, 21, considered methods, materials and targets for an attack.

The men were arrested following a series of raids in April last year at their
homes in Luton. They pled guilty to one terrorism charge at Woolwich Crown Court
yesterday.

The men downloaded computer files containing instructions for an attack.

They admitted organising and participating in physical training, contrary to the
Terrorist Act 2006.

The case was adjourned for sentencing on April 15.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                             March 2, 2013 Saturday

Four men plead guilty to terror attack plan

LENGTH: 196  words


Four men have admitted discussing carrying out a terror attack in the UK using
homemade bombs and firearms.

Zahid Iqbal, 31, Mohammed Sharfaraz Ahmed, 25, Umar Arshad, 24, and Syed Farhan
Hussain, 21, considered methods, materials and targets for an attack. The men
were arrested following a series of raids in April last year at their homes in
Luton.

They pleaded guilty to one terrorism charge at Woolwich Crown Court yesterday.

Iqbal, of Bishopscote Road, Arshad, Hussain and Ahmed downloaded computer files
containing practical instruction for an attack. The men purchased survival
equipment and collected funds for terrorist purposes.They also admitted
facilitating, planning and encouraging travel overseas, as well as organising,
encouraging and participating in physical training, contrary to section 5 of the
Terrorist Act 2006. The offences took place between January 2011 and April last
year.

They were due to stand trial next month but pleaded guilty in a hearing
yesterday.

Further charges of possessing documents including the al Qaida magazine Inspire
will be ordered to lie on file following the guilty plea to count one.

Sentencing was adjourned until April 15.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 4, 2013 Monday

Terrorist attack foiled in Afghan east

LENGTH: 241 words


Text of report by state-owned National Afghanistan TV on 2 March

[Presenter] Personnel of Battalion No 6 of Border Zone No 1 have detained a
group of six insurgents, including a suicide bomber, with weapons and ammunition
when they were trying to carry out terrorist attacks in the Ghanikhel District
of [eastern] Nangarhar Province. Masud Haqmal has more on this from Nangarhar.

[Correspondent] Col Mohammad Ayub Hosainkhel, chief of staff of Border Zone No
1, told the media that the group headed by Moqtader-ul Hasan was detained along
with a would-be child suicide bomber, who is a resident of the Kohat area of
Pakistan. They were detained while preparing for a terrorist attack in the
Golayi area of the Ghanikhel District. Hosainkhel said that the border police
seized eight guns and other equipment used for terrorist attacks from the
detainees.

He said that the border police seized a Corolla vehicle, a rocket, five
Kalashnikov assault rifles, two hand-grenades, two pistols, two torches, a
laptop computer, masks, military uniforms and videos showing the operations the
group had previously carried out against government units. The would-be child
suicide bomber has admitted that Moqtader-ul Hasan had brought him from a
religious school in Pakistan to Afghanistan for a suicide attack.

[Video shows a group of detained terrorists, seized weapons and ammunition]

Source: National Afghanistan TV, Kabul, in Dari and Pashto 1530 gmt 2 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                              March 4, 2013 Monday

Northern Ireland police thwart 'reckless' terrorist attack in Derry

BYLINE: Henry McDonaldguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 582 words

ABSTRACT

Police discover four primed mortar rockets in van that they say was on its way
to attack main police station in city

FULL TEXT

A major terrorist attack on a police station has been thwarted in Derry,
Northern Ireland, with the discovery of four primed mortar rockets and the
arrest of the three men.

A senior police officer in the city confirmed on Monday that a van with its roof
cut out was on its way to fire the mortars at one of the main Police Service of
Northern Ireland (PSNI) stations in Derry.

The security operation which began on Sunday night when the vehicle was stopped
on the Letterkeny Road resulted in three men in their 30s being detained - two
at the scene, and another in a house during follow-up searches.

The van and a motorbike that was following the vehicle when it was intercepted
remain at the scene .

Around 100 families had to leave their homes while army technical officers dealt
with the live mortar rounds.

A PSNI spokesman said three men had been taken to Antrim Serious Crime suite,
where they were being questioned.

Chief superintendent Stephen Cargin said that dissident republicans opposed to
the peace process had been on their way to attack a police station. He said it
was a "reckless attack on the city of Derry".

Northern Ireland's justice minister, David Ford, said that "excellent police
work" had averted death, injury and destruction.

"For the second time in less than a week the PSNI has removed deadly materials
from our streets. We owe the PSNI a huge debt of gratitude for the excellent
work they ... across Northern Ireland," the minister said.

It is understood the attempted sortie was the work of the New IRA, the coalition
of anti-ceasefire republican groups formed last summer.

The SDLP assembly member for Derry, Pat Ramsey, said he believed the mortar
bombs were being transported from across the border from County Donegal in the
Republic of Ireland into Derry.

Ramsey said he was appalled that during the security operation youths threw a
petrol bomb at a police patrol car although no one was injured in that incident.

"Older people and very disabled people have had to be moved from their homes.
There was a lady, a double amputee and two disabled people who needed assistance
of an ambulance to get them out.

"This is the distress that the dissidents are causing to their own people in
their own communities," he said.

The New IRA has been trying to carry out a high profile terrorist attack in
Derry for several months. The level of terrorist threat is regarded as high at
the moment during the 2013 Derry UK City of Culture and the G8 international
conference in Co Fermanagh in June. Security sources say they fear the New IRA
will use both major events to organise a "spectacular" terrorist attack.

The capture of the mortars and the specially converted van that was to be used
as a launchpad for the rockets will bring back memories of one of the biggest
terrorist atrocities in the Troubles. In February 1985 nine police officers were
killed when mortar bombs were fired into Newry police station. Twenty five
people including civilian workers in the station were also injured in that
attack.

Last week the PSNI found a number of mortar rockets in an empty house in west
Belfast signifying that the security forces have made in-roads into terms of
informants and surveillance on dissident republican groups across Northern
Ireland.

Meanwhile, police were also dealing with a suspect device in the Dunclug area of
Ballymena on Monday morning.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        March 4, 2013 Monday 5:25 PM GMT

Northern Ireland: Terrorist attack foiled in Londonderry just minutes before
mortars due to be fired at police station;
'Mass fatalities' avoided in major coup for security forces as three men
arrested

BYLINE: David McKittrick

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 357 words


An attempt by dissident republicans to stage a mortar attack in a built-up area
of Londonderry could have caused multiple casualties, according to both police
and local representatives.

But the attack was foiled in what appeared to be a clinical interception by
police, who arrested three men just minutes before it was scheduled to take
place.

Officers rammed a van carrying four primed mortars as dissidents were on their
way to attack a police station. The security operation is regarded as a coup for
the security forces, who evidently had clear intelligence of the terrorist plan.

Police Chief Superintendent Stephen Cargin said: "They were destined for a
police station. It was a reckless attack. They were prepared to drive through a
built-up area of the city to carry out this attack and cause mass fatalities.

"These devices were primed. They are crude home-made devices and there is no way
people who made these bombs would be certain they would have hit their target.
There would have been mass murder of police, and serious damage to property."

Although there was huge relief that the attack was averted, it was tempered by
the fact that splinter groups such as the Real IRA have been expanding their
armoury with weapons such as mortars and rockets.

Such organisations are small and, as the Londonderry incident indicates, have
been heavily infiltrated by the security forces, who use both informants and
sophisticated surveillance methods to penetrate them.

While many of the terrorist operations go wrong, their campaign continues and
can occasionally result in fatalities. The last of these came several months ago
when prison officer David Black was shot dead as he drove along a motorway to
work.

Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein said he wanted to pay
tribute to police "for preventing what could have been a terrible loss of life
in an attack which was clearly designed to damage the peace process."

He added: "Increasingly people are providing information which is the proper
thing to do so that we can thwart the efforts of those who would try to destroy
the peace that is so admired throughout the world."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        March 4, 2013 Monday 1:18 PM GMT

Northern Ireland: Three arrested after major terrorist attack is foiled in
Londonderry just 'minutes' before bomb launch

BYLINE: Charlie Cooper

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 297 words


Police in Northern Ireland have foiled a major terrorist attack after finding
four mortar bombs that were "within minutes" of being launched at a local police
station.

Three men were arrested after the "primed and ready to go" bombs were found in a
van in Londonderry overnight. Police said they believe that dissident
republicans were behind the plot and that there would have been "mass murder"
had the attack been carried out.

The van had its roof cut back to allow the mortars to be fired. Some 100
families were evacuated from their homes on the Letterkenny Road during the
operation, which began at around 8pm last night..

Police commander Chief Superintendent Stephen Cargin said he believed the
terrorists were just about to launch the attack when the bombs were found.

"These devices were primed," he said. "They are crude home-made devices and
there is no way people who made these bombs would be certain they would have hit
their target. There would have been mass murder of police, and serious damage to
property."

East Londonderry MP Gregory Campbell claimed: "We were 10 minutes away from a
disaster. That is how close we were to a really bad night in Londonderry.

"The mortars were ready to be fired. There could have been dozens of people
killed."

"It was a reckless attack" Mr Cargin added. "They were prepared to drive through
a built-up area of the city to carry out this attack and cause mass fatalities.
Good police work prevented this. If these devices had not been intercepted we
would have been looking at a completely different picture. It is a very worrying
development. Dissident republicans want to take us back to a place no-one wants
to go to."

Two men, aged 35 and 37, were arrested at the scene and a 37-year-old man was
arrested later after a house was searched.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        March 4, 2013 Monday 3:26 PM GMT

Hundreds of people evacuated from their homes after police foil planned terror
attack in Northern Ireland

BYLINE: KERRY MCDERMOTT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 495 words



     ·    Police intercepted van carrying at four mortars in Londonderry
     ·    Roof of van said to have been removed and mortars mounted on back
     ·    Sparked huge security operation in Letterkenny Road area
     ·    Around 100 properties evacuated as bomb disposal experts called in
     ·    Two men, aged 35 and 37 arrested following discovery
     ·    Third man, 37, arrested today after search of property in the city,
          PSNI say


Four live mortar bombs were intercepted by police in Northern Ireland minutes
before being launched, according to a senior police officer.

They were discovered in the back of a van which had part of its roof cut back as
part of plans to bomb a police station in Londonderry.

Chief Supt Stephen Cargin said the bombs could have caused mass murder.

Three men, all in their 30s, were arrested - two at the scene. One was detained
in searches afterwards.

Scroll down for video

The officer said the mortars were 'primed and ready to go'.

'These were people who were mindless, totally reckless, willing to drive four
live mortar bombs through a built-up area with no regard to the people, the
residents and the families living in the area,' he said.

'We believe those devices were destined for one of the police stations here in
the city.

'I have no doubt they would have caused mass fatalities. They were on their way
to a target. These are crude home-made devices. There is no way the people who
planned their attack would have known they would have hit their target.'

It is understood one of the men had been on a motorcycle following the van when
police intercepted it near the city centre last night.

More than 100 homes had to be evacuated in the Brandywell area.

Officers intercepted the van in the Letterkenny Road area of Londonderry last
night, prompting the evacuation as army bomb disposal experts were scrambled to
the scene.

The roof of the van is believed to have been removed and the mortars mounted on
the back in preparation for an imminent attack.

Two men, aged 35 and 37, were arrested after the van was intercepted by
officers.

A 37-year-old man was detained today following a search of a property in the
city, police said.

A PSNI spokesman said: 'Approximately 100 homes have been evacuated and army
technical officers are at the scene.

'Two males aged 35 and 37 have been arrested and taken to Antrim serious crime
suite where they are helping with inquiries.

'Detectives from PSNI serious crime branch are dealing with the incident and are
linking it with dissident republican activity.'

The incident comes just days before a by-election to replace Martin McGuinness
as MP for Mid Ulster, after Stormont's Deputy First Minister resigned his
Westminster seat as part of his party's policy to end double-jobbing in
politics.

The four contenders for Thursday's by-election are Sinn Fein Assembly Member
Francie Molloy, independent Nigel Lutton, the Social Democratic and Labour
Party's Patsy McGlone and Eric Bullick of the cross-community Alliance Party.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        March 4, 2013 Monday 2:39 PM GMT

Brave Indian woman who exposed her terrorist husband is attacked with acid by
his vengeful family

BYLINE: MATT BLAKE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 346 words



     ·    Reshma Rangrez, 32, blew the whistle on spouse Shehzad in 2011
     ·    She had caught him making crude bombs, apparently for a terror attack
     ·    Shehzad was jailed and Mrs Rangrez became a household name in Mumbai
     ·    She was awarded Rs25k for bravery and offered a job in city traffic
          brigade
     ·    But in February his parents stormed into her home and threw acid at
          her


An Indian woman who exposed her husband as a terrorist has been permanently
disfigured after his family stormed into her home and threw acid at her in a
revenge attack.

Reshma Rangrez, 32, from Ahmedabad, western India,  blew the whistle on spouse
Shehzad in 2011 after she caught him making crude bombs, apparently destined for
a terror attack.

When officers raided the couple's home, they found seven jars containing an
unidentified liquid used in the manufacturing of explosives, some stowed in a
pile of rubbish nearby.

Scroll down for video.

Shehzad was jailed and Mrs Rangrez became a household namefor her bravery in
shedding light on the apparent plot and was given a Rs 25,000 (£300) reward.

She was even offered a job in the city traffic brigade by the city's police
commissioner.

But then last month, Shehzad's parents forced their way into Mrs Rangrez's home
and thrust a jar of acid in her face, following a string of threats against her
life.

'My in-laws burst into the house at 3.30am with a bottle,' she said. 'Before I
could understand what was happening, they threw acid at me. My shrieks of pain
alerted my neighbours who rushed to my help.'

Luckily the corrosive liquid missed her face, instead splashing onto her arm,
leaving her with serious burns, the Times of Indiareported.

Police have arrested her father-in-law Ismail Rangrez and mother-in-law Hanifa
who await trial fro the attack.

Shehzad was caught with a crude bomb and a country-made pistol when police
officials had raided the house in July 2011. He later led detectives to seven
other bombs he had made and hidden in a rubbish pile at Chandola lake, in
Ahmedabad, 500 kilometres north of Mumbai.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        March 4, 2013 Monday 9:34 AM GMT

Hundreds of people evacuated from their homes after police foil planned terror
attack in Northern Ireland

BYLINE: KERRY MCDERMOTT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 373 words



     ·    Police intercepted van carrying at least three mortars in Londonderry
     ·    Roof of van said to have been removed and mortars mounted on back
     ·    Sparked huge security operation in Letterkenny Road area
     ·    Around 100 properties evacuated as bomb disposal experts called in
     ·    Two men, aged 35 and 37 arrested following discovery
     ·    Third man, 37, arrested today after search of property in the city,
          PSNI say


Three men have been arrested in Northern Ireland after police foiled a major
terror attack linked to Republican dissidents.

Officers intercepted a van understood to have been carrying three mortars in the
Letterkenny Road area of Londonderry last night, prompting the evacuation of
around 100 homes in the area as army bomb disposal experts were scrambled to the
scene.

The roof of the van is believed to have been removed and the mortars mounted on
the back in preparation for an imminent attack.

According to a report on Sky News the weapons were primed and ready for launch.

Two men, aged 35 and 37, were arrested after the van was intercepted by
officers. A 37-year-old man was detained today following a search of a property
in the city, police said.

A PSNI spokesman said: 'Police are currently dealing with a security alert in
the Letterkenny Road area of Londonderry, following the discovery of a
suspicious object in a vehicle.

'Approximately 100 homes have been evacuated and army technical officers are at
the scene.

'Two males aged 35 and 37 have been arrested and taken to Antrim serious crime
suite where they are helping with inquiries.

'Detectives from PSNI serious crime branch are dealing with the incident and are
linking it with dissident republican activity.'

The vehicle was stopped at the junction of Letterkenny Road and Lone Moor Road
in the west of Londonderry last night.

The incident comes just days before a by-election to replace Martin McGuinness
as MP for Mid Ulster, after Stormont's Deputy First Minister resigned his
Westminster seat as part of his party's policy to end double-jobbing in
politics.

The four contenders for Thursday's by-election are Sinn Fein Assembly Member
Francie Molloy, independent Nigel Lutton, the Social Democratic and Labour
Party's Patsy McGlone and Eric Bullick of the cross-community Alliance Party.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        March 4, 2013 Monday 7:29 AM GMT

BREAKING NEWS: Hundreds of people evacuated from their homes after police foil
planned terror attack in Northern Ireland

BYLINE: KERRY MCDERMOTT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 418 words



     ·    Police intercepted van carrying at least three mortars in Londonderry
     ·    Roof of van said to have been removed and mortars mounted on back
     ·    Sparked huge security operation in Letterkenny Road area
     ·    Around 100 properties evacuated last night as army experts called in
     ·    Two men, aged 35 and 37 arrested following discovery
     ·    Third man, 37, arrested today after search of property in the city,
          PSNI say


Three men have been arrested in Northern Ireland after police foiled a major
terror attack linked to Republican dissidents.

Officers intercepted a van understood to have been carrying three mortars in the
Letterkenny Road area of Londonderry last night, prompting the evacuation of
around 100 homes in the area as army bomb disposal experts were scrambled to the
scene.

The roof of the van is believed to have been removed and the mortars mounted on
the back in preparation for an imminent attack.

According to a report on Sky News the weapons were primed and ready for launch.

Two men, aged 35 and 37, were arrested after the van was intercepted by
officers. A 37-year-old man was detained today following a search of a property
in the city, police said.

A PSNI spokesman said: 'Police are currently dealing with a security alert in
the Letterkenny Road area of Londonderry, following the discovery of a
suspicious object in a vehicle.

'Approximately 100 homes have been evacuated and army technical officers are at
the scene.

'Two males aged 35 and 37 have been arrested and taken to Antrim serious crime
suite where they are helping with inquiries.

'Detectives from PSNI serious crime branch are dealing with the incident and are
linking it with dissident republican activity.'

The vehicle was stopped at the junction of Letterkenny Road and Lone Moor Road
in the west of Londonderry last night.

Sky News reported that police intercepted a van carrying three mortars and a
motorbike before they arrested the two men.

The incident comes just days before a by-election to replace Martin McGuinness
as MP for Mid Ulster, after Stormont's Deputy First Minister resigned his
Westminster seat as part of his party's policy to end double-jobbing in
politics.

The four contenders for Thursday's by-election are Sinn Fein Assembly Member
Francie Molloy, independent Nigel Lutton, the Social Democratic and Labour
Party's Patsy McGlone and Eric Bullick of the cross-community Alliance Party.

Detectives arrested a third man, aged 37, today in connection with the security
alert following a search of a property in the city, a PSNI spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        March 4, 2013 Monday 7:03 AM GMT

BREAKING NEWS:Three arrested in Northern Ireland after mortars discovered in van
in foiled terror attack

BYLINE: KERRY MCDERMOTT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 355 words



     ·    Police intercepted van carrying mortars in Londonderry, Northern
          Ireland
     ·    Mortars said to be mounted on back of van in preparation for launch
     ·    Two men, aged 35 and 37 arrested following discovery
     ·    Third man arrested after search of a property in the city, PSNI say


Three men have been arrested in Northern Ireland after police foiled a major
terror attack linked to Republican dissidents.

Officers intercepted a van understood to have been carrying three mortars in the
Letterkenny Road area of Londonderry last night, prompting the evacuation of
around 100 homes in the area.

The roof of the van is understood to have been removed and the mortars mounted
on the back ready to launch.

Roof had been removed in preparation for an attack to be launched, a Sky News
report said.

A PSNI spokesman said: 'Police are currently dealing with a security alert in
the Letterkenny Road area of Londonderry, following the discovery of a
suspicious object in a vehicle.

'Approximately 100 homes have been evacuated and army technical officers are at
the scene.

'Two males aged 35 and 37 have been arrested and taken to Antrim serious crime
suite where they are helping with inquiries.

'Detectives from PSNI serious crime branch are dealing with the incident and are
linking it with dissident republican activity.'

The vehicle was stopped at the junction of Letterkenny Road and Lone Moor Road
in the west of Londonderry last night.

Sky News reported that police intercepted a van carrying three mortars and a
motorbike before they arrested the two men.

The incident comes just days before a by-election to replace Martin McGuinness
as MP for Mid Ulster, after Stormont's Deputy First Minister resigned his
Westminster seat as part of his party's policy to end double-jobbing in
politics.

The four contenders for Thursday's by-election are Sinn Fein Assembly Member
Francie Molloy, independent Nigel Lutton, the Social Democratic and Labour
Party's Patsy McGlone and Eric Bullick of the cross-community Alliance Party.

Detectives arrested a third man today in connection with the security alert
following a search of a property in the city, a PSNI spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                              March 4, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bigot hurled stab threats at worker;
SECTARIAN TERROR ; Housing advisor was told he'd be attacked

BYLINE: Express Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 322 words


A man who screamed sectarian abuse at a council worker before threatening to
stab him has been jailed for 14 months.

Out-of-control David Rennie lost the plot in the Barrhead offices of East
Renfrewshire Council on January 11 this year as he was being helped by a housing
advisor.

Unhappy with the advice he received, 36-year-old Rennie called local authority
employee Stuart Hendry a "Fenian b*****d" - and then vowed to batter him.

As shocked council workers tried to reason with Rennie, he shouted: "I am going
to jump over this desk and kick the s**t out of you."

Even when the police were called, Rennie refused to calm down.

He later spat on one officer through the hatch of a cell where he was being
detained.

Paisley Sheriff Court heard how Rennie, of no fixed address, was also in the
dock for an incident which took place at Paisley's Royal Alexandra Hospital back
in December 2010, when he lashed out at a psychiatric liaison nurse, snatching a
pair of glasses from her face.

Sheriff Tom McCartney was told the accused suffered with mental health problems
but had "no intention" of taking the medicine prescribed to him by doctors
because he didn't like it.

A lawyer acting for Rennie said: "Prior to these incidents, he had not been
taking his medicine and, having spoken with Mr Rennie for an hour or two myself,
he clearly has mental health issues.

"However, he has advised me that he has no intention of taking his medicine
because he does not like it."

Sheriff McCartney ordered Rennie to serve 11 months in jail for the threats
issued to Mr Hendry and for spitting on the police officer.

A further three-month jail sentence was handed down for the assault on the RAH
nurse.

Sheriff McCartney also told Rennie the jail terms included two added months for
religious prejudice and a further two months for committing the crimes while out
on bail.

Sentence was backdated to January 14, which is when Rennie was first remanded in
custody.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                              March 4, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Troops kill gas plant attack terrorist';
WORLDBULLETINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 115 words


CHAD'S military chief said his troops deployed in northern Mali had killed
Moktar Belmoktar, the terrorist who orchestrated the attack on a natural gas
plant in Algeria that left 36 foreigners dead, including six Britons.

Authorities in Kidal, the northern town being used as the base for the military
operation, cast doubt on the assertion, saying Chadian officials were attempting
to score a PR victory.

Known as the "one-eyed", Belmoktar's profile soared after the mid-January attack
and mass hostage-taking on a huge Algerian gas plant.

His purported death comes a day after Chad's president said his troops had
killed Abou Zeid, the other main al Qaida commander operating in northern Mali.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             March 5, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Dissident republican terror attack thwarted;
Online

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 267 words


mass-murder. Well done to those who stopped them in their tracks. Those who are
tried and convicted of this type of crime should be confined for life in order
that normal society is protected from their psychopathic intentions and to send
out a warning to their imitators.

A secure institute for the criminally insane would seem to be the appropriate
destination. Dracula's Tongue: Yes, this is not a political cause anymore. Time
to get serious about this country''s criminal bomb problem. Nothing less than
life imprisonment Well done to the PSNI in thwarting a republican attack with a
very inaccurate, but deadly weapon-system, which - potentially - could have
resulted in multiple murder by knuckle-dragging throwbacks.

Burnsy_Belfast Great to see the PSNI stop yet another mass-murder attempt by
republicans. They are pathetic conflict-junkies, with nothing to offer except
death and destruction.

Ziggylad Hopefully, now they''ll be too busy looking for the tout and leave the
rest of us in peace. Could someone pass on the message to them that we are now
in the 21st century? Lost Chord Once again, a small number of perverts have been
thwarted in their efforts to commit an act of for anyone handling bombs and no
political status. Attempted mass-murder is not tolerated in any other society.

Cult Creature: Well said.

Jeffrey Dean Thank God these 'terrorists' ' have been thwarted. The present
situation is far from perfect, but at least there is still hope for us all to
live peacefully. The last thing we need is a bunch of lunatics with mortar bombs
ready for launching on God knows who.

City Bloke

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2013 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             March 5, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SPLIT-SECOND AMBUSH: HOW TERROR GANG WAS CAUGHT;
MORTAR ATTACK FOILED ; Garda tip-off sparked PSNI swoop minutes before murderous
blitz

BYLINE: DONNA DEENEY ; TOM BRADY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 760 words


ARMED PSNI officers seized lethal mortar bombs just minutes before dissident
republicans planned to blitz Londonderry''s main police station.

In a daring raid they rammed a Citroen Berlingo van which had been heading for
the Strand Road HQ a mile away with four primed home-made missiles ready to be
launched through a hole in its roof that had been cut open.

It is believed a tip-off from gardai helped the PSNI stop the rocket attack.

Police chiefs admitted the terrorists came dangerously close to inflicting
massive casualties on Sunday night.

Chief Superintendent Stephen Cargin said: "There is no doubt about their
intention. They were intent to kill and cause maximum police fatalities."

"  Three men, all known to police in Derry - this year's UK City of Culture -
were arrested.

The attempted attack was carried out by the recently formed dissident alliance
responsible for the murder of prison officer David Black and styling itself as
'the IRA'.

But the scale of the operation on Sunday gives some indication of how much their
activities have been compromised by the activities of the security services. MI5
has already disrupted a number of previous dissident attacks.

Two men were arrested a short time after a police team intercepted the specially
adapted van. One of the men was the driver - who had previously been questioned
by gardai about the murder of Derry man Andrew Allen in Buncrana last year.

The second was on a motorcycle travelling behind, which is believed to have been
intended to be used as a getaway. A third man was arrested a short time later at
a house in the Creggan area. The van used in the foiled attack had a Dublin
registration plate but had not been stolen. Gardai think the van was probably
bought in the past couple of weeks.

Gardai are satisfied that the mortars had been manufactured in the Republic.

Chief Superintendent Cargin said that his officers saved the city from "mass
casualties".

He said: "I have no doubt about the capabilities of these devices - we could
have been looking as mass murder.

"They were home-made, crude devices and there is no way the people who planned
their attack would have known they would have hit their target.

"These were four mortar devices in four mortar tubes that we would have seen in
the past and I have no doubt they would have caused mass casualties and we could
have been looking at mass murder if they had exploded and hit their intended
target. "If they had not been intercepted they would have reached their intended
target within a matter of minutes."

factfile The improvised mortar was developed by the IRA's engineering section as
a means of attacking security bases behind high defensive walls. The most
devastating attack was at Newry RUC station in 1985 when nine police officers
were killed.They often are launched from a van with the roof partially removed -
such as the Downing Street attack of 1991 that almost wiped out John Major's
Cabinet. They are also known for not being particularly accurate.

1 MI5 and detectives within the PSNI''s Serious Crime Branch have been
monitoring a number of well-known dissident republicans within the north west
for some time 2 Detectives receive intelligence a group of these dissidents are
planning some sort of an explosives attack on a police station in Londonderry,
most likely Strand Road station 3 A major surveillance operation is put in place
and they discover the type of vehicle the gang has acquired, as well as the day
and likely route of travel. Teams of specialist officers are briefed about the
forthcoming anti-terrorist operation 4 On Sunday police receive information that
the planned attack is due to go ahead that night 5 For several hours a team of
experienced officers lies in wait around the Letterkenny Road 6 At 8.15pm at the
junction of Lone Moor Road and Letterkenny Road, police spot the van, with
Dublin registration plates, followed by a motorcyclist on a Honda motorbike -
the suspected getaway vehicle. An experienced police driver rams into the van
bringing it to a halt. Van driver and motorcyclist are immediately arrested 7 A
short time later a house is searched in the Creggan area of the city and a third
man is arrested 8 Security cordons are put in place around the Lone Moor Road,
Letterkenny Road and Foyle Road and police begin to evacuate homes and
properties at 8.27pm 9 Army bomb experts arrive at the scene at 8.45pm and
defuse the mortars 10At 11pm two police officers manning a security cordon at
Bishop Street come under attack from a gang of youths. Three petrol bombs are
thrown at them

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE IMPROVISED MORTAR TUBES
THE MOTORBIKE AT THE SCENE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2013 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                       March 5, 2013 Tuesday 05:20 PM GMT

Fourth arrest in connection with foiled terror attack in Northern Ireland

SECTION: IRISH NEWS

LENGTH: 53 words


A fourth man has been arrested in connection with a foiled terror attack in
Northern Ireland.

The PSNI found four live mortars in the back of a Donegal registered van when
they intercepted it in Derry and officers believe it was on its way to a police
station.

Three suspects have already been arrested and remain in custody.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2013 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             March 5, 2013 Tuesday
                                   2 Edition

Attack terror for woman

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 57 words


A young woman has been indecently assaulted in a stairwell as she made her way
home from a night out.

The 20-year-old was attacked by a man who followed her into a block in Edinburgh
s Barclay Terrace and forced her to the ground, police said.

Officers have been speaking to residents and examining CCTV footage to  try to
identify the attacker.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 6, 2013 Wednesday

Terror attack reported thwarted in Russia's Dagestan

LENGTH: 201 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 6 March: During a counterterrorist operation in Dagestan, law-enforcers
discovered a hurriedly abandoned militant camp, finding there several explosive
devices primed for use.

"Three improvised explosive devices primed for use with a force of about 10
kilograms (equivalent in TNT - Interfax), munitions, various kinds of equipment
and food products were discovered," the information centre of the National
Anti-Terrorist Committee (NAC) told Interfax.

A representative of the NAC said that the bombs were found in a bunker located
in a camp of members of the Khasavyurt bandit formation near the village of
Mogilevskoye in Dagestan that was hurriedly abandoned by them prior to the
appearance of staffers of the law-enforcement bodies. The bunker, together with
improvised explosive devices, was destroyed. The search for the bandits
continues.

NAC believes that the discovery of the militants' winter camp made it possible
to thwart a number of attacks planned by the terrorist underground against the
residents of the republic and employees of the law-enforcement bodies.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1540gmt 06 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 6, 2013 Wednesday

Yemeni leader says terrorist attack in Abyan "will not go unpunished"

LENGTH: 191 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

["Abyan Terrorist Attack Will Not Go Unpunished: Hadi" - SABA Headline]

Sanaa, 5 March -President Abdu Rabbu Mansur Hadi on Tuesday [5 March] stressed
that the dastardly terrorist attack occurred on Monday in Abyan province will
not go unpunished.

A suicide bomber blew up an explosives-filled car at the popular committees'
headquarters in the Lawdar city, in Abyan province on Monday, killing and
wounding dozens of the committees' members.In his condolence message to the
victims' families, Hadi said that the government would take all legal actions
against those behind the attack.

The president described the attack's victims as "national figures that help the
armed forces combat terrorism and terrorists" and would be considered as martyrs
of the nation. He affirmed that the government would hospitalize the wounded
where it needs.

The popular committees are made up of civilians who helped the government to
drive out al-Qaeda-linked militants of Ansar al-Shari'ah from some areas of
Abyan last year.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 1720 gmt 5 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 8, 2013 Friday

Pakistan's Punjab Taleban chief warns of terror attacks in India - paper

LENGTH: 757 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 8 March

Islamabad: The chief operational commander of the Al-Qa'idah linked Punjabi
Taleban Asmatullah Muawiya has warned that India is set to become a major target
of terrorist attacks once again, especially after the Allied Forces withdraw
from Afghanistan.

Muawiya's statement has been released on an Al-Qa'idah and TTP-linked jehadi
website - Jamia Hafsa Urdu Forum - in which he has also praised two terrorists -
Ajmal Kasab of the Lashkar-i-Toiba (LeT) and Afzal Guru of the Jaish-i-Mohammad
(JeM) who had been sent to the gallows in recent months by the Indian government
for their roles in the November 2008 Mumbai terrorist attack and the December
12, 2001 fidayeen attack on the Indian Parliament in Delhi. Muawiya's latest
threat of terrorist attacks in India comes two months after he made a
conditional ceasefire offer to the Pakistan government which envisaged an end to
Islamabad's participation in the Afghan war and the reshaping of the
Constitution and foreign policy according to the Quran and Sunnah. The ceasefire
offer was made through a letter which was later endorsed by the TTP spokesman
Ehsanullah Ehsan, saying it had the full backing of the TTP leadership.

The ceasefire offer was made on 27 December 2012 - on the fifth death
anniversary of Benazir Bhutto - whose assassination was blamed on TTP's founder
Baitullah Mehsud. Muawiya's letter said the TTP was dragged into a war with
Pakistan from the Afghanistan and Kashmir fronts, for which the Pakistan army
was mainly responsible. "Instead of taking out guns against the Muslims, the
Pakistan Army should prepare to take revenge for the 1971 war with India. This
will also add the potential of Kashmiri mujahideen to our forces", said Muawiya
in his letter. He explained that the Taleban were not targeting the Pakistan
Muslim League-Nawaz, the Jamaat-e-Islami and the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl
because they don't consider them as their enemies. But Interior Minister Rehman
Malik had rejected Muawiya offer of a conditional truce, saying the offer seemed
to be a tactical ploy to buy time to revive the organisational strength of the
Taleban in Punjab.

In his latest anti-India statement, Muawiya, a former commander of
Jaish-i-Mohammed who runs the enormous network of the Punjabi Taleban, praised
Ajmal Kasab, saying: "He was a true mujahid. He was amongst us; he was ours, a
native of Pakistan". Kasab was hanged in India in November 2012.

Muawiya then praised Afzal Guru in his statement, saying his blood will multiply
the rise of the jehadi tide. Guru was hanged in February 2013. "Their executions
will only strengthen the jehadis' resolve to attack India and liberate the state
of Jammu Kashmir. The attacks in India will increase as jehadis shift their
focus from Afghanistan to India and Jammu Kashmir after the US withdraws from
the region. Out of their love for Kashmir, and their religious fervour, the
mujahideen will opt for Jammu Kashmir and the Americans will not be in position
to influence the events in the region this time. This time when the jehad rises
in Jammu Kashmir with new courage and dedication, it will be pure from the ISI's
cursed shadow".

It may be recalled that Bruce Reidel, a former adviser to the Obama
administration on anti-terrorism planning, had already accused Al-Qa'idah of
having played a role in the planning of the Mumbai attacks as well as the
training of the ten-member fidayeen squad of the LeT. According to him, several
documents seized at Al-Qa'idah chief Osama bin Laden's compound suggested a much
larger direct Al-Qa'idah role in the planning of the Mumbai attacks than many
assumed. He has already been quoted by the international media as saying that
bin Laden was in close contact with Hafiz Saeed and helped plan the 2008 Mumbai
attack.

Bruce believed that bin Laden may have seen surveillance reports prepared by
David Headley, the LeT operative who scouted out locations for the Mumbai siege.
Moreover, Sayed Zabiuddin Ansari alias Abu Jandal, the alleged facilitator of
the Mumbai attack, had revealed during interrogation in India that Al-Qa'idah
was tasked with training the Mumbai attackers in a LeT training camp close to
the Pakistan-Iran border. It was in the wake of these reports that the US State
Department placed [in April 2012] the Jamaatul Daawa (JuD) chief Hafiz Saeed on
the most-wanted terrorist list for his alleged involvement in the 26/11 Mumbai
terror attacks.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 08 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 8, 2013 Friday

Sweden's Assyrians vow to return to Turkey if terrorist attacks end

LENGTH: 384 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia)

[Unattributed report: "More Assyrians return from Sweden if acts of terror end
-- Assyrians in Sweden: 'The number of Assyrians returned from Sweden increases
if terrorism ends in Turkey'"]

STOCKHOLM (AA) -- 08.03.2013 -- Assyrians in Sweden have said the number of
Assyrian returnees from Sweden, who had left their hometown of Mardin Midyat, in
southeastern Turkey, would increase in case the atmosphere of peace was secured
and acts of terrorism ended in Turkey.

Fuad Adis, chairman of Mor Afren Assyrian Orthodox Church, and Anter Anter,
officer of Youth Branches and Culture Committee, told AA on Friday, "Assyrians
are continuing to keep their ties with Turkey fresh as we have no problem with
the Republic of Turkey and we visit Turkey at any time we want."

Adis and Anter also added, "However, we have several demands. We, as Assyrians,
reclaim the land of the Monastery of Mor Gabriel in Mardin province. Also, like
in Sweden, we want to open a new place of worship easily at any time we want in
Mardin. When this possibility is presented to us we find the opportunity to live
happier in our own land."

Adis and Anter stated they were pleased with Turkish President Abdullah Gul's
upcoming visit in Sweden and they already said "Welcome" to the president.

They said, "We also learned about the visit of Yusuf Cetin, Assyrian
Metropolitan Bishop, to Sweden in the president's entourage. However, the
metropolitan should not interfere in politics. We couldn't understand it. He
used to come and visit us in Sweden. Our relationship is very good. However, he
didn't notice us about his visit this time, we were surprised. We wish he had
told us, so we could have welcomed him and made preparations. At least, he could
have consulted us."

Assyrians are Christian Syrians. Approximately 12,000 Assyrian citizens
emigrated to Sweden in the late 1970s.

Today, Sweden is the country with highest Assyrian society. Nearly, 120 thousand
Assyrians are living in the country and 30 percent of the population of
Sodertaelje, in eastern Sweden, are Assyrians.

Assyrians in Sweden are trying to maintain their customs and traditions.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency, Ankara, in English 1258
gmt 8 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              March 8, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

KYLE TERROR AS JUNKIE ATTACKS HIM ON SHOW

BYLINE: RICHARD SPILLETT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 228 words


JEREMY Kyle was attacked twice in the space of five minutes as a junkie went
berserk on his TV show yesterday.

The addict, named only as Kieran, hurled himself at Kyle when confronted about
his heroin habit.

It happened as the presenter challenged the 40-year-old on why he had spurned
producers' offers of help.

Following an earlier appearance on the show, the TV team checked Kieran into an
expensive rehab clinic in a bid to help his struggling mum, Linda.

Kicking But he soon did a runner and went looking for another hit.

When Kyle, 47, brought mother and son together in the ITV studio, Kieran went
face-to-face with the host and launched a foul-mouthed rant, blaming Kyle for
his failure to quit drugs.

When burly security guards intervened, Kieran taunted: "What are they gonna do?"
But he was held down in his seat to stop him kicking off again.

Kyle responded: "Go and kill yourself. Destroy your mother's life. Walk out of
my studio and I'll help somebody else."

Just minutes later, as Kyle brought out the show's psychiatrist Graham Stanier,
Kieran lashed out again.

He clashed with his mother, who fended him off, then jumped off the stage in the
direction of Kyle.

As Kieran was bundled off the set, Kyle told shocked members of the audience:
"You know what? I've done this a long, long time and nobody has ever gone for me
like that."

richard.spillett@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ? RAGE: Keiran argues with Kyle and, below, harrassing his mum
FACE TO FACE: Angry heroin addict Keiran, left, faces up to Jeremy Kyle
Pictures: ITV

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Staffordshire Newsletter

                                 March 8, 2013

Woman-€[TM]s terror over dog attack outside Co-op store

BYLINE: Richard Castle

LENGTH: 534  words


A PET lover suffered horrific facial injuries after being mauled by a dog tied
up outside a Stafford supermarket.

SCARRED . . . Dog- lover Tracey Crowe, who was taken to hospital after the
attack in Silkmore.

Tracey Crowe had a chunk of flesh ripped from beneath her eye and may be
permanently scarred from the attack which happened outside Silkmore Co-op.

The 47-year-old community care worker   is   relieved   the   dog,   a
Staffordshire Bull Terrier, did not attack a child and is calling for
regulations on pets being left untended outside shops.

She said: "I got my trolley and saw the dog tied up outside. It looked up at me
and wagged its tail, looking friendly and apparently asking for a fuss.

"I leaned down slightly and went to pet it when it suddenly jumped up and sank
its teeth deep into my face.

"The wound was pouring with blood as I made my way into the shop and a woman I
passed got some kitchen roll.

"The manager then came out and got a chair for me and another lady helped me to
keep pressure on the wound."

The store manager stopped everyone leaving the premises and eventually found the
dog's owner.

Mrs Crowe said the owner told her he was "very surprised" and described his pet
as "usually very friendly'.

Silkmore resident Mrs Crowe said: "I'm a dog lover but I'll certainly think
twice before even petting a dog again after what has happened.

"Had it been a couple of inches higher it would've taken my eye out. I was in
hospital several hours for treatment.

"If   a   child   had   been   within   range   or tried to pet it, the
situation could have been a lot worse.

"That, and the fact I could be permanently scarred, was on my mind almost
instantly after it happened."

The victim spent three hours being treated at Stafford Hospital after the
attack, which happened last Wedenesday at 5pm.

She has also been signed off work and will have to take anti-biotics to fight
infection.

However, she does not believe Staffordshire Bull Terriers are inherently
dangerous.

She said: "My mum's got two Staffies and they're very docile and affectionate.

"I just think there should be restrictions on leaving dogs alone outside shops
and will be looking for compensation for the trauma and loss of work earnings
I've suffered."

A Staffordshire Police spokeswoman said inquiries into the incident are ongoing.

Anyone who witnessed the incident is asked to contact PC Barnett at
Staffordshire Police on 101, quoting incident number 674 of February 27.
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111."

A spokesperson from Midlands Co- operative Society said: "Unfortunately, a
customer was harmed as she bent down to pet a dog which had been secured by its
owner outside our food store at Silkmore Lane on Wednesday, 27 February.

"The safety and wellbeing of our customers is of the utmost importance to us and
the store manager worked quickly to call paramedics to tend to the customer.

"We respect our customers' wishes to secure their dogs outside our store when
shopping with us, but simply ask that they make an informed decision on whether
this is likely to pose any risk towards other customers or to the dog. It is the
responsibility of a dog owner to ensure   that   their   dog appropriately in
public."

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SN


                    Copyright 2013 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 10, 2013 Sunday

Syrian foreign ministry says UN has to condemn terrorists' attacks on civilians

LENGTH: 357 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Foreign Ministry: UN Has to Condemn Terrorists' Attacks on Civilians, UN
Forces" - SANA Headline]

Damascus - The Foreign and Expatriates Ministry stressed the importance that the
UN unequivocally condemns the attacks of the armed terrorist groups on the
civilians in the forces' disengagement area in the Syrian Golan and the UN
forces.

In two identical letters addressed to the president of the UN Security Council
and the UN Secretary-General on the detention of 21 UNDOF observers by an armed
group near Jamleh village near the forces' disengagement area in the Syrian
Golan , the ministry said that the Syrian government has fully cooperated with
the UNDOF command through a one-sided ceasefire as it cares for the safety of
the UN forces.

"The Syrian government was surprised when informed that the gunmen carried the
abducted observers to Jordan instead of releasing them unconditionally and
handing them over to the force command," the ministry said, warning that "this
might encourage a repetition of the incident by the armed groups."

The letters added that as the Syrian government "reiterates commitment to its
obligations based on the Separation of Forces Agreement and enabling the UN
forces to carry out their mandate in the Syrian Golan, it would like to call to
mind the repeated attacks recently against the UN forces by the armed groups."

The ministry said that the armed groups take advantage of the UN inattention to
their dangerous activities and get increasingly active in the area due to
logistical support they receive from the Israeli occupation forces, in a clear
violation of the 1974 Disengagement Agreement.

"It also holds Israel responsible for the threat posed by these groups to the
safety of UNDOF forces and staff," the ministry added.

The letters added that the Syrian government has repeatedly warned of the danger
posed by these groups' presence in the disengagement area, underlining need to
get the terrorist groups out of the area and prevent their infiltration into it.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1800 gmt 9 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 11, 2013 Monday

Afghan paper slams Pakistan for supporting terror attacks

LENGTH: 517 words


Text of editorial entitled: "Time efforts were made to fight terrorism and
circles supporting terrorists in the region" by state-owned Afghan newspaper
Hewad on 5 March

The secretary general of North Atlantic Treaty Organization [NATO] Rasmussen
visited Kabul yesterday and after meetings with President Hamed Karzai and
Foreign Minister Zalmai Rasul, they attended a joint news conference. At the
meetings with the Afghan leaders, the NATO secretary general promised and
insisted that NATO would continue its long-term assistance to Afghanistan. They
will not only extend the Afghan forces training period but will also strengthen
the financial support to the Afghan forces. However, during the news conference
both leaders mostly talked about terrorism and anarchism facing Pakistan and the
threat posed by these two phenomena. There is no doubt that terrorism and
anarchy are the common enemy of the region and the world, but the point is that
terrorism is still being openly supported by the neighbouring countries. And by
temptation of the historical enemies, Pakistan is trying to make a religious
story for terrorism and anarchism and after doing this they hurt the people of
the region and specially the Pashtuns. The reason behind this game is that
Pakistan wants to weaken the movement of freedom in this country and draw the
attention of those fighting for freedom to another side and involve them in a
war under the name of religion. And here in Afghanistan they want to overthrow
the regime liked it happened after the withdrawal of Soviet troops in the 1970s.

Pakistani intelligence agencies use their so-called religious scholars and make
them issue such Fatwa which does not have any Islamic basis. This Fatwa that has
mostly achieved its goals in Afghanistan is offensive and the Afghan council of
religious scholars and the government of Afghanistan showed reaction to it. Now
the government of Pakistan brought forward Mawlawi Taher Ashrafi who called
himself as the head of the Pakistani council of religious scholars. But in fact
he is a member of the intelligence agency, and he has said that suicide attacks
are allowed in Afghanistan, and they are not allowed in Pakistan and as well as
Afghanistan is an invaded country. During the news conference in the
presidential palace regarding these remarks, Karzai said that he condemned the
remarks by Mawlawi Ashrafi and said that his remarks did not have a basis and
all the mercenary efforts of Pakistan were revealed one after another. The
disputes in Karachi, Sind, Pakhtonkhwa, Baluchestan and on this side of the
Durand line are the disclosed actions by Pakistan, which are extensively
condemned and if God willing then they will not be able to deceive these people
again, but it is the duty of NATO to condemn these efforts. They should not only
stop the growth of terrorism in Pakistan, but they should also wipe out the
groups that support terrorism. Otherwise war on terror will not be successful
and it will be impossible to prevent this threat in Afghanistan, region and the
world.

Source: Hewad, Kabul, in Dari 5 Mar 13, p 2

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       March 12, 2013 Tuesday 5:53 PM GMT

Cyber and nuclear attack now greater threat than terrorism, US military claims

BYLINE: David Taylor, US Editor

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 653 words


The dangers posed by cyber and nuclear attack have supplanted terrorism in the
table of threats facing the United States, according to the country's
intelligence and military chiefs, who warned of gaps in the nation's defences.

They painted a picture of mounting risk to the US economy and the country's
infrastructure from cyber-attacks and highlighted weaknesses in precautions
against a nuclear attack.

While the US has a missile defence shield strong enough to thwart a limited
North Korean nuclear attack on its West Coast, the East Coast is not fully
protected should Iran develop the ability to launch an intercontinental attack,
a Senate hearing was told.

General Robert Kehler, commander of United States Strategic Command, said
intelligence sources suggested Iran could pose a nuclear threat by 2015 and that
an expanded East Coast missile defence system would not be in place until three
years later.

General Kehler revealed that concerns about an acceleration of North Korea's
nuclear programme had prompted urgent studies in partnership with intelligence
experts to see if the US needed to increase its defences.

In a wide-ranging session, the Committee on Armed Services heard:

* that the US military cannot be sure that nations with nuclear weapons -
including Britain, Russia and China - can prevent a cyber-attack taking control
of their missile systems;

* that the military wants to sweep aside privacy concerns to get access to the
computer networks of banks and private companies so they can try to thwart
cyber-attacks as they happen;

* that China's "massive campaign" to use cyber-attacks to steal technology,
intellectual property and business strategies "continues relentlessly",
according to the committee's chairman, Carl Levin, a Democrat Senator.

The concerns were made public after the White House openly called upon China to
stop hackers breaking into US computer systems to steal business secrets.

"The international community cannot afford to tolerate such activity from any
country," Tom Donilon, the President's national security adviser, said.

The tension with China comes after a report last month showed that 141
organisations had been targeted by cyber-attacks emanating from a single
building in Shanghai linked to the People's Liberation Army.

But the attacks on the fabric of the US economy are wider ranging, and
escalating. General Keith Alexander, commander of United States Cyber Command,
said there had been 140 attacks on Wall Street in the past six months.

He called for new laws to allow the Department of Defence, the FBI and the
Department of Homeland Security to join forces and get access to private
computer networks so they can see attacks in cyberspace as they are unleashed.

"An attack on Wall Street would probably not be seen by us; it's going to be
seen by the private sector first," he said. "If we're going to respond in time
to make a difference, we have to see that in real time."

The public needed to be educated about the risk, he said, so that concerns over
privacy implications could be managed.

While the US has highlighted the growing number of attacks it faces, America is
spending billions of dollars on its own arsenal of cyber-attack weapons.

General Alexander said dozens of teams were being created to protect the US and
attack aggressors in cyberspace. The first 13 Department of Defence teams, which
will be ready by September this year, would go on the offensive to launch
counter-strikes if America were attacked in cyberspace.

More teams are being created to protect combat forces from cyber-attack and
further units will be used to protect military systems and infrastructure.

Asked to imagine a worst-case scenario cyber-attack on the US, General Alexander
said a software failure across the US could knock out power networks for an
extended period throughout the country, and cause more damage and disruption
than the 9/11 terrorist attacks in New York.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 13, 2013 Wednesday

Polish court releases man arrested for praising terrorist group's attacks

LENGTH: 440 words


Text of report by Polish leading privately-owned centre-left newspaper Gazeta
Wyborcza website,

[Report by "wrob": "Court Releases Artur L., Suspected of 'Publicly Praising
al-Qa'ida Attacks,' From Detention"]

He used the nickname Ahmed Yassin 23 online. He converted to Islam. He learned
the language Pashto, used in Pakistan and Afghanistan. He visited closed forums
where mujahedin sympathizers meet.

We wrote about the story of the 22-year-old Artur and his elder brother Tomasz,
a security and terrorist crime analyst, in our report "Virtual Terrorist" back
in November. Tomasz was fascinated with terrorism and studied it as a researcher
-- he devoted his bachelor's thesis, master's thesis, and post-graduate work to
the subject. His brother, six years younger, had been living almost exclusively
in a virtual world for several years. When online he used the nickname Ahmed
Yassin 23. He converted to Islam. He learned the language Pashto, used in
Pakistan and Afghanistan. He visited closed forums where mujahedin sympathizers
meet. He also recorded "nashids," or amateur melo-recitals, in which he praised
Al-Qa'ida.

The ABW [Internal Security Agency] arrested Artur just before the Euro 2012
event and boasted of the case as its greatest anti-terrorist success. In
December public prosecutors concluded that by sending out links to handbooks on
explosive materials he had not aided and abetted terrorist crimes. He praised
the Al-Qa'ida attacks on the Internet, but it was because he suffers from a
mental illness.

Prosecutors filed a request to have Artur placed in a closed psychiatric
facility, because experts at the detention facility on Rakowiecka Street in
Warsaw feel that "there is a certain danger" that he will once again go praising
the attacks online. We predicted back in our report that Artur L.'s case would
come to such a conclusion. He spent nine months in detention.

Artur's elder brother Tomasz fought to have him released. "All of the things
that the ABW took from our home, aside from the head scarf, belonged to me, not
Artur," he explained. "There is not the slightest tangible evidence of a crime,"
he told Gazeta Wyborcza.

"He is reading, solving crossword puzzles. We have visited a doctor and a
psychologist's clinic, because our attorney advised us to," Artur's parents tell
Gazeta Wyborcza. Today the brothers were given back the computer hardware that
was seized by the ABW. The CDs were not returned to them. Before the court turns
down the prosecutor's request to have Artur confined to a hospital, it first
wants to consult a psychologist.

Source: Gazeta Wyborcza website, Warsaw, in Polish 0000gmt 13 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      March 13, 2013 Wednesday 5:15 PM GMT

UK 'faces threat of murderous terror attack from Far Right extremist'

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 415 words


Britain faces the threat of a murderous terror attack from a Far Right extremist
similar to the mass murderer Anders Breivik who gunned down 77 young Norweigans,
the Security Minister warned today.

James Brokenshire accused groups such as the English Defence League (EDL) of
inflaming tensions on the streets, claiming that their messages of "hate-filled
prejudice" could "stoke radicalisation" among unstable loners motivated by race
hate.

He disclosed that one in ten cases referred to a Home Office scheme to stop
youngsters being caught up in terrorism related to the Far Right.

Seventeen right-wing extremists are serving prison sentences linked to
terrorism, including a man who built up the biggest arms cache uncovered
recently in Britain, two men convicted of preparing to use home-made poison in
an attack and another jailed for circulating terrorist literature.

"Any of these examples could have proved deadly," Mr Brokenshire told the
International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation and Political Violence in
London.

"All these cases are, without exception, self-starting groups and individuals,
rather than part of a centrally-directed terrorist organisation. The Far Right
threat is not as widespread or systematic as the al-Qa'ida inspired threat and
operationally there are vast differences.

"But we also notice that at the same time, at its core, the Far Right appeals to
people who share many of the same vulnerabilities as those exploited by
al-Qa'ida inspired extremism.

"It feeds off the same sense of alienation and questions around identity and it
has the same ambition to reshape the world in an impossible way. The threat is
real, and our response must be effective."

Mr Brokenshire condemned the "worrying phenomenon" of groups like the EDL
promoting "offensive, anti-Muslim messages", adding: "They are divisive and run
contrary to the values of respect and tolerance of different faiths and
beliefs."

It was believed "so-called defence leagues" can provide "gateway ideologies"
which enable sympathisers to graduate to hardline extremist activity, the
Minister said.

Mr Brokenshire said the Home Office counter-terrorism strategy had been updated
18 months ago to include the activities of the Far Right and said ministers were
consulting other European governments over how to deal with the threat.

Thousands of staff in schools, prisons, social services and hospitals are being
trained to spot individuals who are drifting towards extremist views of all
kinds, he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 13, 2013 Wednesday 9:01 AM GMT

Syria: the children's stories of attacks and terror;
As a Save the Children study finds that Syrian children are being beaten, killed
and sexually abused, child refugees give first hand accounts about how they have
been affected by the conflict.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 373 words


Children trapped inside Syria are being beaten, killed and sexually abused, a
major study has found, with more than two million facing physical attacks,
malnutrition and being used as human shields.

Collecting first hand accounts from child refugees, Save the Children, found
that one in three of the children had been punched, kicked or shot at, in many
cases barely escaping with their lives.

Six-year-old Nidal told Save the Children: "Once, armed men chased us. They shot
at [the three of] us and it hit the ground near my foot so I jumped. It hit
below my foot and it touched my shoe but I kept running. We reached a wall and
couldn't run anymore.

"I was scared, very scared. I was scared and my friends too. We were surrounded
by walls."

As the conflict in Syria reaches its third year with more than 70,000 killed,
children are becoming ever more drawn into the warfare. Some young boys are
being used by armed groups as porters, runners and human shields, bringing them
close to the front line, while many girls are being married off early to protect
them from a widely perceived threat of sexual violence.

The report, 'Children Under Fire', found a "growing pattern" of armed groups,
both with and against the Syrian regime, recruiting children under 18 for the
dangerous work of being guards or informers. Save the Children cites cases of
children as young as eight who have been used as human shields.

Citing interviews conducted by Bahcesehir University, the report finds that
almost one in three children has been separated from family members and that
three in four children had seen the death of a loved one.

"For millions of Syrian children, the innocence of childhood has been replaced
by the cruel realities of trying to survive this vicious war," said Save the
Children Chief Executive Justin Forsyth.

"Many are now living rough, struggling to find enough to eat, without the right
medicine if they become sick or injured. As society has broken down, in the
worst cases, hunger, homelessness and terror have replaced school for some of
these young people. We cannot allow this to continue unchecked; the lives of too
many children are at stake. "

Footage courtesy of Save the Children

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 14, 2013 Thursday
                                 Second Edition

BRITAIN AT RISK OF BREIVIK-STYLE TERROR ATTACK, WARNS MINISTER

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 104 words


Britain faces the threat of a terror attack from a far-right extremist like
Anders Breivik, who gunned down 77 Norwegians, the Security Minister warned
yesterday.

James Brokenshire accused groups such as the English Defence League of inflaming
tensions and stoking radicalisation. He said one in 10 cases referred to a
scheme to stop young people being caught up in terrorism related to the far
right.

And 17 right-wing extremists were serving terrorism-linked prison sentences in
2011. "The threat is real and our response must be effective," Mr Brokenshire
told the International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation in London.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 14, 2013 Thursday 6:54 PM GMT

Shocking video 'shows U.S. security contractors drunk and high in Afghanistan
while on $47m contract to protect American  lives against terror attacks'

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1021 words



     ·    Whistle blowers secretly taped key personnel injecting drugs, chugging
          vodka and wrestling each other
     ·    Said there is 'no way' staff would have been able to protect American
          lives from terrorist attack
     ·    The U.S. Army has launched a criminal investigation into the
          Virginia-based company
     ·    Use of alcohol or illegal drugs by U.S. contractors in Afghanistan is
          prohibited by the military, with the manual describing a
          'zero-tolerance' policy


Shocking video allegedly showing U.S. Security contractors drunk, stoned and
engaging in outlandish behavior while they were in Afghanistan protecting
American lives has been leaked by two whistle blowers.

The footage is believed to have been recorded earlier this year at a Jorge
Scientific operations center in Kabul. It appears to show key personnel drunk or
high on drugs, chugging drinks, semi-naked wrestling and injecting drugs.

The alleged behavior went undetected by U.S. military officials and put American
lives at risk. The whistle blowers revealed that if a terrorist attack had been
made at this time, then employees would have been too 'out of it' to respond.

Scroll down for video

Two former employees, John Melson and Kenny Smith, gave the video to ABCand say
it documents a number of allegations they have made in a lawsuit against Jorge
Scientific.

'It was going against everything that we were trying to do over there. It was
like a frat house for adults. Some of them to the point where they were passing
out, there's firearms laying around, some of them still carrying the firearms on
them'                         John Melson

The U.S. Army has now launched a criminal investigation into the Virginia-based
company, who has won almost $1 billion in U.S. government contracts.

They said they were unaware of both the video and the allegations until last
month.

Whistle blowers Melson and Smith worked as armed security officers for three and
five months respectively, in Kabul as part of a $47 million contract Jorge
Scientific had under the U.S. Legacy Program to train the Afghan National Police
in counter-insurgency efforts.

They said they quit out of sheer disgust for the behavior, because of the way
they were treated by their colleagues, who would bully them for not joining in
the party, and out of concern their own safety was being compromised by the
behavior.

Melson, a National Guard sergeant who served in uniform in Iraq and Afghanistan
before working for Jorge Scientific, told ABC: 'It was going against everything
that we were trying to do over there. It was like a frat house for adults.

'Some of them to the point where they were passing out, there's firearms laying
around, some of them still carrying the firearms on them.'

The company says it has taken 'decisive action to correct the unacceptable
behavior of a limited number of employees' and that several of them seen on the
video are no longer employed by Jorge Scientific.

In a short clip of the video provided to ABC, the security manager for the
company can be seen chugging a glass of vodka and staggering around before
starting a wrestling match with another employee.

Several bottles of alcohol can be seen sitting on a table in the background.

The use of alcohol or illegal drugs by U.S. contractors in Afghanistan is
prohibited by the military, with the manual describing a 'zero-tolerance' as
personnel must be on alert 24/7 for possible terrorist attacks.

The video then switches to the company's medical officer after he allegedly
injected himself with Ketamine. The man stares at the camera wide and glassy
eyed, not being able to respond when asked a question.

When asked about the video, medical officer Kevin Carlson admitted to ABC that
he frequently injected himself with narcotics just to 'get away' because the
place was such a 'nightmare'.

Though he is no longer employed with them, he revealed there was 'massive drug
and alcohol abuse' at that Jorge Scientific facility, involving executives,
armed security personnel and himself.

The company's senior on-site executive Chris Sullivan was often the ringleader
behind the parties and would try to pressure others into taking part, the suit
alleges.

He would also allegedly hold blazing bonfires in the outdoor patio despite the
fact the location was supposed to be covert.

Employees would often throw live ammunition rounds and fire extinguishers into
the flames and watch as they exploded, often sounding like a real bomb
explosion, the whistle blowers claim.

Melson said: 'There was nothing covert with bringing all that added attention.
Afghanistan is not the time or the place to be carrying on like that.'

Sullivan does not work with Jorge Scientific any more and refused to comment on
the allegations.

In a statement to ABC News, Colonel Tom Collins, a U.S. Army spokesperson for
the International Security Assistance Force, said: 'Clearly, behavior such as
that described by ABC News is not indicative of the outstanding work that
thousands of contractors and service members perform every day in Afghanistan.

'We are confident that our personnel conduct themselves in ways that makes our
nation proud and we should not allow the actions of a few, if determined to be
true, to detract from that fact.'

Jorge is now conducting their own investigation but said they made management
changes to the operation in Afghanistan before the lawsuit was filed.

Their statement said: 'These individuals are seeking monetary damages by
mis-characterizing these actions as "fraud".

'The company remains confident that the personal misconduct did not impact the
company's contract performance.'

If the allegations turn out to be true, it may stoke U.S.-Afghan relations even
further and could add to rage over perceived U.S. disrespect for local values.

'This arrogant image that Americans have worldwide, this was feeding right into
it,' said Melson.

The full video will be broadcast in a report this evening on ABC World News with
Diane Sawyer and Nightline.

Unfortunately your browser does not support IFrames.

Watch More News Videos at ABC | 2012 Presidential Election

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 15, 2013 Friday

Iraqi security forces thwart "terrorist" attack on Justice Ministry

LENGTH: 490 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Television in Arabic, in its 1300 gmt newscast on 14 March,
reports on the BOC thwarting a 'terrorist' attack against the Ministry of
Justice; Al-Maliki holding a meeting with the ambassadors of the permanent state
members of the UNSC; the Fivefold Committee announcing new achievements to
fulfil demonstrators' demands; the Iraqi Intelligence Service saying Samir
Haddad no longer belongs to it; and on 15 Arab states participating in the event
of Baghdad Capital of the Arab Culture.

Security Developments:

Within its 1300 GMT newscast, the channel carries the following report:

- "The Baghdad Operations Command [BOC] has announced that security forces
managed to kill terrorists who broke into the Ministry of Justice. In a
telephone call with the Al-Iraqiyah Channel, a BOC source stressed that the
security forces secured a safe exit for all personnel, in addition to securing
the entire ministry building."

Political Developments:

Within its 1300 GMT newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-  "Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has held separate meetings with the delegation
of ambassadors of the permanent states members in the UNSC and Indonesian
Economic Affairs Minister Hatta Rajasa. An informed source said that the meeting
with the delegation of the permanent member states of the UNSC discussed the
regional political situation; adding that the meeting between Al-Maliki and
Indonesian minister discussed ways of boosting the economic cooperation between
Iraq and Indonesia."

-  "The Fivefold Committee announced today that seizure was lift on 18,000 real
estate as their owners were subject to the measures of the Accountability and
Justice Commission. In a statement to the Iraqi Media Network's news centre,
Qays al-Shadhar, representative of the Al-Iraqiyah List in the committee, said
that the fivefold and sevenfold committees are taking measures to lift the
seizure on all real estate as soon as possible. Al-Shadhar added that the
committee decided to refer the confiscated money to the Iraqi Judiciary."

-  "The Accountability and Justice Commission has pensioned off more than 93,000
people affected by its measures and reinstated some of them, stressing that this
measure included Al-Anbar, Salah-al-Din, Diyala, Ninawa, and the southern
governorates, denying accusations of being selective."

-  "The Iraqi Intelligence Service has stressed, in a statement, that Samir
Haddad does not currently belong to the Intelligence Service, adding that he was
transferred to another service months ago. The statement also said that the
reports circulated by some media outlets in this regard are untrue."

-  "Nawfal Abu-Raghif, official spokesperson for Baghdad the Capital of the Arab
Culture for 2013, has announced the participation of more than 15 Arab states
with high-level delegations, in addition to cultural and artistic delegations."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1300 gmt 14 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             March 15, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Muslim ex-BBC guard plotted terror attack on Wootton Bassett

BYLINE: Paul Cheston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 481 words


A WHITE Muslim convert who had worked as a BBC security guard today admitted
plotting a terror attack in the repatriation town Wootton Bassett.

Richard Dart, 29, also planned to wipe out members of the security services
including "MI5 or MI6 heads" after he received training at Pakistani terror
camps over two years.

Bearded Dart, wearing a green fleece and traditional white Muslim robes,
appeared via video link at the Old Bailey to admit engaging in conduct in
preparation for acts of terrorism between July 2010 and July last year.

Co-defendants Imran Mahmood, 21, of Northolt, and former PCSO Jahangir Alom, 26,
of Stratford, also pleaded guilty to the same charge.

As well as receiving terror training, the gang gave information to other
radicals about travelling to Pakistan and obtaining information about UK
security while they were out there.

Dart, who is the son of Dorset teachers and who converted to Islam after being
radicalised by cleric Anjem Choudary, was arrested after police seized computers
from his home address in Ealing following long surveillance.

Evidence showed the men discussed targeting Wootton Bassett, the Wiltshire town
where residents paid their respects to repatriated British troops killed in
Afghanistan from 2007 until September 2011.

Last year the convert, who has changed his name to Salahuddin al Britani,
featured in a BBC documentary filmed by his own brother about Dart's conversion
to Islam. During the film, called My Brother The Islamist, Dart was seen
protesting about British soldiers in Afghanistan and calling them "murderers".
The former BBC security guard also called for sharia law to be established in
Britain.

At an earlier magistrates' court hearing which can only be reported now,
prosecutor Mark Topping said the trio travelled to Pakistan "for the purpose of
being instructed in terrorism techniques and after to deploy these techniques in
Pakistan or elsewhere". On Mahmood's return, police found traces of explosives
in his rucksack.

The prosecutor said the trio would communicate as if they were "deaf and dumb"
and type messages on mobiles or computers for the others to read, then delete
them. However, the police were able to recover fragments of discussions on
Dart's computer as the evidence mounted against them.

The messages mentioned the TTB - the Taliban and some leaders. Mr Topping went
on: "There is a discussion about Wootton Bassett and locations - 'Yes, yes,
Wootton Bassett, if not that then all combatants. If it comes down to this, it
is that or even to just deal with a few MI5 or MI6 heads'. The Crown says that
is a discussion on targeting."

The three defendants will be sentenced at the end of April after a judge
adjourned the case for pre-sentence reports.

Alom's wife Ruksana Begum, 22, of Islington, has already been sentenced after
pleaded guilty to possessing a document likely to be of use to a terrorist.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Victims of war: the coffins of five soldiers killed in Afghanistan pass
through Wootton Bassett
Plotter: Muslim convert Richard Dart

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 15, 2013 Friday 7:35 PM GMT

White Muslim convert, former PCSO and conspirator they trained with in Pakistan
admit plotting terror attack on Wootton Bassett

BYLINE: SAM ADAMS and MARTIN ROBINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 619 words



     ·    Richard Dart, Imran Mahmood, and Jahangir Alom, plead guilty at Old
          Bailey
     ·    Admit preparing for terrorism or assisting another in terrorism,
          between July 2010 and July 2012
     ·    Trio travelled to Pakistan for terror training and helped others do
          the same
     ·    Conversations reveal targets were Wootton Bassett and secret services


A former BBC security guard today admitted playing a part in a two-year terror
plot, which included a possible attack on Wootton Bassett, the small town in
Wiltshire used for military funerals.

White Muslim convert Richard Dart, 29, also planned to wipe out members of the
security services including 'MI5 or MI6 heads' after receiving training at
Pakistani terror camps.

Dart, who calls himself Salahuddin Al Britani, and co-conspirators Imran
Mahmood, 21, and Jahangir Alom, 26,  have all pleaded guilty to preparing for
acts of terrorism during a brief hearing at the Old Bailey.

The charges said they travelled to Pakistan for terror training, travelled
abroad to commit acts of terrorism and provided information about travel to
Pakistan, terrorism training and operational security while there.

Detectives had recovered computer conversations between Dart and Mahmood
identifying one target as Wootton Bassett, whose streets are always lined with
mourners when Britain's war-dead are flown back into the UK.

One conversation between the pair went as follows: 'Yes, yes Wootton Bassett, if
not that then all combatants if it comes down to it, it is that or even to just
deal with a few MI5, MI6 heads.'

Dart, the son of teachers from Dorset, had appeared in a BBC Three documentary
made by his stepbrother after he converted to Islam by radical cleric Anjem
Choudary.

In the film, My Brother The Islamist, Dart was said to have been turned into an
extremist in months after joining the Muslims Against Crusades group.

He also criticised Britain on TV while claiming benefits to live rent-free.

Dart also appeared in an internet video uploaded by a Muslim group vowing to
disrupt the wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton.

Alom spent two years working for the Metropolitan Police as a police community
support officer, dubbed 'Blunkett Bobbies' because they were introduced when
David Blunkett was Home Secretary.

All three bearded men appeared by videolink from Woodhill Prison in
Buckinghamshire for a plea and case management hearing.

They spoke only to confirm their names and to enter a guilty plea to the single
charge on the indictment.

Prosecutor Jonathan Laidlaw QC said there was still a dispute between the Crown
and some of the defendants about the 'degree of risk to members of the public
and whether it was significant.'

The judge, Mr Justice Simon, said he would sentence them on a date to be set in
late April following the preparation of reports by the Probation Service.

Alom's wife Ruksana Begum, 22, was jailed for 12 months in December last year
after being caught with a guide on how to blow up bombs by remote control.

The trainee accountant downloaded the illegal Al Qaeda magazines after two of
her brothers were jailed for plotting to blow up the London Stock Exchange and
other famous landmarks in the capital.

Begum's brothers, Gurukanth Desai and Abdul Miah, were jailed for 12 years and
16 years and 10 months respectively in February last year after pleading guilty
to plotting terrorist attacks.

Begum, of Provost Estate, Islington, north London, admitted a single count of
possession of a document likely to be of use to a terrorist contrary to section
58 of the Terrorism Act 2000, namely copies of Inspire 8 and Inspire 9 Winter
2012 edition.

Dart, of Ealing, west London, Mahmood, of  Northolt, west London and Alom, of
Stratford, east London, were all remanded in custody.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Swindon Advertiser

                             March 15, 2013 Friday

Terrorist who plotted possible attack on Royal Wootton Bassett pleads guilty

BYLINE: Web Team

SECTION: SWINDON NEWS (SWINDON NEWS)

LENGTH: 598 words


MUSLIM convert Richard Dart is facing a long prison sentence today admitting
getting involved in terrorism.

Dart became involved in extremism after converting to Islam. He was featured in
a BBC Three documentary made by his stepbrother.

He pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey with Imran Mahmood and Jahangir Alom to
engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorism. They plotted to go to Pakistan
to train at a terrorist camp and to travel abroad to commit acts of terrorism.

The three bearded men appeared by videolink and were remanded in custody by Mr
Justice Simon for reports before being sentenced, on a date to be fixed.

Dart, 29, of Broadway, Ealing, west London, Mahmood, 21, from Dabbs Hill Lane,
Northolt, west London, and Alom, 26, of Abbey Road, Stratford, east London,
admitted being involved in the offence between July 2010 and July last year.

The case against them was that they intended to use their training to attack
targets.

Mahmood, who had been to Pakistan before, was able to offer advice and
assistance.

Police recovered bits of text messages from a computer in Dart's home which
referred to "even to just deal with a few MI5 MI6 heads".

Another referred to WB, thought to refer to Wootton Bassett , the town through
which repatriated British military heroes were driven.

Details of the allegations were not given in court and lawyers will have to
discuss their basis of plea before the facts are finalised.

Dart, the son of teachers from Dorset, appeared in the film My Brother The
Islamist by Robb Leech. In it, Dart is said to have been turned into an
extremist in months after joining the Muslims Against Crusades group and
listening to controversial activist Anjem Choudary.

He changed his name to Salahuddin al-Britani. He worked as a BBC security guard.

Alom, who lives near the Olympics site in Stratford, was arrested in July along
with his new bride Ruksana Begum, a woman whose family has extensive links to
terrorism.

In December she was jailed for a year at the Old Bailey for having al Qaida
terrorist material in her mobile phone.

The link between them could not be made until today when a court order was
lifted.

Begum, 22, who has a first-class accountancy degree, had been married for a
month when anti-terrorism officers raided their home.

The court heard that Begum's brothers, Gurukanth Desai and Abdul Miah, pleaded
guilty to a plot to blow up the Stock Exchange and were sentenced in February to
a respective 12 and 16 years in jail.

Mohammed Chowdhury, jailed for 13 years for the same December 2010 plot, asked
to marry her but she had never met him. She married Alom in June last year and
moved from Wales to London with her new husband.

Begum, who lived in Cardiff next door to Miah, pleaded guilty to having material
which was likely to be useful to someone committing or preparing an act of
terrorism. This was two editions of al Qaida's Inspire magazine on a micro SD
memory card in her mobile.

Begum, of the Provost Estate, Hoxton, north London, appeared with only her eyes
visible beneath a black veil to be sentenced after being remanded in Holloway
prison.

Kate Wilkinson, prosecuting, said: "These items contained both instructional and
ideological material."

The terrorist material included instructions on remote control detonation,
handgun training and how to ignite forest fires.

Hossein Zahir, defending, said Begum downloaded the material a few weeks before
because she wanted to understand why her brothers had taken the path they had.

"She is an intelligent and articulate young woman who does not share the views
of others who do not care," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 16, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

My Brother the Islamist plotted terror attacks;
BBC film's subject targeted town that saluted dead soldiers

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 877 words


A WHITE Muslim convert who labelled British troops "murderers" planned a
terrorist attack on Wootton Bassett and the intelligence agencies.

Richard Dart, along with Jahangir Alom, a former police community support
officer, and a third man, Imran Mahmood, wanted to stage an atrocity in the
Wiltshire town famed for the crowds that lined its streets during the
repatriation of dead soldiers.

They also discussed targeting "heads" of MI5 and MI6.

Dart, 29, a former BBC security guard and the son of Dorset teachers, was
radicalised by the hate cleric Anjem Choudary. He was the subject of an
awardwinning BBC documentary in 2011, My Brother the Islamist, filmed by his
stepbrother.

In one scene, during a demonstration, he accuses soldiers returning from
Afghanistan of being "murderers" and calls for an Islamic state in Britain.

Alom, 26, worked as a PCSO in east London between 2007 and 2009 before becoming
a fanatic. He later married the sister of two convicted terrorists.

The men, all British, were arrested last July, weeks before the Olympic Games.

Police and the security services had monitored them for months and discovered
references to "WB", believed to be Wootton Bassett, on a computer seized from
Dart's flat.

Fearing surveillance, the men communicated by typing on to a screen then
deleting their words. But police were able to recover parts of messages.

One said: "Yes, yes, WB, if not that then all combatants. It is that or even
just deal with a few MI5 or MI6 heads."

No charges were brought in connection with those allegations. But at the Old
Bailey yesterday, the three admitted preparing for terrorism or assisting in
terrorism, between July 2010 and July 2012.

The charges involve travelling to Pakistan for terrorist training, travelling
abroad to commit terrorism and providing information about terrorist training.

Mahmood, 21, of Northolt, west London, spent a year in Pakistan in which it is
believed he underwent such training.

He was deported from there in August 2011 and was put under covert watch after a
check at Heathrow found traces of explosives inside his rucksack, consistent
with it having carried such materials.

Mahmood met Dart that October and is said to have offered advice on terrorist
training in Pakistan. Dart, of Ealing, west London, and Alom, of Stratford, east
London, had travelled to Pakistan that summer but apparently failed to make any
contacts.

The pair were stopped at Heathrow in November 2011 and prevented from flying to
Pakistan. Police seized computer equipment. But they were not arrested until
July 2012. Police do not think the Games were a target but Alom's home was
within a mile of the Olympic Park.

Dart, Alom and Mahmood will be sentenced at a later date.

Mahmood Security guard

Imran Mahmood had qualified to work as a security guard weeks before the
Olympics.

His mother, Nighat Sultana, last night said that he had been a problem child who
lived with his grandmother until 2007 and was regularly in trouble with the
police.

He was deported from Pakistan having overstayed his visa in August 2011. Mrs
Sultana said she had believed her son then met Dart at a local jobcentre. Staff
there suggested Mahmood train to be a security guard, but she did not know
whether he intended to try to get a job at the Olympics.

Dart The middle -class convert to Islamic extremism

Richard Dart went from a beer-drinking carpenter to a hate-filled fanatic in
just a few years. His transformation was documented by his stepbrother, Robb
Leech in an award-winning BBC Three film.

In it, Dart is seen condemning soldiers returning from Afghanistan and demanding
that Islamic law be imposed.

In an earlier newspaper article he warned that there were a "lot of people who
need to have fear in their lives".

But, at the time, he was happy to let Britain pay for his lifestyle through
thousands of pounds of benefits and a rent-free £300,000 London flat.

The son of teachers in Weymouth, Dorset, Dart was taken under the wing of Anjem
Choudary, an extremist Muslim preacher, while studying carpentry in west London.

His conversion and association with the fanatic, who set up the now banned group
Islam4UK, was spotted by Mr Leech in a newspaper article.

The pair had been extremely close as youngsters but now Dart would not shake his
"unclean" hand.

Dart adopted the name Salahuddin Al Britani, after Saladin, the Muslim leader
who drove Richard I from Jerusalem during the Crusades.

In an internet video in April 2011 the extremist threatened to disrupt the
wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton.

Alom Terrorist in-laws

Jahangir Alom spent two years policing communities he would later turn against
as a PCSO. He dreamed of becoming a chief inspector before some "brothers"
turned him to extremism.

He changed his name to Abu Khalid and put videos online explaining why he had
stopped "implementing kuffur [non-believer] laws". Before his arrest, he married
Ruksana Begum, 22, whose brothers, Gurukanth Desai, 30, and Abdul Miah, 25, were
jailed for a plot to blow up the Stock Exchange. She was jailed for a year in
December for downloading a banned terrorist magazine.

'Yes, yes, WB, if not that then all combatants. It is that or even just deal
with a few MI5 or MI6 heads. '

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Left: Richard Dart, the convert, with his stepbrother. Above: Dart as a
child

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            March 16, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;

3 BRITS PLOT UK TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: DAVID COLLINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 193 words


AN ex-BBC security guard was one of three men who yesterday pleaded guilty to
plotting terror attacks.

Among atrocities planned by Muslim convert Richard Dart and his accomplices were
attacks on security chiefs and Royal Wootton Bassett, the town used for military
funerals.

Dart, 29, Jahangir Alom, 26 - a former police community support officer - and
Imran Mahmood, 21, went to Pakistan for terror training.

At the Old Bailey they admitted preparing for acts of terrorism. Police found
alarming computer conversations between Dart and Mahmood. One message said:
"Yes, yes Wootton Bassett. If not, then all combatants. It is that or just deal
with a few MI5, MI6 heads."

Until 2011 the streets of the small town in Wiltshire used to be lined with
mourners when Britain's war dead were repatriated.

Dart, whose parents are teachers from Dorset, changed his name to Salahuddin
al-Britani. He also appeared in a BBC documentary in 2011, which aired around
the time he was planning attacks in the UK.

Dart, of Ealing, West London, Mahmood, of Northolt, West London, and Alom, of
Stratford, East London, were remanded in custody.

A date will be set in April for sentencing.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EX-PCSO J Alom
SICK Mahmood
DART Beforehe converted to Islam
EXTREMIST n Dart as bearded Muslim convert

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            March 16, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

TEACHERS' SON IN PLOT TO ATTACK UK;
Gang went for terror training

BYLINE: DAVID COLLINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 391 words


A FORMER BBC security guard whose parents are teachers was one of three men who
yesterday pleaded guilty to plotting terror attacks.

Among the atrocities planned by Muslim convert Richard Dart, 29, and his two
accomplices were possible attacks on security chiefs and Royal Wootton Bassett,
the town used for military funerals.

Dart and his sidekicks Yes, Jahangir Alom, 26 - who used to be a police
community support officer - and Imran Mahmood, 21, went to Pakistan for terror
training. At the Old Bailey yesterday they admitted preparing for acts of
terrorism.

Police found alarming computer conversations between Dart and Mahmood. One
message said: "Yes, yes Wootton Bassett. If not, then all combatants. It is that
or just deal with a few MI5, MI6 heads."

Until 2011 the streets of the small town in Wiltshire used to be lined with
mourners when Britain's war dead when repatriated.

Dart, whose parents are teachers from Dorset, appeared in a BBC documentary in
2011 called My Brother The Islamist.

It detailed Dart's conversion and - it now transpires - was aired at the time he
was planning atrocities. Dart, of Ealing, West London, and his co-conspirators
appeared in court yesterday via videolink from Woodhill prison in
Buckinghamshire.

The trio admitted that between July 2010 and July 2012 they travelled to
Pakistan for terror training, went abroad to commit atrocities, and provided
other potential terrorists with information on how to get the same training in
Pakistan.

Mahmood, of Northolt, North West London, Alom, of Stratford, East London, and
Dart were remanded in custody.

Prosecutor Jonathan Laidlaw QC said there was a dispute between the Crown and
some of the defendants about the "degree of risk to the public". The judge, Mr
Justice Simon, said he would sentence the trio on a date to be set in April.

Dart, who changed his name to Salahuddin al-Britani, is said to have been turned
into an extremist after joining Muslims Against Crusades. Alom's wife Ruksana
Begum, 22, of Islington, North London, was jailed at the Old Bailey in December
after an al-Qaeda terror guide was found on her phone.

Begum's brothers, Gurukanth Desai and Abdul Miah, both from Cardiff, were jailed
last year after admitting they plotted to blow up the London Stock Exchange.

Yes, yes, Wootton Bassett. Or just deal with a few MI5, MI6 heads GANG MESSAGE

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EX-PCSO J Alom
SICK J Mahmood
BEFORE J Richard Dart
EXTREMIST J Bearded Muslim convert Dart
HEARSE J Wootton Bassett honours dead

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 16, 2013 Saturday 2:06 AM GMT

White Muslim convert, former PCSO and conspirator they trained with in Pakistan
admit plotting terror attack on Wootton Bassett

BYLINE: CHRIS GREENWOOD

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 708 words



     ·    Richard Dart, Imran Mahmood, and Jahangir Alom, plead guilty at Old
          Bailey
     ·    Admit preparing for terrorism or assisting another in terrorism,
          between July 2010 and July 2012
     ·    Trio travelled to Pakistan for terror training and helped others do
          the same
     ·    Conversations reveal targets were Wootton Bassett and secret services


A white middle-class Islamic convert yesterday admitted plotting a terrorist
atrocity on the town where thousands gathered to honour dead British soldiers.

Richard Dart, 30, trained at Al Qaeda camps in Pakistan for an attack on Royal
Wootton Bassett in Wiltshire.

The former BBC security guard was part of a three-man gang - which included a
former police community support officer - who also planned to wipe out the heads
of M15 and MI6.

Last night it emerged that teacher's son Dart was converted to Islam by
notorious radical cleric Anjem Choudary in 2011.

He was transformed from a promising carpentry student into a rabble-rouser
preaching hatred against the West.

Last year, Dart - who has changed his name to Salahuddin al Britani - featured
in a BBC documentary about his conversion to Islam. Despite his supposedly
devout lifestyle, he lived rent-free while claiming thousands of pounds from
taxpayers. In the BBC3 film, My Brother the Islamist, he was seen protesting
about British soldiers in Afghanistan and calling them 'murderers'.

Dart admitted plotting the terrorist attack alongside ex-PCSO Jahangir Alom, 26,
and Imran Mahmood, 21, during a hearing at the Old Bailey.

The three were arrested in police raids prior to the Olympics.

Alom was held at his home in Stratford, East London, in the shadow of the
Olympic Park, by officers who used flash grenades and Tasers.

Police discovered the men plotted to attack Royal Wootton Bassett, the town
where people regularly lined the streets to mark the repatriation of British
troops until late 2011.

The trio had travelled to Pakistan's lawless frontier with Afghanistan where
they undertook terrorist training.

Traces of explosives, including nitro-glycerine, were found inside Mahmood's
rucksack when they returned. The men also passed information to other extremists
about travelling to Pakistan and evading detection.

They were arrested after a long  surveillance operation which followed two
separate trips to Karachi over two years.

The would-be bombers used a bizarre 'deaf and dumb' method in a bid to conceal
their communications.

Surveillance officers looked on as they stood in the street tapping messages
into their mobile phones and laptops before deleting them.

They devised the technique to outfox investigators using sophisticated bugs or
lip readers to work out what they were saying.

But it backfired because software on Richard Dart's laptop automatically saved
fragments of their incriminating discussions.

The messages included discussions about travelling to Pakistan to meet Al Qaeda
and potential targets, including Royal Wootton Bassett.

The incriminating laptop was seized from Dart as he tried to board a plane to
Karachi in November 2011.

A painstaking police investigation discovered fragments of incriminating
messages on their phones and laptops. In one, the trio discussed 'WB',
interpreted by police as Wootton Bassett.

Another message read: 'If it comes down to this, it is that or even to just deal
with a few MI5 or MI6 heads.'

Dart, who has a long bushy beard and wore traditional Muslim robes, spoke only
to plead guilty during yesterday's hearing.

He converted to Islam after mixing in extremist circles, including the group
Muslims Against Crusades, which was banned by the Home Office in November 2011.

The leading figure in the group was Choudary, a hate preacher linked to a string
of Islamist groups including Islam4UK, who boasted of converting Dart 'by my
hand'.

Choudary gave him the name 'Salahuddin' after the medieval leader who drove
Richard I from Jerusalem.

Dart's mother, Deborah Leech, declined to comment yesterday at the £350,000 home
she shares with her husband Thomas in the village of Upwey, near Weymouth,
Dorset.

Speaking in court yesterday, prosecutor Jonathan Laidlaw QC said there is a
dispute over the 'degree of risk to members of the public' the men posed.

The judge, Mr Justice Simon, said he would sentence the men next month.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 16, 2013 Saturday 6:00 AM GMT

My brother the Islamist plotted terror attacks;
BBC film's subject targeted town that saluted dead soldiers.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 455 words


A white Muslim convert who labelled British troops "murderers" planned a
terrorist attack on Wootton Bassett and the intelligence agencies.

Richard Dart, along with Jahangir Alom, a former police community support
officer, and a third man, Imran Mahmood, wanted to stage an atrocity in the
Wiltshire town famed for the crowds that lined its streets during the
repatriation of dead soldiers.

They also discussed targeting "heads" of MI5 and MI6.

Dart, 29, a former BBC security guard and the son of Dorset teachers, was
radicalised by the hate cleric Anjem Choudary. He was the subject of an
award-winning BBC documentary in 2011, My Brother the Islamist, filmed by his
stepbrother.

In one scene, during a demonstration, he accuses soldiers returning from
Afghanistan of being "murderers" and calls for an Islamic state in Britain.

Alom, 26, worked as a PCSO in east London between 2007 and 2009 before becoming
a fanatic. He later married the sister of two convicted terrorists.

The men, all British, were arrested last July, weeks before the Olympic Games.

Police and the security services had monitored them for months and discovered
references to "WB", believed to be Wootton Bassett, on a computer seized from
Dart's flat.

Fearing surveillance, the men communicated by typing on to a screen then
deleting their words. But police were able to recover parts of messages.

One said: "Yes, yes, WB, if not that then all combatants. It is that or even
just deal with a few MI5 or MI6 heads."

No charges were brought in connection with those allegations. But at the Old
Bailey yesterday, the three admitted preparing for terrorism or assisting in
terrorism, between July 2010 and July 2012.

The charges involve travelling to Pakistan for terrorist training, travelling
abroad to commit terrorism and providing information about terrorist training.

Mahmood, 21, of Northolt, west London, spent a year in Pakistan in which it is
believed he underwent such training.

He was deported from there in August 2011 and was put under covert watch after a
check at Heathrow found traces of explosives inside his rucksack, consistent
with it having carried such materials.

Mahmood met Dart that October and is said to have offered advice on terrorist
training in Pakistan. Dart, of Ealing, west London, and Alom, of Stratford, east
London, had travelled to Pakistan that summer but apparently failed to make any
contacts.

The pair were stopped at Heathrow in November 2011 and prevented from flying to
Pakistan. Police seized computer equipment. But they were not arrested until
July 2012. Police do not think the Games were a target but Alom's home was
within a mile of the Olympic Park.

Dart, Alom and Mahmood will be sentenced at a later date.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       March 17, 2013 Sunday 12:00 AM GMT

£80m 'wasted' on smallpox terror threat;
Leading scientist says fear that terrorists might attack Britain with the virus
was 'far-fetched'

BYLINE: Brian Brady

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 678 words


One of the country's foremost scientists has claimed Britain "wasted" almost
£80m buying smallpox vaccine, after it emerged that the Government has quietly
downgraded the threat of a terrorist attack using the virus.

Hugh Pennington, a bacteriologist, said he had always believed the idea of
terrorists using smallpox was "far-fetched" because the virus spreads too slowly
and is almost impossible to obtain.

Tony Blair ordered the purchase of millions of doses of the smallpox vaccine to
protect the British puplic 11 years ago amid the post 9/11 security clampdown in
the West.

But internal papers obtained by The Independent on Sunday show that ministers
have now downgraded their assessment of the threat, and ruled that those
preparations were too expensive, "unwieldy" and not "proportionate".

The Ministry of Defence and the Department of Health are both reviewing plans
for dealing with a deliberate release of smallpox into the population, in line
with a high-level judgement from intelligence analysts and germ-warfare
advisers. Both departments have also decided to scale down a scheme to immunise
hundreds of frontline workers, to enable them to treat those infected by a
germ-warfare attack.

The decision emerged a decade after the then Labour government launched its
"smallpox plan" post 9/11. The frantic escalation in Britain's defences against
a germ-warfare attack came amid security fears and warnings that extremists
could use biological agents such as smallpox and anthrax, as well as explosives.

But Professor Pennington said yesterday: "The downgrade is of a threat that
should never have had an upgrade. Buying millions of doses of vaccine was a
waste of money."

The decision by the Labour government to spend £79m on smallpox vaccine sparked
an enormous political row at the time, as £32m of it went to a company owned by
the Labour donor Paul Drayson. He later became a Labour peer and then a
minister. The then health minister stated that Lord Drayson's company,
Powderject, was awarded the contract as it was "the only company that was able
to supply the vaccine that we required as soon as possible".

By 2005, the Department of Health had completed vaccinating a cohort of 516
volunteers, including 147 doctors, 164 nurses and 100 ambulance staff, "to deal
with any initial suspected or confirmed case of smallpox".

But internal documents obtained by The IoS reveal that officials raised concerns
over the "first responders" programme in 2006, four years after the smallpox
plan was published.

A report on the scheme in May 2006 warned: "The current arrangement is proving
operationally difficult to maintain, will require revaccination of significant
numbers this year and presents a range of administrative, funding and
value-for-money issues that also require resolution."

But, in a clear indication of the potential for controversy, officials made
clear that they would not make an announcement about any change, warning that
"smallpox remains a sensitive subject, and any change may attract media
interest".

An updated report, in October 2011, stated: "Many of those in the cohort have
not been revaccinated, as required to maintain immunity, or have moved on. A
decision is needed... to maintain such a vaccinated cohort, now the threat of
smallpox has been downgraded."

Ministers eventually requested advice from the Joint Committee on Vaccination
and Immunisation (JCVI) late last year, citing the risks from the vaccine
itself.

Minutes from the JCVI's confidential deliberations record that "JCVI was now
asked to consider options for Smarts [Smallpox Management and Response Teams]...
in light of the risks associated with smallpox vaccination and the changed
current and future risk of an... outbreak.

"While the risk of smallpox outbreak may have reduced, there may still be a need
for Smarts. However... a more appropriate and proportionate option would be to
convene Smarts consisting of a registered cohort of unvaccinated or previously
vaccinated healthcare workers who are willing to be (re-)vaccinated quickly in
the event of an emergency."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 19, 2013 Tuesday

Turkey "strongly condemns" recent terror attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 177 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia)

ANKARA (AA) -March 19, 2013 -Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) has
condemned the recent terror attacks in Iraq which killed at least 50 people and
wounded more than 100 others.

In a statement released on Tuesday the Turkish MFA said that it learned with
deep sadness that several attacks took place in Iraq on Tuesday.

"We strongly condemn such attacks which aim to erupt a sectarian-based fight in
Iraq. We wish God's mercy upon those killed, and offer condolences to the
relatives of the victims, and wish speedy recovery to those wounded. It is very
distressing that the peace, security and stability have not been established yet
in Iraq. Turkey will continue to support the efforts of building peace,
stability and strengthen democracy in Iraq, and will be in solidarity with the
brotherly Iraqi people in terms of their fight against terrorism," the statement
said.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency, Ankara, in English 1328
gmt 19 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                            March 20, 2013 Wednesday

Rossendale blind woman's terror as guide dog attacked

BYLINE: Chris Adams

SECTION: RAWTENSTALL (RAWTENSTALL)

LENGTH: 331 words


A BLIND woman whose guide dog was attacked as she walked through a field has
enlisted the help of her MP to clamp down on dangerous dogs.

Jenny Nedwell's Labrador retriever, Riley, was set upon by a larger dog on a
path near Rossendale General Hospital.

She has met with Rossendale MP Jake Berry, who has pledged to back her campaign
to have attacks on guide dogs treated as seriously as attacks on people.

Miss Nedwell, from Rawtenstall, said this incident was not the first time one of
her guide dogs had been attacked.

Her previous guide dog, Holly, a yellow Labrador, was also attac-ked and had to
retire after suffering puncture wounds to her head.

She said: "It is incredibly frightening when another dog attacks your guide dog.
As a visually-impaired person, I am already vulnerable and completely rely on my
dog to support me to get around.

"I am unable to see what is happening to my dog and the sound of the attack is
terrifying to hear, and leaves you shaken up and nervous when working your guide
dog near other dogs in the community."

Miss Nedwell, 29, a trainer at the Bootstrap social enterprise, suffers from
reverse retinitis pigmentosa, meaning she has no central vision, and severely
limited peripheral vision.

She said that although Riley did not suffer physical injury after the attack, in
January, the fear of a future attack had been detrimental to his guide dog work,
and her own safety. The incident has been reported to the dog warden at
Rossendale Council.

Miss Nedwell was accompanied on her visit to Mr Berry's office by Emma
Allen-Taylor, an engagement officer for the Manchester Mobility Team and The
Guide Dogs for the Blind Association.

Mr Berry said: "The issue of dangerous dogs is a growing problem in many
communities, and when attacks occur on guide dogs this is even more distressing.

"Guide dogs are vital to enable people who are blind to live full, and
independent, lives and I am very happy to raise this issue in Parliament on
behalf of my constituents."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 20, 2013 Wednesday 9:31 PM GMT

Two Americans with Al Qaeda links who 'plotted terror attacks on US persons or
property' wanted with $10M Government reward

BYLINE: KATIE DAVIES

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 469 words


The Government is offering $10 million for information leading to the arrest of
two Americans in Somalia who are on the FBI's Most Wanted Terrorists List.

The state department says the rewards are $5 million each for al-Shabab members
Omar Shafik Hammami and Jehad Mostafa.

28-year-old Hammami was a resident of Daphne, Alabama, who moved to Somalia in
2006.

He has served as a propagandist for the al-Qaeda-affiliated organization,
attracting English-speaking youth with rap songs and video statements, and as a
military commander.

The department says Mostafa lived in San Diego before moving to Somalia in 2005.
He commands foreign fighters for al-Shabab, which has fought for years for
control over Somalia.

Both men have been indicted in the U.S. on terror charges.

The State Department said they are both believed to be in Somalia and speak
English, Arabic and Somali.

CNN reported a senior FBI official saying both men 'had a persistent interest in
targeting US interests' and are 'believed to be involved in planning attacks on
US persons or property.'

According to the report, matchboxes and posters picturing the pair are being
handed out in Somalia and to the Somali community in the U.S.

No details were given on the alleged terror plots.

Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton approved the awards before leaving
office.

According to the report, Hammami moved to Somalia in 2006 before becoming a
high-ranking commander in al-Shabab.

He led foreign fighters and was tasked with their recruitment.

An Alabama court indicted him in 2009 on charges of providing support to a
terrorist group and he was placed on a treasury blacklist in 2011.

His family have recently said they fear for his life after he publicly fell out
with al-Shabab's leadership.

Mostafa, who is either 27 or 32, according the report, was born in Wisconsin
before going to college in California. On moving to Somalia he also allegedly
worked as a recruiter.

He has previously been indicted in California on charges of providing material
support to al-Shabab.

'Anytime we have U.S. citizens who are trying to affiliate with groups to obtain
experience and training and have the opportunity to bring back that lethal
experience back to the United States, it's a concern,' a State Department
diplomatic security official told CNN.

'There is no question the cases against these two guys are based on their
activities to date. However, we have a continuing interest in terrorist
activities in Somalia right up to now. And these men serve as very powerful
images for radicalization and recruitment.'

The rewards are being offered through the State Department's Rewards for Justice
Program which offered a £25million reward for information on the whereabouts of
Osama Bin Laden.

It currently has $7million worth of rewards on other Al-Shabab figures.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 20, 2013 Wednesday 8:43 PM GMT

Two Americans with Al Qaeda links 'plotting terror attacks on US persons or
property' wanted with $10M Government reward

BYLINE: KATIE DAVIES

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 216 words


The Government is offering $10 million for information leading to the arrest of
two Americans in Somalia who are on the FBI's Most Wanted Terrorists List.

The state department says the rewards are $5 million each for al-Shabab members
Omar Shafik Hammami and Jehad Mostafa.

It says the 28-year-old Hammami is a resident of Daphne, Alabama, who moved to
Somalia in 2006.

He has served as a propagandist for the al-Qaeda-affiliated organization,
attracting English-speaking youth with rap songs and video statements, and as a
military commander.

The department says Mostafa lived in San Diego before moving to Somalia in 2005.
He commands foreign fighters for al-Shabab, which has fought for years for
control over Somalia.

Both men have been indicted in the U.S. on terror charges.

The State Department said they are both believed to be in Somalia and speak
English, Arabic and Somali.

CNN reported a senior FBI official saying both men 'had a persistent interest in
targeting US interests' and are 'believed to be involved in planning attacks on
US persons or property.'

According to the report, matchboxes and posters picturing the pair are being
handed out in Somalia.

No details were given on the alleged terror plots.

Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton approved the awards before leaving
office.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Newham Recorder

                            March 20, 2013 Wednesday

Former PCSO admits plotting terrorist attacks

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 117 words


A man accused of taking part in terrorist training and planning terror attacks
abroad has pleaded guilty to the charges.

Jahangir Alom, 26, appeared at the Old Bailey last week via a video link.

Alom, of Abbey Road, Stratford, once worked as a police community support
officer for an unnamed London council.

He was one of three men charged after they were arrested last July.

As well as going to Pakistan for terror training, the men were also accused of
travelling abroad to commit acts of terrorism and providing information about
terrorism training and operational security while there.

They appeared before Mr Justice Simon for a plea and case management hearing.

They are due to be sentenced next month.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NRC


                      Copyright 2013 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 21, 2013 Thursday

Death toll of "terrorist" attack on Al-Iman Mosque rises to 42 dead - Syrian TV

LENGTH: 58 words


Syrian TV has at 2014 gmt on 21 March carried an "Urgent" screen caption
reading:

"Ministry of Heath: The number of martyrs in the terrorist suicide explosion at
Al-Iman Mosque has risen to 42 dead and 84 injured. The grandson of scholar
Al-Buti was also among the martyrs".

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 2014 gmt 21 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            March 21, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'RAPE' BRIT SCREAMED FOR HOUR BEFORE LEAP;
Tourist's terror in hotel 'attack'

BYLINE: ED RILEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 193 words


A BRIT tourist in India screamed for help for an hour before jumping from a
hotel window to escape an alleged sex attacker.

The 32-year-old backpacker claims she fled from a drunken hotel manager who she
feared would rape her.

The tourist told a court how Sachin Chauhan knocked on her door at 3.45am saying
he wanted to give her an oil massage.

She said: "I asked him to leave but he was insistent. I had to push him out with
the door, and then I bolted the door.

"He remained outside, trying to get in with his keys.

"I was too scared to leave my room. I was kicking the door and shouting for help
but no-one came."

She says that at 5am a security guard, who was charged with harassment
yesterday, joined the manager in demanding she open her door.

The Brit, of Greenwich, south London, jumped from the second floor of the Hotel
Agra Mahal in Agra, northern India, falling 15ft.

The woman, believed to work for a dental practice, " attended court in Agra
yesterday, but was said to be on her way home last night.

Chauhan's lawyer claimed the woman had been drunk and said they would enter a
not guilty plea to the attempted rape charge today.

ed.riley@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLAIMS: The Brit, seen leaving court yesterday, says she jumped from
the hotel window fearing Chauhan, left, would rape her
Picture: BARCROFT MEDIA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 21, 2013 Thursday 4:05 PM GMT

Bollywood icon Sanjay Dutt jailed over guns linked to 1993 Mumbai terror attacks

BYLINE: ALEX GORE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 491 words



     ·    Dutt acquired the guns from Abu Salem, a mastermind behind the blasts
     ·    He was charged for possessing an AK-46 automatic rifle and a handgun
     ·    The actor had been released on bail in 2007 after serving 18 months
     ·    Dutt must return to prison and serve remainder of a reduced five-year
          term
     ·    Court upheld death sentence of Yakub Memon in connection with the
          blast
     ·    Serial bombings killed 257 people and are India's deadliest terror
          attack


Bollywood actor Sanjay Dutt has been ordered to return to prison to complete a
five year sentence for possessing a guns given to him by one of the masterminds
behind the 1993 terror attacks in Mumbai.

Dutt acquired the AK-46 automatic rifle and a handgun from Abu Salem, who was
convicted for his role in the 13 bomb blasts in 1993, which killed 257 people.

The actor had been jailed in 2005 for six years for the gun charges - although
he was cleared of terror offences - but only served 18 months before being
released in 2007 on bail.

But the Supreme Court today ruled that the charges were too severe for bail and
ordered Dutt to return to jail within four weeks to complete the remaining
three-and-a-half years of a reduced five year term.

The 53-year-old is considered Bollywood royalty and the film industry is thought
to have invested more than £30 million in upcoming movies with him in the
starring role.

His career began when he was a child, the son of one of India's mots popular
acting couples, Sunil and Nargis.

Dutt regularly played policemen and gangsters, and his portrayal of a gangster
in Lage Raho Munna Bhai cemented his place as a Bollywood star.

The 1993 attacks are widely believed to have been ordered by gangster Dawood
Ibrahim and supported by Pakistan's intelligence agency.

The blasts were thought to have been carried out in revenge for the death of
Muslims in communal riots be in 1992. Dutt's defence team had argued that he got
hold of the weapon to protect his Muslim mother.

His MP sister, Priya, was in court to hear the ruling and was visibly upset.
Dutt's lawyer said the actor will 'abide' by the order.

The court also considered the sentences of several others convicted following
the bomb attack and reduced the death penalty for 10 defendants to life
sentences.

It also confirmed the death sentence given to Yakub Memon, brother of 'Tiger'
Memon, who is suspected to be one of the masterminds behind the bombings.

Vani Tripathi, national secretary of the Hindu nationalist opposition Bharatiya
Janata Party, who performed alongside Dutt in the 1998 film Dushman, told The
Telegraph she was sadden by the ruling but that there should be no exceptions
for celebrities.

She saddened: 'I have seen how Sanjay Dutt bounced back to life after those
rough years.

'The decision has come from the highest court of the land leaving little scope
for any doubt about the process. I am saddened and shocked but law is blind in
terms of status and emotions. This is rule of the law and it has taken its
course.'

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 21, 2013 Thursday 5:53 PM GMT

Major terror attack on scale of 7/7 foiled every year in UK, police reveal;
Police and MI5 are foiling a plot as big as the July 7 attacks every year, the
country's second most senior terror officer has revealed.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 487 words


Officers also fear a hybrid of terrorist and criminal gangs could bring a new
threat on the UK.

Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner Stuart Osborne warned that the
country is facing the most complex terror threat in its history.

He said the threat is constantly changing with al-Qaeda inspired Islamic
extremists now plotting in smaller, harder to detect groups.

The danger is coming from an increasing number of hot spots around the world and
there is also a growing threat from republican groups in Northern Ireland, who
would attack mainland Britain if they could.

Mr Osborne, who is the senior national coordinator for counter terrorism, said:
"On average we've probably had about one potential attack planned with an intent
to create something similar to July 7 every year.

"The UK threat as we stand today remains at substantial, which means that a
terrorist attack remains a strong possibility and could occur without warning."

Last month, three men were convicted of planning to kill hundreds of people in
the UK with up to eight suicide bombers after concluding the 7/7 attacks had
"not done enough damage".

And in 2006 a plot to blow up passenger jets with bombs disguised as soft drinks
was foiled but led to tighter restrictions for carry on luggage.

Mr Osborne, who is senior national coordinator for counter-terrorism, said he
fears that terror cells could either team up with organised crime gangs or
mirror their practices, bringing a new kind of threat to the UK.

He also echoed concerns that an increasing number of Britons are exploiting
unrest abroad to receive terror training before returning home.

Syria is the biggest destination now and the fear is those taking part will form
small independent cells once back rather than become part of a major plot.

Mr Osborne said: "Some who have been trained actually are becoming quite
self-motivated, they are beginning to plan in small groups which are hard to
detect.

"There is no doubt that the big sophisticated 9/11 or 7/7 type plots are much
harder to organise, they did need a lot of overseas direction, and some of the
al Qaida leadership have said that's good if you can do it, but if not any
attack whatever you can do at whatever size is useful.

"We are seeing more small groups getting together at shorter notice and more
people wanting to do things without that broader command and control."

Al Qaida remains the greatest terror threat to Britain, he said, but there
continues to be a danger from Northern Ireland.

He said the aspiration of Republican groups would be to attack the mainland but
stressed he had not seen any evidence of that so far.

The comments came as new figures revealed the number of terror arrests had risen
by 60 per cent in the year to September 2012.

A total of 245 people were held on suspicion of terrorism-related offences in
the period, compared with 153 in the previous 12 months, the Home Office said.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 22, 2013 Friday

Lebanon's Hezbollah sends condolences, condemns terrorist attack Syrian mosque

LENGTH: 340 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese Hezbollah Al-Manar TV website on 22 March

[Unattributed report: "Hezbollah offers condolences, condemns terrorist attack
on Al-Iman Mosque"]

Hezbollah issued a statement on Thursday [21 March] condemning the terrorist
attack that targeted Al-Iman mosque in Damascus killing Shaykh Muhammad Ramadan
al-Buti and dozens of worshippers.

"The criminals' crime has magnified and exceeded all limits, until it laid its
hand on the men of Allah, His loved ones, and worshippers in His mosques,
targeting elite scholars and elite students with black, savage terror that
neither respected a sanctity, nor a conscience," the statement said.

Hezbollah considered that "the heinous terror crime that targeted Al-Iman mosque
near the Syrian capital, Damascus, and which violated the sacredness of the
house of Allah, His book, the scholars and workers for the sake of Allah, on top
of which was the great scholar, Dr and Shaykh Muhammad Sa'id al-Bouti, along
with tens of worshippers, is a crime that exceeded all limits of outrageousness,
a crime against humanity, religions, morals, Islam and Muslims."

"The terror groups, which planned for this brutal attack and worked on
implementing it, do not belong to any religion, and are immoral, even if they
claim they belong to Islam and wear Islamic dresses," it added.

From here, Hezbollah condemned the "hostile act, which has a tripartite target,
the mosques, scholars, and innocent worshippers," and urged the Syrian people
for "higher awareness of the reality and background of the conflict in their
country". The Lebanese Islamic Resistance further called upon the Syrian people
to "stand in one rank in confrontation of sedition, Takfir, and the destruction
of their country and nation."

In conclusion, Hezbollah offered "it's sincere condolences to the family of the
great martyr, the families of the faithful martyrs killed with him, and the
bereaved Syrian leadership, scholars, and people."

Source: Al-Manar Television website, Beirut, in English 1330 gmt 22 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             March 22, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

7/7 attack foiled every year;
As the number of terror arrests rises 60 per cent, police warn of new threats

BYLINE: AIDAN RADNEDGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 350 words


POLICE are foiling at least one terror plot the size of 7/7 each year,
detectives claimed yesterday.

Officers have seen a 60 per cent rise in terror arrests in the last year but
warned that a major attack remains 'a strong possibility'.

They detained 245 terrorism suspects in the 12 months to September 2012 - up
from 153 the previous year.

However, only 18 were convicted, while another 25 are still awaiting trial,
prompting criticism that anti-terrorism officers are being over-zealous.

Four out of ten arrested on terror offences were later released without charge,
the Association of Chief Police Officers figures show.

Meanwhile, Dep Asst Comm Stuart Osborne revealed many would-be jihadists were
deliberately working in smaller groups than before to evade detection.

He added: 'On average we've probably had about one potential attack planned to
create something similar to July 7 every year.

'The UK threat as we stand today remains at substantial, which means that a
terrorist attack remains a strong possibility and could occur without warning.'
Analysts suggested police overreacted to possible threats surrounding last
summer's London Olympic Games.

Pepe Egger, terrorism expert at Exclusive Analysis magazine, said: 'I would
think most of it is the result of a pre-Olympics campaign by the police to
pre-empt any possible attack during the Games. 'It is likely that they would put
an extra effort into identifying potential suspects in order to make sure they
didn't pose a threat to the Games and the pre-Games period.

'The figures do not correspond with an increased threat from terrorism during
the same period, except a slight pick-up in activity and arrests of dissidents
in Northern Ireland.' Among the recent foiled plots was a terror campaign
planned by a Birmingham-based gang which boasted of 'wanting another 9/11'.

Three members - Irfan Naseer, Irfan Khalid and Ashik Ali - were last month found
guilty of terror offences at the end of a four-and-ahalf-month trial.

A total of 52 commuters were killed when four terrorists blew up three Tube
trains and a bus in London on July 7, 2005.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 24, 2013 Sunday

Terror attacks at different places in Nigeria claim 28 lives

LENGTH: 872 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper Vanguard website on 24 March

[Report by AbduSalam Muhammad, Ndahi Marama and Usman Yusuf: "As 28 are killed
in terror attacks insurgents hit bank, police station, prisons"]

Barely four days after the bombings in Kano which left scores dead, gunmen
struck in Adamawa State.

At the end of the attack, late Friday [22 March], no fewer than 25 persons,
including a former commissioner in old Gongola State, were feared dead.

Scene of attack was the headquarters of Ganye local government. The suspected
insurgents hit Adamawa just as another suicide attack was foiled by security
agents in Kano yesterday.

Only the two suicide bombers involved in the attack were, however, killed.
Gunmen also shot dead a security guard in Maiduguri, Borno State capital,
yesterday, bringing the death toll from suspected terror attacks at the weekend
to 28.

The other highlight of the Adamawa incident was that the gunmen, who carried out
the operation, attacked a bank, a police station and a prisons facility where
some inmates were said to have been freed.

Some relaxation centres and hotels, a source said, were also hit.

The bulk of those killed were said to have been shot during the attack on the
relaxation centres and hotels.

Adamawa killings

Eye witnesses said the attackers first struck at the divisional police station
which was set ablaze before proceeding to the prisons where the inmates were set
free and the building also set on fire. The attack, according to the
eyewitnesses, which took the residents by surprise, began moments after the last
Muslim prayers, Isha'i. The attackers were shouting, "Allah is Great, Allah is
Great', as they marched round the town unchallenged. At the bank, the assailants
were reported to have used dynamites to pull down parts of the building before
gaining entrance into the banking hall and the strong room.

At press time, there was no confirmation of the amount of money stolen from the
bank but reports said the amount could run into millions of Naira. Almost all
the hotels and other relaxation joints in the town were set ablaze and
ransacked, even as fun seekers ran helter skelter for dear lives.

Sunday Vanguard learnt that most of the casualties were recorded in the
relaxation centres as the attackers opened fire sporadically on people seen to
be patronizing the drinking joints and their owners. Adamawa State Police
Command confirmed the incident. The command's public relations officer, PPRO
Mohammed Ibrahim (SP), said military and police personnel had been dispatched to
the area. Also, the Comptroller of Prisons in charge of Adamawa State, Mr Andrew
Barka, confirmed the ransacking of Ganye Prisons, but failed to give further
details. Ganye local government council shares border with the Republic of
Cameroon.

Wheel barrow bombers

In Kano, operatives of military Joint Task-Force (JTF), yesterday morning,
allegedly foiled the attempt by two suicide bombers to blow up the counter
terrorism personnel manning a checkpoint, leaving the bombers dead.

Security sources said the bombers had disguised as water vendors pushing through
a wheel barrow loaded with high caliber Improvised Explosive Device (IED) and
were approaching the checkpoint located at the Eastern bypass by the petrol mega
station when they were ordered to stop. They allegedly refused.

The source stated that the military personnel, who appeared curious about the
'water vendors," shot and killed the two suspects instantly, while a shot fired
at the wheel barrow resulted in a deafening explosion that unsettled the restive
commercial city forcing residents to retreat to the comfort of their homes.

Sunday Vanguard learnt that the JTF immediately cordoned off the scene and
mobilized men and heavy weaponry there.

Confirming the incident, the Kano State Police Command stated that four people
were arrested within the vicinity.

The Command, in a statement by the state police commissioner, Alhaji Musa Daura,
said investigations had commenced to ascertain those involved.

Death in black spot

In the Maiduguri attack, gunmen, suspected to be members of Boko Haram, attacke
d the Kaleri ward residence of a businessman, Alhaji Umar Ali Adam Kolo, and
shot dead his chief security officer at about 1.45pm yesterday.

Kaleri ward of the metropolis, according to (JTF) sources, is one of the eight
black spot areas of Boko Haram in the Borno State capital.

The chief security officer, according to an eyewitness, was trailed to his duty
post at the compound on a tricycle immediately after the afternoon mosque
prayers, and shot in the head and chest. He slumped and died on the spot.

The eye witness said the suspects came through the Shehuri North areas, before
riding into the Kaleri ward on a tricycle, chanting: "God is great! God is
great!," in Arabic language, before they shot and killed the security guard.

A resident said the security guard was early this year issued a threat letter to
vacate his duty post of protecting his boss.

The JTF spokesman in Borno State, Leuitenant Colonel Sagir Musa, and the police
image maker, DSP Gideon Jubrin, could not be reached as their phones were all
switched off at the time of going to press.

Source: Vanguard website, Lagos, in English 1152 gmt 24 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 26, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Majority back drone attacks on terrorists;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 133 words


Drone strikes are supported by the majority of Britons with four in 10 backing
the use of the technology even if innocent civilians are killed, a survey has
shown.

More than half of the British public would support the Government assisting in a
drone missile strike if it was to target a known terrorist, according to a joint
study from the University of Surrey's Centre for International Intervention and
the Royal United Services Institute, a defence think-tank, carried out in
collaboration with YouGov. The study found that 55 per cent of respondents would
support the Government helping in a drone strike to kill a known terrorist
overseas, with that support rising to 67 per cent if no innocent civilians would
be killed. Support dropped to 43 per cent if two or three civilians would be
killed.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 26, 2013 Tuesday 3:15 PM GMT

Biological attacks 'getting easier for terrorists';
Terrorists will find it increasingly easy to launch attacks using biological
weapons, a senior security official has warned.

BYLINE: By James Kirkup Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 657 words


Charles Farr, the Director of the Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism,
said that extremists have ever greater access to the information and technology
required to create and spread germ agents or other biological weapons.

He spoke as an official assessment suggested that countering the threat to the
UK from international terrorism is becoming harder and more expensive.

The Home Office has published an annual report on its Contest counter-terrorism
strategy, which warned that Islamic terrorist threats are now spread more widely
across the world, requiring "very significant resources" to combat.

The report showed that security officials and intelligence agencies believe that
a priority for Britain is improving its ability to detect biological attacks,
treat victims and decontaminate attack sites.

"Biological will get easier from a terrorist point of view," Mr Farr said.

Factors facilitating such attacks include the availability of formulae and other
information on the internet; increasing teaching of biological sciences at
universities, and "greater availability of technology," he said.

Mr Farr, a former MI6 officer, declined to give further details of the threat,
but the Home Office report hints at a range of new precautions.

Last year, the Home Office began enforcing a new list of controlled biological
agents to "ensure that dangerous pathogens and toxins that are required in
important medical and scientific research are used and held securely."

Lessons learned from the security operations for the London Olympic Games have
"informed the wider programme of planning for high impact biological attacks,"
the report said.

The Home Office report also said that British authorities continue to plan for a
Mumbai-style attack by terrorist gunmen.

In particular, the emergency services have been working on plans to treat and
extract casualties from an attack scene even while violence continues.

Details are secret, but it is believed that special teams of armed police
officers and volunteer paramedics have been trained to operate under fire.

Mr Farr also revealed that even as officials prepare for such attacks, the
counter-terrorism budget is coming under pressure to make cuts.

Security and intelligence agencies are having to "find savings" to fund the
battle against al-Qaeda, he said. In some cases, that means reducing manpower.

The warnings about the money available for counter-terrorism come as ministers
discuss a Spending Review that is likely to impose more cuts on the Home Office
budget after the next general election.

Danny Alexander, the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, told the Daily Telegraph
last week that the Home Office could not be spared cuts in the 2015/16 round.

The Home Office report on British counter-terrorism warned that the UK faces a
more complicated and widespread threat, which is more costly to address.

"The terrorist threats we face are now more diverse than before, dispersed
across a wider geographical areas, and often in countries without effective
governance," it said.

"This poses significant challenges to our national security and to the security
and intelligence agencies and departments working on counter-terrorism:
operating in these areas is difficult and dangerous, requires very significant
resources and is complicated and at times made impossible by the breakdown of
governance and law and order."

Mr Farr said that the changing nature of the threat puts new financial pressure
on the Home Office and other agencies.

"It takes more to do the same amount of counter-terrorism work," he said. "We
have to find savings."

He added: "Across the whole of the CT budget, which is in the region of £1
billion, you would expect to find some efficiency savings. Technology means that
in some areas, you can do the same with fewer people."

The Home Office report also warned that British Muslims fighting in Syria's
civil war could return home to carry out terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 26, 2013 Tuesday 10:43 AM GMT

British Muslims fighting in Syria could commit terrorist attacks in UK;
British Muslims fighting in Syria's civil war could return home to carry out
terrorist attacks, intelligence chiefs have warned.

BYLINE: By James Kirkup Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 282 words


There are "hundreds" of Europeans now fighting in Syria, some of whom are with
groups linked to al Qaeda, the Home Office has told MPs.

In an annual report on its Contest counter-terrorism strategy, the Home Office
warned of the risk to Britain and other European nations posed by foreign
fighters now gaining military experience in Syria.

The Home Office warning - based on assessments by British intelligence agencies
- comes as ministers debate doing more to arm and support the rebels fighting
the regime of Syria's President Bashar al-Assad.

The uprising in Syria "has involved many organisations with different political
views and tactics; some are connected with and supported by al Qaeda in Iraq,"
the Home Office report says.

It adds: "These terrorist groups conducted over 600 attacks in 2012 and, like
others associated with al Qaeda, continue to attract recruits from this country
and elsewhere in Europe.

"There are now hundreds of foreign fighters from Europe in Syria. As and when UK
residents return here there is a risk that they may carry out attacks using the
skills that they have developed overseas."

Britain has sent a variety of equipment to anti-Assad forces, but stopped short
of supplying weapons.

A European Union arms embargo currently prevents EU nations supplying lethal
weapons to anyone in Syria.

Earlier this month, David Cameron suggested that Britain was willing to defy
that ban and arm the rebels.

The Home Office report may raise doubts about such a decision.

The report, presented to Parliament by Theresa May, the Home Secretary, also
highlights the risks posed to Britain by terrorists using biological weapons,
and those conducting attacks using firearms.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     March 27, 2013 Wednesday 12:40 PM GMT

Spy agencies unite to fight cyber-crime with new 'Facebook to attack internet
terrorists'

BYLINE: AMANDA WILLIAMS

SECTION: SCIENCE

LENGTH: 587 words



     ·    UK networks are often attacked by other states and those seeking
          secrets
     ·    Now secret services and business will team up to prepare against
          attack
     ·    Dozen analysts will monitor threat, based at a secret location in
          London


Britain's intelligence agencies are today launching a Facebook-style site to
share information in a bid to combat a growing terrorist threat.

UK networks are often attacked by other states, criminals and companies seeking
secrets, costing billions of pounds.

Now, experts from government communications body GCHQ, MI5, police and business
will work together on a new partnership designed to defend industry and
government against attack.

Those using the Cyber Security Information Sharing Partnership (CISP) will be
given access to a web portal, described as a 'Facebook for cyber security
threats', which will operate on social network lines.

Analysts, based at a secret location in London, can then choose who they share
information with in real time.

Large screens will monitor attacks and provide details in real-time of who is
being targeted.

Then a  group of 12-15 analysts with security clearance will work mainly during
office hours.

The partnership will provide industry figures with a forum to analyse techniques
of online attack,  and how authorities can best counter methods used by cyber
terrorists, the Telegraph reports.

In 2012, the head of MI5 Jonathan Evans said the scale of attacks was
'astonishing', the BBC reports.

One major London listed company incurred losses of £800m as a result of cyber
attack from a hostile state because of commercial disadvantage in contractual
negotiations.

A government official told the BBC they had seen the volumes of attack increase
and expected it to rise further still.

The plan revealed today has emerged out of a 2012 pilot scheme known as Project
Auburn, which saw 80 companies, including finance, defence, energy,
telecommunications and pharmaceuticals - encouraged to share information.

The pilot was then expanded to 160 firms, with more expected to join after
today's announcement.

Government officials say they continue to be uncomfortable with an EU draft
directive which would force business to disclose when they have been attacked.

Companies previously have been nervous of revealing publicly when they have been
attacked because of the potential impact on reputation and share price if they
are seen as having lost valuable intellectual property or other information.

Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude said: 'We know cyber attacks are happening
on an industrial scale and businesses are by far the biggest victims in terms of
industrial espionage and intellectual property theft, with losses to the UK
economy running into the billions of pounds annually.

'This innovative partnership is breaking new ground through a truly
collaborative partnership for sharing information on threats and to protect UK
interests in cyberspace.'

Howard Schmidt, former White House Cyber Security Adviser, added: 'In the US, we
have seen the emphasis that President Obama has placed on cyber security and in
particular steps to protect our critical infrastructure.

'Many senior leaders in private sector companies are supporting it and
recognizing it is not only a security issue but a business imperative.

'The launch of the UK CISP is an important step in forging an ongoing
partnership between industry and government, promoting information sharing by
providing the ability to analyze and redistribute information in a timely,
actionable and relevant manner.'

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            March 27, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GERM ATTACKS ON UK 'EASY FOR TERRORISTS'

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 207 words


BRITAIN faces a growing threat from germ warfare terror attacks, an intelligence
chief warns.

Home Office counter-terror director Charles Farr said the internet has made it
easier for fanatics to get the information needed to make biological weapons.

He said the NHS has stockpiled medicines and got emergency plans in place to
deal with a "large-scale terrorist attack using biological agents".

Security services have also been working with universities to increase security
at labs that could be targeted by terrorists seeking the deadly ingredients for
germ warfare.

Mr Farr said: "We believe a biological attack will get easier from a terrorist
point of view, so we have to do more."

His warning is part of the Home Office's annual report on the terror threat
facing Britain - currently rated "substantial", which means an attack is a
"strong possibility".

It highlighted a series of new risks, including terrorists using surface-to-air
missiles to target jets flying over North Africa.

Mr Farr also pinpointed the danger posed by extremist UK Muslims returning here
after fighting in Syria.

And he said elite police and paramedic units had been trained to respond to a
Mumbai-style attack on civilians by heavily-armed fanatics.

g.wilson@thesun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alert ... cops in germ gear

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            March 27, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Warning of germs attack by terrorists

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 126 words


BRITAIN faces a growing threat from germ warfare terror attacks, an intelligence
chief warns.

Home Office counter-terror boss Charles Farr said the internet has made it
easier for fanatics to get information on making biological weapons.

He said the NHS has stockpiled medicines and put emergency plans in place to
handle a "largescale terrorist attack using biological agents".

Security services have been working with universities to boost security at labs
that could be targeted by terrorists seeking germ warfare ingredients.

Mr Farr said: "We believe a biological attack will get easier from a terrorist
point of view, so we have to do more."

His warning is part of a Home Office annual report on the terror threat to
Britain - currently rated "substantial".

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alert ... germ cops

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 27, 2013 Wednesday 6:15 AM GMT

Syria: 'up to 100' British Muslims fighting in war;
Up to 100 British Muslims are fighting in Syria's civil war amid fears some
could return home to carry out terrorist attacks, senior intelligence chiefs
disclosed yesterday.

BYLINE: By James Kirkup and Andrew Hough

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 567 words


There are "hundreds" of Europeans now fighting in Syria, some of whom are with
groups linked to al Qaeda, the Home Office told MPs.

The British-born jihadis are said to have joined the fight with Jabhat al-Nusra,
the country's most militant al-Qaeda gang.

The fighters have come from range of ethnic backgrounds include young Asians,
converts to Islam and men from north African backgrounds.

Some are said to have fought in conflicts elsewhere while others waging war for
the first time.

Officials warned of the risk to Britain and other European nations posed by
foreign fighters now gaining military experience in Syria.

Charles Farr, the director of the Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism,
admitted the war in Syria had become "particularly challenging" for the British
government.

Speaking as the Home Office's annual report on its counter-terrorism strategy
(Contest) was published, Mr Farr warned the security services were keeping close
tabs on the escalating crisis.

He admitted that a large numbers of foreign fighters, including from Britain,
were active in Syria.

Mr Farr, a former MI6 officer, admitted that an assessment of between 70 to 100
people having travelled from Britain to fight in Syria "wouldn't be far wrong".

Some 600 terrorist attacks involving Syrian groups took place last year,
including 60 suicide deaths.

He said that authorities were watching the efforts by Jabhat al-Nusra to extend
its activities beyond Syria "very carefully".

His comments came amid growing fears that some fighters could be sent back to
Britain, with the sole purpose to plan and commit an act of terrorism on home
soil.

With Scotland Yard increasing its efforts to investigate how fighters are being
recruited and how travel is organised and money raised, officials said the
number of people moving in and out of the country was constantly changing.

The Home Office warning - based on assessments by British intelligence agencies
- comes as ministers debate doing more to arm and support the rebels fighting
the regime of Syria's President Bashar al-Assad.

The uprising in Syria "has involved many organisations with different political
views and tactics; some are connected wit and supported by al Qaeda in Iraq,"
the Home Office report says.

The Home Office warning - based on assessments by British intelligence agencies
- comes as ministers debate doing more to arm and support the rebels fighting
the regime of Syria's President Bashar al-Assad.

"We're in a potentially key moment," said Mr Farr in reference to the growing
threat from Syria and, North Africa and the potential impact of withdrawing
troops from Afghanistan next year.

"The threat has dispersed and diversified to the point where it might require
more resources, because we're having to spread those resources across a wider
geographical area."

Britain has sent a variety of equipment to anti-Assad forces, but stopped short
of supplying weapons.

A European Union arms embargo currently prevents EU nations supplying lethal
weapons to anyone in Syria.

Earlier this month, David Cameron suggested that Britain was willing to defy
that ban and arm the rebels. The Home Office report may raise doubts about such
a decision.

The report, presented to Parliament by Theresa May, the Home Secretary, also
highlights the risks posed to Britain by terrorists using biological weapons,
and those conducting attacks using firearms.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            March 28, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Three teens accused of plotting bomb attacks;
TERROR CHARGES: DEFENDANTS HAD 'PART-READY EXPLOSIVES'

BYLINE: COURT STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 432 words


Three teenagers accused of plotting terror attacks using pipe bombs appeared at
the Old Bailey yesterday.

The youths from Loughborough, who are believed to be right-wing extremists, were
said to have already partly assembled the explosives when they were arrested.
One was allegedly found with a stash of components for pipe bombs, firework
powder, a stab vest, a gas mask, three .22 air rifles, a crossbow and The
Mujahideen Poisons Handbook.

It is claimed he also had "a notebook containing information about the planning
of attacks and the construction of explosive devices".

Another youth is charged with "doing an act with intent to cause explosions"
likely to endanger life or cause damage to property in the UK.

Their alleged plot was uncovered after one of the youths was arrested in Granby
Street, Loughborough, apparently with a knife, on February 13.

The first suspect, who appeared in court by video link from prison, is charged
with possession of an offensive weapon, possession of articles for purposes
connected with terrorism and possession of a document containing information of
a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of
terrorism.

It is claimed that on February 19, he was in possession of nine partially
assembled petrol bombs. He is also alleged to have had a quantity of commercial
firework powder, a quantity of partially assembled pipe bombs, a length of
commercial pyrotechnic fuse cord, a stab-proof vest, a gas mask, three .22 air
rifles, an Olympic .22 blank firing pistol and a quantity of .22 blank firing
ammunition, a .22 air pistol, three BB guns and a black military belt containing
airgun pellets and a cartridge, a crossbow and a notebook containing information
about the planning of attacks and the construction of explosive devices. He is
charged together with the second suspect with possession of an article for
purposes connected with terrorism, between January 2012 and April 13, last year,
namely a quantity of pipe bombs.

The second suspect, who is on bail, did not arrive at court until after the
hearing finished.

The third suspect, who is on bail and sat in the dock of the court, is charged
with doing an act with intent to cause explosions by use of an explosive
substance and possession of an explosive substance between January 1, 2012 and
April 13, last year.

That charge states he had "component parts for pipe bombs with intent to
endanger life or cause serious damage to property". All three youths, who cannot
be identified because of their age, will appear in court for a plea and case
management hearing in June.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2013 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 28, 2013 Thursday 7:53 PM GMT

Keen birdwatcher who led UK response to 7/7 terror attacks takes over as
director general of MI5

BYLINE: JAMES SLACK

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 524 words



     ·    Andrew Parker will replace Sir Jonathan Evans on April 22
     ·    Mr Parker led the agency's response to the July 7 attacks in 2005
     ·    He said: 'I look forward to leading the service through its next
          chapter'


A keen birdwatcher who has led MI5's fight against international terrorism was
yesterday named Britain's new spymaster.

Andrew Parker, a married father-of-two, will take charge of the Security Service
next month.

Home Secretary Theresa May said the 50-year-old - who has worked in security and
intelligence for three decades - would bring a 'wealth of experience' to the
job.

He led MI5's response to the July 7 terrorist attacks in London, overseeing a
huge expansion in the Security Service's resources.

Officials say his teams of officers also played the lead role in the disruption
of Al Qaida's attempt to attack multiple transatlantic airliners with bombs
hidden in drinks bottles in 2006.

He was appointed Deputy Director General of MI5 in April 2007 and has long been
considered the favourite to land the top job.

For the past six years he has been responsible for all the security service's
investigative and operational work - during which time a string of major plots
have been disrupted.

His biography, revealed on the MI5 website, says Mr Parker 'enjoys the outdoors
and is a keen ornithologist and wildlife photographer.'

Mrs May said Mr Parker brings 'a wealth of experience and knowledge' to the job.

She added: 'Under his leadership the Service will continue to stay ahead of
global and domestic threats to our national security and further develop its
reputation as one of the world's most effective security agencies.'

Mr Parker, said: 'It is a great honour to be appointed Director General of MI5.

'I am extremely proud of the extraordinary work the men and women of MI5 do to
keep the country safe in challenging circumstances. I look forward to leading
the Service through its next chapter.'

The Cambridge University Natural Sciences graduate has worked on Middle East
terrorism, counter espionage, Northern Ireland terrorism, serious and organised
crime, protective security, policy and strategic planning during his 30 year
career.

He spent three years on secondment to HM Customs & Excise as Director
Intelligence before returning to the Service in 2002 to join the Board as
Director for Northern Ireland terrorism, Protective Security & Serious Crime.

Mr Parker replaces Sir Jonathan Evans, who is standing down next month after six
years in charge.

Earlier this week, Mrs May praised Sir Jonathan's 'tireless work' in helping to
ensure there were no terrorist attacks on the London Olympics. A string of
terrorist atrocities were also foiled on his watch.

Mr Parker will face what officials call a 'diversifying' range of threats
against the UK's interests.

On Wednesday, the Home office revealed medicine is being stockpiled in readiness
for a possible biological attack on a city centre or train station by
terrorists, security officials revealed yesterday.

Officials also warned of the possibility of a Mumbai-style firearms attack on a
crowded place, and British extremists returning from the civil war in Syria to
launch a plot at home.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 28, 2013 Thursday 7:29 PM GMT

Keen birdwatcher who led UK rsponse to 7/7 terror attacks takes over as director
general of MI5

BYLINE: JAMES RUSH

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 424 words



     ·    Andrew Parker will replace Sir Jonathan Evans on April 22
     ·    Mr Parker led the agency's response to the July 7 attacks in 2005
     ·    He said: 'I look forward to leading the service through its next
          chapter'


The new director general of MI5 was today unveiled as the intelligence agency's
current deputy Andrew Parker.

Mr Parker, who has been with the security service since the early 1980s, will
replace Sir Jonathan Evans on April 22.

Mr Parker, who led the agency's response to the July 7 attacks on London in 2005
as director of international terrorism, said: 'It's a great honour to be
appointed director general of MI5.

'I'm extremely proud of the extraordinary work the men and women of MI5 do to
keep the country safe in challenging circumstances.

'I look forward to leading the service through its next chapter.'

Mr Parker, 50, who has been in his current role as deputy director general since
2007, has held positions in Middle East terrorism, counter espionage, Northern
Ireland terrorism, serious and organised crime, protective security, as well as
policy and strategic planning.

The married father-of-two spent three years on secondment to HM Customs & Excise
as director of intelligence before returning to the Security Service in 2002 to
join the board as director for Northern Ireland terrorism, protective security
and serious crime.

In 2006, as director of international terrorism, his teams played the lead role
in the disruption of al Qaida's attempt to attack multiple airliners with bombs
hidden in drinks bottles.

Mr Parker, who holds a degree in Natural Sciences from Cambridge University,
takes up the top role at the agency at a time when the threat of terrorism is
diversifying, coming from new areas such as Syria and North Africa.

The withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan in 2014 is also likely to pose new
challenges.

Home Secretary Theresa May said: 'I am very pleased to announce the appointment
of Andrew Parker as the new director general of the Security Service, a role to
which he brings a wealth of experience and knowledge.

'Under his leadership the Service will continue to stay ahead of global and
domestic threats to our national security and further develop its reputation as
one of the world's most effective security agencies.

'I also pay tribute to the work of Sir Jonathan Evans, who has led the Service
through challenging times of change and unrest, including in the aftermath of
the 7/7 London bombings.

'His tireless work also helped ensure the delivery of a safe and successful
Olympic and Paralympic Games last year.'

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 30, 2013 Saturday

Iran spokesman condemns "terrorist attacks" in Iraq

LENGTH: 103 words


Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokesman Ramin Mehmanparast has condemned the recent
"terrorist attacks" in Iraq, Iranian Students' News Agency (ISNA) reported on 30
March.

According to ISNA, Mehmanparast said that the recent "terrorist activities" in
Iraq are aimed at intensifying "tribalism" and "turning political differences
into religious ones".

The Iranian spokesman stressed that Iran supports the Iraqi government in its
fight against "terrorism".

At least 19 people died in a series of car bomb attacks in Shi'i mosques in
Baghdad and Kirkuk yesterday, 29 March.

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 1320 gmt 30 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday

Iran condemns recent "terrorist" attacks in Syria

LENGTH: 278 words


Text of report by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News Agency website

Tehran, 31 March: The director-general of the Foreign Ministry's Middle East and
North Africa Department has strongly condemned the attacks on the University of
Damascus and assassination of the prayer imam of Aleppo's Grand Mosque by Syrian
terrorists.

According to Fars, Reza Ameri, the director-general of the Foreign Ministry's
Middle East and North Africa Department strongly condemned the recent mortar
attack on Damascus University and brutal massacre of academicians as well as
attacks on mosques and martyring Shaikh Hasan Saif al-Din, the prayer imam of
Aleppo's Grand Mosque, by Syrian terrorists.

Ameri said that those who support the brutal massacre of defenceless people and
civilians in Syria should wait for a strong response by the people to such
crimes. He reaffirmed that any kind of foreign interference in Syria should be
avoided, and added: "Unfortunately, we witness that some sides in the region
play a negative role in the Syrian crisis by providing the armed groups with
weapons in order to cause civil war in the country."

The director-general of the Foreign Ministry's Middle East and North Africa
Department stressed that the Islamic Republic of Iran would continue its support
for the resistant people of Syria. He said that a political solution and
national dialogue were the most appropriate method for putting an end to the
violence in the country, and added: "It is necessary to make effort in order to
stop brutal massacre of defenceless people by terrorist groups as soon as
possible."

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 1811 gmt 31 Mar 13

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       April 1, 2013 Monday 12:01 AM GMT

Cheaper drones put Britain at risk of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Tom Coghlan, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: DEFENCE

LENGTH: 686 words


Britain is "particularly vulnerable" to a growing threat of attack by terrorists
using drone technology, experts have warned.

Christopher McKeating, a military academic, says that a basic drone weapon could
be built for less than $2,000 (£1,315), with in-built cameras for guiding the
aircraft and a GPS system.

Writing this month in the Nato journal Transformation Through Training, Mr
McKeating, from the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at
the University of St Andrews, said: "For $10,000, a drone with a payload of 50kg
could be placed outside Paris, 'wake up' in six months, take off for London in
the middle of the night and destroy Big Ben - live on the internet with a
running commentary.

"That is the price the terrorist would pay today. The price tomorrow will be
significantly less. So why has it not been done? The reason is that there is as
yet no real precedent."

The article cites research last year at the University of Texas which showed
that advanced state-controlled military drones were vulnerable to having their
control systems hacked by "spoofing" GPS receivers.

The Lebanon-based militant group Hezbollah flew a drone deep into Israeli
territory last October using a military-grade unmanned aircraft believed to have
been supplied by Iran. It was destroyed by the Israeli Air Force.

Analysts cite evidence of attempts by militant groups, criminal gangs and even
hobbyists to adapt civilian drone technology for a military purpose.

Rezwan Ferdaus was sentenced to 17 years in prison in the United States last
July after plotting to use adapted model aircraft packed with plastic explosives
to attack the Pentagon.

Brazilian criminals used a $600 remote-controlled "quadcopter" to deliver mobile
phones into a prison in 2011 and American hobbyists posted footage on the
internet of a model helicopter adapted to carry and fire a handgun.

Insurgents in Iraq were found to have intercepted live footage from American
drones operating over the country by adapting a Russian-built device for
intercepting satellite television that cost just $26.

During the Olympics last year the British Government deployed air defences
against the threat of both manned and unmanned aircraft with a complete ban on
the use of remote-controlled aircraft in areas of London close to Olympic
venues.

Analysts said that the threat was emerging but that it was not yet immediate.

"A terrorist attack with a drone strike is still some time off as so far only
the US, UK and Israel have been able to arm drones successfully," said Peter
Bergen, director of national security studies at the New America Foundation, who
has written extensively on the emergence of drones.

"That said, the Libyan opposition used a sophisticated surveillance drone in the
campaign against Gaddafi which they purchased, apparently over the internet,
from a Canadian company.

"The US only started using armed drones successfully in the fall of 2001 and now
of course their use is routine so the day will surely come when terrorist groups
try and arm their own drones. The downside for a terrorist group is that drones
fly relatively slowly and noisily, unless they are very advanced."

Other security officials and analysts in the UK said that the threat was seen as
credible but less likely than attacks using car bombs or suicide attackers.

"The utility of unmanned aerial vehicles is as obvious to the terrorist as it is
to the military," said Douglas Barrie, senior fellow for military aerospace at
the International Institute for Strategic Studies. "Any threat, however, should
be seen in context, and more traditional terrorist methods of attack will
continue to provide the main challenge."

The Ministry of Defence declined to comment, on the ground that the issue was
one of counter-terrorism rather than defence, but The Times has been told that
the issue is widely considered within Nato.

"This is something that has been discussed among militaries for quite a long
time," said Colonel Ladislav Chaloupsky, a senior Czech army officer attached to
Nato. "Generally speaking this is expected, that they will use them sooner or
later."

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 3, 2013 Wednesday 6:29 PM GMT

Possible human remains discovered at the World Trade Center site as New York
City re-examines site of 9/11 terrorist attack

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS and DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 755 words


As investigators began sifting through newly uncovered debris from the World
Trade Center this week for the first time in three years, the anxieties of
victims' families were renewed more than a decade after the attacks.

Jim Riches pulled his firefighter son's mangled body out of the rubble at the
World Trade Center, but the phone calls still filtered in years afterward. The
city kept finding more pieces of his son.

'They'll call you and they'll tell you, `We found a shin bone,'' said Riches, a
retired deputy fire chief. 'Or: `We found an arm bone.' We held them all
together and then we put them in the cemetery.'

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Those are the phone calls both dreaded and hoped for among the families of
September 11th victims. But there was also hope that more victims might yet be
identified after tens of millions have been spent on the painstaking
identification process.

Two potential human remains were recovered on Monday, according to the medical
examiner.

'We would like to see the other 40 per cent of the families who have never
recovered anything to at least someday have a piece of their loved one,' Riches
said.

'That they can go to a cemetery and pray.'

About 60 truckloads of debris that could contain tiny fragments of bone or
tissue were unearthed by construction crews that have been working on the new
World Trade Center in recent years.

That material is now being transported to a park built on top of the former
Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island, where investigators will attempt to find
any possible remains during the next 10 weeks, the city said. That's the
material the two potential human remains were found in.

The city's last sifting effort ended in 2010.

This time, crews were able to dig up parts of the Trade Center site that were
previously inaccessible to workers, the city said.

Some 2,750 people died at the World Trade Center in the 2001 terrorist attacks,
but only 1,634 people have been identified.

'We have been monitoring the World Trade Center site over time and monitoring
the construction and if they see any material that could possibly contain human
remains, we collect that material,' said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the
medical examiner's office.

About 9,000 human remains recovered from the ruins of the World Trade Center
remain unidentified because they are too degraded to match victims by DNA
identification.

The remains are stored at an undisclosed location monitored by the medical
examiner's office and will eventually be transferred to a subterranean chamber
at the National September 11 Memorial & Museum.

Some victims' families expressed impatience that the city has only just
uncovered more debris.

'Quite frankly, they should've excavated this and searched it 12 years ago,'
said Diane Horning, whose son, Matthew, died in the attacks.

'Instead, they built service roads and construction roads and were more worried
about the building and the tourism than they were about the human remains.'

The city's efforts to identify September 11 victims have long been fraught with
controversy.

In April 2005, the city's chief medical examiner Charles Hirsch, told families
his office would be suspending identification efforts because it had exhausted
the limits of DNA technology.

But just a year later, the discovery of human remains on a bank tower roof and
then in a manhole near ground zero outraged families who said the search for
their loved ones had been rushed initially.

The findings prompted a renewed search that cost the city tens of millions of
dollars and uncovered 1,500 pieces of remains.

Meanwhile, some victims' relatives sued the city over its decision to move 1.6
million tons of materials from the Trade Center site to the Fresh Kills
landfill, saying the material might contain victims' ashes and should have been
given a proper burial.

The lawsuit was dismissed, and unsuccessfully appealed to the U.S. Supreme
Court.

As it embarks on combing through debris yet again, the medical examiner's office
says it will keep monitoring the site as long as new areas are being dug or
exposed.

Charles G. Wolf was pleased to hear about the renewed search, though he believes
that his wife, Katherine, was vaporized during the attack. Investigators have
never found her remains.

Years ago, it bothered him that he had no grave to visit. Wolf said the opening
of the September 11 memorial has filled a hole in his heart, but he'll never
have closure.

'You heal. You carry on,' he said. 'It's not closure.'

WATCH THE VIDEO HERE

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            April 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Medical device 'tests for bio terror attack'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 33 words


A MEDICAL instrument that can detect biothreats such as anthrax and ricin is
being developed in the US. It could be used in hospitals during a bioterrorism
attack, said Sandia National Laboratories.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                            April 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Free training to deal with terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 143 words


TRAINING in how to handle a terror attack is to be given to Notts businesses for
free.

Nottingham City Council's emergency planning department has teamed up with Notts
Police to run the session later this month.

The Project Argus exercise will take place on Wednesday, April, 17, from 2pm to
5pm at the Guildhall complex, in Burton Street.

The sessions are being offered around the country and were developed by the
National Counter Terrorism Security Office.

They take businesses and organisations through a simulated terror attack
involving scenarios which pose questions and challenges for those taking part.

The session is free but any firms wanting to attend need to complete a booking
form, available by contacting the emergency planning department on 0115 876
2987.

People can also e-mail john.sever n@nottinghamcity.

gov.uk or ctsa@nottinghamshire.pnn.police.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2013 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 3, 2013 Wednesday 10:41 PM GMT

Gerard Butler and Aaron Eckhart attend Olympus Has Fallen premiere in London;
Actors Gerard Butler and Aaron Eckhart attend the premiere of Olympus Has
Fallen, a film about a terrorist attack on the White House.

LENGTH: 193 words


The film sees Gerard Butler take on the role of disgraced former Presidential
guard Mike Banning, who finds himself in the middle of a terrorist attack on the
White House in which the President (Eckhart) is taken hostage.

National security is forced to rely on Banning's knowledge and skills to save
the day.

For the actors, the shoot had its fair share of rough and tumble.

"I broke two little bones in my neck," explained Butler.

"I was taking photos of when my arm turned black from getting punched in my arm
for literally two days and it looked like a dead person's arm, it was weird, and
burned my throat - I don't know how that happened."

"I got hit in the face a couple of times," Eckhart said.

"When you're making an action movie you just have to give your body up to it. In
this movie I didn't do so much action. Gerry (Gerard Butler) mostly got punished
but I tried to inflict some violence on some people. The movie is good. It works
for the movie. The White House is being taken over so everything is pretty
extreme in the film."

Olympus Has Fallen is released in cinemas on April 17.

Contains video from APTN

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 4, 2013 Thursday

Belgian police fear revenge attack by slain terror suspect's brother

LENGTH: 180 words


Text of report by Belgian leading privately-owned newspaper De Standaard
website, on 3 April

[Report by jvh: "Brother of Terrorist Shot Dead Intent on Revenge"]

Brussels/Anderlecht - The Brussels Police fear that the brother of Hakim
Benladghem, the terrorist suspect shot dead last week while being pursued, is
intent on revenge. He is believed to be on his way to Belgium and all police
officers have been instructed to watch out for his car.

Tuesday [April 2] it became known that Benladghem's brother and sister are to
bring a civil prosecution as a means of being able to consult his case file. It
is feared that the brother will take matters in his own hands. The police have
information suggesting that the man is on his way to Belgium, but is said not to
be travelling in his own car. Police patrols have nevertheless been given a
license plate to look out for.

It is also feared that the two accomplices with whom Benladghem carried out an
attack on a restaurant in Anderlecht are planning to take some form of revenge
on the police.

Source: De Standaard website in Dutch 3 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      April 4, 2013 Thursday 11:54 AM GMT

Human remains found at World Trade Center site as investigators sift through
debris left by 9/11 terrorist attack in New York;
Families continue to be frustrated at over 1,000 victims left unidentified and
progress of excavation

BYLINE: Steve Anderson

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 452 words


The possible remains of two people have been found among debris cleared from the
World Trade Center in New York, over 11 years after the terrorist attack that
killed 2,750 people.

Investigators began sifting through rubble recovered from the site for the first
time in three years on Monday, with crews able to dig up parts of the site that
were previously inaccessible to workers.

New York's last sifting effort ended in 2010, but now 60 truckloads of debris is
being transported to a park built on top of a former landfill site on Staten
Island, where investigators will attempt to identify any possible remains over
the next 10 weeks.

The medical examiner confirmed that two potential human remains were found on
Monday.

So far, only 1,634 of the 2,750 killed in the attacks have been identified, and
9,000 pieces of human remains recovered from the site remain unidentified
because they are too degraded to match victims by DNA identification.

The remains are stored at an undisclosed location monitored by the medical
examiner's office and will eventually be transferred to a subterranean chamber
at the National September 11 Memorial & Museum.

Jim Riches pulled his firefighter son's mangled body out of the rubble at the
World Trade Center, but the phone calls still filtered in years afterward. The
city kept finding more pieces of his son. He told the Associated Press: "They'll
call you and they'll tell you, 'We found a shin bone.' Or: 'We found an arm
bone.' We held them all together and then we put them in the cemetery."

All remains collected are stored at an undisclosed location monitored by the
chief medical examiner's office and will eventually be moved to an underground
chamber at the National September 11 Memorial & Museum.

But the victims of some families have expressed frustration at the time it has
taken to uncover and go through more debris.

"Quite frankly, they should've excavated this and searched it 12 years ago,"
said Diane Horning, whose son, Matthew, died in the attacks. "Instead, they
built service roads and construction roads and were more worried about the
building and the tourism than they were about the human remains."

Others, who know the possibility of identifying their loved ones is near
impossible, are more positive about the project to uncover more remains.

Charles G Wolf was pleased to hear about the renewed search, though he believes
that his wife, Katherine, was vapourised during the attack. Investigators have
never found her remains.Years ago, it bothered him that he had no grave to
visit. Wolf said the opening of the September 11 memorial has filled a hole in
his heart, but he'll never have closure.

"You heal. You carry on," he said. "It's not closure."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 6, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A DELICATE TRUTH;
Telegraph EXCLUSIVE In the first chapter from his thrilling new novel, the
master of espionage returns to his British spy roots. When Paul Anderson, a
middle-ranking civil servant, is unexpectedly sent to Gibraltar, he is drawn
into a cat-and-mouse game with al-Qaeda agents suspected of planning a terrorist
attack

BYLINE: JOHN LE CARRÉ ; Wesley Merritt

SECTION: DELICATE TRUTH;FEATURES; Pg. 1,2,7

LENGTH: 11230 words


On the second floor of a characterless hotel in the British Crown Colony of
Gibraltar, a lithe, agile man in his late fifties restlessly paced his bedroom.
His very British features, though pleasant and plainly honourable, indicated a
choleric nature brought to the limits of its endurance. A distraught lecturer,
you might have thought, observing the bookish forward lean and loping stride and
the errant forelock of salt-and-pepper hair that repeatedly had to be
disciplined with jerky backhanded shoves of the bony wrist. Certainly it would
not have occurred to many people, even in their most fanciful dreams, that he
was a middle-ranking British civil servant, hauled from his desk in one of the
more prosaic departments of Her Majesty's Foreign and Commonwealth Office to be
dispatched on a top-secret mission of acute sensitivity.

His assumed first name, as he insisted on repeating to himself, sometimes half
aloud, was Paul and his second - not exactly hard to remember - was Anderson. If
he turned on the television set it said Welcome, Mr Paul Anderson. Why not enjoy
a complimentary pre-dinner aperitif in our Lord Nelson's Snug! The exclamation
mark in place of the more appropriate question mark was a source of constant
annoyance to the pedant in him. He was wearing the hotel's bathrobe of white
towelling and he had been wearing it ever since his incarceration, except when
vainly trying to sleep or, once only, slinking upstairs at an unsociable hour to
eat alone in a rooftop brasserie washed with the fumes of chlorine from a
third-floor swimming pool across the road. Like much else in the room, the
bathrobe, too short for his long legs, reeked of stale cigarette smoke and
lavender air freshener.

On a plastic-topped table lay the remnants of a club sandwich that he had
pronounced dead on arrival, and an abandoned bottle of warm Coca-Cola. Though it
came hard to him, he had permitted himself no alcohol since he had taken
possession of the room. The bed, which he had learnt to detest as no other, was
large enough for six, but he had only to stretch out on it for his back to give
him hell. A radiant crimson counterpane of imitation silk lay over it, and on
the counterpane an innocent-looking cellphone which he had been assured was
modified to the highest state of encryption and, though he was of little faith
in such matters, he could only suppose it was. Each time he passed it, his gaze
fixed on it with a mixture of reproach, longing and frustration.

I regret to inform you, Paul, that you will be totally incommunicado, save for
operational purposes, throughout your mission, the laborious South African voice
of Elliot, his self-designated field commander, is warning him. Should an
unfortunate crisis afflict your fine family during your absence they will pass
their concerns to your office's welfare department, whereupon contact with you
will be made. Do I make myself clear, Paul?

You do, Elliot, little by little you do.

Reaching the overlarge picture window at the further end of the room, he scowled
upward through the grimy net curtains at Gibraltar's legendary Rock which,
sallow, wrinkled and remote, scowled back at him like an angry dowager. Yet
again, out of habit and impatience, he examined his alien wristwatch and
compared it with the green numerals on the radio clock beside the bed. The watch
was of scratched steel with a black dial, a replacement for the gold Cartier
presented to him on their 25th by his beloved wife on the strength of an
inheritance from one of her many deceased aunts.

But hang on a minute! Paul hasn't got a bloody wife! Paul Anderson has no wife,
no daughter. Paul Anderson's a bloody hermit!

"Can't have you wearing that, Paul darling, can we now?" a motherly woman his
own age is saying to him a lifetime ago in the red-brick suburban villa near
Heathrow airport where she and her sisterly colleague are dressing him for the
part. "Not with those nice initials engraved on it, can we? You'd have to say
you'd nicked it off of somebody married, wouldn't you, Paul?"

Sharing the joke, determined as ever to be a good chap by his own lights, he
looks on while she writes Paul on an adhesive label and locks his gold watch
away in a cash box with his wedding ring for what she calls the duration. How in
God's name did I ever get to end up in this hellhole in the first place? Did I
jump or was I pushed? Or was it a bit of both?

Describe, please, in a few well-chosen circuits of the room, the precise
circumstances of your unlikely journey from blessed monotony to solitary
confinement on a British colonial rock.

"So how's your poor dear wife?" asks the not-quite-superannuated ice queen of
the personnel department, now grandly rechristened human resources for no reason
known to man, having summoned him without a word of explanation to her lofty
bower on a Friday evening when all good citizens are hurrying home. The two are
old adversaries. If they have anything at all in common, it is the feeling that
there are so few of them left.

"Thank you, Audrey, not poor at all, I am pleased to say," he replies, with the
determined levity he affects for such life-threatening encounters. "Dear but not
poor. She remains in full remission. And you? In the pink of health, I trust?"

"So she's leavable," Audrey suggests, ignoring this kindly inquiry.

"My hat no! In what sense?" - determinedly keeping up the jolly banter.

"In this sense: would four super-secret days abroad in a salubrious climate,
just possibly running to five, be of any interest to you?"

"They could be of considerable possible interest, thank you, Audrey, as it
happens. Our grown-up daughter is living with us at the moment, so the timing
could scarcely be better, given that she happens to be a medical doctor," he
can't resist adding in his pride, but Audrey remains unimpressed by his
daughter's accomplishment.

"I don't know what it's about and I don't have to," she says, answering a
question that he hasn't put to her. "There's a dynamic young junior minister
called Quinn upstairs whom you may have heard of. He'd like to see you
immediately. He's a new broom, in case word hasn't reached you in the far wastes
of logistical contingencies, recently acquired from defence - hardly a
recommendation but there you are."

What on earth's she on about? Of course such news has reached him. He reads his
newspapers, doesn't he? He watches Newsnight. Fergus Quinn, MP, Fergie to the
world, is a Scottish brawler, a self-styled bête intellectuelle of the New
Labour stable. On television he is vocal, belligerent and alarming. Moreover, he
prides himself on being the people's scourge of Whitehall's bureaucracy - a
commendable virtue viewed from afar, but scarcely reassuring if you happen to be
a Whitehall bureaucrat.

"You mean now, this minute, Audrey?" "That is what I understand him to mean by
immediately."

The ministerial anteroom is empty, its staff long departed. The ministerial
mahogany door, solid as iron, stands ajar. Knock and wait? Or knock and push? He
does a little of both, hears: "Don't just stand there. Come on in, and close the
door behind you." He enters.

The dynamic young minister's bulk is squeezed into a midnight-blue dinner
jacket.

He is poised with a cellphone to his ear before a marble fireplace stuffed with
red paper foil for flames. As on television, so in the flesh, he is stocky and
thick-necked with close-cropped ginger hair and quick, greedy eyes set in a
pugilist's face. With a gritty "Call you later, Brad" for his cellphone, he
stomps to the door, locks it and swings round to appraise his visitor.

"They tell me you're a seasoned member of the Service, that right?" he says
accusingly, in his carefully nurtured Glaswegian accent, after a head-to-toe
inspection that seems to confirm his worst fears. "Cool head, whatever that
means. Twenty years of kicking around in foreign parts, according to human
resources. Soul of discretion, not easily rattled. That's quite a write-up. Not
that I necessarily believe what I'm told around here."

"They're very kind," he replies.

"And you're grounded. Confined to barracks. Out to grass. Your wife's health has
kept you back, is that correct, please?"

"But only as of the last few years, Minister" - less than grateful for out to
grass - "and for the moment I'm quite at liberty to travel, I'm happy to say."

"And your present job is -? Remind me, please."

He is about to do so, emphasising his many indispensable responsibilities, but
the minister impatiently cuts him short:

"All right. Here's my question. Have you had any direct experience of secret
intelligence work? You personally," he warns, as if there is another you who is
less personal.

"Direct in what sense would that be, Minister?"

"Cloak-and-dagger stuff, what d'you think?"

"Only as a consumer, alas. An occasional one. Of the product. Not of the means
of obtaining it, if that's your question, Minister."

"Not even when you were kicking around in those foreign parts that nobody has
had the grace to itemise for me?"

"Alas, one's overseas postings tended to be largely economic, commercial or
consular," he explains, resorting to the linguistic archaisms he affects
whenever he feels threatened.

"Obviously, from time-to-time, one had access to the odd secret report - none of
it high level, I hasten to say. That, I'm afraid, is the long and short of it."

But the minister appears momentarily encouraged by this lack of conspiratorial
experience, for a smile of something like complacency flits across his broad
features.

"But you're a safe pair of hands, right? Untried maybe, but safe, for all that."

"Well, one likes to think so" - diffidently.

"CT ever come your way?"

"I'm sorry?"

"Counter-terrorism, man! Has it come your way or not?" - spoken as to an idiot.

"I fear not, Minister."

"But you care? Yes?"

"About what exactly, Minister?" - as helpfully as he may.

"The well-being of our nation, for Christ's sake! The safety of our people,
wheresoever they may be. Our core values in times of adversity. All right, our
heritage, if you like" - using the word like an anti-Tory swipe.

"You're not some limp-wristed closet liberal harbouring secret thoughts about
terrorists' rights to blow the f------ world to pieces, for example."

"No, Minister, I think I may safely say I am not," he mumbles.

But the minister, far from sharing his embarrassment, compounds it:

"So then. If I were to tell you that the extremely delicate assignment I have in
mind for you involves depriving the terrorist enemy of the means to launch a
premeditated assault on our homeland, you would not immediately walk away, I
take it?"

"To the contrary. I should be - well -" "You should be what?"

"Gratified. Privileged. Proud, in fact. But somewhat surprised, obviously."
"Surprised by what, pray?" - like a man insulted.

"Well, not mine to inquire, Minister, but why me? I'm sure the Office has its
fair share of people with the type of experience you're looking for."

Fergus Quinn, man of the people, swings away to the bay window and, with his
chin thrust aggressively forward over his evening tie, and the tie's fixing
awkwardly protruding from the cushions of flesh at the back of his neck,
contemplates the golden gravel of Horse Guards Parade in the evening sunlight.

"If I were further to tell you that for the remainder of your natural life you
will not by word or deed or any other means reveal the fact that a certain
counterterror operation was so much as considered, let alone executed" - casting
round indignantly for a way out of the verbal labyrinth he has talked himself
into - "does that turn you on or off ?"

"Minister, if you consider me the right man, I shall be happy to accept the
assignment, whatever it may be. And you have my solemn assurance of permanent
and absolute discretion," he insists, colouring up a bit in his irritation at
having his loyalty hauled out and examined before his own eyes.

Shoulders hunched in the best Churchillian mode, Quinn remains framed at the bay
window, as if waiting impatiently for the photographers to finish their work.
"There are certain bridges that have to be negotiated," he announces severely to
his own reflection.

"There's a certain green light that has to be given by some fairly crucial
people up and down the road there" - butting his bullish head in the direction
of Downing Street. "When we get it - if we do and not until - you'll be
informed. Thereafter, and for such time as I deem appropriate, you will be my
eyes and ears on the ground. No sweetening the pill, you understand? None of
your Foreign Office obfuscation or persiflage. Not on my watch, thank you.
You'll give it me straight, exactly the way you see it. Are you hearing me?"

"Perfectly, Minister. I hear you and I understand exactly what you are saying" -
his own voice, speaking to him from a distant cloud.

"Have you got any Pauls in your family?"

"I'm sorry, Minister?"

"Jesus Christ! It's a simple enough question, isn't it? Is any man in your
family named Paul? Yes or no. Brother, father, what do I know?"

"None. Not a Paul in sight, I'm afraid."

"And no Paulines? The female version. Paulette, or whatever?"

"Definitely none."

"How about Anderson? No Andersons around at all? Maiden name, Anderson?"

"Again, not to my knowledge, Minister."

"And you're in reasonable nick. Physically. A stiff walk over rugged terrain
isn't going to cause you to go faint at the knees in the manner that certain
others around here might be afflicted?"

"I walk energetically. And I'm a keen gardener" - from the same distant cloud.

"Wait for a call from a man named Elliot. Elliot will be your first indication."

"And would Elliot be his surname or given name, I wonder?" he hears himself
inquire soothingly, as if of a maniac.

"How the f--- should I know?

He's operating in total secrecy under the aegis of an organisation best known as
Ethical Outcomes. New boys on the block, and up there with the best in the
field, I'm assured on expert advice." "Forgive me, Minister. What field would
that be, exactly?"

"Private defence contractors. Where've you been? Name of the game these
days.War's gone corporate, in case you haven't noticed. Standing professional
armies are a bust. Topheavy, under-equipped, one brigadier for every dozen boots
on the ground, and cost a mint. Try a couple of years at defence if you don't
believe me."

"Oh I do, Minister" - startled by this wholesale dismissal of British arms, but
anxious to humour the man nonetheless.

"You're trying to flog your house. Right?

Harrow or somewhere."

"Harrow is correct" - now past surprise - "North Harrow."

"Cash problems?"

"Oh no, far from it, I'm thankful to say!" he exclaims, grateful to be returned
if only momentarily to earth. "I have a little bit of my own, and my wife has
come into a modest inheritance which includes a country property.

We plan to sell our present house while the market holds, and live small until
we make the move."

"Elliot will say he wants to buy your house in Harrow. He won't say he's from
Ethical or anywhere else. He's seen the ads in the estate agent's window or
wherever, looked it over from the outside, likes it, but there are issues he
needs to discuss. He'll suggest a place and time to meet. You're to go along
with whatever he proposes. That's the way these people work.

Any further questions?"

Has he asked any?

"Meantime, you play totally normal man. Not a word to anyone. Not here in the
Office, not at home. Is that clearly understood?"

Not understood. Not from Adam. But a wholehearted,mystified "yes" to all of it,
and no very clear memory of how he got home that night, after a restorative
Friday-evening visit to his Pall Mall club.

Bowed over his computer while wife and daughter chatter merrily in the next
room, Paul Anderson elect googles Ethical Outcomes. Do you mean Ethical Outcomes
Incorporated of Houston, Texas? For want of other information, yes, he does.

With our brand-new international team of uniquely qualified geopolitical
thinkers, we at Ethical offer innovative, insightful, cutting-edge analyses of
risk assessment to major corporate and national entities. At Ethical we pride
ourselves on our integrity, due diligence, and up-to-the-minute cyber skills.
Close protection and hostage negotiators available at immediate notice. Marlon
will respond to your personal and confidential enquiries.

Email address and box number also in Houston,Texas. Freephone number for your
personal and confidential enquiries of Marlon. No names of directors, officers,
advisors or uniquely qualified geopolitical thinkers. No Elliot, first name or
surname. The parent company of Ethical Outcomes is SpencerHardy Holdings, a
multinational corporation whose interests include oil, wheat, timber, beef,
property development and not-for-profit initiatives. The same parent company
also endows evangelical foundations, faith schools and Bible missions.

For further information about Ethical Outcomes, enter your pre-advised key-code.
Possessing no such key-code, and assailed by a sense of trespass, he abandons
his researches.

A week passes. Each morning over breakfast, all day long in the office, each
evening when he comes home from work, he plays Totally Normal Man as instructed,
and waits for the great call that may or may not come, or come when it's least
expected: which is what it does early one morning while his wife is sleeping off
her medication and he's pottering in the kitchen in his check shirt and
corduroys washing up last night's supper things and telling himself he really
must get a hold of that back lawn. The phone rings, he picks it up, gives a
cheery "Good morning" and it's Elliot, who, sure enough, has seen the ads in the
estate agent's window and is seriously interested in buying the house.

Except that his name isn't Elliot but Illiot, thanks to the South African
accent.

Is Elliot one of Ethical Outcomes' brandnew international team of uniquely
qualified geopolitical thinkers? It's possible, though not apparent. In the bare
office in a poky side street off Paddington Street Gardens where the two men sit
a mere ninety minutes later, Elliot wears a sober Sunday suit and a striped tie
with baby parachutes on it.

Cabalistic rings adorn the three fattest fingers of his manicured left hand. He
has a shiny cranium, is olive-skinned, pockmarked and disturbingly muscular. His
gaze, now quizzing his guest in flirtatious flicks, now slipping sideways at the
grimy walls, is colourless. His spoken English is so elaborate you'd think it
was being marked for accuracy and pronunciation.

Extracting a nearly new British passport from a drawer, Elliot licks his thumb
and flips officiously through its pages. "Manila, Singapore, Dubai: these are
but a few of the fine cities where you have attended statisticians' conferences.
Do you understand that, Paul?"

Paul understands that.

"So where does a highly qualified chap like you fit into the scheme of things,
if I may ask without being intrusive, Elliot?"

Elliot's voice acquires the sanctimoniousness of the pulpit:

"I sincerely thank you for that question, Paul.

I am a man of arms  it is my life. I have fought wars large and small, mostly on
the continent of Africa. During these exploits I was fortunate enough to
encounter a man whose sources of intelligence are legendary, not to say uncanny.
His worldwide contacts speak to him as to no other in the safe knowledge that he
will use their information in the furtherance of democratic principles and
liberty.

"Operation Wildlife, the details of which I shall now unveil to you, is his
personal brainchild."

And it is Elliot's proud statement that elicits the obvious, if sycophantic,
question:

"And may one ask, Elliot, whether this great man has a name?"

"Paul, you are now and for evermore family. I will therefore tell you without
restraint that the founder and driving force of Ethical Outcomes is a gentleman
whose name, in strictest confidence, is Mr Jay Crispin."

Return to Harrow by black cab.

Elliot says, From now on, keep all receipts. Pay off cabbie, keep receipt.

Google Jay Crispin.

Jay is 19 and lives in Paignton, Devon. She is a waitress.

J Crispin, Veneer Makers, began life in Shoreditch in 1900.

Jay Crispin auditions for models, actors, musicians and dancers.

But of Jay Crispin, the driving force of Ethical Outcomes and mastermind of
Operation Wildlife, not a glimpse.

Stuck once more at the overlarge window of his hotel prison, the man who must
call himself Paul emitted a weary string of mindless obscenities, more in the
modern way than his own, aimed at the cellphone on the bed and ending with an
appeal - Ring, you little bugger, ring - only to discover that somewhere inside
or outside his head the same cellphone, no longer mute, was chirruping back at
him with its infuriating diddly-ah, diddly-ah, diddly-ah dee-dah-doh.

"Paul? Are you there, Paul? It's me. Kirsty, remember?"

Kirsty the part-time minder he'd never set eyes on. Her voice the only thing he
knew about her: pert, imperious, and the rest of her imagined.

"You still OK up there, Paul?"

"Very much so, Kirsty. You, too, I trust?"

"Ready for some night-birding, owls a speciality?"

It was part of Paul Anderson's fatuous cover that his hobby was ornithology.

"Then here's the update. It's all systems go. Tonight. The Rosemaria left
harbour bound for Gib five hours ago. Aladdin has booked his on-board guests
into the Chinese on the Queensway Marina for a big lash-up tonight. He's going
to settle his guests in, then slide off on his own. His tryst with Punter
confirmed for 2330. How's about I pick you up from your hotel at 2100 hours
cold? That's 9pm on the dot. Yes?"

"When do I join up with Jeb?"

"As soon as maybe, Paul," she retorted, with the extra edge in her voice for
whenever the name Jeb was mentioned between them. "It's all arranged. Your
friend Jeb will be waiting. You dress for the birds. You do not check out.
Agreed?"

It had been agreed all of two days ago.

"You bring your passport and your wallet. You pack up your possessions nicely,
but you leave them in your room. You hand your room key in at the desk like
you're going to be back late. Want to stand on the hotel steps so's you don't
have to hang around the lobby and get stared at by the tour groups?"

"Fine. I'll do that. Good idea."

They'd agreed that, too.

"Look out for a blue Toyota four-track, shiny, new. Red sign on the
passenger-side windscreen saying CONFERENCE."

For the third time since he had arrived, she insisted they compare watches,
which he considered a needless excursion in these days of quartz, until he
realised he'd been doing the same thing with the bedside clock. One hour and 52
minutes to go.

She had rung off. He was back in solitary. Is it really me? Yes, it is. It's me
the safe pair of hands, and they're sweating.

Jostling and apologising, he fought his way to the hotel steps, where a cluster
of guests stood waiting for their cars. He took a deep breath and caught the
scents of bay and honey mingled with the oil fumes. Above him, the shrouded
stars of a Mediterranean night. He was dressed as he'd been told to dress: stout
boots, and don't forget your anorak, Paul, the Med at night gets nippy. And
zipped over his heart in the anorak's inside pocket, his super-encrypted
cellphone. He could feel its weight on his left nipple - which didn't prevent
his fingers from making their own furtive exploration.

A shiny Toyota four-track had joined the queue of arriving cars, and yes it was
blue and yes there was a red sign saying conference on the passenger side of the
windscreen. Two white faces up front, the driver male, bespectacled and young.
The girl compact and agile, leaping out like a yachtswoman, hauling back the
side door.

"You're Arthur, right?" she yelled in best Australian.

"No, I'm Paul, actually."

"Oh right, you're Paul! Sorry about that. Arthur's next stop. I'm Kirsty. Great
to meet you, Paul. Hop right in!"

Agreed safety formula. Typical overproduction, but never mind. He hopped, and
was alone on the rear seat. The side door slammed shut and the four-track nosed
its way between the white gateposts, on to the cobbled road.

"And this here's Hansi," Kirsty said over his shoulder. "Hansi's part of the
team. "Ever watchful - right, Hansi? That's his motto. Want to say hullo to the
gentleman, Hansi?"

"Welcome aboard, Paul," said Ever-Watchful Hansi, without turning his head.
Could be an American voice, could be German.

War's gone corporate.

They were driving between high stone walls and he was drinking in every sight
and sound at once: the blare of jazz from a passing bar, the obese English
couples quaffing tax-free booze at their outdoor tables, the tattoo parlour with
its embroidered torso in low-slung jeans, and the curio shop selling statuettes
of flamenco dancers and Jesus and his disciples.

Kirsty had turned to examine him by the passing lights. Her bony face, freckled
from the outback. Short, dark hair tucked into the bush hat. No make-up, and
nothing behind the eyes: or nothing for him.

"We're heading for Upper Rock, so we're taking in the Queensway Marina on the
way. That's the Rosemaria out there now. She arrived an hour ago. See it?" "See
it."

"That's where Aladdin always anchors, and those are his personal steps to the
dockside.

Nobody's allowed to use them except him: he has property interests in the
colony. He's still aboard, and his guests are running late, still powdering
their noses before they go ashore for their slap-up dinner at the Chinese.

Everybody eyeballs the Rosemaria, so you can, too. Just keep it relaxed. There's
no law says you can't take a relaxed look at a 30-milliondollar super-yacht."

Was it the excitement of the chase? Or just the relief of being got out of
prison? Or was it the simple prospect of serving his country in a way he'd never
dreamed of? Whatever it was, a wave of patriotic fervour swept over him as
centuries of British imperial conquest received him. The statues to great
admirals and generals, the cannons, redoubts, bastions, the bruised air-raid
precaution signs directing our stoical defenders to their nearest shelter, the
Gurkha-style warriors standing guard with fixed bayonets outside the Governor's
residence, the bobbies in their baggy British uniforms: he was heir to all of
it.

Even the dismal rows of fish-and-chip shops built into elegant Spanish façades
were like a homecoming.

A flash-glimpse of cannons, then of war memorials, one British, one American.
Welcome to Ocean Village, hellish canyon of apartment blocks with balconies of
blue glass for ocean waves. Enter a private road with gates and a guard-box, no
sign of a guard.

Below, a forest of white masts, a ceremonial, carpeted landing bay, a row of
boutiques and the Chinese restaurant where Aladdin has booked his slap-up
dinner.

And out to sea in all her splendour, the Rosemaria, lit overall with fairy
lights. The windows on her middle deck blacked out. The salon windows
translucent. Burly men hovering among the empty tables. Alongside her, at the
foot of a gold-plated ship's ladder, a sleek motorboat with two crew in white
uniforms waiting to ferry Aladdin and his guests ashore.

"Aladdin is basically a mixed-race Pole who has taken out Lebanese citizenship,"
Elliot is explaining, in the little room in Paddington.

"Aladdin is the Pole I personally would not touch with a barge, to coin a
witticism.

Aladdin is the most unprincipled f------ merchant of death on the face of this
earth bar none, plus also the chosen intimate of the worst dregs of
international society. The principal item on his list will be Manpads, I am
given to understand."

Manpads, Elliot?

"Twenty of them at last count. State of the art, very durable, very deadly."

Allow time for Elliot's bald, superior smile and slippy glance.

"A Manpad is, technically, your man-portable air-defence system, Paul, Manpad
being what I call an acronym. As a weapon known by the same acronym, your Manpad
is so lightweight that a kid can handle one. It also happens to be just the item
if you are contemplating bringing down an unarmed airliner. Such is the
mentality of these murderous s----."

"But will Aladdin have them with him, Elliot, the Manpads? Now? On the night? On
board the Rosemaria?" he asks, playing the innocent because that's what Elliot
seems to like best.

"According to our leader's reliable and exclusive intelligence sources, the
Manpads in question are part of a somewhat larger inventory of sale comprising
top-of-the-range anti-tanks, rocket-propelleds, and best-brand assault rifles
from state arsenals around the known bad world. As in the famous Arabian fairy
tale, Aladdin has stashed his treasure in the desert, hence the choice of name.

He will notify the successful bidder of its whereabouts when - and only when -
he has cut the deal, in this case with none other than Punter himself. Ask me
what is the purpose of the meeting between Aladdin and Punter and I will reply
that it is in order to set the parameters of the deal, the terms of payment in
gold, and the eventual inspection of goods prior to handover."

The Toyota had left the marina and was negotiating a grass roundabout of palm
trees and pansies.

"Boys and girls neat and tidy, everyone in place," Kirsty was reporting in a
monotone over her cellphone. Boys, girls? Where? What have I missed? He must
have asked her:

"Two parties of four watchers sitting in the Chinese, waiting for the Aladdin
party to show up. Two walk-by couples. One tame taxi and two motorcyclists for
when he sneaks away from the party," she recited, as to a child who hasn't been
paying attention.

They shared a strained silence. She thinks I'm surplus to requirements. She
thinks I'm the Limey know-nothing striped-pants parachuted in to make
difficulties.

"So when do I get to meet up with Jeb?" he insisted, not for the first time.

"Your friend Jeb will be ready and waiting for you at the rendezvous as per
schedule, like I told you."

The sky had vanished. This tunnel is not a tunnel. It's a disused mineshaft.
It's an air-raid shelter. Crooked girders, sloppy walls of breeze block and
rough-cut cliff. Neon strips flying overhead, white road markings keeping pace
with them. Festoons of black wiring. A sign saying look out for falling stones!
Potholes, rivulets of brown flood water, an iron doorway leading to God knew
where. Has Punter passed this way today? Is he hovering behind a doorway with
one of his 20 Manpads? Punter's not just high value, Paul. In the words of Mr
Jay Crispin, Punter is stratospheric: Elliot again.

Pillars like the gateway to another world coming at them as they emerge from the
belly of the Rock and land on a road cut into the cliff. A hefty wind is
rattling the coachwork, a half-moon has appeared at the top of the windscreen
and the Toyota is bumping along the nearside verge. Beneath them, lights of
coastal settlements. Beyond them, the pitch-black mountains of Spain. And out to
sea, again, the same motionless armada of freight ships.

"Sides only," Kirsty ordered.

Hansi dowsed the headlights. "Cut the engine."

To the furtive mutter of wheels on crumbling tarmac, they rolled forward. Ahead
of them, a red pin-light flashed twice, then a third time, closer at hand.

"Stop now."

They stopped. Kirsty slammed back the side door, letting in a blast of cold
wind, and the steady din of engines from the sea. Across the valley, moonlit
cloud was curling up the ravines and rolling like gun smoke along the Rock's
ridge. A car sped out of the tunnel behind them and raked the hillside with its
headlights, leaving a deeper darkness.

"Paul, your friend's here."

Seeing no friend, he slid across to the open door. In front of him, Kirsty was
leaning forward, pulling the back of her seat after her as if she couldn't wait
to let him out. He started to lower his feet to the ground and heard the scream
of insomniac gulls and the zip-zip of crickets. Two gloved hands reached out of
the darkness to steady him. Behind them hunched little Jeb with his
dazzlepainted cheeks glistening inside his pushedback balaclava, and a lamp like
a cyclopic eye stuck to his forehead.

"Good to see you again, Paul. Try these for size, then," he murmured in his
gentle Welsh lilt.

"And jolly good to see you, Jeb, I must say," he answered fervently, accepting
the goggles and grasping Jeb's hand in return. It was the Jeb he remembered:
compact, calm, nobody's man but his own.

"Hotel OK then, Paul?"

"The absolute bloody pits. How's yours?" "Come and have a see, man. All mod
cons.

Tread where I tread. Slow and easy. And if you see a falling stone, be sure and
duck, now."

Was that a joke? He grinned anyway. The Toyota was driving down the hill, job
done and goodnight. He put on the goggles and the world turned green. Raindrops,
driven on the wind, smashed themselves like insects in front of his eyes. Jeb
was wading ahead of him up the hillside, the miner's torch on his forehead
lighting the way. There was no track except where he trod. I'm on the grouse
moor with my father, scrambling through gorse 10 feet high, except that this
hillside had no gorse, just stubborn tufts of sand grass that kept dragging at
his ankles. Some men you lead, and some men you follow, his father, a retired
general, used to say. Well, with Jeb, you follow.

The ground evened out. The wind eased and rose again, the ground with it. He
heard the putter of a helicopter overhead. Mr Crispin will be providing the full
American-style coverage, Elliot had proclaimed, on a note of corporate pride.
Fuller than you will ever be required to know, Paul. Highly sophisticated
equipment will be standard for all, plus a predator drone for observation
purposes is by no means beyond his operational budget.

The climb steeper now, the earth part fallen rock, part windblown sand. Now his
foot struck a bolt, a bit of steel rod, a sheet-anchor. Once - but Jeb's hand
was waiting to point it out to him - a stretch of metal catch-net that he had to
clamber over.

"You're going a treat, Paul. And the lizards don't bite you, not in Gib. They
call them skinks here, don't ask me why. Suddenly they had arrived.

Three men in combat gear and headsets, one of them taller than the rest, were
lounging on a tarpaulin, drinking from tin mugs and watching computer screens as
if they were watching Saturday-afternoon football.

The hide was built into the steel frame of a catch-net. Its walls were of matted
foliage and shrub. Even from a few feet away, and without Jeb to guide him, he
might have walked clean past it. The computer screens were fixed at the end of
pipe casings.

You had to squint into the pipes to see them. A few misty stars glowed in the
matted roof. A few strands of moonlight glinted on weaponry of a kind he'd never
seen.

Four packs of gear were lined up along one wall. A lateral arrow-slit fringed by
the foliage looked down the slope to the coast road and the sea.

"So this is Paul, lads.

Our man from the ministry," said Jeb beneath the rattle of the wind.

One by one, each man turned, drew off a leather glove, shook his hand too hard
and introduced himself.

"Don. Welcome to the Ritz, Paul."

"Andy."

"Shorty. Hullo, Paul. Make the climb all right, then?"

Shorty because he's a foot taller than the rest of them: why else? Jeb handing
him a mug of tea. Sweet with condensed milk. The computer pipes fixed below the
arrow-slit, allowing a clear-sight view down the hillside to the coastline. To
his left the same pitch-black hills of Spain, bigger now, and closer. Jeb lining
him up to look at the left-hand screen. A rolling sequence of shots from hidden
cameras: the marina, the Chinese restaurant, the fairy-lit Rosemaria. Switch to
a shaky hand-held shot inside the Chinese restaurant. The camera at floor level.
From the end of a long window table in the bay, an imperious 50-year-old fat man
in a nautical blazer and perfect hair gesticulates to his fellow diners. On his
right, a sulky brunette half his age. Bare shoulders, showy breasts, diamond
collar and a downturned mouth.

"Aladdin's a twitchy bugger, Paul," Shorty was confiding. "First he has a run-in
with the head waiter in English because there isn't any lobster. Now his lady
friend's getting it in Arabic, and him a Pole. I'm surprised he doesn't give her
a thick ear, the way she's carrying on. It's like at home, right, Jeb?"

"Come over here a minute, Paul, please."

With Jeb's hand on his shoulder to guide him, he made a wide step to the middle
screen. Alternating aerial and ground shots.

Were they courtesy of the predator drone that was by no means beyond Mr
Crispin's operational budget? Or of the helicopter that he could hear idling
overhead? A terrace of white houses, faced with weatherboarding, perched on the
cliff's edge. Stone staircases to the beach dividing them. The staircases
leading down to a skimpy crescent of sand. A rock beach enclosed by jagged
cliff. Orange street lamps. A metalled slip road leading from the terrace to the
main coast road.

No lights in the windows of the houses. No curtains.

And through the arrow-slit, the same terrace in plain sight.

"It's a tear-down, see, Paul," Jeb was explaining in his ear. "A Kuwaiti
company's going to put up a casino complex and a mosque. That's why the houses
are empty. Aladdin, he's a director of the Kuwaiti company. Well now, according
to what he's been telling his guests, he's got a confidential meeting with the
developer tonight. Very lucrative, it will be. Shaving off the profits for
themselves, according to his lady friend. You wouldn't think a man like Aladdin
would be so leaky, like, but he is."

"Showing off," Shorty explained. "Typical f-- --- Pole."

"Is Punter already inside the house then?" he asked.

"Let's say, if he is, we haven't spotted him, Paul, put it that way," Jeb
replied in the same steady, deliberately conversational tone. "Not from the
outside, and there's no coverage inside. There hasn't been the opportunity, so
we're told. Well, you can't bug 20 houses all in one go, I don't suppose, can
you, not even with today's equipment? Maybe he's lying up in one house and
sneaking into another for his meeting. We don't know, do we, not yet? It's wait
and see and don't go down there till you know who you're taking on, 'specially
if you're looking for an al-Qaeda kingpin."

Memories of Elliot's clotted description of the same elusive figure come
sweeping back to him:

I would basically describe Punter as your jihadist Pimpernel par excellence,
Paul, not to say your will-o'-the-wisp. He eschews all means of electronic
communication, including cellphones and harmless-seeming emails. It's word of
mouth only for Punter, and one courier at a time, never the same one twice.

"He could come at us from anywhere, Paul," Shorty was explaining, perhaps to
wind him up. "Over the mountains there. Up the Spanish coast by small boat. Or
he could walk on the water if he felt like it. Right, Jeb?"

Cursory nod from Jeb. Jeb and Shorty, the tallest and the shortest men in the
team: an attraction of opposites.

"Or smuggle himself across from Morocco under the noses of the coastguards,
right, Jeb? Or put on an Armani suit, and fly in Club on a Swiss passport. Or
charter a private Lear, which is what I'd do, frankly.

Having first ordered my special menu in advance from the highly attractive
hostess in a miniskirt. Money to burn, Punter's got, according to our amazing
top-of-the-range source, right, Jeb?"

From the seaward side, the pitch-dark terrace was forbidding against the night
sky, the beach a blackened no-man's-land of craggy boulders and seething surf.

"How many men in the boat team?" he asked. "Elliot didn't seem sure."

"We got him down to eight," Shorty replied, over Jeb's shoulder.

"Nine when they head back to the mother ship with Punter. They hope," he added
drily.

The conspirators will be unarmed, Paul, Elliot was saying. Such is the degree of
trust between a pair of total bastards. No guns, no bodyguards. We tiptoe in, we
grab our man, we tiptoe out, we were never there. Jeb's boys push from the land,
Ethical pulls from the sea.

Side by side with Jeb once more, he peered through the arrow-slit at the lighted
freighters, then at the middle screen. One freighter lay apart from her
companions. A Panamanian flag flapped from her stern. On her deck, shadows
flitted among the derricks. An inflatable dinghy dangled over the water, two men
aboard. He was still watching them when his encrypted cellphone began cooing its
stupid melody. Jeb grabbed it from him, dowsed the sound, handed it back.

"That you, Paul?"

"Paul speaking."

"This is Nine. All right? Nine. Tell me you hear me."

And I shall be Nine, the minister is solemnly intoning, like a Biblical
prophecy. I shall not be Alpha, which is reserved for our target building. I
shall not be Bravo, which is reserved for our location. I shall be Nine, which
is the designated code for your commander, and I shall be communicating with you
by specially encrypted cellphone ingeniously linked to your operational team by
way of an augmented PRR net, which for your further information stands for
Personal Role Radio.

"I hear you loud and clear, Nine, thank you."

"And you're in position? Yes? Keep your answers short from now on."

"I am indeed. Your eyes and ears."

"All right. Tell me precisely what you can see from where you are."   "We're
looking straight down the slope to the houses. Couldn't be better."

"Who's there?"

"Jeb, his three men and myself."

Pause. Muffled male voice off. The minister again:

"Has anyone any idea why Aladdin hasn't left the Chinese yet?"

"They started eating late. He's expected to leave any minute. That's all we've
heard." "And no Punter in sight? You're absolutely sure of that? Yes?"

"Not in sight as yet. I'm sure. Yes."

"The slightest visual indication, however remote - the smallest clue -
possibility of a sighting -" Pause. Is the augmented PRR breaking up, or is
Quinn?

"- I expect you to advise me immediately. Understood? We see everything you see,
but not so clearly. You have eyes-on. Yes?" - already sick of the delay - "Plain
sight, for f---'s sake!"

"Yes, indeed. Plain sight. Eyes-on. I have eyes-on."

Don has struck up his arm for attention. In the centre of town a people carrier
is nosing its way through night traffic. It has a taxi sign on its roof and a
single passenger on the rear seat, and one glance is enough to tell him that the
passenger is the corpulent, very animated Aladdin, the Pole that Elliot won't
touch with a barge. He's holding a cellphone to his ear and, as in the Chinese
restaurant, he is gesticulating magisterially with his free hand.

The pursuing camera veers, goes wild. The screen goes blank. The helicopter
takes over, pinpoints the people carrier, puts a halo over it. The pursuing
ground camera returns. The winking icon of a telephone, top-left corner of the
screen. Jeb hands Paul an earpiece. One Polish man talking to another. They are
taking it in turns to laugh. Aladdin's left hand performing a puppet show in the
rear window of the people carrier. Male Polish merrymaking replaced by
disapproving voice of a woman translator:

"Aladdin is speaking to brother Josef in Warsaw," says the woman's voice
disdainfully. "It is vulgar conversation. They are discussing girlfriend of
Aladdin, this woman he has on boat. Her name is Imelda. Aladdin is tired of
Imelda. Imelda has too much mouth. He will abandon her. Josef must visit Beirut.
Aladdin will pay for him to come from Warsaw. If Josef will come to Beirut,
Aladdin will introduce him to many women who will wish to sleep with him. Now
Aladdin is on his way to visit special friend. Special secret friend. He love
this friend very much. She will replace Imelda. She is not gloomy, not bitch,
has very beautiful breasts.

Maybe he will buy apartment for her in Gibraltar. This is good news for taxes.
Aladdin will go now. His secret special friend is waiting. She desires him very
much. When she opens the door she will be completely naked. Aladdin has ordered
this. Goodnight, Josef."

A moment of collective bewilderment, broken by Don:

"He hasn't got f------ time to get laid," he whispered indignantly.

"Not even him."

Echoed by Andy, equally indignant: "His cab's turned the wrong way. What the
f---'s it gone and done that for?"

"There is always time to get laid," Shorty corrected them firmly. "If Boris
Becker can knock up a bird in a cupboard, Aladdin can get himself laid on his
way to sell Manpads to his mate Punter. It's only logical."

This much at least was true: the people carrier, instead of turning right
towards the tunnel, had turned left, back into the centre of town.

"He knows we're on him," Andy muttered in despair. "S---."

"Or changed his stupid mind" - Don. "Hasn't got one, darling. He's a bungalow.
It's all downstairs" - Shorty.

The screen turned grey, then white, then a funereal black.

CONTACT TEMPORARILY LOST

All eyes on Jeb as he murmured gentle Welsh cadences into his chest microphone:

"What have you done with him, Elliot? We thought Aladdin was too fat to lose."

Delay and static over Don's relay. Elliot's querulous South African voice, low
and fast:

"There're a couple of apartment blocks with covered car parks down there. Our
reading is, he drove into one and came out by a different one. We're searching."

"So he knows you're on him then" - Jeb - "That's not helpful, is it, Elliot?"

"Maybe he's aware, maybe it's habit. Kindly get off my bloody back. Right?"

"If we're compromised, we're going home, Elliot. We're not walking into a trap,
not if people know we're coming. We've been there, thank you. We're too old for
that one."

Static, but no answer. Jeb again:

"You didn't think to put a tracker on the cab by any chance, did you, Elliot?
Maybe he switched vehicles. I've heard of that being done before, once or
twice."

"Go f--- yourself."

Shorty in his role as Jeb's outraged comrade and defender, pulling off his
mouthpiece:

"I'm definitely going to sort Elliot out when this is over," he announced to the
world. "I'm going to have a nice, reasonable, quiet word with him, and I'm going
to shove his stupid South African head up his a---, which is a fact.

Aren't I, Jeb?"

"Maybe you are, Shorty," Jeb said quietly.

"And maybe you're not, too. So shut up, d'you mind?"

The screen has come back to life. The night traffic is down to single cars but
no halo is hanging over an errant people carrier. The encrypted cellphone is
trembling again.

"Can you see something that we can't, Paul?" - accusingly.

"I don't know what you can see, Nine.

Aladdin was talking to his brother, then he changed direction. Everyone here is
mystified."

"We are, too. You better bloody believe it."

We? You and who else, exactly? Eight? Ten?

Who is it that whispers in your ear? Passes you little notes, for all I know,
while you talk to me.

Causes you to change tack and start again?

Mr Jay Crispin, our corporate warlord and intelligence provider?

"Paul?"

"Yes, Nine."

"You have eyes-on. Give me a reading, please. Now."

"The issue seems to be whether Aladdin's woken up to the fact that he's being
followed." And after a moment's thought: "Also whether he's visiting a new
girlfriend he has apparently installed here instead of keeping his date with
Punter" - increasingly impressed by his own confidence.

Shuffle. Sounds off. The whisperer at work again. Disconnect.

"Paul?"

"Yes, Nine."

"Hang on. Wait. Got some people here need to talk to me."

Paul hangs on. People or person?

"OK! Matter solved" - Minister Quinn in full voice now - "Aladdin's not - repeat
not - about to screw anybody, man or woman. That's a fact.

Is that clear?" - not waiting for an answer. "The phone call to his brother we
just heard was a blind to firm up his date with Punter over the open line. The
man at the other end was not his brother. He was Punter's intermediary." Hiatus
for more offstage advice. "OK, his cut-out. He was Aladdin's cut-out" - settling
to the word.

Line dead again. For more advice? Or is the Personal Role Radio not quite as
augmented as it was cracked up to be?

"Paul?"

"Nine?"

"Aladdin was merely telling Punter that he's on his way. Giving him a heads-up.
We have that direct from source. Kindly pass to Jeb forthwith."

There was just time to pass to Jeb forthwith before Don's arm shot up again.
"Screen two, skipper. House seven. Seaward-side camera. Light in ground-floor
window left."

"Over here, Paul" - Jeb.

Jeb has dropped into a squat at Don's side.

Crouching behind them, he peers between their two heads, unable to make out at
first which light he's supposed to be seeing. Lights were dancing in the
ground-floor windows, but they were reflections from the anchored fleet.
Removing his goggles and stretching his eyes as wide as they'll go, he watches
the replay of the ground-floor window of house number seven in close-up.

A spectral pin-light, pointed upward like a candle, moves across the room. It is
held by a ghostly white forearm. The inland cameras take up the story. Yes,
there's the light again. And the ghostly forearm is tinged orange by the sodium
lamps along the slip road.

"He's inside there then, isn't he?" - Don, the first to speak. "House seven.
Ground floor.

Flashing a f------ torch because there's no electric." But he sounds oddly
unconvinced.

"It's Ophelia" - Shorty, the scholar. "In her f------ nightshirt. Going to throw
herself into the Med."

Jeb is standing as upright as the roof of the hide allows. He pulls back his
balaclava, making a scarf of it. In the spectral green light, his paint-smeared
face is suddenly a generation older.

"Yes, Elliot, we saw it, too. All right, agreed, a human presence. Whose
presence, that's another question, I suppose."

Is the augmented sound system really on the blink? Over a single earpiece he
hears Elliot's voice in belligerent mode: "Jeb?

Jeb, I need you. Are you there?"

"Listening, Elliot."

The South African accent very strong now, very didactic: "My orders are, as of
one minute ago, precisely, to place my team on red alert for immediate
embarkation. I am further instructed to pull my surveillance resources out of
the town centre and concentrate them on Alpha. Approaches to Alpha will be
covered by static vans. Your detachment will descend and deploy accordingly."

"Who says we will, Elliot?"

"That is the battle plan. Land and sea units converge. Jesus f---, Jeb, have you
forgotten your f------ orders?"

"You know very well what my orders are, Elliot. They're what they were from the
start.

Find, fix and finish. We haven't found Punter, we've seen a light. We can't fix
him till we've found him and we've no PID worth a damn."

PID? Though he detests initials, enlightenment comes:

Positive Identification.

"So there's no finishing and there's no convergence," Jeb is insisting to Elliot
in the same steady tone. "Not till I agree, there isn't.

We're not shooting at each other in the dark, thank you. Confirm you copy me,
please. Elliot, did you hear what I just said?"

Still no answer, as Quinn returns in a flurry.

"Paul? That light inside house seven. You saw it? You had eyes-on?"

"I did. Yes. Eyes-on."

"Once?"

"I believe I saw it twice, but indistinctly."

"It's Punter. Punter's in there. At this minute.

In house seven. That was Punter holding a hand torch, crossing the room. You saw
his arm. Well, didn't you? You saw it, for Christ's sake. A human arm. We all
did."

"We saw an arm, but the arm is subject to identification, Nine. We're still
waiting for Aladdin to turn up. He's lost, and there's no indication that he's
on his way here." And catching Jeb's eye: "We're also waiting for proof that
Punter is on the premises."

"Paul?"

"Still here, Nine."

"We're replanning. Your job is to keep the houses in plain sight. House seven
particularly.

That's an order. While we replan. Understood?"

"Understood."

"You see anything out of the ordinary with the naked eye that the cameras may
have missed, I need to know instantly." Fades and returns.

"You're doing an excellent job, Paul. It will not go unnoticed. Tell Jeb. That's
an order."

They're becalmed, but he feels no calm.

Aladdin's vanishing act has cast its spell over the hide.

Aladdin is waterproof, Paul, Elliot is insisting across his desk in Paddington.
We do not lay one single finger on Aladdin. Aladdin is fireproof, he is
bulletproof. That is the solemn deal that Mr Crispin has cut with his highly
valuable informant, and Mr Crispin's word to an informant is sacred.

"Skipper" - Don again, this time with both arms up.

A motorcyclist is weaving his way along the metalled service track, flashing his
headlight from side to side. No helmet, just a black-andwhite keffiyeh flapping
round his neck. With his right hand he is steering the bike, while his left
holds what appears to be a bag by its throat. Swinging the bag as he goes along,
displaying it, showing it off, look at me.

Slender, wasp-waisted and agile. The keffiyeh masking the lower part of his
face. As he draws level with the centre of the terrace his right hand leaves the
handlebars and rises in a revolutionist's salute.

Reaching the end of the service track, he seems all set to join the coast road,
heading south. Abruptly he turns north, head thrust forward over the handlebars,
keffiyeh streaming behind him and, accelerating, races towards the Spanish
border.

But who cares about a hell-bent motorcyclist in a keffiyeh when his black bag
sits like a plum pudding in the middle of the metalled track, directly in front
of the doorway leading to house number seven?

The camera has closed on it. The camera enlarges it. Enlarges it again. It's a
commonor- garden black plastic bag, bound at the throat with twine or raffia.
It's a bin bag.

It's a bin bag with a football or a human head or a bomb in it.

It's the kind of suspicious object which, if you saw it lying around untended at
a railway station, you either told someone or you didn't, depending how shy you
were.

The cameras were vying with each other to get at it. Aerial shots followed
groundlevel close-ups and wide-angle shots of the terrace at giddying speed. Out
to sea, the helicopter had dropped low over the mother ship in protection. In
the hide, Jeb was urging sweet reason:

"It's a bag, Elliot, is what it is" - his Welsh voice at its gentlest and most
persistent. "That's all we know, see. We don't know what's in it, we can't hear
it, we can't smell it, can we? There's no green smoke coming out of it, no
external wires or aerials that we can see, and I'm sure you can't either. Maybe
it's just a kid doing a bit of fly-tipping for his mum No, Elliot, I don't think
we'll do that, thank you. I think we'll leave it where it is and let it do
whatever it was brought here to do, if you don't mind, and we'll go on waiting
till it does it, same as we're waiting for Aladdin."

Is this an electronic silence or a human one?

"It's his weekly washing," Shorty suggested under his breath.

"No, Elliot, we're not doing that," said Jeb, his voice much sharper. "We
emphatically are not going down to take a closer look inside that bag.

We're not going to interfere with that bag in any way, Elliot. That could be
exactly what they're waiting for us to do: they want to flush us out in case
we're on the premises. Well, we're not on the premises, are we? Not for a teaser
like that we're not. Which is another good reason for leaving it put."

Another fade-out, a longer one.

"We have an arrangement, Elliot," Jeb continued with superhuman patience.

"Maybe you've forgotten that. Once the land team has fixed the target, and not
before, we'll come down the hill. And your sea team, you'll come in from the
sea, and together we'll finish the job. That was the arrangement. You own the
sea, we own the land. Well, the bag's on the land, isn't it? And we haven't
fixed the target, and I'm not about to see our respective teams going into a
dark building from opposite sides, and nobody knowing who's waiting there for
us, or isn't. Do I have to repeat that, Elliot?"

"Paul?"

"Yes, Nine."

"What's your personal take on that bag? Advise me immediately. Do you buy Jeb's
arguments or not?"

"Unless you have a better one, Nine, yes I do" - firm but respectful, taking his
tone from Jeb's.

"Could be a warning to Punter to do a runner. How about that, then? Has anyone
thought of that your end?"

"I'm sure they've thought about that very deeply, as I have. However, the bag
could equally well be a signal to Aladdin to say it's safe, so come on in. Or it
could be a signal to stay away. It seems to me pure speculation at best. Too
many possibilities altogether, in my view," he ended boldly, even adding: "In
the circumstances, Jeb's position strikes me as eminently reasonable, I have to
say."

"Don't lecture me. All wait till I return."

"Of course."

"And no f------ of course!"

The line goes stone dead. No shuffle of breath, no background atmospherics. Just
a long silence over the cellphone pressed harder and harder to his ear.

"Jesus f---!" - Don, at full force.

Again they are all five huddled at the arrowslit as a high-sided car with full
headlights shoots out of the tunnel and speeds towards the terraces. It's
Aladdin, in his people carrier, late for his appointment. It's not. It's the
blue Toyota four-track without its conference sign. Veering off the coast road,
bumping on to the metalled service track and heading straight for the black bag.

As it approaches, the side door slides back to reveal the bespectacled Hansi
bowed at the wheel and a second figure, undefined but could be Kirsty, stooped
in the open doorway, one hand clutching the grab handle for dear life and the
other outstretched for the bag. The Toyota's door bangs shut again. Regaining
speed, the four-track continues north and out of sight. The plum-pudding bag has
gone.

First to speak is Jeb, calmer than ever.

"Was that your people I saw just now, Elliot?

Picking up the bag at all? Elliot, I need to speak to you, please. Elliot, I
think you're hearing me. I need an explanation, please.

Elliot?"

"Nine?"

"Yes, Paul."

"It seems that Elliot's people just picked up the bag" - doing his best to sound
as rational as Jeb - "Nine?

\Are you there?"

Belatedly, Nine comes back, and he's strident:

"We took the executive decision, for f---'s sake. Someone had to take it, right?
Kindly inform Jeb. Now. The decision is set. Taken."

He is gone again.

But Elliot is back at full strength, talking to an offstage female voice with an
Australian accent and triumphantly relating its message to the wider audience:
"The bag contains provisions?

Thank you, Kirsty. The bag contains smoked fish - hear that, Jeb?

Bread. Arab bread. Thank you, Kirsty. What else do we have in that bag? We have
water.

Sparkling water. Punter likes sparkling. We have chocolate. Milk chocolate. Hold
it there, thank you, Kirsty. Did you happen to catch that, Jeb?

The bastard's been in there all the time, and his mates have been feeding him.
We're going in, Jeb. I have my orders here in front of me, confirmed." "Paul?"

But this is not Minister Quinn alias Nine speaking. This is Jeb's half-blacked
face, his eyes whitened like a collier's, except they're palest green. And Jeb's
voice, steady as before, appealing to him: "We shouldn't be doing this, Paul.
We'll be shooting at ghosts in the dark. Elliot doesn't know the half of it. I
think you agree with me."

"Nine?"

"What the hell is it now? They're going in!

What's the problem now, man?"

Jeb staring at him. Shorty staring at him over Jeb's shoulder:  "Nine?"

"What?"

"You asked me to be your eyes and ears, Nine. I can only agree with Jeb. Nothing
I've seen or heard warrants going in at this stage."

Is the silence deliberate or technical? From Jeb, a crisp nod. From Shorty, a
twisted smile of derision, whether for Quinn, or Elliot, or just all of it. And
from the minister, a delayed blurt:

"The man's in there, for f---'s sake!" Gone again. Comes back. "Paul, listen to
me closely.

That's an order. We've seen the man in full Arab garb. So've you. Punter. In
there. He's got an Arab boy bringing him his food and water.

What the hell more does Jeb want?"

"He wants proof, Nine. He says there isn't enough. I have to say, I feel very
much the same."

Another nod from Jeb, more vigorous than the first, again backed by Shorty, then
by their remaining comrades. The white eyes of all four men watching him through
their balaclavas. "Nine?"

"Doesn't anybody listen to orders over there?"

"May I speak?"

"Hurry up then!"

He is speaking for the record. He is weighing every word before he speaks it:
"Nine, it's my judgment that by any reasonable standard of analysis we're
dealing with a string of unproven assumptions. Jeb and his men here have great
experience. Their view is that nothing makes hard sense as it stands.

As your eyes and ears on the ground, I have to tell you I share that view."

Faint voices off, then again the deep, dead silence, until Quinn comes back,
shrill and petulant:

"Punter's unarmed, for f---'s sake. That was his deal with Aladdin. Unarmed and
unescorted, one-to-one. He's a high-value terrorist with a pot of money on his
head and a load of priceless intelligence to be got out of him, and he's sitting
there for the plucking. Paul?"

"Still here, Nine."

Still here, but looking at the lefthand screen, as they all are. At the stern of
the mother ship. At the shadow on her near side.

At the inflatable dinghy lying flat on the water. At the eight crouched figures
aboard.

"Paul? Give me Jeb. Jeb, are you there? I want you to listen, both of you. Jeb
and Paul.

Are you both listening?"

They are.

"Listen to me." They've already said they are but never mind. "If the sea team
grabs the prize and gets him on to the boat and out of territorial waters into
the hands of the interrogators while you lot are sitting on your a---- up the
hill, how d'you think that's going to look? Jesus Christ, Jeb, they told me you
were picky, but think what's to lose, man!" On the screen, the inflatable is no
longer visible at the mother ship's side. Jeb's battle-painted face inside its
scant balaclava is like an ancient war mask.

"Well, not a lot more to say to that, then, is there, Paul, I don't suppose, not
now you've said it all?" he says quietly.

But Paul hasn't said it all, or not to his satisfaction. And yet again, somewhat
to his surprise, he has the words ready.

"With due respect, Nine, there is not, in my judgment, a sufficient case for the
land team to go in. Or anyone else, for that matter."

Is this the longest silence of his life? Jeb is crouching on the ground with his
back to him, busying himself with a kitbag. Behind Jeb, his men are already
standing. One - he's not sure which - has his head bowed and seems to be
praying. Shorty has taken off his gloves and is licking each fingertip in turn.
It's as if the minister's message has reached them by other, more occult means.

"Paul?"

"Sir."

"Kindly note I am not the field commander in this situation. Military decisions
are the sole province of the senior soldier on the ground, as you are aware.
However, I may recommend. You will therefore inform Jeb that, on the basis of
the operational intelligence before me, I recommend but do not command that he
would be well advised to put Operation Wildlife into immediate effect. The
decision to do so is of course his own."

But Jeb, having caught the drift of this message, and preferring not to wait for
the rest, has vanished into the dark with his comrades.

Now with his night glasses, now without, he peered into the density but saw no
more sign of Jeb or his men.

On the first screen the inlatable was closing on the shore. Surf was lapping the
camera, black rocks were approaching.

The second screen was dead.

He moved to the third. The camera zoomed in on house seven.

The front door was shut, the windows still uncurtained and unlit. He saw no
phantom light held by a shrouded hand. Eight masked men in black were clambering
out of the inflatable, one pulling another. Now two of the men were kneeling,
training their weapons at a point above the camera. Three more men stole into
the camera's lens and disappeared.

The screen switched to the coast road and the terrace, panning across the doors.
The door to house seven was open. An armed shadow stood guard beside it. A
second armed shadow slipped through it  a third, taller shadow slipped after
him: Shorty.

Just in time the camera caught little Jeb with his Welsh miner's wading walk
disappearing down the lighted stone staircase to the beach.

Above the clatter of the wind came a clicking sound like dominoes collapsing:
two sets of clicks, then nothing.

He thought he heard a yell but he was listening too hard to know for sure. It
was the wind. It was the nightingale. No, it was the owl.

The lights on the steps went out, and after them the orange sodium street lamps
along the metalled track. As if by the same hand, the two remaining computer
screens went blank.

At first he refused to accept this simple truth.

He pulled on his night-vision glasses, took them off, then put them on again and
by the torch's green glow roamed the computers' keyboards, willing the screens
back to life. They would not be willed.

A stray engine barked, but it could as well have been a fox as a car or the
outboard of an inflatable. On his encrypted cellphone, he pressed "one" for
Quinn and got a steady electronic wail. He stepped out of the hide and, standing
his full height at last, braced his shoulders to the night air.

A car emerged at speed from the tunnel, cut its headlights and screeched to a
halt on the verge of the coast road. For 10 minutes, 12, nothing. Then out of
the darkness Kirsty's Australian voice calling his name. And after it, Kirsty
herself.

"What on earth happened?" he asked.

She steered him back into the hide.

"Mission accomplished. Everyone ecstatic.

Medals all round," she said.

"What about Punter?"

"I said everyone's ecstatic, didn't I?"

"So they got him? They've taken him out to the mother ship?"

"You get the f--- out of here now and you stop asking questions. I'm taking you
down to the car, the car takes you to the airport like we planned. The plane's
waiting. Everything's in place, everything's hunky-dory. We go now."

"Is Jeb all right? His men? They're OK?"

"Pumped up and happy."

"What about all this stuff?" - he means the metal boxes and computers.

"This stuff will be gone in three seconds cold just as soon as we get you the
f--- out of here.

Now move it."

Already they were stumbling and sliding into the valley, with the sea wind
whipping into them and the wind-borne hum from engines out to sea louder even
than the wind itself.

A huge bird - perhaps an eagle - scrambled out of the scrub beneath his feet,
screaming its fury.

Once, he fell headlong over a broken catchnet and only the thicket saved him.

Then, just as suddenly, they were standing on the empty coast road, breathless
but miraculously unharmed.

The wind had dropped, the rain had ceased. A second car was pulling up beside
them. Two men in boots and tracksuits sprang out. With a nod for Kirsty and
nothing for himself, they set off at a half-run towards the hillside.

"I'll need the goggles," she said.

He gave them to her.

"Have you got any papers on you - maps, anything you kept from up there?" He
hadn't.

"It was a triumph. Right? No casualties. We did a great job. All of us. You,
too. Right?"

Did he say "Right" in return? It no longer mattered. Without another glance at
him, she was heading off in the wake of the two men.

A Delicate Truth by John le Carré by Viking on April 25 at T£14.99 / audiobook
£19.99. (0844 871 1515). He will be speaking to Phillipe Sands at the Hay
Festival on May 31 (hayfestival.org).

'Have you had any direct experience of secret intelligence work? You
personally?'

'Where've you been? War's gone corporate, in case you haven't noticed'

Above the clatter of the wind came a clicking sound: two sets of clicks and the
nothing

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 6, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Somalia terror attack warning;
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 82 words


British nationals were last night advised against travelling to Somalia after
the Foreign Office said terrorists were in the final stages of plans to attack
the capital, Mogadishu.

The city has been hit by a string of recent attacks, including two at a
beachfront restaurant which killed two and injured several others.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "The FCO believes that terrorists are in the
final stages of planning attacks in Mogadishu. We advise against travel to all
parts of Somalia."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                             April 6, 2013 Saturday

Terrorists planning Somali attacks, government warns

BYLINE: Ben Quinnguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 356 words

ABSTRACT

British government warns terrorists in final stages of planning attacks in
Mogadishu, following statement by Foreign Office

FULL TEXT

Terrorists are in the final stages of planning attacks in the Somali capital,
Mogadishu, the British government has warned.

Concerns about a possible attack were highlighted in a statement issued by the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), which already advises against all travel
to Somalia.

The Foreign Office's website states that attacks in and around Mogadishu
continue to be carried out by al-Shabaab, a terrorist group, and others opposed
to the Somali government.

Attacks in the past have targeted government institutions, hotels, restaurants
and public transport, including the international airport.

An FCO spokesperson said: "We have amended our travel advice for Somalia. Our
advice makes clear that there continues to be a high threat from terrorism and
that the FCO believes that terrorists are in the final stages of planning
attacks in Mogadishu. We advise against all travel to all parts of Somalia."

"The safety of British nationals abroad is a major concern for the FCO. We
therefore attach great importance to providing information about personal safety
and security overseas, including an assessment of the level of threat from
terrorism, to enable people to make informed decisions about travel."

Security in Mogadishu has improved greatly since a military offensive drove
Islamist rebels allied to al-Qaida out of the city in August 2011. But bombings
and assassinations blamed on militants still occur often.

Last month, a suicide car bomber killed at least 10 people near Mogadishu's
presidential palace in an explosion that police said was aimed at a senior
security official.

The attacker blew up his car while driving along a boulevard that runs between
the palace and the national theatre.

In late September, al-Shabaab withdrew from the southern Indian Ocean port of
Kismayu, its last major urban bastion in the east African state, signalling its
demise as a quasi-conventional military force, but it pledged to step up a
campaign of suicide bombings and hit-and-run attacks.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      April 6, 2013 Saturday 10:44 AM GMT

Britons living in Somalia urged to leave country amid fears of 'imminent
terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: Emma Clark

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 157 words


Britons living in Somalia have been urged by the Government to leave the African
country amid fears of "imminent terrorist attacks".

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) believes terrorists are in the final
stages of planning attacks in the capital city of Mogadishu and warned against
all travel to all parts of the country.

It advised all expatriates to leave the country, adding that it was aware of a
specific threat to westerners in the autonomous region of Somaliland

A spokesperson for the FCO said: "We have amended our travel advice for Somalia.

"Our advice makes clear that there continues to be a big threat from terrorism
and that the FCO believes that terrorists are in the final stages of planning
attacks in Mogadishu."

It added that there is a high threat from terrorism, including kidnapping,

There is no British representation in any part of Somalia and the FCO said it is
unable to provide consular assistance there.

PA

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                              April 7, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

JAIL ATTACK TERROR OF BOGUS COP GANGSTER;
Prison switch for scared thug

BYLINE: Russell Findlay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 296 words


A thug jailed for posing as a policeman to terrorise and rob elderly people in
their homes has been targeted by fellow cons.

; Self-styled gangster Robert Anderson, 56, was moved from Addiewell Prison in
West Lothian over fears for his safety.

; The cowardly crook, once cleared of sex attacks on three children, was sent to
Glasgow's tough Barlinnie Prison.

; He had been on remand in Addiewell.

; Anderson was convicted last month and was last week jailed for six years at
the High Court in Edinburgh for preying on victims in five robberies in
Lanarkshire and Glasgow.

; Irene Wallace, 85, from Giffnock, Glasgow, was robbed of valuables worth over
£70,000 - but none have been recovered.

; Detective Sergeant Mark McLennan said: "These were clearly cowardly crimes by
a cowardly individual who thought it acceptable to prey on vulnerable and
elderly people.

; "Even the criminal fraternity are not prepared to put up with these types of
crimes.

; "The victims spoke out in court because they were not prepared for this to be
tolerated. I interviewed him and he had every opportunity to own up and get
property back, some of which was of great personal value."

; One jail source said: "The moral majority in Addiewell decided Anderson should
be taught a lesson.

; "It was decided that he should be moved for his own safety."

; Five years ago, the Sunday Mail revealed that Anderson was suspected of
similar robberies in the 1990s.

; His alleged gang members included his hitman brother Raymond - who's now doing
30 years for murder - and a then police officer.

; Since Anderson's conviction, a retired officer who worked on the 1990s case
has contacted police to ask them to re-open the investigation.

; DS McLennan said: "If there is any opportunity to look at these crimes, we
would do so."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COWARD Anderson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                 April 7, 2013

World: Hollywood leaves pain of 9/11 behind by burning down the White House:
Twelve years after terrorist attacks, directors dare to show the symbols of
power in flames

BYLINE: Paul Harris, New York

SECTION: OBSERVER WORLD NEWS PAGES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 735 words


It has been a long time coming but American moviegoers are now ready to watch
the White House being blown up again.

Twelve years after the 11 September terrorist attacks, and long after audiences
shed a similar reticence about viewing New York being destroyed, at least three
major films will now feature America's most famous address being attacked, shot
up, set on fire or taken over by terrorists.

None of the destruction is subtle, or limited to the White House. A trailer for
the coming blockbuster White House Down features dramatic scenes of the entire
Capitol building exploding, Air Force One being shot out of the sky by a rocket,
and then - almost as an afterthought - a shot of the White House bursting into
rubble and flames. That follows on from the current box-office hit Olympus Has
Fallen, where - in a spookily current plot twist - North Korean terrorists
attack the White House and pretty much destroy it. Finally, the action effects
movie G.I. Joe: Retaliation - which despite abysmal reviews has earned tens of
millions in ticket sales - also has bad guys seize the White House.

Observers say that the rash of films in which Washington's symbols of power and
patriotism take a pounding shows that the pain of 9/11 is disappearing from
popular culture. At last film-makers feel confident that the nation can tolerate
a repeat of the sort of scene made famous by Roland Emmerich's Independence Day
in 1996 when an alien spaceship blew the White House to smithereens. "I think
Americans have mentally recovered from the shock of 9/11," said Professor
Jamsheed Akrami, a film expert at William Paterson University in New Jersey.
"Some people may even argue that cinematic re-enactments could have therapeutic
effects at this time. Nothing like the passage of time can change perspectives."

Yet even the people behind the films seem to know they are overcoming a taboo.
For Olympus Has Fallen, director Antoine Fuqua's crew built a replica White
House on their set in Louisiana solely to film its destruction. Fuqua said the
filming was a spooky experience. "There were moments where even I'd have to step
back and look at it through the lens and say: "Wow, I'm not sure how I feel
about this," he told the website BuzzFeed. "This is a really freaky thing to
see, because we all believe this building to represent . . . freedom."

Since 9/11, Washington has been destroyed in two major blockbusters, but only by
natural disasters: an ice age in The Day After Tomorrow (also directed by
Emmerich) and an earthquake in 2012. Wiping out the city or attacking its
landmarks by acts of terrorism has - until now - been a wholly different matter.
It still makes people nervous. "There is something rather curious about showing
a place like the White House as the primary target of attacks. Hollywood has
tended to be a bit respectful towards where the nation's commander-in-chief
lives," Akrami said.

There may be other cultural currents at play in Americans' reawakened desire to
see their symbols of government trashed so spectacularly. There has always been
a strong anti-government strain in US cultural life and scepticism - bordering
on resentment - about the power of central authority. The rise of the Tea Party
and anti-Obama conspiracy theories may have strengthened that. Last week a
survey revealed that a quarter of Americans either believed Obama was the
antichrist or were "not sure" about the possibility. More than half also
admitted to being open to the idea that a sinister conspiracy to establish a new
world order was at play.

Wiping out the White House might be hailed as an act of patriotism by more
conservative filmgoers who suspect that their government is out to get them or
sell them out to the United Nations or other non-American powers. "Olympus Has
Fallen plays well to the current paranoid notion of the nation under siege. But
there is also a deep-seated hatred of the nation and the self in this rubbish,"
said Christopher Sharrett, a film studies professor at Seton Hall University,
New Jersey.

However, there is one area in which Hollywood still has to cleave to its tried
and tested formulas. Even though they are prepared to tear down the White House
and destroy the Capitol, film-makers continue to ensure that in the end the good
guys always win.

Captions:

Gerard Butler in Olympus Has Fallen, above, and Maggie Gyllenhaal, left, in
White House Down. Sportsphoto Ltd/Allstar


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                              April 7, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Bad Korea move is a real blast;
BODYGUARD BATTLES TO SAVE THE U.S. FROM NUCLEAR TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 36,37

LENGTH: 553 words


GOD bless Americans. There's a time and place for arty French dramas, clever
Japanese horrors, stylish Hong Kong kung fu movies and tired British wedding
comedies.

But if you're after something loud, violent and stupidly patriotic, you know our
flag-waving cousins will deliver the goods.

After the dull last Die Hard, this all-American slice of hokum is the gung-ho
blast action fans have been craving.

An elite force of North Korean terrorists invade Washington DC, seize the White
House and take the President (Aaron Eckhart) hostage.

That's right - The White House. And those so-called experts said hitting Alaska
with a souped-up firework would be beyond the tinpot Commies.

Unlikely it may be but it's ludicrously entertaining. So much so, it might just
persuade Hollywood to release Gerard Butler from his stint in rom-com hell.

Since Bruce Willis stopped giving a monkey's, no one has caved in a conniving
foreign skull or spat out a grizzled oneliner so effortlessly.

Butler plays Mike Banning, a super-tough presidential bodyguard whose guts,
cunning and love of the free world place him at the heart of the attack. But a
personal tragedy has left him sulking on the outside when the Koreans make their
move.

From his desk job in a neighbouring building, Banning watches as the first batch
descend from the clouds in a futuristic plane.

Machine guns strafe the White House lawn, the Washington Monument is sent
tumbling and rockets slam into scrambling US fighter jets.

Inside, the President runs to the safety of his underground bunker, taking his
cabinet and what he thinks is a friendly South Korean delegation with him.

If Banning were by his side he would have been alerted to the evil glint in the
eye of the big one and the very undiplomatic straggly hair of his shifty mate.

Once safely ensconced, the delegates reveal their true colours - all of them
red. The President's bodyguards are coolly butchered and the leader of the free
world hauled in front of his nukecontrolling computer.

Outside, another wave of gun-toting Koreans are throwing off their tourist
disguises to lead a final ground assault. The White House is taken but only
after fearless Banning has managed to sneak in and hide in the Oval Room.

As terrorist leader Kang (Rick Yune) issues terse ultimatums to Morgan Freeman's
stand-in President, our redemption-seeking hard nut stalks the corridors, taking
down goons and hatching plots.

We've seen this before, of course, in Willis' first Die Hard, Seagal's Under
Siege and countless other rip-offs. And we'll see it again when Channing Tatum's
very similarsounding White House Down is released in September. But director
Antoine Fuqua (Training Day) comes up with some nice original touches to
Banning's stealth attacks and snarky quips.

In a moment of in-your-face symbolism, he pounds a Korean to death with a bust
of Abraham Lincoln.

And his insults with Kang over the intercom reveal a masterful command of the
childish insult.

"Why don't you and I play a game of f*** off?" he asks. "You go first." Then he
hangs up.

I'm saving that for the next caller who bothers me about a made-up PPI claim.

If America does go to war with North Korea, it probably won't play out anything
remotely like this.

Try dragging me away from Sky News if it does.

Olympus Has Fallen ANDY'S RATING: ....

In cinemas April 17

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRESSURE: Eckhart as the President
¦ FIGHT FOR LIFE: Butler as Mike Banning and, inset, Morgan Freeman in the
Pentagon
¦ TERROR: Koreans storm the White House

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSSscot


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 8, 2013 Monday

Syrian TV shows footage of Damascus "terrorist" attack, casualties

LENGTH: 217 words


Damascus Syrian Satellite Channel Television in Arabic at 1022 GMT on 8 April
begins to carry initial footage of the "terrorist suicide bombing" that took
place between the area of Al-Sab Bahrat and the Al-Shahbander area in Damascus
and caused casualties and material damage to buildings, including a school.

The station then links up with its correspondent at the explosion site, who says
that "the terrorist suicide bombing" that erupted in the area of the Al-Saba
Bahrat has caused many casualties and severe material damage. The correspondent
adds that there is a school and a mosque in that crowded area.

The correspondent denies reports by media outlets on clashes that followed the
explosion, noting that the fire trucks and ambulances came to put out the fires
and to rescue "the innocent wounded" at the site of "the terrorist explosion."

The correspondent flays "the filthy satellite channels that promote those
mercenary terrorists and the NATO agents" in the beloved land of Syria, noting
that they always seek to target people, trees, and properties.

The station notes that Al-Qa'idah's statements made yesterday by Al-Qa'idah's
Ayman al-Zawahiri are tantamount to instigation to carry out "terrorist"
bombings in Syria.

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 1022 gmt 8 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 8, 2013 Monday

(Corr) Paper says terrorist attacks cannot break Afghans' resolve

LENGTH: 647 words


(Correcting date of editorial from 2 April to 6 April)

Text of editorial entitled: "No terrorist, massive suicide attack can undermine
Afghans' resolve" by state-owned Afghan newspaper Hewad on 6 April

The Taleban carried out a massive terrorist attack on a court on the
instructions of the sworn enemies and the enemies of Afghanistan's freedom and
national sovereignty last Wednesday. They carried out multiple suicide attacks.
The Taleban, who wore national army uniform and used military vehicles, entered
one room from another in the courthouse like wild animals and shot dead whoever
came in their way. More than 50 people were martyred and more than 100 others
wounded in the attack. This mass murder was a completely inhumane, un-Islamic
and anti-Afghan act which was seriously condemned both internally and at the
international level.

President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan Hamed Karzai has said that
every anti-Islamic and inhumane act needs to be condemned as much as possible
and the entire Afghan nation has been saddened by this tragic incident, but they
are also vigilant about the enemies' conspiracies. The UN Security Council has
condemned the Taleban's massive attack in Farah and the five of its members
unanimously said that they condemned the attack in the strongest possible terms
which killed mostly civilians in Farah. The UN Security Council has stressed:
"No terrorist attack can impede peace, democracy and stability in Afghanistan
which enjoys support from the Afghan people, government and the international
community."

The Afghans in every corner of the world have also voiced concerns about the
attack in Farah and have shared their views through the media. The most common
messages shared on facebook are below:

"We are with you Farah.", "The Taleban are used for perpetuating violence in the
country." Hamed Karzai has appointed a high-ranking delegation to investigate
the mass murder committed by suicide bombers in Farah. Nine Taleban suicide
bombers carried out the attacks on the courthouse and other government
organizations on Wednesday morning. The Taleban quite shamelessly claimed
responsibility for the attack and threatened to continue such attacks on
Afghanistan's legal system. The Taleban say that they carried out the massive
suicide attack to disturb their friends' trial.

These attacks are not only against Islamic and humanitarian values, but also
against Afghanistan's national sovereignty and independence. Actually, the
historical enemies cannot tolerate Afghanistan's national sovereignty,
independence and development. These attacks were carried out against the release
of prisoners from the Bagram prison and to perpetuate the ongoing notorious war
in Afghanistan. This terrorist attack showed that the Taleban are in the grip of
foreigners and each of their act nullifies their slogans. Whenever the Afghans
have taken a step to ensure national sovereignty, make their lives prosper and
become self-reliant, the Taleban have reacted in a way that has further
perpetuated violence and unrest across the country.

The attack on Farah is linked with the release of prisoners from the Bagram
prison and the enemies cannot tolerate Afghanistan's national sovereignty. The
Afghans assumed control of the Bagram prison to ensure national sovereignty and
stepped up their peace efforts. Many innocent Taleban and other detainees in the
name of Taleban have been released from the Bagram prison. Therefore, the
Taleban caused the tragedy in Farah to make people pessimistic about the release
of Taleban from prisons. However, the Afghans are vigilant about the historical
enemies' activities and are trying to release innocent prisoners in the name of
Taleban. The Taleban cannot break the Afghans' resolve and impede peace and
development. On the contrary, such acts will further unite them.

Source: Hewad, Kabul, in Pashto 6 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        April 8, 2013 Monday 9:03 PM GMT

Special Forces veterans demand new investigation into Benghazi terror attack
that killed US ambassador to Libya

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


A political action committee that speaks for Special Forces veterans sent a
letter to Congress on Monday demanding a new investigation into the September
11, 2002 terror attack that took the life of US Ambassador to Libya Chris
Stevens and three other Americans.

The letter  from Special Operations Speaks, signed by 700 military special
operations veterans, urges support for House Resolution 36, a measure introduced
by Virginia Republican Rep. Frank Wolf.

Wolf's resolution calls for the appointment of a House Special Committee to
determine what happened at the US Consulate in Benghazi and what information has
been withheld from the American public.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

The Benghazi attack was carried out by Libyan rebels armed with rocket propelled
grenades and mortar launchers. It resulted in the closure of CIA operations
there.

Special Operations Speaks received attention in 2011 for criticizing leaks of
information related to the military operation that killed al Qaeda leader Osama
bin Laden, Fox News reported. The group claimed those leaks came form inside the
Obama White House.

'It appears that many of the facts and details surrounding the terrorist attack
which resulted in four American deaths and an undetermined number of American
casualties have not yet been ascertained by previous hearings and inquiries,'
the letter for Congress says of the Benghazi attack.

'Additional information is now slowly surfacing in the media, which makes a
comprehensive bipartisan inquiry an imperative. Many questions have not been
answered thus far.'

[IMG 6428703 noborder /] [IMG 6428694 noborder /]

A columnist in Forbesreported recently that Rep. Wolf has learned that 'as many
as seven Americans have been or are currently being treated' at the Walter Reed
National Military Medical Center in Washington, D.C.

Rep. Wolf cited two independent confidential sources for his information,
columnist Richard Miniter wrote. The survivors are said to include at least 30
Americans.

South Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham has said the survivors have been
'told to be quiet' by Obama administration officials.

Miniter is the author of Mastermind, a best-selling biography of Khalid Sheikh
Mohammed, the al Qaeda leader credited with leading the planning of the 9/11
attacks that destroyed the twin World Trade Center towers in New York City.

'Congress must show some leadership and provide answers to the public as to what
actually occurred in Benghazi,' the Special Operations Speaks letter continued.
'Americans have a right to demand a full accounting on this issue.'

More than 60 members of Congress are co-sponsors of Wolf's resolution.

A documentary film titled Benghazi 911 is slated for release in the fall of
2013. In includes interviews with members of Congress and the military.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             April 9, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tormented soul denied justice for her boy and the answers to troubling
questions;
The funeral takes place today of Pamela Brankin, whose son Sapper Mark Quinsey
was murdered by dissident republicans at Massereene barracks in 2009. Suzanne
Breen tells the heartbreaking story of a mother'swhose life was destroyed by the
terrorist attack

BYLINE: Suzanne Breen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 777 words


WHEN Pamela Brankin was told her only son Mark had been murdered at Massereene
Army base, her own life effectively ended too.

For four years she went thorough the motions of living, but was crushed by the
weight of her loss.

"He was my beautiful blue-eyed boy. I couldn't have wished for a better son,"
she told me in the only interview she gave. "I'll never get over this. I think
of him dying on his own outside the barracks.

"I should have been there to comfort him. I held him in my arms after I brought
him into the world. I should have been there, holding him, as he left it."

Three weeks ago, Pamela (51) was found dead at her Birmingham home. Her funeral
takes place today.

Some Northern Ireland politicians will attend.

Pamela will be laid to rest at Robin Hood cemetery, finally escaping the mental
hell in which she had become imprisoned.

Her death came a week after Mother's Day and just 10 days after the fourth
anniversary of the dissident republican attack in which her son was slaughtered.
She had been deeply depressed.

Until her last breath, Pamela was tortured by thoughts of that night in March
2009 when Mark Quinsey (23) and his friend Patrick Azimkar (21) died in a hail
of bullets as they collected food from pizza delivery cars outside the barracks.

Two balaclava-clad gunmen fired 63 times.

The sappers' regiment was about to leave Northern Ireland for Afghanistan.

Pamela had spoken to Mark on the phone hours before his death.

"I look back and think of all the things I should have said had I known it was
to be our last conversation.

But I wasn't worried about him in Ireland. I didn't know there was still an IRA.
I thought that was all in the past. I was terrified about him going to
Afghanistan. I never believed Ireland was dangerous."

His killers were "sick, evil men", she said.

"What harm did Mark do to the people who murdered him? How was he oppressing
them? "He wasn't beating them up or destroying their lives. The only time he
left barracks was to go into Antrim to shop or socialise.

"Why do they think killing my son will improve the lives of anybody in Ireland?"
Grief ate away at the once vivacious, fun-loving woman.

She was a tormented soul: fearful that his killers would never see justice and
angry at the Army for security lapses at the base which she believed meant her
son's death had been avoidable.

"I gave away the medal and the photograph of Mark signed by the Queen that the
Army presented to me," she said. "I couldn't bear to look at the medal. I wanted
to put it in the bin. What was it? A useless piece of metal.

"I don't want their medals or their photographs, I want my son back and I want
the truth.

"Why wasn't Massereene put on high alert? "Why were soldiers with rifles not
guarding the base? "Why were Mark and his friends allowed to wander around with
no protection - not even a bullet-proof jacket - when 36 hours earlier the PSNI
Chief Constable had warned the dissident threat against police and soldiers was
at its highest in 10 years?" My relationship with Mark Quinsey's family goes
back to 2009, two months after Massereene.

I'd received the Real IRA claim of responsibility for the shooting. The
paramilitaries later gave me their account of the attack.

The family's request came by email: "My name is Steven Hughes. I'm the uncle to
the young soldier killed at Massereene. Myself and Mark's mother were hoping you
could help us," it said.

The family explained how they'd questioned the Army about the lack of security
at the base and about precise details of the shooting. They said they'd met a
wall of silence.

"We have had the odd sympathetic ear but no answers," he continued. "Please
could you help us?" I learned how Mark was just an ordinary lad who loved
football and fishing. He joined the Army simply to get a job, escape Birmingham
and see the world.

Before his murder, Pamela loved dressing up, nights out, and dancing.

There had been talk of retiring to Greece where she loved the sunny beaches,
olive groves and warmth of the people. Post-Massereene, everything changed.

I interviewed Pamela on the first anniversary of the double murder.

Hours later, she changed her mind and asked that it not be printed. For the next
three years, she remained in emotional turmoil. Relatives feared she had a death
wish.

She turned to alcohol to numb her grief, but it never did.

In 2011 the car she was driving crashed into the wall of a house near her home.
She was on a life support machine for three weeks.

She loved dogs and on Mother's Day, her family took her to Crufts to try to
raise her spirits, but despair and depression soon returned.

A week later, her body was discovered.

Pamela had finally found peace.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pamela Brankin, and (below) her murdered son, soldier Mark Quinsey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2013 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 10, 2013 Wednesday

Syrian political parties, unions, organizations denounce terrorist attack

LENGTH: 782 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Syrian Political Parties, Unions and Organizations Denounce Terrorist Bombing
in Damascus" - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) -The Regional Leadership of al-Baath Arab Socialist Party
denounced the terrorist bombing which took place between Sabe'a Bahrat Square
and al-Shahabandar area in Damascus on Monday [8 April].

In a statement, the Leadership said that such barbaric crimes show the
terrorists' hatred for the Syrian people who rejected them and stood fast in
their face, asserting that the Syrian people will not forget the crimes of the
terrorists and those who support and arm them.

The Leadership said that such crimes indicate that the terrorists have failed in
carrying out the plot devised by their masters.

The statement affirmed that those responsible for shedding the blood of innocent
Syrians will not go unpunished, and that history knows how the Syrian people
deal with those who transgress against it, be they a major country or
mercenaries under the yoke of masters who teach them to violate human rights.

The Arab Socialist Union Party also issued a statement condemning the terrorist
attack, saying that this crime adds up to the crimes of Takfiri groups who
aren't deterred by religious or human values.

The statement said that the only way to deal with such terrorists is to uproot
them wherever they are, calling on the people, the state, parties and social
forces to confront terrorism.

The Unionist Socialist Democratic Party also denounced the bombing and affirmed
that it will only make Syrians more determined to adhere to national unity and
achieve victory.

Similarly, the National Kurdish Movement denounced the terrorist attack, holding
the government of Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the Arab League responsible for it
since the latter has become the main backer of terrorism funded by money from
the Arab Gulf.

In turn, The People's Party strongly denounced the terrorist bombing, calling on
the Syrian Army to strike firmly against terrorists and do all that's possible
to eliminate them and restore security and stability to the country.

The Arab Socialists Movement issued a statement saying that the bombing is part
of the criminal plot against Syria concocted by the US and carried out by its
agents in the region through mercenaries.

The Movement said that Syria's victory over the conspiracy is approaching, and
that Syrians will eliminate those who transgress against Syria and its people.

In a similar statement, the Syrian Democratic Party condemned the bombing,
asserting that this crime only makes Syrians more unified and steadfast and
holding the countries who sponsor, fund and arm terrorists and Takfiris
responsible for the crimes taking place in Syria.

In a statement, the General Union of Farmers strongly denounced the terrorist
bombing, describing it and such attacks as crimes that reached the level of
crimes against humanity in their atrociousness.

The General Union of Artisans also denounced the cowardly attack, saying in a
statement that the bombing shows the dark Takfiri mentality of those behind it
and that such crimes will only make Syrians more determined to stand fast and
rally around their leadership.

Similarly, the Damascus Chamber of Commerce asserted that bombings and terrorism
contradict the culture of the Syrian people, and that such acts are rejected by
all creeds and all Syrians.

The bombing was also denounced by the Damascus Governorate Council and Executive
Office and the Damascus Youth volunteer group.

The General Federation of Trade Unions denounced the terrorist bombing, calling
it a crime against humanity and calling on Arab, regional and international
vocational organizations to condemn this attack and halt the funding and arming
of terrorists.

The Teachers Syndicate also denounced the terrorist attack, holding the
countries who sponsor, fund and support terrorism responsible for it and for all
such crimes against the Syrian people.

Similarly, the Engineers Syndicate strongly denounced the attack, calling it a
reprehensible criminal act that is censured by all laws and creeds.

Palestinian Liberation Army Condemns Terrorist Bombing in Damascus

The Palestinian Liberation Army condemned the terrorist suicidal bombing which
hit al-Sabe' Bahrat Square and al-Shahbandar area in Damascus.

In a statement, the General Command of the Palestinian Liberation Army pointed
out that this crime is a desperate attempt to undermine the steadfastness of the
Syrian people, particularly after the sweeping strikes carried out by the Syrian
Arab Army against the armed terrorist groups.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1540 gmt 9 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 10, 2013 Wednesday 1:19 PM GMT

A Delicate Truth by John le Carré: Exclusive extract, part one;
In the first chapter from his thrilling new novel A Delicate Truth, to be
published on April 25, master of espionage John le Carré returns to his British
spy roots. When Paul Anderson, a middle-ranking civil servant, is unexpectedly
sent to Gibraltar, he is drawn into a cat-and-mouse game with al-Qaeda agents
suspected of planning a terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By John le Carré

SECTION: CULTURE

LENGTH: 2949 words


On the second floor of a characterless hotel in the British Crown Colony of
Gibraltar, a lithe, agile man in his late fifties restlessly paced his bedroom.
His very British features, though pleasant and plainly honourable, indicated a
choleric nature brought to the limits of its endurance. A distraught lecturer,
you might have thought, observing the bookish forward lean and loping stride and
the errant forelock of salt-and-pepper hair that repeatedly had to be
disciplined with jerky backhanded shoves of the bony wrist. Certainly it would
not have occurred to many people, even in their most fanciful dreams, that he
was a middle-ranking British civil servant, hauled from his desk in one of the
more prosaic departments of Her Majesty's Foreign and Commonwealth Office to be
dispatched on a top-secret mission of acute sensitivity.

His assumed first name, as he insisted on repeating to himself, sometimes half
aloud, was Paul and his second - not exactly hard to remember - was Anderson. If
he turned on the television set it said Welcome, Mr Paul Anderson. Why not enjoy
a complimentary pre-dinner aperitif in our Lord Nelson's Snug! The exclamation
mark in place of the more appropriate question mark was a source of constant
annoyance to the pedant in him. He was wearing the hotel's bathrobe of white
towelling and he had been wearing it ever since his incarceration, except when
vainly trying to sleep or, once only, slinking upstairs at an unsociable hour to
eat alone in a rooftop brasserie washed with the fumes of chlorine from a
third-floor swimming pool across the road. Like much else in the room, the
bathrobe, too short for his long legs, reeked of stale cigarette smoke and
lavender air freshener.

As he paced, he determinedly acted out his feelings to himself without the
restraints customary in his official life, his features one moment cramped in
honest perplexity, the next glowering in the full-length mirror that was screwed
to the tartan wallpaper. Here and there he spoke to himself by way of relief or
exhortation. Also half aloud? What was the difference when you were banged up in
an empty room with nobody to listen to you but a colour-tinted photograph of our
dear young Queen on a brown horse?

On a plastic-topped table lay the remnants of a club sandwich that he had
pronounced dead on arrival, and an abandoned bottle of warm Coca-Cola. Though it
came hard to him, he had permitted himself no alcohol since he had taken
possession of the room. The bed, which he had learnt to detest as no other, was
large enough for six, but he had only to stretch out on it for his back to give
him hell. A radiant crimson counterpane of imitation silk lay over it, and on
the counterpane an innocent-looking cellphone which he had been assured was
modified to the highest state of encryption and, though he was of little faith
in such matters, he could only suppose it was. Each time he passed it, his gaze
fixed on it with a mixture of reproach, longing and frustration.

I regret to inform you, Paul, that you will be totally incommunicado, save for
operational purposes, throughout your mission, the laborious South African voice
of Elliot, his self-designated field commander, is warning him. Should an
unfortunate crisis afflict your fine family during your absence they will pass
their concerns to your office's welfare department, whereupon contact with you
will be made. Do I make myself clear, Paul?

You do, Elliot, little by little you do.

Reaching the overlarge picture window at the further end of the room, he scowled
upward through the grimy net curtains at Gibraltar's legendary Rock which,
sallow, wrinkled and remote, scowled back at him like an angry dowager. Yet
again, out of habit and impatience, he examined his alien wristwatch and
compared it with the green numerals on the radio clock beside the bed. The watch
was of scratched steel with a black dial, a replacement for the gold Cartier
presented to him on their 25th by his beloved wife on the strength of an
inheritance from one of her many deceased aunts.

But hang on a minute! Paul hasn't got a bloody wife! Paul Anderson has no wife,
no daughter. Paul Anderson's a bloody hermit!

"Can't have you wearing that, Paul darling, can we now?" a motherly woman his
own age is saying to him a lifetime ago in the red-brick suburban villa near
Heathrow airport where she and her sisterly colleague are dressing him for the
part. "Not with those nice initials engraved on it, can we? You'd have to say
you'd nicked it off of somebody married, wouldn't you, Paul?"

Sharing the joke, determined as ever to be a good chap by his own lights, he
looks on while she writes Paul on an adhesive label and locks his gold watch
away in a cash box with his wedding ring for what she calls the duration.

***

How in God's name did I ever get to end up in this hellhole in the first place?
Did I jump or was I pushed? Or was it a bit of both?

Describe, please, in a few well-chosen circuits of the room, the precise
circumstances of your unlikely journey from blessed monotony to solitary
confinement on a British colonial rock.

***

"So how's your poor dear wife?" asks the not-quite-superannuated ice queen of
the Personnel Department, now grandly rechristened Human Resources for no reason
known to man, having summoned him without a word of explanation to her lofty
bower on a Friday evening when all good citizens are hurrying home. The two are
old adversaries. If they have anything at all in common, it is the feeling that
there are so few of them left.

"Thank you, Audrey, not poor at all, I am pleased to say," he replies, with the
determined levity he affects for such life-threatening encounters. "Dear but not
poor. She remains in full remission. And you? In the pink of health, I trust?"

"So she's leavable," Audrey suggests, ignoring this kindly inquiry.

"My hat no! In what sense?" - determinedly keeping up the jolly banter.

"In this sense: would four super-secret days abroad in a salubrious climate,
just possibly running to five, be of any interest to you?"

"They could be of considerable possible interest, thank you, Audrey, as it
happens. Our grown-up daughter is living with us at the moment, so the timing
could scarcely be better, given that she happens to be a medical doctor," he
can't resist adding in his pride, but Audrey remains unimpressed by his
daughter's accomplishment.

"I don't know what it's about and I don't have to," she says, answering a
question that he hasn't put to her. "There's a dynamic young junior minister
called Quinn upstairs whom you may have heard of. He'd like to see you
immediately. He's a new broom, in case word hasn't reached you in the far wastes
of Logistical Contingencies, recently acquired from Defence - hardly a
recommendation but there you are."

What on earth's she on about? Of course such news has reached him. He reads his
newspapers, doesn't he? He watches Newsnight. Fergus Quinn, MP, Fergie to the
world, is a Scottish brawler, a self-styled bête intellectuelle of the New
Labour stable. On television he is vocal, belligerent and alarming. Moreover, he
prides himself on being the people's scourge of Whitehall's bureaucracy - a
commendable virtue viewed from afar, but scarcely reassuring if you happen to be
a Whitehall bureaucrat.

"You mean now, this minute, Audrey?"

"That is what I understand him to mean by immediately."

The ministerial anteroom is empty, its staff long departed. The ministerial
mahogany door, solid as iron, stands ajar. Knock and wait? Or knock and push? He
does a little of both, hears: "Don't just stand there. Come on in, and close the
door behind you." He enters.

The dynamic young minister's bulk is squeezed into a midnight-blue dinner
jacket. He is poised with a cellphone to his ear before a marble fireplace
stuffed with red paper foil for flames. As on television, so in the flesh, he is
stocky and thick-necked with close-cropped ginger hair and quick, greedy eyes
set in a pugilist's face.

Behind him rises a twelve-foot portrait of an eighteenth-century Empire-builder
in tights. For a mischievous moment brought on by tension, the comparison
between the two such different men is irresistible. Though Quinn strenuously
purports to be a man of the people, both have the pout of privileged discontent.
Both have their body weight on one leg and the other knee cocked. Is the dynamic
young minister about to launch a punitive raid on the hated French? Will he, in
the name of New Labour, berate the folly of the howling mob? He does neither,
but with a gritty "Call you later, Brad" for his cellphone, stomps to the door,
locks it and swings round to appraise his visitor.

"They tell me you're a seasoned member of the Service, that right?" he says
accusingly, in his carefully nurtured Glaswegian accent, after a head-to-toe
inspection that seems to confirm his worst fears. "Cool head, whatever that
means. Twenty years of kicking around in foreign parts, according to Human
Resources. Soul of discretion, not easily rattled. That's quite a write-up. Not
that I necessarily believe what I'm told around here."

"They're very kind," he replies.

"And you're grounded. Confined to barracks. Out to grass. Your wife's health has
kept you back, is that correct, please?"

"But only as of the last few years, Minister" - less than grateful for out to
grass - "and for the moment I'm quite at liberty to travel, I'm happy to say."

"And your present job is -? Remind me, please."

He is about to do so, emphasising his many indispensable responsibilities, but
the minister impatiently cuts him short:

"All right. Here's my question. Have you had any direct experience of secret
intelligence work? You personally," he warns, as if there is another you who is
less personal.

"Direct in what sense would that be, Minister?"

"Cloak-and-dagger stuff, what d'you think?"

"Only as a consumer, alas. An occasional one. Of the product. Not of the means
of obtaining it, if that's your question, Minister."

"Not even when you were kicking around in those foreign parts that nobody has
had the grace to itemise for me?"

"Alas, one's overseas postings tended to be largely economic, commercial or
consular," he explains, resorting to the linguistic archaisms he affects
whenever he feels threatened. "Obviously, from time-to-time, one had access to
the odd secret report - none of it high level, I hasten to say. That, I'm
afraid, is the long and short of it."

But the minister appears momentarily encouraged by this lack of conspiratorial
experience, for a smile of something like complacency flits across his broad
features.

"But you're a safe pair of hands, right? Untried maybe, but safe, for all that."

"Well, one likes to think so" - diffidently.

"CT ever come your way?"

"I'm sorry?"

"Counter-terrorism, man! Has it come your way or not?" - spoken as to an idiot.

"I fear not, Minister."

"But you care? Yes?"

"About what exactly, Minister?" - as helpfully as he may.

"The well-being of our nation, for Christ's sake! The safety of our people,
wheresoever they may be. Our core values in times of adversity. All right, our
heritage, if you like" - using the word like an anti-Tory swipe. "You're not
some limp-wristed closet liberal harbouring secret thoughts about terrorists'
rights to blow the f------ world to pieces, for example."

"No, Minister, I think I may safely say I am not," he mumbles.

But the minister, far from sharing his embarrassment, compounds it:

"So then. If I were to tell you that the extremely delicate assignment I have in
mind for you involves depriving the terrorist enemy of the means to launch a
premeditated assault on our homeland, you would not immediately walk away, I
take it?"

"To the contrary. I should be - well -"

"You should be what?"

"Gratified. Privileged. Proud, in fact. But somewhat surprised, obviously."

"Surprised by what, pray?" - like a man insulted.

"Well, not mine to inquire, Minister, but why me? I'm sure the Office has its
fair share of people with the type of experience you're looking for."

Fergus Quinn, man of the people, swings away to the bay window and, with his
chin thrust aggressively forward over his evening tie, and the tie's fixing
awkwardly protruding from the cushions of flesh at the back of his neck,
contemplates the golden gravel of Horse Guards Parade in the evening sunlight.

"If I were further to tell you that for the remainder of your natural life you
will not by word or deed or any other means reveal the fact that a certain
counterterror operation was so much as considered, let alone executed" - casting
round indignantly for a way out of the verbal labyrinth he has talked himself
into - "does that turn you on or off?"

"Minister, if you consider me the right man, I shall be happy to accept the
assignment, whatever it may be. And you have my solemn assurance of permanent
and absolute discretion," he insists, colouring up a bit in his irritation at
having his loyalty hauled out and examined before his own eyes.

Shoulders hunched in the best Churchillian mode, Quinn remains framed at the bay
window, as if waiting impatiently for the photographers to finish their work.

"There are certain bridges that have to be negotiated," he announces severely to
his own reflection. "There's a certain green light that has to be given by some
fairly crucial people up and down the road there" - butting his bullish head in
the direction of Downing Street. "When we get it - if we do and not until -
you'll be informed. Thereafter, and for such time as I deem appropriate, you
will be my eyes and ears on the ground. No sweetening the pill, you understand?
None of your Foreign Office obfuscation or persiflage. Not on my watch, thank
you. You'll give it me straight, exactly the way you see it. The cool view,
through the eyes of the experienced hand which I am to believe you to be. Are
you hearing me?"

"Perfectly, Minister. I hear you and I understand exactly what you are saying" -
his own voice, speaking to him from a distant cloud.

"Have you got any Pauls in your family?"

"I'm sorry, Minister?"

"Jesus Christ! It's a simple enough question, isn't it? Is any man in your
family named Paul? Yes or no. Brother, father, what do I know?"

"None. Not a Paul in sight, I'm afraid."

"And no Paulines? The female version. Paulette, or whatever?"

"Definitely none."

"How about Anderson? No Andersons around at all? Maiden name, Anderson?"

"Again, not to my knowledge, Minister."

"And you're in reasonable nick. Physically. A stiff walk over rugged terrain
isn't going to cause you to go faint at the knees in the manner that certain
others around here might be afflicted?"

"I walk energetically. And I'm a keen gardener" - from the same distant cloud.

"Wait for a call from a man named Elliot. Elliot will be your first indication."

"And would Elliot be his surname or given name, I wonder?" he hears himself
inquire soothingly, as if of a maniac.

"How the f--- should I know? He's operating in total secrecy under the aegis of
an organisation best known as Ethical Outcomes. New boys on the block, and up
there with the best in the field, I'm assured on expert advice."

"Forgive me, Minister. What field would that be, exactly?"

"Private defence contractors. Where've you been? Name of the game these days.
War's gone corporate, in case you haven't noticed. Standing professional armies
are a bust. Top-heavy, under-equipped, one brigadier for every dozen boots on
the ground, and cost a mint. Try a couple of years at Defence if you don't
believe me."

"Oh I do, Minister" - startled by this wholesale dismissal of British arms, but
anxious to humour the man nonetheless.

"You're trying to flog your house. Right? Harrow or somewhere."

"Harrow is correct" - now past surprise - "North Harrow."

"Cash problems?"

"Oh no, far from it, I'm thankful to say!" he exclaims, grateful to be returned
if only momentarily to earth. "I have a little bit of my own, and my wife has
come into a modest inheritance which includes a country property. We plan to
sell our present house while the market holds, and live small until we make the
move."

"Elliot will say he wants to buy your house in Harrow. He won't say he's from
Ethical or anywhere else. He's seen the ads in the estate agent's window or
wherever, looked it over from the outside, likes it, but there are issues he
needs to discuss. He'll suggest a place and time to meet. You're to go along
with whatever he proposes. That's the way these people work. Any further
questions?"

Has he asked any?

"Meantime, you play totally normal man. Not a word to anyone. Not here in the
Office, not at home. Is that clearly understood?"

Not understood. Not from Adam. But a wholehearted, mystified "yes" to all of it,
and no very clear memory of how he got home that night, after a restorative
Friday-evening visit to his Pall Mall club.

A Delicate Truth, by John le Carré

320pp, Viking, t:£14.99 + £1.35 p&p (rrp £18.99)

Pre-order now from Telegraph Books (published on April 25)

John le Carré will be speaking to Phillipe Sands at the Hay Festival on May 31 (
hayfestival.org ).

Read part two of our exclusive extract from John le Carré's A Delicate Truth

Read part three of our exclusive extract from John le Carré's A Delicate Truth

Listen to an exclsuive extract from the audiobook of 'A Delicate Truth', read by
John le Carré

Follow Telegraph Books on Twitter

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     April 10, 2013 Wednesday 12:01 AM GMT

'Jewish terrorist' who carried out bomb attack is jailed for life

BYLINE: Times Staff

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 224 words


An Israeli settler nicknamed the "Jewish terrorist" who murdered two
Palestinians was given two life sentences yesterday.

Yaakov "Jack" Teitel, 40, who carried out a bomb attack on Zeev Sternhell, a
leftist Israeli professor, in 2008, was found guilty of killing a taxi driver
and a shepherd in 1997. He was also convicted of two separate murder attempts on
Israelis, illegal possession of weapons and incitement to violence.

Passing sentence and ordering Teitel to pay compensation of 100,000 shekels
(£32,000) to each victim's family, Judge Yoed Cohen said: "The day after
Holocaust Memorial Day, which marks the deaths of millions of Jews at the hands
of a racist, insane ideology, one man, a Jew, must remember that you should
never kill."

The Jerusalem District Court rejected a plea of insanity. In January Teitel, an
American-born father of four who settled in the West Bank, admitted sending a
parcel bomb to a Messianic Jewish family, injuring their 15-year-old son. In
2006 he planted a bomb with a note reading "Sodomites Out".

Ibrahim Balbisi, the father of Samir Akram Balbisi, the taxi driver who Teitel
murdered, said: "There is justice. It hurts my heart every day my son is not
with us. Day and night we cannot sleep, our thoughts always wander to Akram. I
am happy the sentence sends this killer to jail for the rest of his life."

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 11, 2013 Thursday

Pakistani editorial discusses various aspects of terror attacks on forces

LENGTH: 416 words


Text of editorial headlined "Attack on Rangers [paramilitary force]" published
by Pakistani newspaper The Express Tribune website on 6 April

It appears as if the recent spate of news reports warning of the growing Taleban
presence in Karachi is backed up by the facts. A remote-controlled bomb, which
detonated outside a Rangers office in Korangi killing four paramilitary troops
and injuring five others, is only the latest sign that the militants are making
inroads in Pakistan's largest city. Previously, the murder of social activist
Perween Rahman had also been blamed on the Taleban and there have been
increasingly frequent attacks in the city. It is believed that the Taleban are
lurking on the outskirts of the city, taking over areas in a piecemeal fashion
and establishing their domain. Before, there was a widespread belief that the
Taleban were sparing Karachi from destructive bomb blasts because they were
involved in the kidnapping trade in the city and didn't want to close off this
fundraising avenue by drawing attention to themselves. Even if that once was
true, it is clearly no longer the case.

The political parties in the city, meanwhile, seem too busy making scapegoats of
one another to unite against the Taleban threat. The MQM [Sindh-based party,
Muttahida Qaumi Movement] accuses the ANP [Awami National Party] of sheltering
militants while the ANP retorts by claiming the MQM is profiling all Pakhtuns as
militants. This battle is fought with both words and guns, allowing the Taleban
space to thrive. Karachi has become so awash in arms and the political parties
are so used to fighting violent turf battles that they have overlooked this new
emergent threat which doesn't distinguish between the MQM and the ANP or Muhajir
and Pakhtun.

An added worry is the strategic thinking behind recent Taleban attacks. The TTP
[Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan] has been trying to destabilize the state by going
after security forces. In Peshawar, the target was an FC commander, in Karachi
it is the Rangers. However, this must not be interpreted to mean that they are
sparing civilians. The Taleban have shown no hesitancy in killing civilians in
the past and even these attacks, carried out in the heart of urban areas, cause
civilian casualties and terrorise the entire population. We have long known that
the only solution to this problem is a comprehensive military defeat of the TTP.
All that is lacking is the will.

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 06 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            April 11, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Wife's Four Lions terror attack joke';
TRIAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 141 words


THE estranged wife of a terrorist who joked about a Jihad parody movie with him
knew he wanted to blow himself up like the bombers in the film, a court heard.

Salma Kabal, 23, is accused of knowing that her husband Ashik Ali, 27, and his
two accomplices were plotting a string of suicide attacks.

Kabal sent him a text about the Chris Morris satire Four Lions and she was
recorded discussing the attacks with him, a court heard.

When Ali said Ramadan might be his last, she replied "I understand", Woolwich
crown court heard.

Prosecutor Stuart Baker said: "She had information she should have told police
about in order to prevent acts of terrorism that she believed were going to take
place."

Kabal, of Birmingham, kept quiet because she wanted to be reunited with him, it
is alleged. She denies having information about terrorism. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            April 11, 2013 Thursday

Couple are terrorised by machete attackers in home

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 265 words


A COUPLE have spoken of their horror after being attacked by machete-wielding
masked robbers in front of their two children in their own home.

Three men smashed their way through the back door of the family home on Lands
End Road, Rhodes before demanding the couple's car keys.

When they refused to hand them over , they were violently attacked, leaving the
43-year-old man with a broken arm.

The raiders first grabbed the victim's partner before she pushed him off and
grabbed the children.

They then attacked the dad, throwing the machete at him before running off
empty-handed.

The dad, a joiner, said: There were two of them walking towards me, then I saw
them raise the sword. I was just stunned I didn't know at the time, but it has
broken my arm.

I ran into the cabin in the garden, shut the door and the handle fell off so
they couldn't get in it kind of saved me.

They smashed the cabin window there was glass flying everywhere, I got a
mouthful.

I stood guard at the back door in case they returned. It was unbelievable I've
lived in this house for 30 years, I grew up here. I've had to hide the car since
it happened because that's all they wanted.

His partner, 25, said: The children are petrified they don't want to come home.

The attack happened at around 8pm on Friday, March 29.

Detective Constable Charles Stewart said: This is an appalling attack on a
family in the sanctity of their own home.

These three men thought nothing of using extreme violence. It is vital we find
these dangerous men as soon as possible.

Call police on 0161 856 8608 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            April 11, 2013 Thursday

Couple are terrorised by machete attackers in home

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 265 words


A COUPLE have spoken of their horror after being attacked by machete-wielding
masked robbers in front of their two children in their own home.

Three men smashed their way through the back door of the family home on Lands
End Road, Rhodes before demanding the couple's car keys.

When they refused to hand them over , they were violently attacked, leaving the
43-year-old man with a broken arm.

The raiders first grabbed the victim's partner before she pushed him off and
grabbed the children.

They then attacked the dad, throwing the machete at him before running off
empty-handed.

The dad, a joiner, said: There were two of them walking towards me, then I saw
them raise the sword. I was just stunned I didn't know at the time, but it has
broken my arm.

I ran into the cabin in the garden, shut the door and the handle fell off so
they couldn't get in it kind of saved me.

They smashed the cabin window there was glass flying everywhere, I got a
mouthful.

I stood guard at the back door in case they returned. It was unbelievable I've
lived in this house for 30 years, I grew up here. I've had to hide the car since
it happened because that's all they wanted.

His partner, 25, said: The children are petrified they don't want to come home.

The attack happened at around 8pm on Friday, March 29.

Detective Constable Charles Stewart said: This is an appalling attack on a
family in the sanctity of their own home.

These three men thought nothing of using extreme violence. It is vital we find
these dangerous men as soon as possible.

Call police on 0161 856 8608 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               PR Newswire Europe

                      April 11, 2013 Thursday 5:48 AM EST

Cyber Attacks 'More Dangerous' Than International Terrorism

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: VADUZ, Liechtenstein, April 11, 2013


http://www.worldreview.info

The US Defence Department is set to invest more than US$3 billion in security to
boost its ability to counter cyber threats. America's national intelligence
director, James R. Clapper said such attacks are the 'most immediate threat to
the United States'.

Energy and security expert Dr Frank Umbach writes inWorld Reviewthat: "for the
first time, cyber attacks have been listed ahead of international terrorism in
the catalogue of dangers."

The US is highly dependent on information technology, and this has left it
extremely vulnerable to cyber attacks, he says.

Analysts believe that China poses the greatest threat to the US. "China is
suspected of hacking into the computer systems of the US information technology
company, Telvent, which monitors more than half the oil and gas pipelines, other
utilities and water treatment plants in North America," says Dr Umbach. And a US
congressional report named China as 'the most threatening actor in cyberspace'.

Cyber attacks and intrusions into critical energy infrastructures increased at
an alarming rate in 2012 - up 52 per cent more than 2011, according to a US
government report in January 2013.

Furthermore, between 20 and 30 states have the capability to launch cyber
warfare. "These include the USA, China and Russia, some smaller states and
numerous medium-sized powers, including Iran and North Korea," adds Dr Umbach.

However, many businesses believe that implementing measures to counter cyber
attacks would be too costly. "US Chamber of Commerce counts among the numerous
institutions that are lobbying against the imposition of measures by the US
government," says Dr Umbach.

But the US government says the first line of defence to avert catastrophic
attacks would be to force industry to build robust defences.

Click here to read the full World Review report.

About the Author

World Reviewauthor Dr Frank Umbach is a Senior Associate and Head of the
Programme "International Energy Security" at the Centre for European Security
Strategies (CESS) GmbH, Munich-Berlin and Associate Director of the European
Centre for Energy and Resource Security (EUCERS) at King's College, London. He
is also a consultant on international energy security and security policies as
well as the Asia-Pacific region.

Copyright

Please attribute any copyright to © 2013 Geopolitical Information Service, and
provide a hyperlink to thehttp://www.worldreview.infowebsite.

Contact information
Social Media
Click here to joinWorld Review on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter@worldreviewinfo

Social Media Editor
Sian Claire Owen
Email:owen@geopolitical-info.com
Tel: +44-(0)-7962-383019

General information about World Review and Geopolitical Information Service AG
Email:barich@geopolitical-info.com
Tel: +423-231-19-41
Headquarters: Herrengasse 21, 9490 Vaduz, Liechtenstein

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                   Copyright 2013 PR Newswire Europe Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                             April 12, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MUM SAVED FROM THUG;
Terror attack at home

BYLINE: GARY R STEWAR W T

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 273 words


A MASKED man who burst in on an innocent woman and bundled her to the floor was
caught by heroic neighbours who responded to her screams.

The 57-year-old mum was at her family home on Acacia Avenue, Huyton, when she
was attacked by a total stranger who came to her house.

Liverpool v Crowr n Court heardr she answerw edr a knock at the door a week
beforf er Christmas, only to be confronted r by a man with what lookedk like k a
balaclava,a but was actually a long hat, over v his face and socks on his hands.

Kim Egerton, prosecuting, said it was the defendant Raymond Bennett, 37, who
grabbed her by the face and covered her mouth befor f e pushing her back into
the room and onto the floor.

Landing on top of her, r he told her to lie down but she screamed to get off f
her,r alerting her grown-up daughter. r The daughter came downstairs and,
noticing two other men outside, ran to get help.

She came back with neighbours, who had been having a a gathering at their house,
who restrained Bennett, a dad-of-four f , r until the police arrivei d. He
pleaded guilty to attempted robbery but never gave a full f explanation for what
he was doing there or who the other men were.

Judge David a Aubrey, QC, said: "It was her family home of 33 years. She had a
lifetime of happy memories there.

"Not only did you destroy her Christmas, but you destroyed those happy memories.

"One simply just cannot imagine what she must havea felt like.

"After you manhandled her in her own home, having fallen on top of her, r you
were saying just lie down.

"She did not know what was going to happen next".

He jailed Bennett, of Saxby Road, Huyton, for fivei years.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MASKED ATTACKER: Raymond a Bennett

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2013 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 12, 2013 Friday 9:00 PM GMT

Mumbai terror attacks: the making of a monster;
The testimony of the only gunman captured alive after the Mumbai massacre in
2008 provided a unique insight into the mind of a terrorist. So what turned a
boy from a farming village into a cold-blooded killer?

BYLINE: By Barney Henderson

LENGTH: 4239 words


On the evening of November 26 2008 I was having a drink in one of Mumbai's
plethora of upmarket bars when I got a call from a journalist friend telling me
there had been a bomb at Chhatrapati Shivaji railway station.

I sprinted out of the bar, caught a cab downtown and was one of the first
reporters on the scene. It soon became clear the city was under attack. The Taj
Mahal Palace and Trident-Oberoi hotels and a Jewish centre had been occupied by
gunmen. A backpacker bar - which would have been the venue for our drinks had
one of the group not been delayed - had been sprayed with bullets.

I spent that night and much of the following three days camped out at the
various target sites as not only reporters but also police, the military and
politicians tried to grasp what was happening. It was one of the most
intricately planned terrorist attacks of recent years, which took New Delhi to
the brink of war with Pakistan, and has become known as India's 9/11. The attack
had a significant impact on counter-terrorism strategies around the world, with
security services put on high alert to the risk of 'Mumbai-style' incursions on
soft targets.

After a 59-hour siege ended with the shooting dead of the last terrorists holed
up in Nariman House Jewish centre, the country was united in shock and grief.
Ten young men had sailed from Pakistan armed with AK-47 assault rifles and
carrying backpacks full of ammunition and attacked the city's landmark sites
with apparent ease, eventually killing 166 people, including 22 foreigners. The
figurehead for the country's collective hatred over 26/11, as it came to be
called, was Ajmal Amir Kasab, the lone surviving gunman.

Kasab was 21 when he strolled into the railway station carrying an AK-47 and
indiscriminately shot at men, women and children. Grenades blew up those queuing
for tickets in the snaking lines. Fifty-two people were killed and dozens more
were injured as the vast ticket hall of the city's busiest and most historic
station - formerly called Victoria Terminus and inspired by St Pancras in London
- was ruthlessly turned into a slaughterhouse.

Kasab, nicknamed the Butcher of Bombay (kasab means butcher in Urdu), was hanged
last November, almost four years after the attack. His execution was welcomed by
relations of the victims, the Indian authorities and the wider population as a
chance to draw a line under the terror. Yet when I returned to Mumbai last year
to conduct research for an MA in terrorism at King's College London, it was
clear that many questions remained about the life of Kasab. What had propelled
him from a farming village in rural Pakistan via military-style boot camps run
by the Islamic terrorist organisation Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and on to murder in
Mumbai?

Kasab grew up in Faridkot, a small village in Pakistan's Punjab. Consisting of a
central dusty square bordered by tea stalls and food huts, the village is
surrounded by cultivated rice fields. Kasab's father, Amir Shahban, came from a
family of butchers, but after becoming estranged from his parents he ended up in
Faridkot hawking fried snacks in the square. The Kasabs were not cripplingly
poor, but when Shahban's health began to deteriorate after he contracted
tuberculosis, he took Ajmal Amir, then 11, out of school and sent him to work
the family's handcart.

Friends from Faridkot recalled a cheeky but not malevolent young boy who enjoyed
karate and watching Bollywood films. 'He was very active, always jumping around.
He loved watching films,' Haji Mohammad Aslam, a neighbour, said. 'He would stay
out until midnight watching TV in shops and street restaurants. But there was
not evil in him, we can't believe he would do this.'

Kasab didn't want to become his father - he wanted to be something special. As
he got older he became bored with his life selling fried snacks and sitting
around the square's tea stalls with the other village men at dusk while the
women prepared dinner. He began to fight regularly with his parents, usually
over money. In 2005 Shahban decided to let his son move to Lahore to look for
work, in the hope that he would send cash back to the family. His mother, Noor,
said she would arrange a marriage for him, although Kasab was not keen to settle
down.

Bewitched by the metropolis, he fell in with a group of street youths. Along
with his new best friend, Muzaffar Lal, Kasab wandered from one temporary job to
the next - washing plates in a restaurant, running errands for a guest house -
but as the months drifted by, he realised his future was looking bleak. 'I was
working hard, I was just not being paid well for my work,' Kasab said in his
written plea presented at his trial in July 2009, a copy of which was given to
me while in Mumbai. Kasab and Muzaffar turned to petty crime, then burglary. But
their hopes that crime would lift them to a better life were dashed after two
unsuccessful break-ins and a failed attempt to buy a £30 colonial-era pistol.

They moved on to the city of Rawalpindi and, before long, were back working in
the sweltering kitchen of a grimy backstreet restaurant, bereft of money, ideas
and hope. Then, in December 2007, a chance encounter with a bearded Muslim
preacher late one night at a market stall was to set Kasab and Muzaffar on to
the path of jihad.

The man who recruited them was apparently called Shabaan Mustaq, a volunteer in
the education arm of Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), the political face of LeT, whose aim
is to 'liberate' Kashmir from India. Kasab spoke of his struggles to find work
and his family's need for money. Mustaq invited them to join the Jamaat,
promising it would transform their lives. As they parted Kasab asked, 'And will
they show us how to use guns?' The man smiled and nodded.

Dr Christine Fair, a terrorism expert from Georgetown University in Washington,
DC, who has studied the recruitment of young men into terrorist organisations,
describes the appeal of LeT to young Pakistani potential recruits as its having
the 'Rambo factor - even more of the "wow" factor than al-Qaeda'.

Mujahideen fighters for Lashkar-e-Taiba, which means Army of the Pure, are
lionised by Islamic extremists across Pakistan. It is one of the most feared
groups fighting for control of Kashmir, and has launched multiple strikes
against India, including the 2001 attack on the Indian parliament in New Delhi.
Since the beginning of the conflict with India over control of Kashmir after the
hasty break-up of the Raj in the aftermath of the Second World War, Pakistan has
relied on militant organisations to carry out attacks across the border.

LeT was founded in 1986 - with state support - to kill Indians in Kashmir. But
after Pakistan joined America in its 'War on Terror' following the 9/11 attacks,
LeT was added to a list of banned organisations by President Pervez Musharraf in
2002 under pressure from Washington. LeT acted quickly to establish JuD as a
front organisation to serve as its public face, and it continued to operate much
as it had before the ban, with offices in most Pakistani cities and support from
members of the army. The chance to become a fearless soldier fighting for his
country certainly appealed to Kasab, and so began his journey into the world of
Islamic extremism and training to become a Mujahideen, prepared to lay down his
life for Allah.

Three days after their meeting with Mustaq, Kasab and Muzaffar reported to the
JuD offices in Rawalpindi, and within days were enrolled in their first
three-week course in Muridke, in the north east of Pakistan. Kasab spent the
next 10 months in intensive preparation for the Mumbai attacks, which had
already been carefully planned by LeT's leaders. He travelled the country,
spending weeks at a time at various JuD and LeT bases - some public and some
very secret - returning to his home village only once during that time. The
training began with Islamic teachings and a build-up of anti-India propaganda,
instilling the belief in the recruits that their neighbours were hated infidels.

Kasab and Muzaffar were moved around together to different camps, but never with
the same group of recruits. They experienced a standard of food, lodgings and
respect they could previously only have dreamt of. 'We were given the best food
and the best clothes,' Kasab recalled in his first interrogation by Mumbai
police after his arrest. 'Chacha ['Uncle' - Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, a founding
member of LeT and the chief planner of the Mumbai attacks] said we could have
anything in the world we wanted before setting out for Mumbai.'

Religious indoctrination was constant. Prayer sessions started at 4am and
continued throughout the day, interspersed with physical training, religious and
political lectures, food and rest. One night, according to his testimony, Kasab
and Muzaffar were told to get into a truck, which travelled in a convoy of
vehicles to rural Kahori in the south east of the country. They were introduced
to the camp's commander, named only as Major General Sahib [Sir], who was
reportedly still a commissioned officer in the Pakistan army, to begin 21 days
of advanced physical and combat training.

In February 2008 Kasab returned to Faridkot, but it was a short and unhappy
homecoming. His mother implored him to stay and marry a girl from the village.
According to a family friend, Kasab showed a few of the village boys his
newfound wrestling skills and then asked his mother to bless him, saying he was
going for jihad. Kasab's parents, when interviewed the week after the attack by
Pakistan's Dawn newspaper, denied that they knew he had joined a Mujahideen
organisation. Kasab had originally told the police in Mumbai that his father had
made him join LeT.

After a few hours at home, Kasab boarded a bus that would take him to his next
camp and the start of his final preparation for jihad. Kasab had been singled
out by LeT - he was completely committed to the cause, physically very fit and
trained in commando techniques. It was not long before he was presented to
Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi.

Kasab had not held strong Islamic beliefs before he was recruited - a Mumbai
policeman told me that in the months after his arrest he could not recite a
single passage from the Koran. His understanding of jihad was flawed and
simplistic. 'It [jihad] is about killing and getting killed and becoming
famous,' Kasab said at his first interrogation.

His handlers had filled him with hate by the promise of living out his military
fantasies, being seen as a real man in the eyes of his fellow villagers, and
providing 'riches' for his family. 'Chacha told me it's a very honourable and
daring job,' Kasab said. 'You earn respect, it's the work of God. We were told
that our big brother India is so rich and we are dying of poverty and hunger. My
father sells dahi wada in a stall and we did not even get enough food to eat
from his earnings. I was promised that once they knew that I was successful in
my operation, they would give 150,000 rupees [£1,000] to my family... Come, kill
and die after a killing spree. By this, one will become famous and will also
make Allah proud.'

Hundreds of young men and women are recruited to jihad organisations every year,
in Pakistan and the world's other terrorism hotspots such as Afghanistan, Yemen,
Syria, Indonesia - not to mention in Western Europe and the US. In Pakistan many
are radicalised at unregulated madrassas - Islamic schools described by the
American writer Jeffrey Goldberg as 'jihad factories'.

The July 7 2005 London bombers allegedly spent time in a Pakistani madrassa.
Recent reports, including one by Stanford and New York universities' law schools
last year, have suggested that the US drone programme, which has killed hundreds
of civilians in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border regions, has facilitated
recruitment to extremist groups and motivated violent attacks.

Seventy-four per cent of Pakistanis now consider the US to be the enemy, the
report found. Groups such as LeT also gain footholds in communities by investing
in charity projects; after the 2005 Kashmir earthquake, JuD relief workers
reacted more quickly and successfully than the government. The assertion that
poverty causes terrorism has been widely held by Western governments,
particularly the Bush administration, which invested billions of dollars in
development programmes in Pakistan in the hope of stopping the recruitment of
terrorists. But as the case of Kasab highlights, there is never a single reason
why teenagers and young men become radicalised.

LeT has shown a willingness to recruit both well-educated graduates for
high-level operations (working undercover in India, for example), and low-level
suicide attackers. Last year the group recruited two teenage boys, aged 12 and
13, to throw grenades at a police post in Sopore, in India's Jammu and Kashmir
state, in return for 1,000 rupees (£6.50).

'Lashkar recruited for the Mumbai mission as rational users of labour, in
exactly the same way as McDonald's,' Dr Fair says. 'There is a market for
terrorists, of both high quality and low quality. In Kasab's case he was
certainly an aberration from the other Lashkar recruits we have studied in the
sense that he was only educated to 4th standard [age 10], whereas the average
had 10th standard [age 16] education and above. It was clear that he had a low
aptitude and was recruited to be sent to India, go to a specific target and
start killing people. He was then expected to die. It's entirely possible that
poverty played a role in his recruitment, but it isn't always that simple. Men
are snatched up by these groups, often with messages about the US or India,
brainwashed and then dispatched. We know that, from the time he was recruited,
he was never left alone.'

Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi himself drilled in the final nails of propaganda the night
before sending his team by boat from Karachi to Mumbai and what he thought would
be their certain deaths. 'Your names will be etched in gold and every Pakistani
will praise you,' he assured them.

Kasab had excelled at target shooting and so he along with his partner Abu
Ismail, a 25-year-old recruited from Pakistan's lawless North West Frontier
Province, had been selected for the most devastating mission of the attack. The
other four teams of two had been briefed to attack the two five-star hotels, the
Jewish centre and the backpackers' bar, killing foreigners and taking hostages
in an extended siege. Kasab and Abu Ismail were told 'to unleash hell' inside
the packed Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST).

When they arrived at the station, seconds before he opened fire, Kasab was
relaxed enough to walk calmly into the busy station lavatory and urinate. The
two positioned themselves and nodded to each other, and then the sound of
semi-automatic rifles began to resonate through the ticket hall. Many inside the
station thought the noise was fireworks set off to celebrate India's victory
over England in a cricket match that evening.

Some of the policemen on duty did try to stop Kasab and Abu Ismail, but their
wooden-framed, bolt-action rifles jammed and their lathi cane sticks were
splintered by the AK-47 bullets. Some just fled. Kasab realised they would not
meet any serious opposition inside the station, later recalling with disdain the
'simple weapons' of the police on duty. The Mumbai police were completely
outmanoeuvred and outgunned. Kasab and Ismail killed 52 people in the station,
seriously wounding another 104. An investigation by the FBI after the attack
showed that most of the victims were hit in the head and chest - an indication
of the terrorists' high level training and skill as marksmen.

Kasab and Ismail then went on to attack a nearby hospital, killing seven. They
managed to flee without being apprehended - despite the station and hospital
being yards from the Mumbai police headquarters. They then delivered one of the
most significant blows of the night by shooting dead three of the Mumbai
police's most senior and respected officers, after hiding in bushes and opening
fire on the officers' vehicle. They were finally stopped three hours after the
start of the attack, at a roadblock as they attempted to escape north into the
Mumbai suburbs in a hijacked car. Ismail was shot dead at the scene. Kasab was
shot (but not fatally) and captured by a police constable.

In his first interrogation in hospital, Kasab confidently batted away questions,
spinning the police officer half-truths but revealing that they had been sent by
Pakistan's LeT. Despite the gravity of what he had just done Kasab mostly came
across as relaxed and composed. In the early hours of the next morning, with the
hotels and the Jewish centre still under siege, Rakesh Maria, the head of the
state's anti-terrorism squad, visited him. Kasab was made to sit on the floor,
then Maria said, 'There is no point in hiding things. We know how to wrench the
truth out of you.'

Over the next four hours, Kasab began to give Maria precise details about the
attack and his Pakistani handlers, which the police chief was then able to pass
on to the army commandos trying to end the ongoing siege. Maria told Kasab that
he had already interviewed other members of the team and 'knew everything' about
Kasab's life and entry into LeT, but wanted to hear it 'from Kasab's mouth'.

'I don't care for your pain. You look in my eyes and tell me how many of you
have landed in Mumbai...I don't like lies, Kasab,' he said. Eventually Kasab
told Maria the names of the nine other terrorists. He spoke about his life in
Lahore, how he had left school aged 11 and worked as a labourer. He explained
that the various training camps comprised about 25 young men, but, aside from
Muzaffar, he was not allowed to socialise with them. 'We were not allowed to
know each other,' he said.

Kasab explained to Maria how at his penultimate camp in Kashmir, the recruits
were taught how to handle explosives, rocket launchers and mortars. The group
was whittled down to 16 young men, but three escaped.

'We, the remaining 13, were then sent to a training camp at Muridke. Here we
were trained to operate GPS instruments and to navigate boats in the sea. We
were conditioned to sail on the high seas for long.' The final 10 were 'shifted
to a LeT safehouse at Azizabad in Karachi in the second week of September. Here
we were told to carry out the Mumbai operation. The operation was initially
planned for September 27 but then got delayed, the reasons for which I do not
know [LeT had found out the Indian authorities were expecting an attack from
Pakistan]. Initially we knew each other only by our code names. But soon we told
each other our real names, though we were not supposed to. But we bonded well
and shared many personal details.'

In his instructions for the CST attack, Kasab said that he and Ismail had been
instructed to 'kill until the last breath', to 'keep shooting as long as you
could until you die'. Unlike the other four teams, who were instructed to target
white Westerners, Kasab and Ismail were told simply to kill anyone in their
path.

Kasab's disclosures subsequently helped with the arrest of several other Lashkar
operatives, such as David Headley, the American who, in January, was sentenced
to serve 35 years' imprisonment in Chicago. Dr Fair points out that it was
incredibly inconvenient for LeT that Kasab was apprehended and then revealed
details of the group - which has never claimed responsibility for the attack -
and about the attack itself. 'The LeT modus operandi is that you either escape
so you can be recycled, or you get killed. You're certainly not supposed to get
caught. Kasab got caught, and he squealed like a pig. He ultimately failed in
that sense.'

Maria, who was in charge of operations from the Mumbai police control room on
the night of the attacks, was subsequently appointed chief investigator of the
26/11 case. In the six weeks after the attack Maria interviewed Kasab several
times. He told me that he was able to 'break' Kasab using the 'good cop/bad cop'
technique. 'People ask, how could he break down as he is a trained terrorist,
but we are trained interrogators,' he said. 'You have to be a little angry, a
little soft with him. Within 24 hours we were able to break him and get the
details.'

Offering a unique insight into Kasab's possible motivation, Maria told me that
Kasab was 'totally indoctrinated' - but not by religion. 'He felt what he was
doing was right. He felt like he was in a war-like situation and he was a
soldier entering another country. He was intelligent. He was unemployed and had
no status in his village. These people [LeT handlers] very cleverly exploited
the feeling of being an unknown identity to all of a sudden being somebody
important. Prior to the training he was being rebuked by his parents for having
no job. He was being rebuked by the elders for being unemployed and for being a
nobody in the village. His friends and others did not give him any importance.
He went for training and he comes back as a LeT man, a jihadi. Now that earlier
image gives way. His parents treat him with respect. There is some sort of
sanctity with the social acceptability.'

Kasab told Maria that he had met Hafiz Saeed, the head of LeT, at a training
camp. 'He said we would die waging jihad, our faces would glow like the moon.
Our bodies would emanate scent. And we would go to paradise.' A month after the
attacks, Maria took Kasab to a Mumbai morgue. The nine bodies of his fellow
terrorists lay decomposing, covered in flies. The stench was overpowering and
Kasab stared at the ground, tears rolling down his face. 'He kept saying that
"my handlers always told me that this life is not important, the next life is
very important and you will see that when you die for the cause there is a glow
on your face and there is scent emanating from your body when you die in the
cause of jihad". The bodies were charred because they had been burnt in the
gunfights. There was a stink, so I asked him, "Where is the glow?"

'When he saw his compatriots, lying like that, with bullet holes, charred
bodies, it came as a shock. I wouldn't say that he was showing remorse at that
point. I think the only sadness was that he finally realised that he was taken
for a ride.'

Kasab spent the next four years in isolation in a specially made bullet- and
bomb-proof cell. One of his jailors has described how, as the nights rolled by,
he began sobbing 'like a baby' and calling out for his mother. His only time out
of the cell came during his trial in April 2009, where he mainly sat day after
day in silence, sometimes smiling shyly at the female journalists covering the
case. He was found guilty of all 86 charges including murder, conspiracy, and
waging war against India.

Devika Rotawan, who identified Kasab in court, was 11 years old when she went to
CST to catch a late train. 'I was going to Pune with my father and brother.
Suddenly, armed men opened fire and, as I was trying to escape it, one bullet
hit my stomach. I fell unconscious. Kasab was laughing as he fired aimlessly at
us,' she said. The public prosecutor in the case, Ujjwal Nikam, is clear in his
conviction that Kasab was 'pure evil'. 'He was very intelligent, very sharp,'
Nikam explained. 'He was fully knowing of what he'd done. The photograph of him
killing people at CST - Kasab was enjoying that, taking pleasure. He was
laughing. It is clear that he had no repentance or remorse.'

Kasab's three state-appointed lawyers saw him differently. One of them, Abbas
Kazmi, told me that Kasab realised the enormity of what he had done and that
'emotionally, he was like any normal human being'. 'It is far-fetched what has
been reported through the prosecution - that this person was crafty and
remorseless. If you see a young man aged 20, 21, and the places where they come
from, a lot of poverty, no academic background and no one to support them - such
people could easily fall prey to brainwashing.'

Kasab was sentenced to death in March 2010. When, after a series of appeals, his
sentence was upheld for the final time by the supreme court at the end of August
last year, Kasab, then 25, reportedly pleaded with another of his lawyers, Raju
Rama­chandran, in desperation to 'please help me get out of jail'. But in the
days leading up to his hanging, his jailors said that the crying at night
stopped and Kasab fell silent and calm. He was asked if he wanted to speak to
his family, but replied 'No' - though he did request that his mother, Noor, be
informed of his death. Kasab was hanged at twilight on the morning of November
21 2012 in the grounds of Yerwada prison in the neighbouring city of Pune. Given
the codename Operation X, the execution was shrouded in such secrecy that even
the prime minister did not know it was happening.

Kasab, the killer with the child's smile who gave terror a face and name, had no
last request, but his final words were recorded as: 'Allah ki kasam, dobara aisi
galti nahin karunga [I swear by God, I will not commit such a mistake ever
again].' He was buried in the prison grounds. Nobody representing his family or
Pakistani authorities was witness or claimed the body.

The Kasab family disappeared the week after the attack and have not been seen or
heard from since. In Faridkot life continues as normal. On the side of a
building on the road out of the village is daubed in large red Urdu lettering,
go for jihad!

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                             April 15, 2013 Monday

Three dead and more than 100 injured as suspected terror attack hits Boston
Marathon

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS (BOLTON NEWS)

LENGTH: 378 words


THREE people were killed and more than 140 injured as two blasts brought death
and destruction to the finishing line of the Boston Marathon.

Horrifying images of injured spectators and blood-splattered pavements were
caught as television cameras broadcast footage of the explosions.

Participants were also seen lying on the ground as the impact tore through the
finish line, sending smoke and debris soaring into the air.

The FBI said it was leading a "potential terrorism investigation" by the city's
joint terrorism taskforce into the twin explosions.

But reports of a suspect being held at a city hospital were dismissed by Ed
Davis, Boston's Police Commissioner, who told a press conference that no suspect
had been arrested.

In a televised address, US President Barack Obama said those responsible will
feel the "full weight of justice".

Speaking from the White House, he paid tribute to those who helped wounded
runners and spectators, saying: "The American people will say a prayer for
Boston tonight, and Michelle and I send our deepest thoughts and prayers to the
families of the victims in the wake of this senseless loss.

We don't yet have all the answers but we do know that multiple people have been
wounded, some gravely, in explosions at the Boston Marathon."

Mr Obama added: "We still do not know who did this, or why. And people shouldn't
jump to conclusions before we have all the facts. But, make no mistake, we will
get to the bottom of this, and we will find out who did this, we will find out
why they did this.

Any responsible individuals, any responsible groups, will feel the full weight
of justice."

Mr Davis said there had been two "simultaneous explosions" near the finish line
of the 26.2-mile event around four hours into the race.

He told a press conference that "at least three people" were dead but that exact
figures on the number injured would be released later. Hospitals reported at
least 144 injured, at least 17 of them critically.

Sources said an eight-year-old boy was among those killed, while his mother and
sister were injured.

"This cowardly act will not be taken within stride, we will turn every rock over
to find the people responsible for this," Mr Davis said.

* Do you know anyone who was in Boston? Contact the newsdesk on 01204 537270.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             April 15, 2013 Monday

Mali: UN reaffirms support for African military force after deadly terrorist
attack

LENGTH: 436 words


April 13, 2013

The United Nations today reaffirmed its determination to back the African-led
International Support Mission in Mali (AFISMA) after a terrorist suicide bombing
killed three Chadian members of the force, which is helping national efforts to
recover the northern Sahara region of the trouble-wracked country from
insurgents.



At the same time UN humanitarian officials warned that the food situation in the
north of the West African country is alarming, while an international
humanitarian aid appeal is grossly underfunded.

"The United Nations condemns the bomb attack which has also injured several
members of the same contingent serving under the AFISMA Force," the UN Office in
Mali (UNOM) said in a statement on the attack, which occurred in Kidal, in the
far north-east of the country.

"These terrorist acts, however, shall not undermine the United Nations'
determination to support AFISMA in its effort to restore peace and territorial
integrity in Mali," it added, expressing its deep sorrow at the deaths.

In his most recent report on the situation in Mali last week, Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon proposed two options for UN engagement in the country, where renewed
fighting since January 2012 has uprooted hundreds of thousands of people and
prompted the Government to request assistance from France to stop the military
advance of extremist groups.

Under the first option, a UN multidimensional integrated political presence
would operate alongside AFISMA, which the Security Council authorized in
December, at the request of the Government, to support national efforts to
recover the north from the insurgents.

The second option involves the establishment of a UN multidimensional integrated
stabilization mission under Chapter VII, which authorizes the use of force,
alongside a parallel force. In addition to a political mandate, the mission
would carry out security-related stabilization tasks, protect civilians and
create the conditions for the provision of humanitarian assistance.

Also today, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA )
said the Central Emergency Response Fund ( CERF ) has allocated $ 16 million
over the past few weeks to kick-start life-saving humanitarian projects in Mali.


It noted that Mali is at the beginning of the lean season and the food situation
in the northern regions of Timbuktu, Gao and Kidal is alarming.

The Consolidated Humanitarian Appeal for Mali has only received about a quarter
of the $ 410 million requested. The CERF's allocations are therefore critical
stop-gap measures pending more substantial funding for the appeal.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 15, 2013 Monday 11:54 PM GMT

Obama insists federal government 'will get to the bottom of' Boston Marathon
bombings, but declines to call attacks an act of terrorism

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 706 words


At the end of a long Monday afternoon that began with a jubilant photo-op with
the BCS champion Alabama Crimson Tide football team, a somber President Barack
Obama addressed reporters about the bombings that claimed at least two lives --
including that of an eight-year-old child -- and injured more than 110 near the
finish line of the Boston Marathon.

But it was what he didn't say that may provoke the most discussion: Unlike media
outlets including CNN, Fox News and others, Obama didn't utter the 'T' word.

He ignored a reporter's question, shouted after he concluded his prepared
remarks,  about whether the attacks were 'an act of terrorism.'

'We still do not know who did this or why, and people shouldn't jump to
conclusions before we have all the facts,' he said during his speech.

The New York Post has reported that a Saudi man is in custody in a Boston
hospital in connection with the bombings.

Obama's reticence to refer to attacks on American soil as 'terrorist' activities
was brought into sharp focus during his 2012 re-election campaign, when
Republican challenger Mitt Romney chastised him during a debate for refusing to
call the Sept. 11, 2012 attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya an act
of terror.

Obama, and backed by debate moderator and CNN chief political correspondent
Candy Crowley, insisted that he had in fact called the attack a terrorist act in
a speech during the day following the Benghazi assault.

CBS News correspondent Steve Kroft, however, had interviewed the president on
the day he gave that speech and asked him why he 'went out of your way to avoid
the use of the word terrorism in connection with the Libya attack.'

Obama responded that it was 'too early to know exactly how this came about [or]
what group was involved.'

CBS kept the interview out of public view until the night before Election Day,
long after the debate confrontation had cemented in many Americans' minds the
idea that Obama never expressed reluctance to declare that 'terrorists' attacked
Americans in Benghazi.

A source inside the Department of Justice told MailOnline that investigators
were considering the possibility that the bombings could be tied to the 1993
government siege on messianic cult leader David Koresh's compound in Waco,
Texas, and the 1995 bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma
City.

Like Monday's Boston Marathon, both events coincided with Patriots' Day, an
annual observance marking the anniversary of the Revolutionary War's first
battles.

Obama noted the coincidence, calling it 'a day that draws the world to Boston's
streets in the spirit of friendly competition.'

But the same DOJ source later said investigators were focused more on examining
potential links with unspecified 'foreign nationals.'

'The American people will say a prayer for Boston tonight. And Michelle and I
send our deepest thoughts and prayers to the families of the victims in the wake
of this senseless loss,' Obama said, while assuring the media and millions of
watching Americans that 'the full weight' of the U.S. justice system would be
brought to bear.

'Make no mistake: We will get to the bottom of this,' Obama said. 'And we will
find out who did this. We'll find out why they did this.'

'Any responsible individuals, any responsible groups, will feel the full weight
of justice.'

The president described conversation he had with members of Congress of both
major political parties, saying he and lawmakers had 'reaffirmed that on days
like this there are nor Republicans and Democrats. We are Americans.'

White House pool reports said FBI Director Robert Mueller and Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano briefed the president on 'the active investigation
and response' to what some media outlets are calling a terror attack.

Those briefings included information about how federal authorities are
coordinating with state and local officials.

A White House photo showed Obama receiving those briefings via telephone,
accompanied by Lisa Monaco, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and
Counterterrorism, and Chief of Staff Denis McDonough.

Obama said from the briefing room podium that he directed Mueller and Napolitano
to 'increase security around the United States as necessary.'

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 15, 2013 Monday 11:35 PM GMT

Obama insists federal government 'will get to the bottom of' Boston Marathon
bombings, but declines to call attacks an act of terrorism

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 497 words


At the end of a long Monday afternoon that began with a jubilant photo-op with
the BCS champion Alabama Crimson Tide football team, a somber President Barack
Obama addressed reporters about the bombings that claimed at least two lives --
including that of an eight-year-old child -- and injured more than 100 near the
finish line of the Boston Marathon.

But it was what he didn't say that may provoke the most discussion: Unlike media
outlets including CNN, Fox News and others, Obama didn't use the 'T' word.

He ignored a reporter's question, shouted after he concluded his prepared
remarks,  about whether the attacks were 'an act of terrorism.'

'We still do not know who did this or why, and people shouldn't jump to
conclusions before we have all the facts,' he said during his speech.

The New York Post has reported that a Saudi man is in custody in a Boston
hospital in connection with the bombings.

A source inside the Department of Justice told MailOnline that investigators
were considering the possibility that the bombings could be tied to the 1993
government siege on messianic cult leader David Koresh's compound in Waco,
Texas, and the 1995 bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma
City.

Like Monday's Boston Marathon, both events coincided with Patriots' Day, an
annual observance marking the anniversary of the Revolutionary War's first
battles.

Obama noted the coincidence, calling it 'a day that draws the world to Boston's
streets in the spirit of friendly competition.'

But the same DOJ source later said investigators were focused more on examining
potential links with unspecified 'foreign nationals.'

'The American people will say a prayer for Boston tonight and Michelle and I
send our prayers to the families of the victims in the wake of this senseless
loss,' Obama said, while assuring the media and millions of watching Americans
that 'the full weight' of the U.S. justice system would be brought to bear.

'Make no mistake: We will get to the bottom of this,' Obama said. 'We will find
out who did this, and why they did this.'

The president described conversation he hjad with members of Congress of both
major political parties, saying he and lawmakers had 'reaffirmed that on days
like this there are nor Republicans and Democrats. We are Americans.'

White House pool reports said FBI Director Robert Mueller and Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano briefed the president on 'the active investigation
and response' to what some media outlets are calling a terror attack.

Those briefings included information about how federal authorities are
coordinating with state and local officials.

A White House photo showed Obama receiving those briefings via telephone,
accompanied by Lisa Monaco, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and
Counterterrorism, and Chief of Staff Denis McDonough.

Obama said from the briefing room podium that he directed Mueller and Napolitano
to 'increase security around the United States as necessary.'

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             April 15, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

19 killed as militants launch terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 82 words


AT LEAST 16 people were killed yesterday after militants wearing suicide vests
attacked a court complex. All nine al-Shabab terrorists died during the two-hour
gun battle at the Somalian supreme court in Mogadishu, along with seven
civilians, some of whom had been held hostage. Later in the day, a suicide car
bomber killed himself and the Turkish occupants of a car he rammed. President
Hassan Sheikh Mohamud said Somalia's bid for peace would not be stalled by 'a
few desperate terrorists'.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTRscot


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Mondaq Business Briefing

                             April 15, 2013 Monday

Australia: 9/11 Terrorist Attacks on the World Trade Center - One Event Or Two?
Issues for the reinsurance market

BYLINE: Andrew Symons and Victoria Pool

LENGTH: 809 words


The UK High Court decision on 8 February 2013 in AIOI Nissay Dowa Insurance
Company Limited v Heraldglen Limited and Advent Capital (No 3) Ltd [2013] EWHC
154 removed any uncertainty in the reinsurance market by upholding an
arbitration tribunal's decision that the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001
on the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center (WTC) amounted to two "events" for
the purposes of aggregation under a whole account catastrophe XL reinsurance
wording.

The underlying losses principally arose from settlements for property
damage/personal injuries claims made by the liability insurers of American
Airlines (for flight AA11, which crashed into the North Tower), United (for
flight UA175, which crashed into the South Tower) and the two security companies
responsible for screening passengers on each flight. The issue was whether the
losses arising from each act of hijack of the aircraft were one or two events
under the reinsured's outwards XL reinsurances.

The case was reinsurer AIOI's appeal from an arbitration award dated 26 January
2012 made by a tribunal consisting of Ian Hunter QC, David Peachey and Richard
Outhwaite. AIOI contended that its liability under the outward XL reinsurances
was on a one-event basis, whereas Heraldglen had presented its claims to AIOI as
two separate occurrences arising out of two separate events. The outward XL
reinsurance contracts were subject to London Standard Wording 351, which
provided that "each and every loss" is "each and every loss or accident or
occurrence or series thereof arising from one event".

The tribunal had decided that the losses arising were caused by two separate
occurrences arising out of separate events. The High Court upheld this finding
on the basis that the tribunal had (i) correctly applied the law; (ii) had
regard to all materially relevant matters; and (iii) did not take into account
impermissible considerations.

In reaching this conclusion, the tribunal had evaluated the "four unities" test
set out in the Dawson's Field arbitration and adopted by Rix J in Kuwait Airways
Corporation v Kuwait Insurance Co:


     ·    The circumstances and purposes of the persons responsible


     ·    Cause


     ·    Timing


     ·    Location.


In relation to each of these:


     ·    The tribunal acknowledged that the hijackings were the result of a
          coordinated plot paid for by Al Qaeda, but observed that it was clear
          from the authorities that a conspiracy or plan cannot of itself
          constitute an occurrence or an event for the purposes of clauses in
          reinsurance contracts that refer to each and every loss, occurrence or
          event.


     ·    The tribunal was not satisfied that there was any basis, at least in
          the context of analysing unity of cause, for concluding that there was
          any factor amounting to an event of sufficient causative relevance to
          override the conclusion that two separate hijackings caused separate
          loss and damage. There were two separate causes because there were two
          successful hijackings of two separate aircraft.


     ·    The tribunal considered that there were clearly similarities in the
          timing of the events from the commencement of the flights to contact
          with the North and South Towers, but these were not such as to lead to
          the conclusion that there was either one occurrence or two occurrences
          arising out of one event. So far as timings were concerned, there were
          two occurrences and two events: infliction of personal injury and
          death started in the case of each aircraft shortly after they were
          hijacked and continued until at least the collapse of each of the
          North and South Towers, a period of 134 minutes in the case of Flight
          11, and 72 to 76 minutes in the case of Flight 175.


     ·    The tribunal held that each tower was a separate building, albeit
          connected by a single mall. They did not stand or fall together. If
          only one of the hijackings had succeeded, only one tower would have
          been destroyed. The fact that both towers were destroyed was
          attributable to the fact that there were two successful hijackings
          directed at separate buildings forming part of the WTC.


The decision will be welcomed as it confirms the view taken by the majority of
the market and removes any uncertainty as to the number of events.

© DLA Piper

This publication is intended as a general overview and discussion of the
subjects dealt with. It is not intended to be, and should not used as, a
substitute for taking legal advice in any specific situation. DLA Piper
Australia will accept no responsibility for any actions taken or not taken on
the basis of this publication.

DLA Piper Australia is part of DLA Piper, a global law firm, operating through
various separate and distinct legal entities. For further information, please
refer to www.dlapiper.com


 Mr Andrew Symons
 DLA Piper Australia
 140 William Street
 Melbourne
 Victoria 3000
 AUSTRALIA
 Tel: 39274 5000
 Fax: 39274 5111
E-mail: australia@dlapiper.com
 URL: www.dlapiper.com/australia/

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                           Copyright 2013 Mondaq Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       April 15, 2013 Monday 5:06 PM GMT

Terrorist group 'planned attack on TA base'

BYLINE: Sean O&#8217;Neill, Crime and Security Editor

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 769 words


A terrorist cell plotted to attack a Territorial Army base with a home-made bomb
attached to a remote controlled toy car, a court heard today.

The group, which was in contact with al-Qaeda operatives in Pakistan, raised
thousands of pounds for jihadi groups, travelled overseas for training, tried to
recruit and indoctrinate others and discussed a series of attack plans in
Britain.

Top of their hitlist was the idea of making an improvised explosive device from
instructions in the al-Qaeda magazine Inspire and using it in an attack on a TA
base in Luton, Bedfordshire.

Woolwich Crown Court in south London heard that four men had pleaded guilty to
engaging in conduct in preparation for acts of terrorism.

The men, who all lived with their families in Luton, are Zahid Iqbal, 31,
Mohammed Sharfraz Ahmed, 25, Umar Arshad, 24 and Syed Farhan Hussain, 21.

They sat side by side in the dock, often appearing to smile and joke with each
other, as Max Hill, QC, outlined the case against them.

The basis of their pleas included facilitating and engaging in overseas travel
for jihad training; collecting money to finance terrorism; taking part in
physical training to prepare for jihad; discussing attack plans and possessing
and distributing extremist material.

Mr Hill said they had been the subject of a long-running intelligence and
surveillance operation by MI5 and the Metropolitan Police. Their cars were
fitted with eavesdropping devices which picked up many incriminating
conversations including discussion of travel to Pakistan, efforts to buy a gun
and planning to build a bomb.

Iqbal had organised a trip to Pakistan by Ahmed in March 2011 which lasted just
six days because of language difficulties and the problems of increasing US
drone attacks on al-Qaeda camps.

Ahmed was involved in recruiting and radicalising others for jihad, including
Hussain and Arshad.

The group was in regular contact with someone in Pakistan who appeared to have
extremist connections but the link was lost in Spring 2011.

Mr Hill said: "Because of this and also through inspiration from the radical
dogma and practical information disseminated through a series of magazines
called 'Inspire', to which all four defendants had access, Iqbal and Ahmed began
to focus on attack planning in the UK.

"They discussed making an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) following
instructions from an Inspire magazine which they planned to adapt. They also
identified a target for such an attack, namely a Territorial Army base in their
locality, although they also discussed targeting multiple sites at one time."

In April 2011 Ahmed and Iqbal were recorded discussing bomb making as they drove
to Argos in their bugged car.

They talked of how their focus had shifted from travelling abroad for jihad to
carrying out an attack in Britain.

An extract of a recording played to the court revealed one saying: "I know I can
make that thing... but I think, I was thinking to change it a little bit but
will have to test it out and stuff.

"We can try it with something like very small first time do you get me... Cause
you don't want to be expecting something huge and something little goes
off...and you can adjust it and stuff... I can choose the exact moment and then
not only that, eh to attach it to like a remote control car cause I saw that as
well.

"I was looking and drove past like the TA centre, Marsh Road. At the bottom of
their gate there's quite a big gap. If you had a little toy car it drives
underneath one of their vehicles or something."

Members of the group embarked on jihad training in Britain - identifying
Snowdonia as the best location for long hikes, camping and physical exercise
because the landscape closely resembled that of mountainous regions of Pakistan.

They talked of building their strength and expertise to mount attacks in
Britain.

In one recorded conversation, one defendant was heard saying: "This next year or
two we just really get solid. Seriously solid technique style, stamina and
three, four of us, we just jump in a broken down car. We just hire a car and put
fake plates on and just go round, get MI5 get this guy get that guy. They won't
know what's hit them."

Members of the group were also heard talking about buying a firearm and carrying
out an "inside job". They were told they would be able to get hold of a "decent"
weapon for £1,500-£2,500. They also proved very capable at raising money and
when their homes were searched in September 2011, some £16,000 in cash was
recovered which is believed to have been intended to buy guns or bomb materials
or for distribution to jihadi groups.

The hearing continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 16, 2013 Tuesday

EU's Ashton condemns 14 April terrorist attack in Somali capital

LENGTH: 128 words


Text of report by privately-owned Somali Shabeelle Media Network website on 16
April

The High Representative of the European Union for foreign affairs and
Vice-President of European Commission, Catherine Ashton has condemned the 14
April attack in Mogadishu, a press conference by her spokesperson has
stated."The EU condemns the Sunday [14 April] attack in Mogadishu that killed so
many innocent civilians. We are sending our condolences to families who lost
their loved ones in the attack," the statement said.

The European Commission said it believes such attack will not deter the country
from moving forward.

The EU further said it stands by Somalia and is committed to helping the Somali
government.

Source: Shabeelle Media Network website, Mogadishu, in Somali 16 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 16, 2013 Tuesday

Uganda police ready to thwart any terror attack - official

LENGTH: 509 words


Text of report by Andrew Ssenyonga entitled "'Police ready to counter any terror
strike'" published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New Vision
website on 16 April

"We are in a position to thwart any attack, like the 11 July 2010 terror
strike," the director human resource management under the police force, Charles
Birungi said on Monday [15 April].

"We are also in the process of continuously keeping ourselves prepared for any
terror strike."

He made it clear that attacks in the future will have to be countered by using
technology and highly-trained men.

Birungi made the remarks during the opening of the post blast counter terrorism
investigators and fix training course for the Eastern Africa Police Chiefs
Cooperation Organisation (EAPCCO) member states at Sports View Hotel Kireka,
Wakiso District [central Uganda].

"Police have invested intensively in training of staff with the necessary
tactics to counter the terrorists. We have acquired the equipment that will make
our work easier and the sensitization of the public about terror strikes," he
said.

He also mentioned that the police today have the capacity, manpower and
firepower.

Terrorism has continued to prove a serious challenge on the global spectrum,
inspiring nations to come out strongly against it.

The twin bomb attack in Kampala three years ago have always been the closest
reference to Uganda's defence against similar potential attacks.

And so through the police and other security organs, the government has since
instituted tighter security measures to ensure that no more lives are lost in
such fashion.

About 80 people died in the Kyadondo and Kabalagala blasts, and scores others
left with life-time physical and psychological scars.

"The government has given us sufficient funds whenever we have asked for it. We
have strengthened our (police) force in every aspect," Birungi said on Monday.

"World-class weapons have been bought and the best trainers in the world have
worked with our men."

But all this while, he did not ignore the fact the technology is a two-way tool
- both for terrorism and for counter-terrorism.

"The enemy too also depends on technology. They can plan any attack with the
help of technology. We need to have a 360-degree view to plan and foresee. If
terrorists modify their attack, we too would need to change immediately."

Still, he maintained his confidence in police's level of preparedness for any
kind of terror attack.

The three-week training course has attracted participants from 11 member states
that include Burundi, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Kenya, Rwanda, Seychelles,
Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda.

Participants in the training will be equipped with skills and knowledge to carry
out post bomb blast investigations.

"Take this opportunity to acquire as much as you can in terms of practical and
theoretical knowledge from these experienced trainers, which will help our
EAPCCO member states in curbing this (terror) threat," Birungi told those set to
take part.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 16 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 16, 2013 Tuesday

Kazakh president sends condolences to Obama over terror attack

LENGTH: 146 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 16 April: Today Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev sent a condolence
message to US President Barack Obama over a terrorist attack in Boston city.

The message said that the head of state had been deeply grieving by the sad news
of numerous casualties in the terrorist attack, the Kazakh president's press
service reported.

[Passage omitted: President Nazarbayev condemns all types of terrorism and
extremism which pose a threat to the security in the world]

"At this difficult moment, on behalf of the people of Kazakhstan and on my own
behalf, I express deep and sincere condolences to the families and relatives of
the deceased, to the whole American nation, and wish all the injured a speedy
recovery," the message says.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 1037 gmt 16 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      April 16, 2013 Tuesday 04:40 PM GMT

Obama: FBI treating 'cowardly' bombings as terrorist attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 638 words


US President Barack Obama has said they do not know who carried out the Boston
marathon bombings or why.

Three people, including an eight-year-old boy, were killed when two devices
exploded close to the finish line of the race.

More than 170 others were injured, a number of them critically.

President Obama said the FBI is treating it as a terrorist attack but it is not
clear who was behind it.

"This was a heinous and cowardly act," he said. "The FBI is now investigating
this as an act of terrorism."

But he added: "The American people refused to be terrorised. What the world saw
yesterday in the aftermath of the explosions were stories of heroism and
kindness and generosity and love."

"They did some severe damage, we do not know who did them.

"We do not know whether this is an act of an organisation or an individual or
individuals.

"We don't have a sense of motive yet, so everything else at this point is
speculation."

The investigation into the Boston marathon bombings is in full swing with a
police raid on a private home and an appeal for any video, audio or still images
of the blasts.

The president promised: "We will find out who did this. We'll find out why they
did this. Any responsible individuals, any responsible groups, will feel the
full weight of justice."

"We still don't know who did this or why," he said, adding: "Make no mistake: We
will get to the bottom of this."

With scant official information to guide them, members of Congress said there
was little or no doubt it was an act of terrorism.

"We just don't know whether it's foreign or domestic," said Republican Michael
McCaul, chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security.

Richard DesLauriers, FBI agent in charge in Boston, said that investigators had
received "voluminous tips" and were interviewing witnesses and were analysing
the crime scene.

"We will go to the ends of the Earth to identify the subject or subjects who are
responsible for this despicable crime, and we will do everything we can to bring
them to justice," he said.

One European security official said initial evidence indicates that the attacks
were not the work of suicide bombers.

"So far, investigators believe it was not the work of suicide bombers, but it is
still too early to rule it out completely," said the official, who did not want
to be named.

The Pakistani Taliban, which has threatened attacks in the United States because
of its support for the Pakistani government, denied any role in the marathon
bombings.

Defence Secretary Chuck Hagel called the bombing a "cruel act of terror." He
said that any event with explosive devices is clearly an act of terror and he
promised that a thorough investigation will determine whether the perpetrators
were foreign or domestic. The Pentagon chief vowed that those responsible will
be brought to justice.

Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick said no unexploded bombs were found at the
marathon site. He said the only explosives were the ones that went off.

Police searched an apartment in the Boston suburb of Revere. Investigators were
seen leaving carrying brown paper bags, plastic trash bags and a duffel bag.

Police refused to give any specifics on the bombs and say, for example, where
they might have been hidden or whether they were packed with shrapnel for
maximum carnage, as is often the case in terror bombings overseas.

The bombings occurred about four hours into the race and two hours after the
men's winner crossed the finish line. By that point, more than 17,000 of the
athletes had finished the marathon, but thousands more were still running.

The attack may have been timed for maximum carnage: The four-hour mark is
typically a crowded time near the finish line because of the slow-but-steady
recreational runners completing the race and because of all the friends and
relatives clustered around to cheer them on.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2013 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      April 16, 2013 Tuesday 11:39 AM GMT

When terrorism strikes sport - previous attacks on sporting events

SECTION: DELETED STORY

LENGTH: 2 words


DELETED_STORY

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2013 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             April 16, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

JAM ALL THE PHONES;
TERROR AT THE MARATHON ; Worst attack in US since 9/11 ; Obama orders a total
lockdown

BYLINE: ANDY LINES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 543 words


POLICE jammed mobile phone lines across Boston city centre yesterday to prevent
any further bombs being detonated remotely - after the US was rocked by its
worst terror attack since 9/11.

The country went into lockdown and President Barack Obama, who was in the White
House at the time, ordered "whatever assistance is necessary" to be given across
the States.

A 3.5-mile no-fly zone was put in place over the blast area, the subway service
in the city was suspended and security in New York City was immediately stepped
up as officials feared more explosions could hit the Big Apple.

Extra police units were also despatched to Ground Zero. Landmarks across
Manhattan - including prominent hotels - were being watched closely and Paul
Browne, deputy commissioner of the NYPD revealed police were re-deploying
counterterrorism vehicles in the area.

New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg said: "As law enforcement authorities
investigate today's explosions in Boston, I ask all New Yorkers to keep the
victims and their families in your thoughts and prayers." He went on: "I have
spoken with Police Commissioner Ray Kelly and the NYPD has stepped up security
at strategic locations and critical infrastructure including our subways."

Police in the capital Washington DC also ordered extra security around landmarks
the White House, Congress and the Pentagon.

There was a massive sense of shock across the nation as television channels
interrupted their usual coverage to show the horrific images coming out of
Boston.

The White House issued a short statement saying the administration had been in
contact with state and local authorities.

Vice-President Joe Biden was on a conference call with gun control activists
when his staffers turned on televisions in his office to view coverage of the
horrific explosions. He later released a statement saying: "Our prayers are with
those people in Boston who have suffered injuries. I don't know how many there
are."

Metro Transit Police officials said officers there were being held on duty until
further notice as the emergency was assessed and that they would provide
additional patrols through the evening rush hour. The Prudential Centre - a huge
mall in Boston - was also evacuated.

Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick, who was at the marathon finish line hours
before the explosion, was back at the State House working with his staff in the
aftermath of the atrocity.

He released a statement saying: "This is a horrific day in Boston. My thoughts
and prayers are with those who have been injured. I have been in touch with the
President, Mayor Menino and our public safety leaders. Our focus is on making
sure that the area around Copley Square is safe and secured. I am asking
everyone to stay away from Copley Square and let the first responders do their
jobs."

Meanwhile, security for Sunday's London Marathon looks sure to be stepped up
following the Boston bombs. Metropolitan Police Chief Supt Julia Pendry, event
commander for the event, said: "A security plan is in place for the London
Marathon.

We will be reviewing our security arrangements in partnership with London
Marathon." Marathon chief executive, Nick Bitel, expressed shock. He said: "It
is a very sad day for athletics and for our friends in marathon running."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DOOMED Runners are cheered at start line before terror attack
TEARS J Distraught woman is comforted
GUNS DRAWN J Cops react following blast
PAIN J Injured boy is helped by cop
CARNAGE Emergency crews tend stricken runners and spectators at finish line
TRAUMA Victim hurt during blasts
SHOCKED 3 Obama yesterday
AGONY 3 Injured man is wheeled away yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             April 16, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;

TERROR ATTACK AT MARATHON;
Two dead, 100 injured on finish line

BYLINE: ANTHONY WALTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 529 words


A TWIN terror attack brought a bloodbath to the Boston marathon finishing line
yesterday.

Two explosions killed at least two people and left at least 100 with horrific
injuries. Some had limbs blown off.

There were fears the death toll could rise sharply with up to a dozen gravely
hurt.

President Barack Obama was being kept informed as the bomb attack drama unfolded
- six days before the London Marathon.

No terror organisation, or political group, had claimed responsibility late last
night.

Boston was immediately put under lockdown amid reports of unexploded devices
nearby.

Runner Mike Mitchell of Vancouver, Canada, said: "People began running and
screaming after hearing the noise. Everybody freaked out."

Bystander Cherie Falgoust said: "Just a big bomb, a loud boom, and then glass
everywhere. Something hit my head. I don't know what it was."

Local TV reporter Jackie Bruno tweeted: "I saw people's legs blown off." Other
onlookers gasped: "Oh my God, they're dead!" The carnage came four hours and
nine minutes into the famous race, which had 23,000 competitors, 350 of them
Brits.

America's oldest and most prestigious marathon is held on the Patriots' Day
public holiday.

Professional athletes had finished fun-runners were crossing the line as the
horror happened.

Crowds packing the pavements appeared to have taken the brunt of the force of
the explosions.

Suspect Amid confused early reports, the blasts appeared to have come from a bin
and from inside a sports shop. The bombs seem to have been packed with
ballbearings to cause maximum injury. The two locations were either side of the
finishing line about 100 yards apart. There was just seconds between them.

Video footage showed one blast ripping into crowds of onlookers.

Other pictures depicted another device exploding in a fireball and clouds of
belching smoke.

TV helicopter footage showed blood staining the pavement in the popular shopping
and tourist area known as the Back Bay.

The marathon had begun with 26 seconds of silence to mark December's school
shooting victims in Newtown, Connecticut. And the race's 26-mile marker was
decorated with Newtown's seal and dedicated to the memory of those who perished
there.

Obama went on TV last night to vow: "We will find out who did this and we will
hold them accountable. They will feel the full weight of justice."

The explosions struck six days before Sunday's London Marathon and event
commander Ch Super Julia Pendry said: "We will be reviewing our security."

London Marathon chief executive Nick Bitel said: "We are deeply saddened and
shocked. We were in contact with the Met Police as soon as we heard the news."

Last night an injured man in his 20s was reportedly under police guard in a
Boston hospital. Police denied they had any suspect in custody.

Brit runners in the race last night told of their shock - and relief that they
had escaped injury. TV sports presenter Abi Grif-fiths, 34, said: "All of a
sudden there was chaos. It was very, very scary."

Darren Foy, 40, from Southampton, there with his wife and two children, said:
"It's shocking."

Jez Hughes, a fireman from Morley, west Yorks, said: "Its very, very upsetting."

tony.walton@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DISTRAUGHT: A runner weeps
Pictures: AP PHOTO / RAZZ

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             April 16, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TERROR ATTACK AT MARATHON;
Two dead, 23 injured on finish line

BYLINE: ANTHONY WALTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 529 words


A TWIN terror attack caused a bloodbath at the Boston marathon finishing line
yesterday.

Two explosions killed at least two people and left at least 23 with horrific
injuries. Some had limbs blown off.

Blood-spattered spectators and runners wept as they fled. President Barack Obama
was being kept informed as the bomb attack drama unfolded - six days before the
London Marathon.

No terror organisation - or political organisation - had claimed responsibility.

Boston was immediately put under lockdown amid reports a number of unexploded
devices were discovered nearby.

Runner Mike Mitchell of Vancouver, Canada, had crossed the line when he saw an
orange flash.

He said: "People began running and screaming after hearing the noise. Everybody
freaked out."

Bystander Cherie Falgoust was waiting for her husband to finish the race. She
said: "I don't know what this building is... it blew.

"Just a big bomb, a loud boom, and then glass everywhere. Something hit my head.
I don't know what it was."

Other onlookers gasped: "Oh my God, they're dead!" The carnage came four hours
and nine minutes into the famous race, which had 25,000 competitors, hundreds of
them Brits. America's oldest and most prestigious marathon is held on the
Patriots Day public holiday.

Professional athletes had finished and it was fun-runners crossing the line as
it happened.

Security

Crowds packing the pavements appeared to have taken the brunt of the force of
the explosions.

Amid confused early reports, the blasts appeared to have come from a rubbish bin
and from inside a sports shop.

The two locations were either side of the finishing line about 100 yards apart.
There was just seconds between them.

Video footage showed one blast ripping into crowds of onlookers.

Other pictures showed another device exploding in a fireball and clouds of
belching smoke.

TV helicopter footage showed blood staining the pavement in the popular shopping
and tourist area known as the Back Bay.

A third explosion at the city's JFK Library was being probed.

The marathon began with 26 seconds of silence to mark December's school shooting
victims in Newtown, Connecticut. And the race's 26-mile marker was decorated
with Newtown's seal and dedicated to the memory of those who perished there.

White House officials said Obama had been notified. One said: "His
administration is in contact with state and local authorities.

He ordered whatever assistance is necessary in the investigation and response."

Vice President Joe Biden interrupted talks about proposals to tighten gun laws
to say: "Our prayers are with those people in Boston who have suffered injury."

The twin explosions struck six days before Sunday's London Marathon and event
commander Ch Super Julia Pendry said: "We will be reviewing our security
arrangements in partnership with London Marathon."

And London Marathon chief executive Nick Bitel said: "We are deeply saddened and
shocked by the news from Boston.

"Our immediate thoughts are with the people there and their families. It is a
very sad day for athletics and for our friends and colleagues in marathon
running.

"We were in contact with the Met Police as soon as we heard the news."

tony.walton@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR: Rescuers aid bloodied man
PANIC: Emergency services tend to the injured at the Boston marathon finish line

Pictures: AP PHOTO / RAZZ

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:27 PM GMT

Editorial: Boston is a grim reminder of forces that can't be eradicated;
The pursuit of the person or persons responsible for this atrocity will take
some time. Encouragingly, and in contrast to earlier terrorist attacks, no one
is jumping to conclusions

BYLINE: Independent Voices

SECTION: VOICES

LENGTH: 575 words


Perhaps the biggest surprise of the horrific bombings that disfigured the Boston
Marathon is that they have been so long in coming. Since 9/11, America has been
witness to several individual rampages that have been more murderous, most
recently of course December's school shootings in Connecticut. But Monday's
carnage was the first act of terrorism, as normally defined, in the US in a
dozen years.

Not that there have been no attempts. Some - like those of the "shoe bomber"
Richard Reid and "underwear bomber" Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab - failed because
the explosive devices did not work properly. Others were nipped in the bud by
the authorities, or thwarted by alert citizens. But the absence, until this
week, of a deadly strike is testament to the reinforced security measures in
force since the September 2001 attacks. However onerous and tiresome, they have
essentially succeeded in keeping the country safe.

As the FBI made clear yesterday, the pursuit of the person or persons
responsible for the Boston atrocity may take some time. Encouragingly, and in
contrast to some earlier terrorist incidents, no one is jumping to any
conclusion other than the obvious one - that the two bombs were a deliberate act
of terrorism. If they are linked to radical Islam, they will raise once more the
spectre of homegrown terrorists; for these days it is far harder for a foreign
cell to set up in the US than was the case with the 19 hijackers involved in the
9/11 attacks.

However, it is equally possible the plot was the work of far-right domestic
terrorists. Boston's insurrectionary traditions date back to the Tea Party in
1773, and in the twisted ideology of today's so-called "patriot" groups, united
by a rabid hatred of government, no time of year is more symbolic than
mid-April.

Monday's deadline for filing 2012 tax returns is emblematic, for
ultra-libertarians, of the state's encroachment on individual freedom. This week
also marks two especially bloody anniversaries: of the FBI attack, 20 years ago,
on the Branch Davidian headquarters outside Waco in Texas, and of the Oklahoma
City bombing two years later.

The number of identified patriot groups has never been higher, and the prospect
of gun control legislation - considered yet another assault on basic civil
liberty - could provide an extra motive. As the hunt begins for the perpetrators
of the Boston atrocity, we should remember that in 1995 it was instantly,
near-universally assumed that Islamic extremists were responsible for the
Oklahoma bomb - until an obscure anti-government fanatic named Timothy McVeigh
was stopped by a state trooper for driving without a number plate.

Whether home- or foreign-made however, the Boston attack has one novel and
disturbing aspect. Major sporting events, where large numbers of people gather
in a restricted space, are an obvious target for terrorists. And few are more
vulnerable than the finish of a big city marathon - a celebratory moment for
thousands of runners and their families.

It is important not to overreact, however. In the aftermath of 9/11, Americans
feared that such incidents would be common and that terrorist violence would
become a regular feature of daily life. Instead it was heightened security
precautions that became part of life. The sad fact is that in Boston, London and
every major city, although terrorism can be contained, it cannot - without an
unacceptable surrender of freedom - be eradicated entirely.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      April 16, 2013 Tuesday 12:58 PM GMT

Right-wing terror attack most likely to blame for Boston outrage, says
counter-terrorism expert

BYLINE: Jamie Grierson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 324 words


The fatal explosions in Boston have hints of a right-wing terrorist attack
rather than al-Qa'ida-inspired extremism, according to one of the world's
leading experts on counter-terrorism.

Richard Barrett, the former United Nations co-ordinator for the al-Qai'da and
Taliban monitoring team, said it was too early to say who was to blame for the
marathon blasts.

But Mr Barrett, who has served with MI5, MI6 and the Foreign Office, said the
timing of the attack on Patriots' Day and the relatively small size of the
devices suggested the work of a domestic extremist..

His comments came after US supercop Bill Bratton, a former head of Boston police
who is now based in London, warned there are "no shortage of potential suspects"
behind the explosions.

Mr Barrett, who is now senior director at the Qatar International Academy for
Security Studies (QIASS), said: "At the moment it looks more likely that it was
a right-wing terrorist incident, rather than an al Qaida attack because of the
size of the devices."

He added: "This happened on Patriots' Day, it is also the day Americans are
supposed to have their taxes in, and Boston is quite a symbolic city. These are
all little indicators."

Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis said authorities had received "no
specific intelligence that anything was going to happen" at the race.

A few miles away from the finish line and around the same time, a fire broke out
at the John F. Kennedy Library. The police commissioner said that it may have
been caused by an incendiary device but that it was not clear whether it was
related to the bombings

PA

For more on this story see:

Eight-year-old reported among three dead after twin explosions strike Boston
Marathon

Boston marathon explosions: eyewitness reports

US will hold whoever carried out Boston explosions accountable, says President
Obama

Video: The Boston explosions as they happened

A symbol of the terror: 78-year-old runner's image shows second blast

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 16, 2013 Tuesday 8:26 PM GMT

Republican Steve King and Democrat Barney Frank rush to politicize Boston
Marathon terror attacks with tax and immigration demands

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 839 words



     ·    Right-winger wants to ice Senate talk of citizenship pathway for
          illegal immigrants, citing Saudi student now ruled out as a bombing
          suspect
     ·    Liberal former congressman urges opposition to tax cuts and shrinking
          government, citing 'very expensive' responses in Boston
     ·    Asked if he was 'making political hay of this event,' Barney Frank
          replied, 'Yes! Exactly! I'm talking common sense!'


Barney Frank, an ultra-liberal former Massachusetts Democratic Congressman, and
Rep. Steve King, a right-wing flamethrower from Iowa, were the first two
national figures to politicize Monday's Boston massacre.

King said in an interview with the conservative  National Review magazine that
the Senate's immigration reform bill should stop dead in its tracks, reacting to
early reports that a Saudi suspect in the U.S. on a student visa had been
detained for questioning.

Frank said Tuesday on MSNBC, as reported by  Mediaite, that the bombing attacks
at the Boston Marathon showed that Republicans' calls for tax cuts could hinder
the federal government's responses to terror attacks and other tragedies that
local governments aren't equipped to handle on their own.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

In his first statement Monday after the bombings that killed three people and
wounded at least 173, President Barack Obama said partisan rancor should be left
behind as Americans came to grips with the horror and the carnage.

'I've updated leaders of Congress in both parties,' Obama said, 'and we
reaffirmed that on days like this there are no Republicans or Democrats -- we
are Americans, united in concern for our fellow citizens.'

But the 73-year-old Frank, no longer a member of Congress since his retirement
in January, never got the memo.

'Part of the answer' to the question of how to make Bostonians feel safe again,
he said, 'is, and I have to repeat this: Maybe we'll resist this [idea of] "Oh,
let's have less government. Let's reduce the resources."'

'No, let's continue to build up security,' Frank argued. "And then, by the way,
as a practical matter this is very expensive for the city of Boston.... I hope
that we will be able to find some revenue so that Boston doesn't have to pay for
this absolutely necessary expenditure.'

MSNBC anchor Thomas Roberts challenged Frank, asking him, 'Do you feel like
you're capitalizing and making political hay of this event that happened... that
you're making a political argument about revenue right now?'

'Yes! Exactly! I'm talking common sense!' Frank responded.

'I'm saying that if the sequester had gone through,' Frank continued, 'and we
had not had enough money, we couldn't be able to do this. Yeah, I'm making an
argument about reality, and that's the only responsible response.'

Frank added that he hoped some people - referring to those on the political
right - would be 'less enthusiastic about reducing our ability to respond to a
crisis like this.'

Also on Tuesday, Frank told CNN anchor John Berman that Americans should be
'grateful that we had a well-funded, functioning government.'

'It is very fashionable in America, and has been for some time, to criticize
government, belittle public employees, talk about their pensions, talk about
what people think is their excessive health care. Here we saw government...
perform very well..

'You know,' he added, 'I never was, as a member of Congress, one of the
cheerleaders for less government, lower taxes.'

'No tax cut would have helped us deal with this, or will help us recover. This
is very expensive.'

On the other side of the political aisle, ideological worlds away, Steve King
told National Review that Congress shouldn't rush immigration reform legislation
because the government doesn't yet know if foreign national weer involved in the
Boston bombings.

'Some of the speculation that has come out is that yes, it was a foreign
national and, speculating here, that it was potentially a person on a student
visa,' King said.

'If that's the case, then we need to take a look at the big picture.'

A Saudi student was initially reported to be a detained suspect, but authorities
subsequently ruled him out, noting that a Boston bystander had tackled him to
the ground for merely acting 'suspiciously.'

King favors the border security portion of legislation reportedly finalized
Monday by the so-called 'Gang Of Eight' in the U.S. Senate. But a plan to
provide illegal immigrants with a path to citizenship, he said, should be
delayed at a minimum.

'We need to be ever vigilant,' he told reporter Robert Costa. 'We need to go far
deeper into our border crossings.... If we can't background-check people that
are coming from Saudi Arabia, how do we think we are going to background check
the 11 to 20 million people that are here from who knows where?'

Senate leaders will introduce their bill on April 19, after Boston attacks
forced the postponement of an event originally scheduled for April 16.

King leads a group of Republicans who have said they will try to block
Senate-originated immigration legislation in the House.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 16, 2013 Tuesday 3:20 PM GMT

Nation on high alert following deadly Boston 'terrorist attack': Cities on edge
as New York, D.C., and London place police at landmarks

BYLINE: BETH STEBNER and ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1107 words



     ·    NYPD has 'stepped up security' at hotels and other landmark locations
          like Empire State Building and Times Square
     ·    The White House increased security around the perimeter
     ·    Air travel into Boston was temporarily stopped but has since resumed
     ·    Increased security at two nuclear power plants near Boston


Cities across the nation are on high alert following the deadly explosions that
rocked Boston yesterday afternoon.

From New York to Washington, San Diego, and Los Angeles, additional law
enforcement officials were dispatched to monitor landmarks. Police also urged
the public via social media to report any suspicious packages or activity to
authorities.

Across the pond, the already-robust security for the funeral of former prime
minister Margaret Thatcher was also intensified in the shadow of the deadly
attacks Monday.

According to  myfoxboston.com, an American Airlines flight flying out of Boston
to Chicago was diverted this morning after a passenger reported two men speaking
Arabic to one another.

Sources tell the site that there were several marathon runners on the flight who
showed concern that the two people, who were not sitting together, were speaking
the language.

The plane was sent back to the gate and the men were escorted off the plane.

Much of Boston is operational today, with students returning to classes, shops
open for business, and city's mass transit system, the MBTA, is also running.
But, according to the  Boston Globe, bags will be searched.

The area near Copley Square remains closed today, including a three-mile area of
Boylston Street where the explosions occurred.

Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick said at a press conference Monday that the area
remains 'locked down' today. 'I think, in most cases, people are not going to
have access to that area.' This includes those who work and live near the
explosion site.

In New York, authorities deployed so-called critical response teams- highly
visible patrol units that move in packs with lights and sirens, - along with
more than 1,000 counterterrorism officers.

Highly trafficked areas like the Empire State building, Rockefeller Center, St.
Patrick's Cathedral, the United Nations and the World Trade Center site were
being especially monitored.

Mayor Michael Bloomberg said the police department was fully prepared to protect
the city.

'Some of the security steps we are taking may be noticeable,' Bloomberg said.
'And others will not be.'

'We're stepping up security at hotels and other prominent locations in the city
through deployment of the NYPD's critical response vehicles (CRVs) until more
about the explosion is learned,' NYPD spokesman Paul Browne said yesterday.

In Washington, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano urged the
American public 'to be vigilant and to listen to directions from state and local
officials.'

At the White House, the Secret Service expanded its security perimeter after the
attacks, shutting down Pennsylvania Avenue and cordoning off the area with
yellow police tape. Several Secret Service patrol cars blocked off entry points,
although the White House was not on lockdown and tourists and other onlookers
were still allowed in the park across the street.

Speaking late Monday from the White House, President Barack Obama declared that
those responsible would 'feel the full weight of justice,' though he urged a
nervous nation not to jump to conclusions and pointedly avoided using the words
'terror' or 'terrorism.'

However, top lawmakers declared the deadly incident an act of terrorism, and a
White House official said it was being treated that way.

In California, emergency management officials activated their statewide threat
assessment system, which was established after the September 11 attacks.

In Seattle, police increased patrols in neighborhoods and around government
buildings and other facilities. In Colorado, a statewide alert was sent out
advising law enforcement agencies to look out for suspicious activities.

In New Jersey, authorities raised security statewide, calling in off-duty state
police officers and deploying bomb units, aviation crews, tactical teams and
search and rescue assets as a precaution.

Transit and port officials in New York and New Jersey were on heightened alert
at bridges, tunnels and on rail lines between the two states, as well as on New
York City's subway system and commuter rails.

And at the Port of Los Angeles and Long Beach, as well as at three major Los
Angeles airports, including Los Angeles International, law enforcement officials
were in a 'heightened state of vigilance,' with increased patrols, authorities
said.

Security was also tightened at sports venues nationwide, though most events were
held as planned.

The exceptions were in Boston itself, where Monday night's NHL game between the
Bruins and Ottawa Senators was postponed and Tuesday's NBA game between the
Celtics and Indiana Pacers was canceled.

Officials announced plans for security reviews of upcoming marathons and road
races in cities large and small, including this weekend's marathon in Lansing,
Michigan, Nashville's Country Music Marathon on April 27, next month's
Indianapolis 500 Festival Mini-Marathon and the San Francisco Marathon in June.

'This changes everything [in New York],' one source told  the New York Post.

'Everyone's on high alert. Our marathon was canceled in November. Who knows if
that changed someone's plans?'

The New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority said the MTA police would
increase patrols and bag inspections on the Metro-North and Long Island Rail
Road.

The NYPD will give 'additional attention' to the subways as well.

Mayor Michael Bloomberg said security is being upped both visibly and in covert
ways, NBC reported.

'We have 1,000 members of the NYPD assigned to counter-terrorism duties, and
they - along with the entire NYPD and the investments we have made in
counter-terrorism infrastructure - are being fully mobilized to protect our
city,' he said in a statement.

A garbage can on a subway platform was seen taped up so that nothing could be
tossed inside - preventing a bomb from being placed and left behind.

In Washington yesterday, the White House increased security outside the building
with Secret Service establishing a broader 'perimeter.'

Secret Service spokesman Ed Donovan said the measure was taken 'out of an
abundance of caution'. He says it is not unusual to expand or contract the
security perimeters.

Shortly after the explosions Monday, Secret Service shut down Pennsylvania
Avenue outside the White House, cordoning off the area with yellow police tape.

Several Secret Service patrol cars also blocked off the entry points to the
road.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 16, 2013 Tuesday 11:13 AM GMT

Obama insists federal government 'will get to the bottom of' Boston Marathon
bombings, but declines to call attacks an act of terrorism

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1227 words


At the end of a long Monday afternoon that began with a jubilant photo-op with
the BCS champion Alabama Crimson Tide football team, a somber President Barack
Obama addressed reporters about the bombings that claimed at least two lives --
including that of an eight-year-old boy -- and injured more than 110 near the
finish line of the Boston Marathon.

But it was what he didn't say that may provoke the most discussion: Unlike media
outlets including CNN, Fox News and others, Obama didn't utter the 'T' word.

He ignored a reporter's question, shouted after he concluded his prepared
remarks,  about whether the attacks were 'an act of terrorism.'

'We still do not know who did this or why, and people shouldn't jump to
conclusions before we have all the facts,' he said during his speech.

The New York Post has reported that a Saudi man is in custody in a Boston
hospital in connection with the bombings.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Obama's reticence to refer to attacks on American soil as 'terrorist' activities
was brought into sharp focus during his 2012 re-election campaign, when
Republican challenger Mitt Romney chastised him during a debate for refusing to
call the Sept. 11, 2012 attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya an act
of terror.

Obama, and backed by debate moderator and CNN chief political correspondent
Candy Crowley, insisted that he had in fact called the attack a terrorist act in
a speech during the day following the Benghazi assault.

CBS News correspondent Steve Kroft, however, had interviewed the president on
the day he gave that speech and asked him why he 'went out of your way to avoid
the use of the word terrorism in connection with the Libya attack.'

Obama responded that it was 'too early to know exactly how this came about [or]
what group was involved.'

CBS kept the interview out of public view until the night before Election Day,
long after the debate confrontation had cemented in many Americans' minds the
idea that Obama never expressed reluctance to declare that 'terrorists' attacked
Americans in Benghazi.

A source inside the Department of Justice told MailOnline that investigators
were considering the possibility that the bombings could be tied to the 1993
government siege on messianic cult leader David Koresh's compound in Waco,
Texas, and the 1995 bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma
City.

Like Monday's Boston Marathon, both events coincided with Patriots' Day, an
annual observance marking the anniversary of the Revolutionary War's first
battles.

Obama noted the coincidence, calling it 'a day that draws the world to Boston's
streets in the spirit of friendly competition.'

But the same DOJ source later said investigators were focused more on examining
potential links with unspecified 'foreign nationals.'

'The American people will say a prayer for Boston tonight. And Michelle and I
send our deepest thoughts and prayers to the families of the victims in the wake
of this senseless loss,' Obama said, while assuring the media and millions of
watching Americans that 'the full weight' of the U.S. justice system would be
brought to bear.

'Make no mistake: We will get to the bottom of this,' Obama said. 'And we will
find out who did this. We'll find out why they did this.'

'Any responsible individuals, any responsible groups, will feel the full weight
of justice.'

The president described conversation he had with members of Congress of both
major political parties, saying he and lawmakers had 'reaffirmed that on days
like this there are nor Republicans and Democrats. We are Americans.'

White House pool reports said FBI Director Robert Mueller and Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano briefed the president on 'the active investigation
and response' to what some media outlets are calling a terror attack.

Those briefings included information about how federal authorities are
coordinating with state and local officials.

A White House photo showed Obama receiving those briefings via telephone,
accompanied by Lisa Monaco, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and
Counterterrorism, and Chief of Staff Denis McDonough.

Obama said from the briefing room podium that he directed Mueller and Napolitano
to 'increase security around the United States as necessary.'

'BOSTON IS A TOUGH AND RESILIENT TOWN. SO ARE ITS PEOPLE': PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
FULL STATEMENT IN RESPONSE TO BOMBINGS

Good afternoon, everybody. Earlier today, I was briefed by my homeland security
team on the events in Boston. We're continuing to monitor and respond to the
situation as it unfolds. And I've directed the full resources of the federal
government to help state and local authorities protect our people, increase
security around the United States as necessary, and investigate what happened.

The American people will say a prayer for Boston tonight. And Michelle and I
send our deepest thoughts and prayers to the families of the victims in the wake
of this senseless loss.

We don't yet have all the answers. But we do know that multiple people have been
wounded, some gravely, in explosions at the Boston Marathon.

I've spoken to FBI Director Mueller and Secretary of Homeland Security
Napolitano, and they're mobilizing the appropriate resources to investigate and
to respond.

I've updated leaders of Congress in both parties, and we reaffirmed that on days
like this there are no Republicans or Democrats -- we are Americans, united in
concern for our fellow citizens.

I've also spoken with Governor Patrick and Mayor Menino, and made it clear that
they have every single federal resource necessary to care for the victims and
counsel the families. And above all, I made clear to them that all Americans
stand with the people of Boston.

Boston police, firefighters, and first responders as well as the National Guard
responded heroically, and continue to do so as we speak. It's a reminder that so
many Americans serve and sacrifice on our behalf every single day, without
regard to their own safety, in dangerous and difficult circumstances. And we
salute all those who assisted in responding so quickly and professionally to
this tragedy.

We still do not know who did this or why. And people shouldn't jump to
conclusions before we have all the facts. But make no mistake -- we will get to
the bottom of this. And we will find out who did this; we'll find out why they
did this. Any responsible individuals, any responsible groups will feel the full
weight of justice.

Today is a holiday in Massachusetts -- Patriots' Day. It's a day that celebrates
the free and fiercely independent spirit that this great American city of Boston
has reflected from the earliest days of our nation.

And it's a day that draws the world to Boston's streets in a spirit of friendly
competition. Boston is a tough and resilient town. So are its people. I'm
supremely confident that Bostonians will pull together, take care of each other,
and move forward as one proud city. And as they do, the American people will be
with them every single step of the way.

You should anticipate that as we get more information, our teams will provide
you briefings. We're still in the investigation stage at this point. But I just
want to reiterate we will find out who did this and we will hold them
accountable.

Thank you very much.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 16, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

A LEG FLEW PAST MY HEAD;
TERRORIST BOMB ATTACK HITS BOSTON MARATHON

BYLINE: NICK PARKER; MIRANDA PRYNNE; FELIX ALLEN; DAVID WOODE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 781 words


A WITNESS to the bomb carnage that ripped through the Boston Marathon said last
night: "Somebody's leg flew by my head."

After two huge blasts - one at the finish line - left at least two dead and 110
injured, onlooker John Ross said: "I gave my belt to stop the blood."

One of those killed was a boy aged eight. Unconfirmed reports early today
suggested up to a dozen may have died.

Nightmare scenes were described by local TV girl Jacqueline Bruno - as cops
discovered at least two MORE suspected devices in the shattered city, detonating
one with a controlled explosion.

She said as the US went into nationwide terrorist lockdown: "I saw people's legs
blown off.

"Runners were coming in and saw unspeakable horror."

Last night the unexploded devices were said to have been found at hospitals.

A third blast was feared to have taken place at the city's John F Kennedy
Presidential Library and Museum - but cops later believed a fire there was just
a bizarre coincidence.

Bloodied Half a million had lined the marathon route - with the biggest crowds
at the finish where men, women and screaming children were left dazed and
bloodied.

The bombs were feared to have been packed with ballbearings that were found
littering the street.

More than 370 Brits were taking part in the race when the blasts ten seconds
apart erupted from litter bins.

Brit Abi Griffiths finished just ten minutes before the horror. The runner said:
"It's scary times here - the sounds of police sirens are echoing everywhere in
Boston.

"It was while I was getting my bag that I heard it go off. The ground shook."

Shocked engineer Marcus Mumford, 34, from Bristol, said: "It was really loud. I
was just running down that street. Now the bomb squad are all over the place."

Ambulances and fire engines swarmed into Boston's Copley Square along with armed
cops.

They found the pavements drenched with blood and people lying in agony.

The blasts - flashes of burning orange followed by acrid smoke that billowed for
50ft - were captured in TV footage that chilled America. President Barack Obama
was being kept updated last night - as a ring of steel was thrown around the
White House.

Anti-terror cops in New York were guarding landmarks. Officials across America
urged citizens via Twitter and Facebook to report suspicious activity to the
police. The bloodbath - four hours into the race when stragglers were reaching
the end - comes just days before the London Marathon on Sunday.

Last night Scotland Yard was reviewing security.

It may also be beefed up for the huge London funeral tomorrow of Baroness
Thatcher. The big-name track stars involved in the Boston race had long crossed
the line when the bombs went off. Relieved chartered surveyor Darren Foy, 40,
from Southampton, said: "I finished in 3½ hours and we were on the bus when it
happened."

Darren - in Boston with his wife Sandra and their two children - said: "It's all
shocking."

The second explosion was 50 to 100 yards back from the finish on Boylston
Street.

There were 25,000 registered entrants - many raising money for charities - who
were being cheered home by family and friends. Canadian Mike Mitchell, from
Vancouver, had just crossed the line when he looked back and saw a "massive
explosion".

He described people running and screaming - saying: "Everybody freaked out."
Video showed a fireball from one of the blasts rising from behind spectators and
a row of flags.

Witness David Abel said: "I saw the most horrific thing anyone can see - people
with their limbs mangled, their eyes vacant." The Boston Marathon is run on the
third Monday of April - Patriots' Day, a public holiday marking the first
battles of the American War of Independence.

It fuelled fears the outrage may have been the work of al-Qaeda. But cops were
also probing links to gun fanatics furious at curbs following December's Sandy
Hook school massacre. The marathon had been dedicated to the 26 shot dead.
Families of victims were in a VIP area right next to where the bombs went off.

Public transport into central Boston was shut down and a no-fly zone imposed as
an emergency medical tent was set up. Fleets of ambulances ferried the injured
to hospital. Kids aged eight and three were among them. Last night six were
fighting for life. Marathon runners flocked to hospitals to donate blood as
medics carried out at least ten amputations.

One mum told how she had jubilantly watched her daughter complete the marathon
when the first blast came four minutes later.

Melissa Stanley said: "It sounded like a sonic boom."

London Marathon chief executive Nick Bitel said: "It is a very sad day for
athletics and for our friends in marathon running."

n.parker@the-sun.co.uk SECOND BOMB FIRST BOMB

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Carnage ... rescuers tend to victims near marathon finish line in
Boston yesterday
Under attack ... armed cops hit streets as dazed runner lies in road
Disbelief ... woman runner sits injured on blood-spattered pavement
Shocked ... runner sobs with friends
Pain ... injured runner, and child is comforted
Terror ... another blast hits scattered runners
Caught on film ... orange flash of first explosion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 16, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MARATHON SLAUGHTER;
BOSTON TERROR ATTACK Boy, 8, among 3 dead 130 hurt by twin bombs RACE DEAD

BYLINE: NICK PARKER

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 363 words


America. is on terror alert today after a twin bombing attack left at least
three people dead and more than 130 wounded at the Boston Marathon finish line.

An eight-year-old boy was said to be one of the dead. Two more devices were
discovered and made safe by police experts.

Witnesses reported seeing legs blown from victims. Others needed to have limbs
amputated following the atrocity - six days before the London Marathon.

Aerial footage of the blast site showed the pavement strewn with blood, glass
and debris. And unconfirmed reports said that 12 people have died in total. Many
of the wounded suffered shrapnel wounds, as reports said ball bearings had been
found in the street.

Last night cops were probing links to gun fanatics furious at curbs following
December's Sandy Hook school massacre.

The marathon had been dedicated to the 26 shot dead.

It was claimed that police had surveillance video of someone bringing a number
of backpacks to the area.

It was the first successful attack on US soil since 9/11. A White House official
said the explosions were "clearly an act of terror".

President Barack Obama said those responsible will "feel the full weight of
justice".

He added: "The Boston people will say a prayer for Boston tonight. We don't know
who did this or why.

"But make no mistake, we will get to the bottom of this."

Thousands had lined the streets of Boston, Massachusetts, on the Patriots' Day
public holiday event. Around 25,000 ran in the event, including 374 Brits.

Doctors in the city's hospitals said injuries ranged from burns and serious limb
injuries to fractures and minor blast injuries.

PM David Cameron said: "The scenes from Boston are shocking and horrific - my
thoughts are with all those who have been affected."

US authorities were said to have identified a 20-year-old Saudi man as a
suspect. He was under guard this morning in a Boston hospital with shrapnel
wounds.

British police said they were reviewing security for Sunday's London Marathon.

It was a terror target in the terrorist black comedy film Four Lions.

Last night chief executive Nick Bitel confirmed that the race would still go
ahead, saying: "We will not be cancelling the event."

TARGET

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Blasts ... bomb No2 goes off on marathon route, yards from smoke of
first explosion
Alert . . Obama last night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 16, 2013 Tuesday 11:03 PM GMT

Boston Marathon bombing: Martin Richard's family ripped apart by terror attack;

His eight-year-old son is dead, his wife has suffered brain injuries, and his
five-year-old daughter has lost a leg. Bill Richard is a father stricken by
grief after his family was nearly destroyed by the Boston marathon bombing. Jon
Swaine reports.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 765 words


As he wandered on to Boylston Street to greet his father with a toothy smile and
a hug at the finish line of the Boston marathon, Martin Richard was the picture
of childish joy.

Moments later, however, this bright and cheerful eight-year-old, who loved
playing football and riding his bicycle, was taken away in a flash of violence
that shattered his family and left a city grieving.

A pressure cooker, packed with explosives and metal, and stuffed into a black
duffel bag, blew up on the pavement to which Martin had returned to be with his
mother Denise, sister Jane, and brother Henry.

As Bill Richard passed the finish line yards away, the explosion claimed his
son's life, tore off one of five-year-old Jane's legs and delivered a blow to
the head that gave Mrs Richard, 43, serious brain injuries.

Within 12 seconds, a second duffel bag bomb exploded further down the road,
tearing into another section of pavement packed with crowds celebrating the race
on Patriots' Day, a public holiday in Massachusetts.

No person or group has yet claimed responsibility for the atrocity, which killed
three people and injured 176, and authorities are yet to establish a motive.

Mr Richard, a 42-year-old neighbourhood activist, spoke of his heartbreak as he
lamented the loss of his "dear son".

"We thank our family and friends, those we know and those we have never met, for
their thoughts and prayers," he said in a statement. "I ask that you continue to
pray for my family as we remember Martin."

A candle was burning Tuesday night outside the Richard's home on a quiet street
in Dorchester, an affluent suburb of Boston, where a single word had been
chalked on to the path by a neighbour: "Peace."

The same slogan was carefully written on a colourful poster drawn by Martin last
year in a class at Neighborhood House charter school. "No more hurting people,"
he wrote across the top of the page.

"They are just the sweetest, greatest kids," Holly Moulton, a teacher at the
school, told The Daily Telegraph, choking back tears after laying flowers at
their door. "Always so happy and full of life."

Krystle Campbell, 29, who had been watching her boyfriend run the marathon, was
named as the second spectator to have been killed in the attacks.

Her father, William, described his daughter, who worked for a restaurant
consultancy firm, as a "wonderful, wonderful girl", loved by her friends and
family, and always "willing to lend a hand".

"My daughter was the most lovable girl," Mr Campbell told reporters. "She helped
everybody and I'm just so shocked right now. We're just devastated."

The third person killed was a graduate student at Boston University who was
watching the race with two friends. One friend was injured in the attack and the
other escaped unharmed. Police did not immediately release the name of the
student killed.

Of the victims, 17 were in a critical condition in hospital, severely wounded by
shrapnel such as nails and ball bearings from the six-litre cookers. Medics said
the bombs appeared to have been designed to cause maximum human carnage.

No other victims' names were released.

As investigators struggled to identify the bombers, President Barack Obama
described the attacks as "an act of terror" and promised that Americans would
respond "selflessly, compassionately, unafraid".

Classes have been cancelled this week at Martin's school, where Mrs Richard, a
neighbourhood watch official, worked as a librarian and read books to young
pupils in a voice that "brought stories to life".

Residents of the family's neighbourhood, once home to president John F Kennedy's
mother, Rose, gazed into the distance from the doorsteps of Civil War-era homes.
Several appeared to be holding the hands of their own children a bit tighter.

Betty Delorey recalled Martin hopping over the fence outside his house and
clambering up trees. Jane Sherman remembered the eight-year-old heading out to
play baseball with the father he adored.

"What a beautiful smile he had," said Darren McNair, 51, whose son, Tyler,
played football with Martin. "I will always remember seeing it from across the
field. What a senseless, senseless tragedy."

Officials from the FBI, police and other law-enforcement agencies were also
struggling to make sense of the bombings, as they appealed for witnesses to
submit photographs and video footage.

"This was a heinous and cowardly act," Mr Obama said in remarks delivered at the
White House.

Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Harvard University professor who represents
Massachusetts in Washington, said that Boston was a "family in pain" following
the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 16, 2013 Tuesday 9:45 PM GMT

Mo Farah and Co have no reason to pull out, say London Marathon organisers;
London Marathon organisers are confident that Mo Farah and the rest of the elite
field will be on the start line for Sunday's race, allaying fears that the
terrorist attack in Boston would lead to a spate of withdrawals.

BYLINE: By Simon Hart and Ben Rumsby

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 832 words


Nick Bitel, the London Marathon chief executive, said he and his staff had been
in touch with most of the competing athletes' agents since Monday's deadly
bombing at the Boston Marathon and he was not aware of a single runner who
wanted to pull out on safety grounds.

That included Farah, whose agent, Ricky Simms, confirmed last night that the
double Olympic champion remained committed to taking part.

A spokesman for Simms' company, Pace Management, said: "We're confident in the
arrangements that are being put in place, so we don't see any reason why we
would pull anyone out. We'll just have to be guided by the organisers over the
next few days."

Police revealed that security was likely to be beefed up in the wake of the
worst terrorist attack since 2001 to hit the United States, which killed three
people and injured 150 more.

It was also announced that Farah and the rest of the London field would be asked
to observe a 30-second silence before the elite men's race, as well as being
encouraged to wear black ribbons.

Simms, who also represents Usain Bolt, experienced the Boston explosions first
hand, having watched Kenyan Micah Kogo finish second in the men's marathon
before departing for the official race hotel, the Fairmont Copley Plaza.

The hotel was close to the finishing line, where one of the blasts took place,
and it was immediately placed into lockdown. Simms arrived in London yesterday.

Farah, who will be running in his home city for the first time since he won
Olympic gold in the 5,000 and 10,000 metres last summer, is contracted to run
just the first half of Sunday's race as a dress rehearsal for his full marathon
debut in London next year.

Although Farah is the headline act from a British perspective, race organisers
have also assembled one of the finest-ever marathon fields, with the men's race
featuring Olympic gold medallist Stephen Kiprotich, defending London champion
Wilson Kipsang and world-record holder Patrick Makau.

The women's field includes Olympic champion Tiki Gelana, silver-medallist
Priscah Jeptoo and world champion Edna Kiplagat.

Bitel said he had full confidence in the security plans for the race after
attending meetings yesterday morning with senior officers from the Metropolitan
Police's Gold and Silver Commands. The Gold Command oversees strategic security
planning for the race while the Silver Command handles operational matters.
Further meetings with race organisers are planned.

In addition to the elite athletes, in excess of 37,000 recreational runners are
due to take part in the 26.2-mile race from Blackheath to The Mall, with half a
million spectators expected to line the streets.

The Government insisted the race would go ahead as planned, with sports minister
Hugh Robertson "absolutely confident" the runners and spectators could be kept
safe and secure.

As with the elite runners, Bitel said he had no indication that fun-­runners
would pull out in any significant numbers.

He added in a statement: "The support we have been offered by our stakeholders
and the wider running community has been outstanding. We have the full support
of the Metropolitan Police, the Mayor's office and other authorities.

"We want to reassure our runners, spectators, volunteers and everyone connected
with the event that we are doing everything to ensure their safety and that the
Virgin London Marathon 2013 will be an outstanding success."

The decision to proceed with the race was backed by Ed Warner, the UK Athletics
chairman, who said: "I'm very conscious of the work that London Marathon are
doing around safety and security for this weekend.

"I have complete confidence that race organisers, police and security services
will do the right thing by the race. It's important that it's not waylaid by
those tragic events in Boston."

Among the elite athletes competing on Sunday will be 24 wheelchair racers who
were in action in Boston. Most of them were on an overnight flight to London
last night accompanied by London Marathon disability coordinator Michelle
Weltman.

Because of the quicker recovery time for wheelchair athletes compared to
runners, Boston and London have joined forces to create the 'Boston London
Wheelchair Challenge' which offers $35,000 in prize money to the top three male
and female athletes competting in the two races.

One of them, 2010 London winner Josh Cassidy, said he was in a restaurant close
to the Boston finish line when the bombs went off.

He said: "Moments later, you could hear the commotion outside, and out the
window were people running from the finish-line area across the street. My first
concern was all the people I know, particularly friends and organisers, or other
top athletes that could still be in the area. Thank heavens, it seems everyone I
know is fine."

Women's marathon world record holder Paula Radcliffe told the BBC: "I have every
confidence in the London Marathon community and the Metropolitan Police that
they won't let it go ahead unless they have done everything possible."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 16, 2013 Tuesday 5:17 PM GMT

Boston marathon bombs 'investigated as an act of terror', says Barack Obama;
President Obama says it is not yet clear who is behind the Boston marathon bomb
attacks but a terrorist investigation is under way.

LENGTH: 190 words


· Boston marathon bombs: live                                          · Three
dead, dozens injured as 'bombs' hit Boston marathon
· Who was behind the Boston bombs?                                          ·
Boston marathon bomb pictures                                          · Boston
marathon bomb video

US President Barack Obama says the explosions at the Boston Marathon are being
investigated as an act of terror, although authorities still do not know who is
responsible.

He called the bombing "a heinous and cowardly act" used to target innocent
civilians.

Mr Obama said while the impact of the attacks near the finish line of the Boston
marathon on Monday, which killed three people and wounded more than 170 others,
were clear, the motives and the identity of those responsible was not.

"What we don't yet know, however, is who carried out this attack or why, whether
it was planned and executed by a terrorist organisation, foreign or domestic, or
was the act of a malevolent individual," he said.

Source: APTN

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       April 16, 2013 Tuesday 4:33 AM GMT

US has history of terrorism attacks

BYLINE: Michael Evans

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 298 words


Terrorism in the United States is for ever linked in people's minds to the
al-Qaeda attacks on September 11, 2011 when nearly 3,000 people were killed.

However, there have been numerous attacks, the majority of them aborted or
uncovered in time either through luck or by good intelligence.

The FBI's counter-terrorist section has been warning for a long time of the
increasing danger posed by lone bombers, who fall below the radar but have the
ability to cause mass casualties.

The US intelligence community, which consists of 16 separate agencies, has had
no warnings of an imminent attack which would appear to point the finger at a
lone bomber motivated by some personal grudge.

Apart from 9/11, the worst terrorist attack in America's history, there has been
numerous other terrorist plots against the US. In December 2001, Richard Reid, a
British Muslim, was caught trying to detonate a shoe bomb while travelling as a
passenger on a flight from Paris to Miami.

On Christmas Day 2009, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, a Nigerian, on a flight from
Amsterdam to Detroit, tried to detonate a plastic explosive device in his
underwear.

In Jacksonville, Florida, on May 10 2010 a firebomb detonated outside an Islamic
centre where 60 Muslims were attending evening prayer. No one was injured. A man
had been spotted carrying a pipe and gas can behind the mosque just before the
explosion.

Sandlin Matthews Smith was shot dead by police in a field a year later. His van
seen near the mosque was tracked to Oklahoma.

On January 17, 2011 a viable bomb was found on the route of the Martin Luther
King memorial march in Washington. The device was designed to hit marchers with
shrapnel. Kevin William Harpham was arrested. He was linked to white
supremacists and was later sentenced to 32 years in prison.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 16, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Terrorist gang planned attack on TA base with toy car bomb

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 408 words


A terrorist cell plotted to attack a Territorial Army base with a homemade bomb
attached to a remote-controlled toy car, a court was told yesterday.

Members of the group, which was in contact with suspected al-Qaeda operatives in
Pakistan, raised thousands of pounds in Britain for holy war overseas, travelled
abroad to seek training, tried to recruit and indoctrinate others and discussed
a series of attack plans in Britain. Top of their list was the idea of making an
explosive device from instructions in the al-Qaeda magazine Inspire and using it
in an attack on the TA base in Luton, Bedfordshire.

Woolwich Crown Court in South London heard that four men had pleaded guilty to
engaging in conduct in preparation for acts of terrorism. The men, who all lived
with their families in Luton, are Zahid Iqbal, 31, Mohammed Sharfaraz Ahmed, 25,
Umar Arshad, 24 and Syed Farhan Hussain, 21. Their homes were searched in
September 2011 when 150 mobile phones, 14 laptops and a cache of extremist
material was seized. About £15,000 in cash was also recovered from their homes.

The men were arrested and charged in April 2012. They have admitted:
facilitating and engaging in overseas travel for jihad training; collecting
money to finance terrorism; taking part in physical training for jihad;
discussing attack plans; and having and distributing extremist material.

Max Hill, QC, outlining the case against them, said they had been the subject of
an intelligence and surveillance operation by MI5 and the Metropolitan Police.
Their cars had been fitted with eavesdropping devices that picked up
incriminating conversations about travel to Pakistan, efforts to buy a gun and
plans to build a bomb.

Ahmed was involved in recruiting and radicalising others for jihad, including
Hussain and Arshad. The group was in regular contact with someone in Pakistan
who appeared to have extremist connections but the link was lost in spring 2011,
causing them to turn their attention to an attack in Britain.

An extract from a recording played to the court revealed their confidence about
making a device from the Inspire article. One voice says: "I know I can make
that thing ... At the bottom of their [the TA's] gate there's quite a big gap.
If you had a little toy car it drives underneath one of their vehicles or
something."

Members of the group embarked on jihad training trips in Britain and were heard
talking about buying a firearm.

The men will be sentenced today.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Top left and right, Syed Hussain and Mohammed Ahmed; bottom left and
right, Zahid Iqbal, Umar Arshad. They trained and raised money for jihad

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 17, 2013 Wednesday

Israel arrests Palestinian freed in Shalit deal for planning "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 150 words


Text of report by Israeli public radio station Voice of Israel Network B on 17
April

Last month, the General Security Service arrested a Palestinian who had been
released in the Shalit prisoner exchange deal [in which over 1,000 Palestinian
prisoners were released in 2011 exchange for captured Israeli soldier Gil'ad
Shalit]. The man is suspected of planning a terrorist attack in the Nablus area.

Amir Barakat, aged 25, admitted that he had accepted the proposal of Amir Duqan,
another Palestinian prisoner released in the deal, to carry out a shooting
attack along the Nablus bypass road or to throw a hand grenade at an IDF
roadblock in exchange for $60,000.

IDF sources said that recently there is growing involvement in terrorist
activity on the part of prisoners who were released in the Shalit deal,
particularly in the Gaza Strip.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1500 gmt 17 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                            April 17, 2013 Wednesday

Teenage driver attacked with meat cleaver in carjacking terror

BYLINE: Saiqa Chaudhari

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS (BOLTON NEWS)

LENGTH: 267 words


A DRIVER was attacked with a meat cleaver in a terrifying carjacking.

The 19-year-old was struck by the meat cleaver when he pulled over after a
bottle was thrown at his car.

As he got out he was approached by two men.

One of them swung a meat cleaver at him, catching his clothing and another man
threw a brick at the rear car window, smashing it.

He was attacked again with the meat cleaver as he got back into his car and
sustained a cut to his cheek.

The teenager was then dragged out of the car and his passenger was assaulted
before the men got in the VW Polo and drove off.

The car was abandoned a short time later and both men ran off along Tonge Moor
Road.

Police are now appealing for witnesses to the attack which took place on
Thursday, March 28 at 11.45pm One man is described as being dark skinned, 6ft
tall, well built, in his late teens or early 20s and had short light brown hair.
He wore a grey hooded top and dark coloured jeans.

Now police have issued images of two men following the incident.

Detective Constable Dave Harris based at Astley Bridge Police Station said: "The
offenders showed extreme aggression towards their victims and they are lucky
they did not suffer more serious injuries. Understandably, both have been left
shaken after this attack.

"We believe this was a random attack and I would ask members of the community to
be vigilant.

"We are unsure why the Polo was abandoned a short time later and we are asking
for witnesses to come forward."

Anyone with information should phone police on 0161 856 5749 or the independent
charity Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            April 17, 2013 Wednesday

Four sentenced on terrorism charges including plot to attack TA base with model
car

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 140 words


Four men from Luton sentenced after pleading guilty to plotting a terrorist
attack on a Territorial Army base by driving a remote controlled car with a bomb
under the gate. Zahid Iqbal, 31, Mohammed Sharfaraz Ahmed, 25, Syed Hussain, 22,
and Umar Arshad, 24, admitted conduct in preparation for acts of terrorism and
possessing documents useful for terrorism. The men were recorded discussing
methods, materials and targets for a terrorist attack using firearms and
improvised explosive devices between January 2011 and their arrest on April 25.
They also researched, downloaded and discussed electronic files containing
practical instructions for a terrorist attack. All four men are British
citizens. Ahmed is of Bangladeshi origin and the other three are of Pakistani
origin. T2012 7150

Event Start Date: 2013-04-18

Event End Date: 2013-04-18

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 17, 2013 Wednesday 6:56 PM GMT

'It is like a dagger in our hearts': Devastated father of killed Chinese
graduate student, 23, speaks about pain of learning his only child was the third
person killed in Boston terror attacks

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER and DANIEL BATES IN BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1628 words



     ·    Third victim of Boston marathon bombing named by her devastated father
          in China as 23-year-old Lü Lingzi
     ·    She was an only child whose parents were immensely proud she was able
          to study in America
     ·    The graduate student at Boston University, from Shenyang in north-east
          China, was at the race with two friends
     ·    Her social media accounts reveal her to be an enthusiast; a dog-loving
          foodie who enjoyed cooking and eating out
     ·    One friend, Zhou Danling, was badly injured in the attack - although
          she has reportedly regained consciousness
     ·    The other two fatalities are eight-year-old Martin Richard and
          29-year-old restaurant manager Krystle Campbell
     ·    Series of candlelit vigils held throughout the city and beyond as
          hundreds of people honor the dead and injured
     ·    Investigators sift through 2,000 tips as FBI says Saudi 'person of
          interest' has been ruled out
     ·    Authorities say Boston commuters will be subject to random searches as
          transport chiefs help FBI investigation


The third person killed in the Boston Marathon bombings is a 23-year-old Chinese
graduate student at Boston University who came to the U.S. because it was her
'dream to get a better education.'

Identified by her father in China as Lü Lingzi, the tragic student was pursuing
a graduate degree in Mathematics and Statistics.

'This is an extremely painful time for our family,' the father said, barely able
to speak through sobs. 'Every time we speak about this, it is like a dagger in
our hearts.'

The father, who did not give his name, said he is trying to get a visa so he can
come to America and claim the body of his only child.

The family had saved all the money it could so Lingzi could study in America.

She was attending the Boston marathon with her friend Zhou Danling, a student of
actuarial science at BU, who was originally said to be in a coma at Boston
Medical Center but was today showing signs of improvement after suffering
serious injuries in the blast.

Scroll down for video

The other two fatalities in the bombing have been identified as eight-year-old
Martin Richard, the son of a Dorchester community activist, and 29-year-old
restaurant manager Krystle Campbell.

The latest official tally has 183 people injured in Monday's terror attacks, and
yesterday hundreds of people gathered to hold candlelit vigils in tribute to all
of the victims.

Vigils were held across the city as FBI investigators admitted their range of
suspects remain 'wide open.'

At a press conference yesterday afternoon, the FBI agent in charge, Rick
DesLauriers, said they had received more than 2,000 tips and detectives were
working round the clock as forensic specialists examined evidence from the
scene.

Meanwhile, Lü's friends spoke of their shock at hearing of her death.

Speaking to the MailOnline before Lü's death was officially confirmed, her best
friend Li Luquan, 23, said, 'Lingzi went to the marathon with two friends, one
of whom was Zhou Danling and another girl who came home safe.

'Lingzi did not come home on Monday night and I called the police and notified
the Chinese consulate.

'She's my best friend, I miss her so much. We were roommates for two years at
university in China. All her friends here miss her very much.

'Nobody knows where she is.'

On Tuesday, the Chinese Foreign Ministry and Consulate General in New York said
they were not releasing the victim's name at the request of the family.

But later, Boston media quoted a Chinese Consulate General official as saying
Chinese national Lü Lingzi was missing in the wake of the bombings that killed
three and wounded more than 180 people.

Li Luquan, who is an operations research student at New Jersey State University
said that Lü, who is from Shenyang, Liaoning, was studying hard at BU and
enjoyed cooking, going to the gym and to play the piano.

'She came the the U.S. last August and studied at Boston University because she
wanted a better education. America has a better education system and better
research opportunities,' Luquan told MailOnline.

'Coming to America to study was her dream.  She was living her dream.'

'In the future she might stay in the U.S. or go back to China. She said she
might work for a big company in America.

'She has an aunt who lives elsewhere in the U.S. and I think she has come to
Boston to find her.'

Sources said Ms Lingzi had studied economics at Beijing Institute of Technology
from 2008-12, during which time she held down a variety of jobs including as an
intern at Bank of China, an intern at DongXing Securities Ltd, and as a manger
at Deloitte Consulting.

Earlier on Tuesday, Colin Riley, a BU spokesman had declined to release the
student's name pending a discussion with her family.

On Wednesday however, The Shenyang Evening News reported her name on its
official Twitter-like microblog account.

The Associated Press reported that an editor at the newspaper said that Lingzi's
father confirmed his daughter's death when reporters visited the family home.

Today Ms Lingzi's Weibo account was flooded with tributes from well-wishers-
more than 22,000 people left messages bearing lit-candle emoticons after hearing
of her death.

Her account on Weibo, a Chinese Twitter-style microblog, provided a fascinating
insight into the ambitious, dog-loving foodie who came to the U.S. for a better
life.

But she became frustrated making arrangements to get there.

In January last year, as she prepared to travel to America, Ms Lingzi wrote:
'Whenever I think about calling American university, I get nervous.'

She posted under the name Jingjing Dudu's Sister, in reference to her pet
Chihuahua Jingjing, and her uncle's dog, Dudu.

'In July last year, as she made arrangements for her visa for the States, she
wrote: 'American efficiency in carrying out tasks leaves me frustrated and
speechless... How did they manage to develop their country?'

Once the visa was sorted, she posted in August last year: 'I have arrived', and
later wrote of her university course: 'Orientation, can it be any more boring
than this!!'

On September 6 last year Ms Lingzi posted about her first two-dish meal -
stir-fried broccoli and scrambled eggs with tomatoes, dishes often cooked by
Chinese students learning how to live on their own abroad. She posted a
photograph of the dishes next to a mug with Boston University written on it, and
wrote: 'The first meal I made myself'.

Last October she posted: 'Eating out in America is really random, walk into one
randomly, pick a dish randomly, neither do I know what I am eating, nor do I
know the name of the restaurant'.

At Thanksgiving she posted a photograph of what appears to be a crowd of people
celebrating with the comment 'Soooo many people!', and in January this year she
uploaded a photograph of the city at night with the comment: 'I love this city!'

Ms Lingzi's final post, on the morning of the day she died, was a photograph of
her breakfast of youtiao, a traditional Chinese dish of fried bread, which she
had with fruit.  Next to the photograph Ms Lingzi wrote: 'My wonderful
breakfast! :D'.

One of the many comments made on Ms Lingzi's account came from a Chinese expat
in Seattle who wrote, with sadness: 'You shouldn't have come.'

Yesterday the  Boston Globesaid taht BU did confirm that three of their students
had attended the marathon and that one had died, one was injured and another
escaped unharmed.

Danling Zhou, who was reported to have fallen into a coma, was today reported to
have regained consciousness and be doing well.

'She has her friends around her, and she will soon have family around her,' said
Riley.

The Chinese Consulate in New York had earlier confirmed that Zhou Danling was
injured and a survivor of the attacks which killed two others and left 183
others injured.

'She cannot talk now but can communicate with pen and paper,' the consulate said
in an e-mailed statement previously on Tuesday.

In that earlier statement, the consulate said another Chinese student,
identified by the consulate as Lü Lingzi, was still missing.

'We are following the case closely and are trying to reach our colleagues in
Boston. I believe they will release further information on site if anything
comes up,' the consulate said, adding 'Our hearts goes out to all the families
who had been affected.'

Robert Hill, dean of Marsh Chapel, said he had visited Zhou Danling twice and
said she underwent surgery on Monday and on Tuesday, according to Boston
University Today.

'She is doing well,' says Hill. 'She has her friends around her, and she will
soon have family around her.'

Zhou is reportedly a graduate of Wuhan University in central China, and
currently a student at Boston University in actuarial science, according to a
Xinhua report.

Boston is filled with colleges and there are a handful of students among the 183
injured.

Three Tufts University students, seven Emerson College students, three
Northeastern University students, two Boston College students, and one Berklee
College of Music student, according to the schools.

Boston College identified its two injured students as M.B.A. candidate Liza
Cherney and law student Brittany Loring , according to Boston.com.

'The two spectators were hospitalized with injuries resulting from the
explosions near the Marathon finish line,' the school said.

Last night, the Massachusetts Bay Transport authority (MBTA) announced that
commuters would be subjected to random searches as authorities helped the FBI in
its bid to track down those responsible for the blasts and prevent further
attacks.

Joe Pesaturo, MBTA communications director, said: 'Transit Police, with strong
support from federal, state, and local law enforcement personnel, are performing
random baggage checks throughout the transit system.

'Customers have been very cooperative, and we greatly appreciate their patience
and understanding.'

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 17, 2013 Wednesday 2:13 PM GMT

Survivors of the Boston Marathon terror attacks now face risk of developing post
traumatic stress disorder, experts warn

BYLINE: DAMIEN GAYLE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 490 words



     ·    Symptoms are nightmares, insomnia, craving for isolation and fear of
          crowds
     ·    Experts say one-in-five witnesses to such horror likely to develop
          PTSD
     ·    The condition affects tens of thousands of veterans of Iraq and
          Afghanistan


Survivors of the bloody bomb attacks which struck the Boston Marathon are likely
to suffer from post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), it has been warned.

Bystanders, runners, police and paramedics who were close enough to witness the
detonations will be at a higher risk of developing the condition, a leading
expert said.

Characterised by nightmares, insomnia, a craving for isolation and fear of
crowds, PTSD affects tens of thousands of Iran and Afghanistan veterans mentally
scarred by the horrors of war.

Dr Harry Croft, a San Antonio-based psychiatrist, who has treated more than
7,000 former soldiers, said the symptoms would be widespread in the immediate
aftermath of the attacks.

'If it lasts more than a month, and has enough symptoms, it is then described as
PTSD,' he told  NBC News .

Initial symptoms often include a sense of disbelief, said Dr Croft, as the
experience takes on an almost imaginary aspect. Following that victims either
become emotionally numb, or gush with sadness, fear or anger about the horrors
they have experienced.

Typically, PTSD sufferers have recurrent memories of the event. Or they may just
block it out entirely.

According to the latest official tally, 183 people were injured and three
killed, including one boy of just eight years old, in the terror attack on
Monday afternoon.

The latest evidence suggests the bombs used were made from pressure cookers
packed with explosives and shrapnel, designed to cause the most grievous
injuries possible to those caught up in the blasts.

Experts estimate that one-in-five of those who survive or witness sudden,
violent incidents like Monday's atrocities will go on to develop PTSD, although
the rate can vary widely among civilians and can depend on the severity of the
event.

'Long term, the amount of PTSD is greater with man-made traumas as opposed to
those caused by hurricanes, floods and fires,' said Dr Croft.

He added that civilians are 'probably' more susceptible than trained soldiers.

Thankfully, after a decade of constant war, experts like Dr Croft have developed
keener understanding of the condition and the ways it can be treated.

'We know that for some people intensive debriefing after a trauma does not help,
and may worsen symptoms in the long run,' he said.

'But getting survivors to safety, helping them understand what has happened,
helping them talk - or be quiet but around others - may be of great value.'

Aside from talking therapies, PTSD sufferers are are commonly treated with drugs
including including antipsychotics, antidepressants, anti-anxiety medications.

However, there is currently no specific treatment for PTSD and related
disorders.

The high suicide rate among former soldiers is often blamed on the condition.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 17, 2013 Wednesday 1:08 PM GMT

'It's like something from a Hitchcock film': Elderly couple too scared to leave
own home after being terrorised by angry pheasant in attacks reminiscent of
horror movie The Birds

BYLINE: SARA SMYTH

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 516 words



     ·    Ann, 77, and husband Ben, 79, are only family attacked in Shropshire
          village
     ·    Daughter Sally-Ann now leaves home with badminton racquet for
          protection
     ·    The attacks have been going on for four months


A violent bird is bullying a family in Shropshire by waiting for them to leave
their house every day and pecking at them.

The angry pheasant has targeted 77-year-old Ann Hudson and her husband Ben, 79,
who live with their daughter Sally-Ann, 44, in Wentnor, Shropshire.

Sally-Ann - who said the episodes eerily echo the attacks in Alfred Hitchcock's
The Birds - can't step foot outside her property without being pecked at by the
animal, which chases her car down the street.

Scroll down for video

The 2ft tall thug pheasant, nicknamed Phil, swoops at the family as they come
and go from their detached country home.

The orange and blue bird pecks at the windows to the family's living room and
flies at the windscreen of Sally-Ann's Ford Ka.

Sally-Ann is baffled as to why the unpleasant pheasant is only targeting her
family in the entire village.

The attacks have got so bad that Sally-Ann is scared of leaving home without
gloves and a badminton racquet to fend off the ferocious pheasant.

Sally, a medical secretary, said: 'At first we didn't really notice him, but
then we began to realise he was not like other pheasants.

'He would stare at us through the windows. Whichever window we looked out of,
there he was.

'Sometimes he would jump up on the windowsill for a better view.

'Sometimes I go from one room into another, and he will run round the outside of
the house following my movements.

'He even tries to get into the house - it's like something from a Hitchock film.

'He wakes me up every morning angrily head-butting the French windows
downstairs.

'Often when we get in the car, he will appear from nowhere and either jump on
the car or start pecking it.

'He runs alongside as we drive away, pecking and head butting the wheels.

'One day this week he chased my car as usual, running alongside for a good 100
yards.

'I then sped up to try and outrun him, but he kept pace, finally taking to the
air and flying behind the car in pursuit.

'He gave up as we left the village.

'We thought we had lost him, but no, by the time I returned home he was back
outside the house cackling again.'

Sally-Ann says she has recently started giving Phil food in an effort to get on
his good side.

She added: 'There are no hen pheasants here, not much food, in fact nothing to
keep him here. Yet he never strays far away.

'A couple of times in the last two weeks I have tried to befriend him, feeding
him crumbs of corn bread, which he loves.

'But he has no gratitude though, and is always ready to attack.

'I have never encountered a pheasant like him and am quite sure this is not
normal pheasant behaviour.

'They are normally just rather dopey birds - but this one is a complete nutter.'

Paul North, from the World Pheasant Association said the bird was displaying
territorial behaviour during mating season.

He said: 'He obviously sees her as a rival male - pheasants are very
territorial.'

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     April 17, 2013 Wednesday 12:50 PM GMT

'It's like something from a Hitchcock film': Elderly couple too scared to leave
own home after being terrorised by angry pheasant in attacks reminiscent of
horror movie The Birds

BYLINE: SARA SMYTH

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 515 words



     ·    Ann, 79 and Ben, 79, Hudson are only family attacked in Shropshire
          village
     ·    Daughter Sally-Ann now leaves home with badminton racquet for
          protection
     ·    The attacks have been going on for four months


A violent bird is bullying a family in Shropshire by waiting for them to leave
their house every day and pecking at them.

The angry pheasant has targeted 77-year-old Ann Hudson and her husband Ben, 79,
who live with their daughter Sally-Ann in Wentnor, Shropshire.

Sally-Ann - who said the episodes eerily echo the attacks in Alfred Hitchcock's
The Birds - can't step foot outside her property without being pecked at by the
animal, which chases her car down the street.

Scroll down for video

The 2ft tall thug pheasant, nicknamed Phil, swoops at the family as they come
and go from their detached country home.

The orange and blue bird pecks at the windows to the family's living room and
flies at the windscreen of Sally-Ann's Ford Ka.

Sally-Ann is baffled as to why the unpleasant pheasant is only targeting her
family in the entire village.

The attacks have got so bad that Sally-Ann is scared of leaving home without
gloves and a badminton racquet to fend off the ferocious pheasant.

Sally, a medical secretary, said: 'At first we didn't really notice him, but
then we began to realise he was not like other pheasants.

'He would stare at us through the windows. Whichever window we looked out of,
there he was.

'Sometimes he would jump up on the windowsill for a better view.

'Sometimes I go from one room into another, and he will run round the outside of
the house following my movements.

'He even tries to get into the house - it's like something from a Hitchock film.

'He wakes me up every morning angrily head-butting the French windows
downstairs.

'Often when we get in the car, he will appear from nowhere and either jump on
the car or start pecking it.

'He runs alongside as we drive away, pecking and head butting the wheels.

'One day this week he chased my car as usual, running alongside for a good 100
yards.

'I then sped up to try and outrun him, but he kept pace, finally taking to the
air and flying behind the car in pursuit.

'He gave up as we left the village.

'We thought we had lost him, but no, by the time I returned home he was back
outside the house cackling again.'

Sally-Ann says she has recently started giving Phil food in an effort to get on
his good side.

She added: 'There are no hen pheasants here, not much food, in fact nothing to
keep him here. Yet he never strays far away.

'A couple of times in the last two weeks I have tried to befriend him, feeding
him crumbs of corn bread, which he loves.

'But he has no gratitude though, and is always ready to attack.

'I have never encountered a pheasant like him and am quite sure this is not
normal pheasant behaviour.

'They are normally just rather dopey birds - but this one is a complete nutter.'

Paul North, from the World Pheasant Association said the bird was displaying
territorial behaviour during mating season.

He said: 'He obviously sees her as a rival male - pheasant's are very
territorial.'

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 17, 2013 Wednesday 9:38 AM GMT

Third marathon victim was a Chinese graduate, 23, 'living her dream of studying
in the U.S.' as the bomb cut her down in Boston terror attacks that also left
her friend seriously injured

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER and DANIEL BATES IN BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 921 words



     ·    Third victim of Boston marathon bombing named by her devastated father
          in China as 23-year-old Lü Lingzi
     ·    The graduate student at Boston University, originally from Beijing,
          was attending the race with two other friends
     ·    One friend, Zhou Danling, was badly injured in the attack - although
          she has reportedly regained consciousness
     ·    The other two fatalities are eight-year-old Martin Richard and
          29-year-old restaurant manager Krystle Campbell


The third person killed in the Boston Marathon bombings is a 23-year-old Chinese
graduate student at Boston University who came to the U.S. because it was her
'dream to get a better education.'

Identified by her father in China as Lü Lingzi, the tragic student was pursuing
a graduate degree at Boston University (BU) in Mathematics and Statistics.

Lingzi was attending the Boston marathon with her friend Zhou Danling, a student
of actuarial science at BU, who was originally said to be in a coma at Boston
Medical Center but showing signs of improvement after suffering serious injuries
in the blast.

The other two fatalities in the bombing have been identified as 8-year-old
Martin Richard, the son of a Dorchester community activist, and 29-year-old
restaurant manager Krystle Campbell.

As the latest official tally suggested 183 people were injured and three killed
in Monday's terror attacks, hundreds of people gathered to hold candlelit vigils
in tribute to the victims.

Scroll down for video

Vigils were held across the city as friends of the third victim spoke of their
shock at her death.

Speaking to the MailOnline before Lü's death was officially confirmed, her best
friend Li Luquan, 23, said, 'Lingzi went to the marathon with three friends, one
of whom was Zhou Danling and another girl who came home safe.

'Lingzi did not come home on Monday night and I called the police and notified
the Chinese consulate.

'She's my best friend, I miss her so much. We were roommates for two years at
university in China. All her friends here miss her very much.

'Nobody knows where she is.'

On Tuesday the Chinese Foreign Ministry and Consulate General in New York said
they were not releasing the victim's name at the request of the family.

But later on Tuesday, Boston media quoted a Chinese Consulate General official
as saying Chinese national Lü Lingzi was missing in the wake of the bombings
that killed three and wounded more than 180 people.

Li Luquan, who is an operations research student at New Jersey State University
said that Lü was studying hard at BU and enjoyed cooking, going to the gym and
to play the piano.

'She came the the US last August and studied at Boston University because she
wanted a better education. America has a better education system and better
research opportunities,' Luquan told MailOnline.

'Coming to America to study was her dream. She was living her dream.

'In the future she might stay in the US or go back to China. She said she might
work for a big company in America.

'She has an aunt who lives elsewhere in the US and I think she has come to
Boston to find her.'

Earlier on Tuesday, Colin Riley, a BU spokesman had declined to release the
student's name pending a discussion with her family.

On Wednesday however, The Shenyang Evening News reported her name on its
official Twitter-like microblog account.

The Associated Press reported that an editor at the newspaper said that Lingzi's
father confirmed his daughter's death when reporters visited the family home.

According to the  Boston Globeon Tuesday, BU did confirm that three of their
students had attended the marathon and that one was sadly deceased, one was
injured and another escaped unharmed.

Danling Zhou, who was reported to have fallen into a coma, was now doing well
and was conscious.

'She has her friends around her, and she will soon have family around her,' said
Riley.

The Chinese Consulate in New York had earlier confirmed that Zhou Danling was
injured and a survivor of the attacks which killed two others and left 183
others injured.

'She cannot talk now but can communicate with pen and paper,' the consulate said
in an e-mailed statement previously on Tuesday.

In that earlier statement, the consulate said another Chinese student,
identified by the consulate as Lü Lingzi, was still missing.

'We are following the case closely and are trying to reach our colleagues in
Boston. I believe they will release further information on site if anything
comes up,' the consulate said, adding 'Our hearts goes out to all the families
who had been affected.'

Robert Hill, dean of Marsh Chapel, said he had visited Zhou Danling twice and
said she underwent surgery on Monday and on Tuesday, according to Boston
University Today.

'She is doing well,' says Hill. 'She has her friends around her, and she will
soon have family around her.'

Zhou is reportedly a graduate of Wuhan University in central China, and
currently a student at Boston University in actuarial science, according to a
Xinhua report.

Boston is filled with colleges and there are a handful of students among the 183
injured.

Three Tufts University students, seven Emerson College students, three
Northeastern University students, two Boston College students, and one Berklee
College of Music student, according to the schools.

Boston College identified its two injured students as M.B.A. candidate Liza
Cherney and law student Brittany Loring , according to Boston.com.

'The two spectators were hospitalized with injuries resulting from the
explosions near the Marathon finish line,' the school said.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 17, 2013 Wednesday 7:52 AM GMT

Third marathon victim named as Chinese graduate student at Boston University who
was living her 'dream of studying in America'...struck down in terror attack
that also put her friend into a coma

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 796 words



     ·    Third victim of Boston marathon bombing named as 23-year-old Lü Lingzi
     ·    The graduate student at Boston University was attending the race with
          two other friends
     ·    One friend, Zhou Danling, was seriously injured in the attack -
          although she has reportedly regained consciousness


The third person killed in the Boston Marathon bombings is a 23-year-old Chinese
graduate student at Boston University who came to the U.S. because it was her
'dream to get a better education.'

Identified by her father in China as Lü Lingzi, the tragic student was pursuing
a graduate degree at Boston University (BU) in Mathematics and Statistics.

Lingzi was attending the Boston marathon with her friend Zhou Danling, a student
of actuarial science at BU, who suffered serious injuries in the blast and fell
into a coma and is currently showing signs of improvement at Boston Medical
Center.

Speaking to the MailOnline before Lü's death was confirmed, her best friend Li
Luquan, 23, said, 'Lingzi went to the marathon with three friends, one of whom
was Zhou Danling and another girl who came home safe.

'Lingzi did not come home on Monday night and I called the police and notified
the Chinese consulate.

'She's my best friend, I miss her so much. We were roommates for two years at
university in China. All her friends here miss her very much.

'Nobody knows where she is.'

On Tuesday the Chinese Foreign Ministry and Consulate General in New York said
they not releasing the victim's name at the request of the family.

But later on Tuesday, Boston media quoted a Chinese Consulate General official
as saying Chinese national Lü Lingzi was missing in the wake of the bombings
that killed three and wounded more than 180 people.

Li Luquan, who is an operations research student at New Jersey State University
said that Lü was studying hard at BU and enjoyed cooking, going to the gym and
to play the piano.

'She came the the US last August and studied at Boston University because she
wanted a better education. America has a better education system and better
research opportunities.

'Coming to America to study was her dream. She was living her dream.

'In the future she might stay in the US or go back to China. She said she might
work for a big company in America.

'She has an aunt who lives elsewhere in the US and I think she has come to
Boston to find her.'

Earlier on Tuesday, Colin Riley, a BU spokesman had declined to release the
student's name pending a discussion with her family.

On Wednesday however, The Shenyang Evening News reported her name on its
official Twitter-like microblog account.

The Associated Press reported that an editor at the newspaper said that Lingzi's
father confirmed his daughter's death when reporters visited the family home.

According to the Boston Globe on Tuesday, BU did confirm that three of their
students had attended the marathon and that one was sadly deceased, one was
injured and another escaped unharmed.

Danling Zhou, who was reported to have fallen into a coma, was now doing well
and was conscious.

'She has her friends around her, and she will soon have family around her,' said
Riley.

The Chinese Consulate in New York had earlier confirmed that Zhou Danling was
injured and a survivor of the attacks which killed two others and left 183
others injured.

'She cannot talk now but can communicate with pen and paper,' the consulate said
in an e-mailed statement previously on Tuesday.

In that earlier statement, the consulate said another Chinese student,
identified by the consulate as Lü Lingzi, was still missing.

'We are following the case closely and are trying to reach our colleagues in
Boston. I believe they will release further information on site if anything
comes up,' the consulate said, adding 'Our hearts goes out to all the families
who had been affected.'

Robert Hill, dean of Marsh Chapel, said he had visited Zhou Danling twice and
said she underwent surgery on Monday and on Tuesday, according to Boston
University Today.

'She is doing well,' says Hill. 'She has her friends around her, and she will
soon have family around her.'

Zhou is reportedly a graduate of Wuhan University in central China, and
currently a student at Boston University in actuarial science, according to a
Xinhua report.

Boston is filled with colleges and there are a handful of students among the 183
injured.

Three Tufts University students, seven Emerson College students, three
Northeastern University students, two Boston College students, and one Berklee
College of Music student, according to the schools.

Boston College identified its two injured students as M.B.A. candidate Liza
Cherney and law student Brittany Loring , according to Boston.com.

'The two spectators were hospitalized with injuries resulting from the
explosions near the Marathon finish line,' the school said.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            April 17, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

DEATH IN PRESSURE COOKERS;
BOSTON BOMBING: TERROR ATTACK BY IEDs Explosives in 6-litre pans inside duffel
bags packed with shrapnel

BYLINE: RICHARD WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 719 words


HOUSEHOLD pressure cookers packed with ball bearings and nails caused the deadly
carnage at the Boston Marathon, it was claimed last night.

Security sources said six of the everyday kitchen appliances were placed on the
street near the finishing line in black duffel bags.

Investigators say "blast caps" attached to the pans may have been detonated
remotely by a watching assassin, possibly using a mobile phone.

The simple but deadly technique is popular on the Afghan border and taught in
terror camps to jihadists.

It is the biggest hint yet that al-Qaeda may be involved in the attack which
killed three and maimed scores more - many critically - during Monday's race.

However, the FBI was still exploring the theory that the bombings may have been
the work of a lone far-right psychopath from the US.

Cops said yesterday that no one had yet claimed responsibility for the sickening
attack - but vowed to catch them.

FBI agent Richard DesLauriers said: "We will go to the ends of the Earth to
identify the subject or subjects who are responsible for this despicable crime,
and we will do everything we can to bring them to justice."

The bombings - the first successful terror attack in the US since 9/11 - were
described as worse than blast scenes in Iraq and Afghanistan by war veterans who
witnessed the carnage.

Blood and debris was still visible yesterday outside the Fairmont Copley Plaza
where the first blast erupted at 2.50pm local time on Monday - 12 seconds before
the second just 100 yards away.

Bobby Lomack, who was just yards from the first explosion, said last night:
"Twelve people I counted were amputees. I did nine months in Iraq and what I saw
yesterday scared me more. It was raining blood."

District Fire Chief Ron Harrington, of the Boston Fire Department, described the
aftermath of the attack as the most horrific scene he had ever encountered.

He said last night: "In 28 years, this is definitely the worst I've seen.

"Bodies and body parts. Blood all over. A little boy lying in the street. A
young woman in her twenties. Both dead. It was mayhem.

"I saw two people with arms hanging loose, and one without a leg. A shoe with
flesh still in it."

A police source added: "At least 25 to 30 people have at least one leg missing,
or an ankle missing, or have two legs missing."

CCTV along the route of the marathon was being scoured by specialist FBI teams
yesterday.

Surveillance video of a man pictured from behind carrying two black backpacks
near the site of the explosions was also being analysed.

A well-briefed security source said yesterday that nails and ball bearings were
placed inside six 6-litre pressure cookers and stuffed into black duffel bags.

Bags containing shards of metal, nails and ball bearings were taken away from
the scene of the explosions yesterday.

Shrapnel removed by surgeons from victims' bodies was also being sent for
analysis.

Dr Ron Walls Brigham, Chair of Emergency Medicine at the city's Brigham and
Women's Hospital, performed amputations on wounded limbs yesterday.

He said: "We have removed carpenter-type nails and ball-bearing pellets two to
three millimetres in diameter. Other patients also had shrapnel wounds from
flying objects near to the bombs. This is something that no human being could
ever be prepared for."

Out of 44 patients at Brigham, 13 have been operated on and six remained
critical last night.

Pressure cookers are regularly used by terrorists - but are often overlooked by
security forces when searching vehicles because they are a familiar household
item. In February 2001, Maoist Rebels in Nepal used two pressure cooker bombs in
an attack on a judicial convoy. Four policemen died instantly.

In February 2002, two pressure cooker bombs destroyed the old tower of Lukla
Airport at the foot of Mount Everest.

In March 2003, four Algerians, three of whom admitted training in Afghan terror
camps, were convicted of plotting to attack a French Christmas market using
pressure cooker bombs. In September 2003, India's security forces in Jammu
seized 40kg of explosive placed inside two large cookers.

President Barack Obama said yesterday that the bombings were an act of
terrorism. In his second public statement in less than 24 hours since the
explosions, he added: "Clearly we are at the beginning of our investigation."

r.white@the-sun.co.uk

Aftermath

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Common ... cooker
The day after . . jogger passes a cop yesterday
Prayers ... woman at the scene of blast

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            April 17, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

DEATH IN Pressure cookers;
Boston BOMBING: BOSTON BOMBING: TERROR ATTACK BY IEDs Terror ATTACK BY IEDs

BYLINE: RICHARD WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 718 words


HOUSEHOLD pressure cookers packed with ball bearings and nails caused the deadly
carnage at the Boston Marathon, it was claimed last night.

Security sources said two of the everyday kitchen appliances were placed on the
street near the race's finishing line.

Shards of metal and ball bearings were believed to be stuffed inside one of the
6-litre cookers, while the other was packed with nails. Both were hidden inside
black nylon bags.

Investigators say "blast caps" attached to the pans may then have been detonated
remotely by a watching assassin, possibly using a mobile phone.

The simple but deadly technique is popular on the Afghan border and taught in
terror camps to jihadists.

Former al-Qaeda warlord Anwar al-Awlaki once printed a DIY guide in how to make
bombs from pressure cookers.

It is the biggest hint yet that al-Qaeda may be involved in the attack which
killed three and maimed scores more - many critically - during Monday's race.
However, the FBI was still exploring the theory that the bombings may have been
the work of a lone far-right psychopath from the US.

Cops said yesterday that no one had yet claimed responsibility for the sickening
attack - but vowed to catch them.

Terror FBI agent Richard DesLauriers said: "We will go to the ends of the Earth
to identify the subject or subjects who are responsible for this despicable
crime, and we will do everything we can to bring them to justice."

The bombings - the first successful terror attack in the US since 9/11 - were
described as worse than blast scenes in Iraq and Afghanistan by war veterans who
witnessed the carnage.

Blood and debris was still visible yesterday outside the Fairmont Copley Plaza
where the first blast erupted at 2.50pm local time on Monday - 12 seconds before
the second just 100 yards away.

Bobby Lomack, who was just yards from the first explosion, said last night:
"Twelve people I counted were amputees. I did nine months in Iraq and what I saw
yesterday scared me more. It was raining blood."

District Fire Chief Ron Harrington, of the Boston Fire Department, described the
aftermath as the most horrific scene he had ever encountered.

He said: "In 28 years, this is definitely the worst I've seen.

"Bodies and body parts. Blood all over. A little boy lying in the street. A
young woman in her twenties. Both dead. It was mayhem.

I saw two people with arms hanging loose, and one without a leg. A shoe with
flesh still in it."

A police source added: "At least 25 to 30 people have at least one leg missing,
or an ankle missing, or have two legs missing."

CCTV along the route of the marathon was being scoured by specialist FBI teams
yesterday.

Surveillance video of a man pictured from behind carrying two black backpacks
near the site of the explosions was also being analysed.

Mr DesLauriers confirmed that investigators had found pieces of black nylon from
a bag or backpack and fragments of ball bearings and nails. The items were sent
to the FBI for analysis.

A circuit board had also been found, which may have been used to detonate the
bombs. Shrapnel removed by surgeons from victims' bodies was also being sent for
analysis. Dr Ron Walls Brigham, Chair of Emergency Medicine at the city's
Brigham and Women's Hospital, performed amputations on wounded limbs yesterday.

He said: "We have removed carpenter-type nails and ball-bearing pellets two to
three millimetres in diameter. Other patients had shrapnel wounds from flying
objects. This is something no human could ever be prepared for." Out of 44
patients at Brigham, 13 have been operated on and six remained critical last
night.

Pressure cookers are regularly used by terrorists - but are often overlooked by
security forces when searching vehicles.

Al-Qaeda's al-Awlaki - killed by US drones in 2011 - provided detailed
instructions on constructing the deadly devices in the first edition of his
English-language terror magazine in 2010.

In March 2003, four Algerians, three of whom admitted training in Afghan terror
camps, were convicted of plotting to attack a French Christmas market using
pressure cooker bombs.

President Barack Obama said yesterday that the bombings were an act of
terrorism. In his second public statement in less than 24 hours since the
explosions, he added: "Clearly we are at the beginning of our investigation."

r.white@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Common ... cooker
The day after . . jogger passes a cop yesterday
Prayers ... woman at the scene of blast

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     April 17, 2013 Wednesday 11:40 PM GMT

Boston Marathon bombings: three victims of atrocity recall courage and
heartbreak at finish line;
When their photographs flashed across the world within minutes of the Boston
marathon bombings, they became the faces of America's worst terrorist attack
since September 11.

BYLINE: By Jon Swaine Boston

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 767 words


The names of three victims whose anguished expressions are now familiar to
millions have emerged with details of the terrible injuries they sustained in
the finish-line blasts.

The blonde-haired woman pictured sitting, dumbstruck, on a blood-soaked pavement
seconds after the explosions was identified as Nicole Gross, a fitness
instructor from Charlotte, North Carolina.

As the bombs detonated, Mrs Gross, 31, was waiting with her husband and her
sister Erika Brannock, 29, to congratulate their mother, Carol Downing, on
completing the 26-mile race.

Mrs Gross, who had been excited after coaching her mother, was on Wednesday
undergoing a third round of surgery after suffering two broken legs, a severed
Achilles' tendon and a fractured ankle.

"She remembers it all," her mother told the Charlotte Observer newspaper, "and
just wishes that she didn't".

Mrs Gross is a triathlete and works for Charlotte Athletic Club, where she
coaches cycling and swimming as well as fitness. Her husband, Michael Gross, was
treated at the scene for cuts and burns.

Mrs Downing recounted her panic at not being able to reach either of her
daughters after the blasts. Mrs Brannock, her second daughter, was in intensive
care after losing half of one leg and badly breaking the other in several
places.

Chad Crockford, one of Mrs Gross's running teammates, urged other members to
donate money to help her family cope with "the very significant financial
impact" of future medical costs.

"All those who know Michael, Nicole or Erika know what incredible people they
are," said Mr Crockford. "Please continue to keep them and all of those affected
in Boston in your thoughts and prayers".

Meanwhile, the pale-faced man rushed from the scene in a wheelchair, staring at
what remained of his legs while a bystander pinched one of his arteries closed,
was named as Jeff Bauman of Chelmsford, Massachusetts.

Mr Bauman, 27, was at the finish line to greet his girlfriend, Erin Hurley, who
was running the race. His family learned he was injured when his stepsister
Erika saw the grisly photograph of his wounds.

His father, Jeff Sr saw the same image just moments later, when he logged on to
Facebook after being called by Erika and asked frantically whether or not he had
seen "the picture".

"My son was just in the wrong place at the wrong time," Mr Bauman Sr said in a
message posted on his Facebook page. "Thank you for all your thoughts and
prayers, they did help greatly".

Mr Bauman's family credited Carlos Arredondo, a Costa Rican immigrant and Red
Cross volunteer wearing a Stetson hat in the photograph with their son, for
saving his life by stemming his bleeding.

Mr Arredondo, who has been widely hailed as a hero, was cheering on runners from
the National Guard, who were participating in honour of fallen servicemen. His
son Alexander, a Marine lance-corporal, was killed in the Iraq war aged 24.

He was also there to support The Samaritans, he said, after his other son,
Brian, committed suicide in 2011 following several years of depression since the
death of his brother.

"My first instinct was to just run across the street and start helping out the
people," Mr Arredondo said in an interview with Boston television.

"There was so much commotion and a lot of people running away. I was one of the
first to help people and God protected me."

A young woman who was pictured lying on the pavement and being closely tended to
by a man, was identified as Sydney Corcoran, an 18-year-old secondary schoolgirl
from Lowell, a suburb of Boston.

The image prompted speculation that the man was the boyfriend of Sydney, whose
legs were severely injured by shrapnel from the blasts, or might even have been
proposing to her in her final moments.

In fact, her family said, he was a stranger to whom they owed "unspeakable
gratitude".

Sydney had been at the finish line with her parents to cheer on her aunt, Carmen
Accabo, who was running.

Sydney's mother Celeste, a hairdresser, had her legs amputated due to serious
wounds. Her father, Kevin, escaped with minor injuries. Her brother, Tyler, had
cancelled plans to join them at the last moment.

Doctors said that a five-year-old boy was among the 19 victims of the bombings
who remain in a critical condition in Boston hospitals. More than 170 people
were injured in all.

It also emerged that a 20-year-old student who suffered shrapnel wounds had
lived for years in Britain.

Victoria McGrath, who studies business at the nearby Northeastern University,
was reported to be seeking a soldier, known only as "Sergeant Tyler", who came
to her aid moments after the bombings.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 17, 2013 Wednesday 9:24 AM GMT

Boston Marathon bombing: Martin Richard's family ripped apart by terror attack;

His eight-year-old son is dead, his wife has suffered brain injuries, and his
seven-year-old daughter has lost a leg. Bill Richard is a father stricken by
grief after his family was nearly destroyed by the Boston marathon bombing. Jon
Swaine reports.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 455 words


As he waited at the finish line of the Boston marathon with his beloved family,
grinning a toothy smile, Martin Richard was the doe-eyed picture of childish
joy.

Moments later, however, this bright and cheerful eight-year-old, who loved
playing football and riding his bike, was taken away in a flash of violence that
has shattered his household and left a city grieving.

Her father, William, described his daughter, who worked for a restaurant
consultancy firm, as a "wonderful, wonderful girl", loved by her friends and
family, and always "willing to lend a hand".

"My daughter was the most lovable girl," Mr Campbell told reporters. "She helped
everybody and I'm just so shocked right now. We're just devastated."

The third person killed was a Chinese graduate student at Boston University who
was watching the race with two friends. One friend was injured in the attack and
the other escaped unharmed. Police did not immediately release the name of the
student killed.

Of the victims, 17 were in a critical condition in hospital, severely wounded by
shrapnel such as nails and ball bearings from the six-litre cookers. Medics said
the bombs appeared to have been designed to cause maximum human carnage.

No other victims' names were released.

As investigators struggled to identify the bombers, President Barack Obama
described the attacks as "an act of terror" and promised that Americans would
respond "selflessly, compassionately, unafraid".

Classes have been cancelled this week at Martin's school, where Mrs Richard, a
neighbourhood watch official, worked as a librarian and read books to young
pupils in a voice that "brought stories to life".

Residents of the family's neighbourhood, once home to president John F Kennedy's
mother, Rose, gazed into the distance from the doorsteps of Civil War-era homes.
Several appeared to be holding the hands of their own children a bit tighter.

Betty Delorey recalled Martin hopping over the fence outside his house and
clambering up trees. Jane Sherman remembered the eight-year-old heading out to
play baseball with the father he adored.

"What a beautiful smile he had," said Darren McNair, 51, whose son, Tyler,
played football with Martin. "I will always remember seeing it from across the
field. What a senseless, senseless tragedy."

Officials from the FBI, police and other law-enforcement agencies were also
struggling to make sense of the bombings, as they appealed for witnesses to
submit photographs and video footage.

"This was a heinous and cowardly act," Mr Obama said in remarks delivered at the
White House.

Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Harvard University professor who represents
Massachusetts in Washington, said that Boston was a "family in pain" following
the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

This was no tragedy but a terrorist attack: critics accuse low-key Obama

BYLINE: Alexandra Frean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 394 words


President Obama was quick to speak out after two bombs exploded at the Boston
Marathon on Monday, but what he offered a stunned nation were words so
excessively cautious and moderate that he appeared unsure how to strike the
right note.

The New Yorker magazine, in a blog post, remarked on the President's
"restraint".

Bill O'Reilly, the right-wing Fox News commentator, criticised Mr Obama for
underplaying the event by calling the attack a "tragedy".

"It's not a tragedy," O'Reilly said. "I mean, these are well thought-out,
military campaigns, directed against civilians. This is what the Nazis did."

National Journal magazine was more sympathetic, saying: "In one sense, it's hard
for presidents to not to look presidential at a moment like this."

But Mr Obama nearly succeeded in looking unpresidential, showing no emotion as
he opened his address to the nation on Monday with the stark statement: "Earlier
today, I was briefed by my Homeland Security team on the events in Boston."
However, unlike the Sandy Hook school shooting of December, when it soon became
clear that a lone gunman was responsible for the atrocity, the President had no
suspect, no motive and no arrests as he spoke. What he did have was the very
real prospect that America could be facing an act of organised terror. "We still
do not know who did this or why," he admitted.

He will have remembered the sharp criticism he faced in 2009 after the failed
underwear bomb attack on Christmas Day, when he waited three days before
interrupting his holiday in Hawaii to address the public.

Fran Townsend, a homeland security adviser to President George W. Bush, said it
was clear that Mr Obama and his aides had learnt from that experience. "You
can't hide until you figure it out. Better to come out quickly and show
leadership but have your comments be cautious and moderate," she said. "When you
come out fast you're allowed to say, 'We don't know.'" Mr Obama responded with
more feeling and vigour in yesterday's press conference, calling the bombings a
"heinous and cowardly act" and praising the acts of bravery of first responders
and bystanders. "If you want to know who we are, what America is, how we respond
to evil - that's it. Selflessly. Compassionately. Unafraid," he said.

Even so, some were still left wondering at his caution in waiting a day to label
the bombings an act of terror.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Obama waited a day before calling the bombs "an act of
terror"
Many of the thousands of bags of clothes that had been left by runners to be
picked up after the race still awaited collection yesterday
AP / THE BOSTON HERALD / STUART CAHILL / REUTERS / NBC HANDOUT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Chester Chronicle

                                 April 18, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

My Boston explosion nightmare;
Marathon man relives the horror of terror attack

BYLINE: David Holmes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 433 words


A FLINTSHIRE runner who competed in the Boston Marathon has spoken of the moment
terrorist bombs exploded leaving three dead and more than 170 injured.

Simon Roberts, 42, of Higher Kinnerton, was fortunate to finish the race in
three hours and 16 minutes so was away from the finishing line when the twin
explosions went off 53 minutes later.

Mr Roberts, a senior journalism tutor at the University of Chester, who lives
with his wife and family in Eccleston Road, was relaxing in a bar when he
witnessed the carnage unfolding on TV.

Simon, deputy head of the media department, told The Chronicle: "During my
second pint the news came through there had been an explosion and there were
lots of sirens outside.

"Initially it looked like it was a gas explosion or something like that and then
when the second bomb went off it became something more serious.

"Gradually the pub started to fill up with people who had been at the
finish-line and quite a few of those people had seen some fairly unpleasant
images and then rumour and counter rumour started to fly around.

"What can you do in those circumstances? So people were just taking it in their
stride to a certain extent while being alarmed at what they were seeing."

Simon, an ex-business journalist, who lost former colleagues in September 11,
said: "I think I've done 17 marathons now and I've often thought they are
impossible to police.

"The awful thing is that it was children that got killed. That was the thing
that got me," added Simon, who was reunited with his wife Kate and children
Morgan, 11, and Eve, nine, at Manchester Airport yesterday morning before being
dropped off at work.

Simon, a member of Buckley Runners, would normally have been preparing for this
weekend's London Marathon - which he has completed five times - but had decided
to run the Boston race which is the world's oldest annual marathon.

He added: "With it being Patriots' Day, hundreds of thousands of people turned
out because it's such a long-established event and it's so prestigious. People
come from all over the world. The atmosphere at some points was incredible and
it was a real shame for it to end that way. I hope they run it as normal next
year."

Simon's wife Kate, who stayed at home with the family, was shocked to hear news
of the bomb on Monday evening.

She said: "I was helping out with the Scouts and had both children with me. I
received a text asking 'Is Simon OK? I've just seen the news'. I said 'What
news?' 'The bomb' came the reply and I had this terrible moment of panic but I
got a text from Simon's sister who said he was fine and in the pub!"

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NIGHTMARE: The scene in the aftermath of the Boston bombings and
(inset) Flintshire runner Simon Roberts.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CHC


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Impartial Reporter

                            April 18, 2013 Thursday

McDermott family living in terror after attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 477 words


RELATIVES of the McDermott brothers in the small village of Donagh have had
their family home attacked, been the target of intimation, received death
threats and required police protection.

Johnny McDermott from Moorlough Road was jailed last week for indecent assault
and gross indecency of an eighth victim -- the fourth time that he was jailed in
as many years. He, along with four of his brothers, sexually abused children in
Donagh for over 30 years and is still the only brother to have been jailed for
the abuse. Owen Roe and James McDermott were deemed unfit to stand trial and
Peter Paul McDermott hanged himself at the beginning of his trial. Willie
McDermott, a fifth brother, died in 1994 before any charges were brought against
him.

Now it is understood that the members of the McDermott family that are left
living in Donagh are "living like prisoners in their own home" following the
developments in the notorious child sex case.

The Impartial Reporter understands local unrest built up in the south Fermanagh
village in June of last year, culminating in an attack on the McDermott home and
even death threats.

Michael Connolly who was sexually abused by the McDermott brothers for a period
of seven years from the age of eight wants other members of the family to be
"allowed to live their life in peace."

In a letter to this newspaper, Mr Connolly, who has waived his right to
anonymity, said he wanted to "remind the general public that the McDermott
brothers who have been found guilty of the crimes they have committed are the
only members of the McDermott family who were involved in the systemic abuse of
children."

He reiterated that "no other members of the McDermott family or the extended
McDermott family were involved in any of these crimes" and added: "I would
sincerely hope that no prejudice or improper behaviour is directed at any of the
McDermott family living in Donagh. I also sincerely hope they will all be
allowed to live their life in peace and without shame and be given all the
support they require."

The Impartial Reporter understands the Police Service of Northern Ireland
provided the family with police protection during an intense period last year
after serious concerns were expressed.

The family members currently living in Donagh are said to be "absolutely
petrified" and "just want to get on with their lives."

Meanwhile, it has emerged that parish priest Canon Peter Duffy, who died in
1994, was involved in the sexual abuse of some children in Donagh in the 1970s
and 1980s.

Michael Connolly told the BBC last week that he was one of the priest's victims.

He said: "The priest was just as bad and he did exactly the same as what the
McDermotts had done. I just couldn't believe it, I thought I'd found refuge from
Donagh, I thought I'd found some place where I was safe but I wasn't, I wasn't
even safe with the priest."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 18, 2013 Thursday 1:13 PM GMT

FBI gives its agents images of TWO Boston bombing 'suspects': Hunt for men seen
wearing back-packs near the marathon finish line before terror attack

BYLINE: RACHEL QUIGLEY, LYDIA WARREN, ANNETTE WITHERIDGE IN BOSTON,
MASSACHUSETTS and JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 7251 words



     ·    Investigators have reportedly identified a Boston marathon suspect
          using security video and cellphone records
     ·    Much of key video footage came from Lord and Taylor department store -
          near the site of Monday's second blast
     ·    Video shows man in black with shredded pants running away in the
          aftermath of one of the blasts
     ·    Shows the suspect walking towards the mail box, dropping a package and
          walking away
     ·    New crime scene photographs from the first blast confirms that a
          pressure cooker was used in the device
     ·    Lid of pressure cooker found on rooftop of building 35 yards away
     ·    Other photographs submitted to the FBI reveal the scene before and
          after the second bomb detonated
     ·    Devices were designed to act as 'Claymore' anti-personnel devices -
          which are meant to maim on the battlefield
     ·    The pressure-cooker bombs were packed with shards of metal, nails and
          ball bearings
     ·    Eight-year-old boy, 29-year-old woman and University of Boston grad
          student killed in the attack
     ·    183 people injured, at least 23 of them in critical condition and 'a
          lot' of amputations have been performed


A suspect in the Boston bombings has been caught on CCTV apparently planting the
second of the two explosives in what investigators have hailed as a major
breakthrough in the case.

Video obtained by the FBI shows the suspect placing a bag near the Lord and
Taylor department store while talking on a cellphone moments before the twin
blasts ripped though the city centre, killing three and injuring more than 180.

The unidentified man is also captured using his phone at the moment the first
explosion detonated 100 yards away on Boylston Street on Monday and 12 seconds
before the second blast close to where he is standing.

He was wearing a black jacket, a grey hooded sweatshirt, is about 6ft or 6ft
2ins tall and of a medium build. He had a white or off-color-white baseball cap
on backwards.

The footage led the FBI to announce it had made 'substantial progress' in the
investigation and are now trawling phone to track the suspect down.

They stressed no-one has been named or arrested, but are reluctant to make the
video public in case it forces the man to go underground.

In another key development, pictures have been released of a second potential
suspect who is seen fleeing the site of one of the blasts as everyone around him
cowers in terror clutching their ears.

WARNING: GRAPHIC CONTENT AND VIDEO BELOW

Dressed all in black, the man's pants have been shredded and he hurriedly looks
from left to right before making off in the opposite direction to the where
members of the public are aiding the injured.

An FBI circular was sent out to law enforcement agencies last night seeking help
to identify the two men.

According to  CBS, investigators are now going through cell phone logs to
determine who made calls from the location near the Lord and Taylor store the
time of the explosions.

Other sources have said the FBI is working with a list of names of cell phone
owners and attempting to match one of those to the unknown man on the
surveillance.

Authorities have said they are seeking this man either as a witness or indeed as
a possible suspect and do not know his name. At this point, federal officials
stressed no arrests have been made.

And late on Wednesday evening, CNN and Fox News reported that they had seen
images designated for 'law enforcement eyes only' that show two men they
consider to be of 'high interest'.

According to a reporter who has viewed the images, one of the men is wearing a
backpack that matches one of the recovered bags believed to be have been used in
the terror attack - while the other individual also is seen to have a bag.

City Council President Stephen Murphy, who said he was briefed by Boston police,
said investigators saw the image on surveillance footage they got from a
department store near the finish line and matched the findings with witness
descriptions of someone leaving the scene.

'I know it's very active and very fluid right now - that they are on the chase,'
Murphy said. He added: 'They may be on the verge of arresting someone, and
that's good.'

The bombs were crudely fashioned from ordinary kitchen pressure cookers packed
with explosives, nails and ball bearings, investigators and others close to the
case said. Investigators suspect the devices were then hidden in black duffel
bags and left on the ground.

As a result, they were looking for images of someone lugging a dark, heavy bag.

One department store video 'has confirmed that a suspect is seen dropping a bag
near the point of the second explosion and heading off,' Murphy said.

A law enforcement official who was not authorized to discuss the case publicly
and spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity confirmed only
that investigators had an image of a potential suspect whose name was not known
to them and who had not been questioned.

And according to CBS News senior correspondent John Miller the big debate right
now among law enforcement is whether to release the image of the man to the
public.

'It's been a tough call,' said Miller. 'For investigators, there's always a
difficult choice because if the person doesn't know you're looking for him, he
may stay in place, you may catch up to him,' said Miller.

'If he does know you're looking for him, he may run. On the other hand, if you
don't get him, it's always great to enlist 20 million or so more eyes in the
public who may be able to give you a location right away.

'That's not going to happen tonight anymore. It was going to happen earlier --
they've rethought that. It may happen with the release of that picture tomorrow.
They're reassessing.'

In a turbulent day in the US, Washington was plunged into a major security alert
after a letter addressed to Barack Obama was found to contain the deadly poison
ricin.

A bomb squad scoured the US Capitol, parts of which were placed on lockdown,
after two more suspicious letters were found in Senate office buildings, one
addressed to Republican senator Richard Shelby.

A ricin-laced letter was sent to another senator, Roger Wicker, on Tuesday which
- like the one to the President - had a Tennessee postmark and was signed 'I am
KC and I approve this message'.

Has the Boston bomber's cellphone given him away? How the FBI uses high-tech
triangulation to track criminals


     ·    Cell phone triangulation is a well-known tracking method within the
          wireless industry and is utilized by law enforcement authorities
          across the nation
     ·    Michael Barker, who works with Cell-Loc - a mobile tracking firm
          explained how individuals can be tracked by their mobile phone devices
     ·    'Every time the cell phone is on, it periodically sends a little
          registration message to the phone company, `Here I am! Here I am!'
          Barker said.
     ·    'That message contains the cell phone's electronic serial number and
          tells the service provider when the phone has drifted in and out of
          cell tower range.
     ·    Federal agents then easily can get in contact with the cell phone
          service company and get the location of the nearest cell tower in
          contact with the activated phone
     ·    Law enforcement then can equip agents with devices designed to
          triangulate the signal and determine its location within about a third
          of a mile and the direction it was traveling in, Barker said.


There were reports that an 'emotionally disturbed' man with letters in his
backpack was held and questioned at a Senate building.

Last night, a suspect from Mississippi had been arrested in connection with the
letter.

The FBI said it had found no link between the letters and the Boston bombing,
but its refusal to rule out a connection plunged a rattled America into further
uncertainty over national security.

The US Secret Service stressed that the ricin letter got nowhere near the
President and was intercepted at a mail sorting centre in Maryland.

But tensions are already high across the US after Monday's bombing and are
likely to reach fever pitch when Mr Obama visits Boston today for an inter-faith
memorial service for those who died.

The twin explosions on Monday killed three people and injured 183 - America's
worst domestic terror attack since the destruction of the World Trade Centre in
2001.

A press conference due to be held at 5 p.m. by Boston police commissioner Ed
Davis was postponed - no reason was given for this decision, but officials with
said they hoped to re-schedule it later on Wednesday night.

And by late afternoon there were conflicting reports about the color of the man
in question - CNN suggested initially that he may be 'dark skinned', while CBS
News claimed he is white.

Because of that video - and local news footage - authorities were able to get
exactly what they have been looking for - an individual coming in and dropping a
package in a black bag before quickly walking away again.

It was initially believed the man had been arrested and would soon be taken to
court but White House officials later denied that anyone had been take into
custody or even positively identified.

CNN - who broke the arrest news - later backtracked and said it had been a
misunderstanding and no arrest had been made.

However, the Associated Press stood by their reports that someone was taken into
custody, even after it was widely disputed.

According to the  LA Times, two suspects have been singled out in surveillance
videos of the scene. A federal official said he has been briefed that
authorities believe a second video or photo showed 'two men with two backpacks'.

Though CNN's John King said sources told him it was a 'dark-skinned man', CBS
reported that it was a white man who was wearing a black jacket, a gray hooded
sweatshirt and a white or off-white baseball cap backwards.

He is said to be six feet or 6-feet-2-inches tall with a medium build. However,
federal officials vehemently denied that anyone had been taken into custody.

'Despite reports to the contrary there has not been an arrest in the Marathon
attack,' Boston police said from an official Twitter account.

The FBI added: 'Since these stories often have unintended consequences, we ask
the media, particularly at this early stage of the investigation, to exercise
caution and attempt to verify information through appropriate official channels
before reporting.'

Soon after the false arrest stories from CNN were reported, a bomb threat was
called into the federal courthouse and the building - as well as the surrounding
area - was evacuated.

Amateur pictures taken by someone in a nearby office building may show the man
responsible running away from the scene - though this is only speculation.

'I went to the window and I was looking in the direction of the finish line. I
saw simultaneously a runner go down, a huge explosion, and then a deafening
roar,' Benjamin Thorndike said. 'I had my camera in my hand, and I just pushed
the rapid-shutter button down and just took 25 pictures over the course of what
felt like a long time, but I think it was only 15 or 20 seconds.'

He added that he thought it was strange that the man was running away from the
scene while everyone else was instinctively crouched down and taking cover.

It also emerged today that the force of the first blast at the marathon was so
strong, the lid of the pressure cooker bomb was found on the sixth-floor roof of
a hotel 35 yards away from the explosion site and is now a vital clue in the
investigation.

A guest at the Charlesmark Hotel discovered the crucial piece of evidence just
minutes after the blast. He picked up the twisted metal - believing it was a
hubcap from a vehicle damaged in the bomb - and gave it to a policeman.

Twenty-four hours later he was quizzed by FBI agents, who revealed the mangled
metal was one of biggest clues so far in the search for the terrorists who
killed three and injured 183 others.

Hotel owner Mark Hagopian said: 'One of the guests had been up on the roof
earlier in the day. Immediately after the blast he went back up there and
spotted what he thought was a hub cap.

'As it hadn't been there earlier he thought it could have come from a damaged
car, so he picked it up and took it downstairs.

'He handed it to a policeman and thought nothing more of it until the FBI
contacted him and hotel manager Curt Butcher on Tuesday evening.

'They met for 35 minutes and the FBI confirmed that it was part of the pressure
cooker bomb.'

Hogopian, 50, was hosting a marathon party for 100 people when the first bomb
exploded on Monday afternoon.

As guests rushed outside the see what was happening, the second bomb went off
just yards from the hotel's outdoor patio.

'We were knocked off our feet by the blast and all around us there were bodies -
seven or eight people missing limbs' he said. 'There was blood splayed
everywhere. It was utter chaos.

'One of the fourth-floor guests went up to the roof to see if he could see what
was happening. That's when he found what he thought was the hubcap.

'He handed it to the cop as everyone was being evacuated - at the time it was
feared there were more bombs set to go off.

'Now it turns out that piece of metal is a big piece of the evidence.
Apparently, forensics should be able to get many more clues from that. The FBI
also took away video and photos the guest had taken. They are scouring those for
further evidence.'

New crime scene photographs of the remnants of the first bomb which detonated
during Monday's Boston marathon shows that a six-liter pressure cooker was used
in at least one of the deadly charges - as experts described the devices as
military-style 'anti-personnel' devices.

The images - released by the Joint Terrorist Task Force - show the wreckage of a
stainless steel pressure cooker with an Underwriters Laboratory safety mark and
an imprint that reads gas or electric, with experts describing the devices as
military-style 'anti-personnel' devices.

Furthermore, it is being claimed the deadly devices used were designed to act
like 'homemade claymores' - powerful, directional anti-personnel devices.

Described as using a 'low explosive', most likely black or smokeless powder, the
bombs are reported to have exploded outwards with shrapnel at 3,300 feet per
second. The lid of a pressure cooker was found on a nearby rooftop and
investigators were able to pinpoint which type of cooker was used.

One brand of pressure cooker with '6L' on the bottom is made by the Spanish
company Fagor, which sells about 50,000 of the six-liter pots in the United
States every year, according to the New York Times.

This gives investigators a real chance to narrow down their list of suspects -
which they said yesterday was 'wide open' - and find out who is responsible for
the worst attacks on U.S. soil since 9/11.

They will use every clue, from the cooker's manufacturer and retailers to the
types of nails used in the shrapnel, to try and find out from where the bomb
parts were purchased and by whom.

Roy Parker, a retired Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives agent
who ­developed the agency's explosives training program, said examiners are
looking at scraps of the bomb components, bags and all other forensic evidence.

He said: 'You're looking for a needle in a haystack, but the needle is there. If
you look long enough, you'll get stuck with it. This is not an unsolvable
crime.'

The bombs had the power to propel metal shards great distances, designed
primarily to maim - like a military 'claymore' device.

The resulting explosions sent metal tearing through skin and muscle, destroying
the lower limbs of some victims who had only shreds of tissue holding parts of
their legs together when they arrived at the emergency room of Massachusetts
General Hospital, doctors there said.

Initial examination of the bombs revealed they appeared to utilize battery packs
and circuit boards, which indicates a sophisticated triggering mechanism with an
'egg-like' timer.

'It appeared to be built from scratch but with a sophisticated triggering
mechanism. And frankly, at the end of the day, all bombs are crude devices, and
it is the way they are triggered that can be sophisticated,' said one official
with strong knowledge of explosives. 'They functioned as designed.'

Low-quality explosive ingredients may have been the bombs' key components,
according to an unnamed expert quoted by CNN. That would explain the yellowness
of the flame, as shown in video and photos of the event.

Higher-quality military explosive is usually gray or black, said the expert.

Photographs taken by a member of the public of the second bomb site before and
after detonation show an orange and grey bag next to the barrier - right where
the bomb appears to have gone off.

Detectives are now investigating the possibility that this bag contained the
device that exploded with such devastating effect.

However images and fabrics from the remains of the bomb shows they were kept in
black nylon duffel bags so it is as yet unclear if the bomb was in he gray and
orange bag.

Vigils were held overnight as hundreds of people gathered to remember the
victims, the third of whom was named yesterday as Chinese Boston University
studentLü Lingzi.

Lingzi was attending the Boston marathon with her friend Zhou Danling, a student
of actuarial science at BU, who was originally said to be in a coma at Boston
Medical Center but showing signs of improvement after suffering serious injuries
in the blast.

The other two fatalities in the bombing have been identified as eight-year-old
Martin Richard, the son of a Dorchester community activist, and 29-year-old
restaurant manager Krystle Campbell.

A five-year-old boy is still critically injured at Boston medical center.

A law enforcement official told  CBS News that the two bombs that exploded were
made to look like discarded property.

Earlier in the day, lead FBI agent Richard DesLauriers confirmed that items from
the first blast have been recovered and are being sent to a special facility at
FBI headquarters in Quantico for study - in the hope that they will lead them to
the killer or killers.

He also admitted the investigation into those responsible was in its 'infancy'
and that the range of suspects remained 'wide open'.

And as the circumstantial evidence builds up around the devastating attacks
builds, one counterterrorism expert told said that the Boston bombings bore all
the hallmarks of the 2004 Madrid attacks - albeit on a lesser scale.

'This has the hallmarks of a Madrid-style event in many respects,' Rossini told
The Daily Beast. 'We don't know who the bombers are, but I assume it was more
than one. It's just my gut that there might have been two people involved.'

The Madrid commuter train bombings were a coordinated attack that used multiple
explosive devices which killed 191 people and wounded 1,800 on March 11th, 2004.

They were attributed to an al Qaeda affiliated terror cell.

'I'm not sure if it's domestic, or if there was shrapnel or ball bearings in the
bombs,' Rossini said,

'But when I saw a still photo of the explosion, there was what looked like a
fireball from an accelerant like a propane tank or gasoline"-yet another
similarity to the carnage in Spain.

'Of course, a pipe bomb could have that effect as well.'

Saying that the bomber or bombers most likely dropped the bags easily amongst
the commotion during the race, Rossini said that the FBI will be looking to the
remnants of the bags to lead them to the killers.

Rossini, however, cautioned against jumping to any conclusions that the bombing
was the result of Islamic-inspired terrorism. 'It could be a white supremacist
group. We just don't know.'

The Shenyang Evening News reported Wednesday on its official Twitter-like
microblog account that the victim is named Lu Lingzi. An editor at the newspaper
says that Lu's father confirmed his daughter's death

More than 2,000 tips from the public were reviewed and analyzed in the first 24
hours but no individual or group has yet claimed responsibility for the attack.
The FBI has issued a plea to members of the public for help in the hunt for
clues saying: 'Someone knows who did this'.

He said among those items were 'pieces of black nylon which could be from a
backpack and fragments of BBs (ball bearings) and nails possibly contained in a
pressure cooker device.

'The bag would have been heavy because of the components believed to be in it.
We won't know with certainty until the laboratory completes its final review.'

The second device was also housed in a metal container says the document, but so
far there is not enough evidence to confirm for certain if a pressure cooker was
also used.

'Someone knows who did this,' added Richard DesLauriers, the special agent in
charge of the FBI's Boston office.

'Importantly, the person who did this is someone's friend, neighbor, coworker or
relative. We are asking anyone who may have heard someone speak about the
marathon, or the date of April 15, in any way that indicated that he or she may
have targeted this event to call us.'

DesLauriers added: 'At this time, there have been no claims of responsibility.'

Earlier he vowed to go 'to the ends of the earth' to find those responsible.

In video footage also handed over to the FBI, an unidentified man is seen to
flee the scene of one of the blasts as everyone else cowers in the seconds after
the explosions.

Dressed all in black, the man's pants have been shredded and he hurriedly looks
from left to right before making off in the opposite direction to the where
members of the public are aiding the injured.

In a press conference held today, Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis confirmed
that the marathon route had been swept twice by bomb detection units and
declared clear.

'[But] people can come and go and bring items in and out after the races
started,' said Davis.

The two bombs that killed three people and injured at least 183 at the Boston
Marathon on Monday were made from six-liter pressure cookers crammed with shards
of metal, nails and ball bearings and stashed in black backpacks, police sources
said today.

The cruelly-designed bombs have 'frequently' been used in Afghanistan, India,
Nepal and Pakistan, according to a 2010 Homeland Security Department pamphlet -
hinting at the origins of the bombers behind the worst terrorist atrocity in the
U.S. since 9/11.

A history of pressure cooker bombs and IEDS since the 1990s: How the crude
device popular with al-Qaeda and the Taliban has traveled to the United States


     ·    First reports of pressure cookers being used as bombs date back to the
          1990s when Maoist rebels used them during the Nepalese civil war that
          began in 1996.
     ·    During the early part of the last decade, pressure cooker devices were
          being used in the creation of IEDs across Afghanistan and Pakistan -
          and were used with alarming frequency against coalition forces in
          Afghanistan.
     ·    However, because pressure cookers are not as common in the United
          States as other developing nations, the Department of Homeland
          Security issued a 2010 warning to report seeing any in public places
          unattended.
     ·    The 2010 warning was released several months after the failed May 2010
          Times Square bombing - which used one as part of its mechanism.
     ·    In 2011 U.S. Army Private Naser Jason Abdo was charged in plotting to
          set off a pressure cooker bomb on Fort Hood, Texas
     ·    He reportedly learned how to construct the device from reading al
          Qaeda's online magazine, Inspire


When the devices exploded near the crowded Boston Marathon finish line around
2.50pm on Monday, victims suffered as many as 40 shrapnel wounds each and at
least 10 people needed amputations. Witnesses described seeing body parts flying
through the air and shoes that 'still had flesh in them'.

And today, FBI investigators said that they will attempt to reconstruct the
deadly bombs that brought havoc to the streets of Boston.

During the day, Federal law enforcement sources have briefed that the two
devices were indeed made from pressure cookers and hidden in back-packs.

The recovered pieces suggest that the two bombs were identical and a Boston law
enforcement source said that parts of a circuit board were also found - which
could have been the method to detonate the devices.

As the evidence strands are brought together, experts have said that despite
pressure cooker bombs being used as IEDs by the Taliban and al Qaeda in
Afghanistan, it doesn't mean that other people can not discover how to create
them.

So far, no one has claimed responsibility and DesLauriers said, 'The range of
suspects and motives remains wide open.'

In Washington, Senator Saxby Chambliss, the ranking Republican on the Senate
Intelligence Committee, told CNN that the facts point to a domestic, home-grown
source.

'There are a lot of things that are surrounding this that would give an
indication that it may have been a domestic terrorist, but that just can't be
assumed,' Chambliss said.

On Tuesday afternoon, a second victim killed in the blasts was identified as
29-year-old Krystle Campbell, from Arlington, Massachusetts. It comes after
another was named as eight-year-old Martin Richard. The third victim has not yet
been named - but is believed to be a Chinese graduate student of Boston
University.

A Chinese student is confirmed to be the third person killed in the Boston
Marathon Bombings. The Chinese Consulate, in New York, is not releasing the
students' name at this time

Though the victim has not been named at the request of the woman's family, she
attended Boston University and had gone to watch the marathon with two friends.

The survivor, identified by the consulate as Zhou Danling, is in stable
condition at Boston Medical Center.

'She cannot talk now but can communicate with pen and paper,' the consulate said
in a statement.

'This is a painful and tragic  lesson, but we will learn from this as well,'
said Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick on Tuesday..

Patrick also announced that President Barack Obama would attend an interfaith
service honoring the victims of the tragedy at 11 a.m. on Thursday at Cathedral
of the Holy Cross in South Boston.

The bombs used to kill and maim are believed to have contained black powder or
gunpowder as the explosive, and information on how to make such a bomb is
available on the internet, experts said. The devices were then left at the scene
to look like discarded property,  CBS News reported.

Investigators have also found pieces of an electronic circuit board which could
indicate a timer was used in the detonation.

Although no group has yet claimed responsibility for the attacks, similar
devices were used in the failed 2010 attempt to bomb Times Square by Faisal
Shahzad, who admitted he had undergone bomb-making training at a militant
Islamist faction camp in Pakistan.

A pressure-cooker bomb is also a preferred weapon of al-Qaeda and listed as the
'most effective' weapon of jihad, according to an English-language terror
magazine called Inspire, in an article entitled 'How to Build a Bomb in the
Kitchen of Your Mom'.

Another article in Inspire last year listed 'the most important enemy targets'
for jihadists in America - and included sporting events,  CNSNews noted.

The aim should be to target 'human crowds in order to inflict maximum human
losses,' a terrorist known as Abu Musab al-Suri wrote. 'This is very easy since
there are numerous such targets such as crowded sports arenas, annual social
events, large international exhibitions... etc.'

If a pressure cooker was used, it probably cost around $100 to construct, say
former federal forensic and explosive investigators. It's like a pipe bomb but
bigger and more powerful.

Also on Tuesday, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said there is no
sign the explosions in Boston were part of a 'broader plot,' but her department
is still being cautious.

'While there is no current indication to suggest that the events in Boston are
indicative of a broader plot.

'Out of an abundance of caution,' she added, 'DHS continues to keep in place
enhanced security measures at transportation hubs, utilizing measures both seen
and unseen.'

Martin Richard, 8, who was waiting at the finish line with his father, mother
and siblings, was among those killed when the two bombs detonated at the crowded
sports event. His mother has undergone brain surgery and his six-year-old sister
lost a leg. His 12-year-old brother escaped injury.

Neighbors told MailOnline about the moment Martin Richard's father, Bill,
returned home still wearing hospital scrubs on Monday night and looking like the
'walking dead' as he struggled to come to terms with his son's death and
injuries suffered by his wife, Denise, and daughter, Jane.

In a statement released on Tuesday, he said: 'My dear son Martin has died from
injuries sustained in the attack on Boston. My wife and daughter are both
recovering from serious injuries.

'We thank our family and friends, those we know and those we have never met, for
their thoughts and prayers. I ask that you continue to pray for my family as we
remember Martin. We also ask for your patience and for privacy as we work to
simultaneously grieve and recover. Thank you.'

Doctors confused another victim, Krystle Campbell, 29, with her friend, so for
hours her parents believed she was alive and undergoing surgery. Only when they
went to visit her in hospital, did they realize the patient was not their
daughter.

A LOOK INSIDE THE HOSPITALS: HOW ARE THE VICTIMS?

Boston Children's Hospital

8 injuries; 0 critical condition

Ages from 2 to 15 years old

Massachusetts General Hospital

29 injuries; 8 critical condition; 4 amputations

Ages from 28 to 71

Brigham and Women's Hospital

31 injuries; 5 critical condition

Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center

24 injuries; 4 critical condition; 13 in serious condition

Tufts Medical Center

9 injuries

Boston Medical Center

23 in total; 19 still remain at the hospital

7 critical condition; 6 serious; 6 fair

Please check back for updates

'My daughter was the most lovable girl,' her father, William Campbell Jr. said.
'She helped everybody, and I'm just so shocked right now. We're just devastated.
She was a wonderful, wonderful girl. Always willing to lend a hand.'

Another, unnamed victim was also killed in the blasts.

Twenty three of the injured remain in a critical condition and CNN reported that
at least 10 victims have needed amputations. At least nine of the wounded are
thought to be children, including a two-year-old boy who suffered a head injury.

Another child hurt in the blast was 11-year-old Aaron Hern, of Martinez,
California, who was hit by flying shrapnel in his thigh as he waited for his
mother to cross the finish line. He is being treated at Boston Children's
Hospital and is expected to undergo further surgeries.

Doctors treating the wounded agreed that it appeared the devices had contained
sharp metal.

Investigators do not know of a motive for the bombings, nor do they have a
specific suspect or anyone in custody. In a desperate move, they have appealed
to members of the public to submit photographs and cell phone footage of the
marathon and explosions.

Earlier reports noted that officials had arrested a Saudi national, who is being
treated for burns and shrapnel wounds, in connection to the bombings after a
civilian saw him acting suspiciously at the scene.

But now officials have revealed the man, Abdulrahman Ali Alharbi, 22, is being
regarded as a witness, rather than a suspect, the Washington Post reported.

It comes after 20 police and federal officials raided his home on Monday night,
but the search turned up nothing.

After the twin detonations ripped through the cheering crowds, one witness told
CNN that it 'felt like a huge cannon' and other described horrifying scenes of
screaming spectators, missing limbs and unresponsive bodies.

WAS THE TIMING SIGNIFICANT? PATRIOTS' DAY IS REVERED BY RIGHT-WING GROUPS
OPPOSED TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT


     ·    Yesterday's attack took place on Patriots' Day, which marks the first
          battle of the Revolutionary War and the 'shot heard 'round the world.'
          It is a day held in reverence by right-wing domestic groups and others
          who oppose the federal government.
     ·    The 1995 bombing of the Oklahoma City federal building, which killed
          168, occurred the day after Patriots' Day. Bomber Timothy McVeigh was
          said believe the date was significant.
     ·    The federal siege of the Branch Dravidian compound, which left 82
          members of the cult dead, began on Patriots' Day in 1993.
     ·    Today is also Tax Day, when federal income tax returns are due. In
          recent years, it has been seized on by members of the Tea Party as
          cause to protest federal government policies and tax rates.
     ·    A Justice Department source tells MailOnline that authorities are
          looking into the possibility that the Boston attack, which killed
          three and injured 183 more at the finish line of the Boston Marathon,
          could have been planned to coincide with Patriots' Day.
     ·    President Barack Obama himself acknowledged the significance of the
          holiday during his briefing this afternoon.
     ·    'Today is Patriots Day,' he said. 'A day that reflects the freedom
          Boston has celebrated throughout its history.'


'Bodies and body parts. Blood all over,' District Fire Chief Ron Harrington of
the Boston Fire Department's District 3 said.

'A little boy lying in the street. A young woman in her twenties. Both dead. It
was mayhem. I saw two people with arms hanging loose, and one without a leg. A
shoe with flesh still in it.'

At a press conference outside Mass Gen hospital on Tuesday morning, Dr George
Velmahos, chief of trauma surgery at the hospital, revealed that eight patients
between the ages of 28 and 71 remained in critical condition at the hospital.

Among them four people had undergone amputations, and he said they were still
trying to save two legs. Other injuries included wounds from 'pellets, shrapnel,
nails', which he believed came from the bombs. Some victims were hit by '10, 30,
40' pieces and most injuries were to the lower extremities.

'The experience is obviously overwhelming,' he said. 'We are all extremely sad.
We are suffering emotionally for what happened to the people of Boston and many
others. But at the same time, we can't feel but proud because the medical
community here in Mass Gen responded in an amazing way.'

He described one doctor who ran the marathon but then, despite being dehydrated,
went straight to work, while others jumped on planes to help out.

Doctors at Brigham and Women's Hospital added that they had treated 31 patients
from the bomb blasts and that five remain in critical condition.

Initially counter-terrorism sources in the city believed that seven devices were
planted across the city - but only two detonated.

A law-enforcement official said late on Monday evening that investigators
believe other packages were simply left behind as runners and pedestrians rushed
away from the scene in the aftermath of the blasts.

A federal law enforcement official told CNN that both bombs which detonated at
the Boston finish line were small, and initial tests showed no C-4 or other
high-grade explosive was used - indicating they were crude devices.

In a press conference on Tuesday morning, Obama reiterated authorities are still
unaware of who was behind the attack - whether it was the work of an
organization or a 'malevolent individual'.

For the first time he acknowledged it was an act of terrorism.

'We will bring them to justice,' he vowed, recounting stories of kindness and
heroism following the blasts.

'The American people refuse to be terrorized... If you want to know who we are,
who America is, how we respond to evil, that's it: Selflessly, compassionately,
not afraid.'

In another press conference on Tuesday, Boston officials said the investigation
continues with a 'multitude of resources on the street'.

Special Agent in Charge Richard DesLauriers said there are no known additional
threats, while Suffolk County District Attorney Daniel Conley branded the attack
'an act of cowardice'.

'We will go to the ends of the Earth to identify the subject or subjects who are
responsible for this despicable crime -- and we will do everything we can to
bring them to justice,' DesLauriers said.

Commending the efforts of volunteers and emergency responders, Mayor Menino
added: 'I've been mayor for 20 years now and I've never seen... people pull
together like this. It's a tragedy, but Boston is a resilient city.'

After the twin detonations ripped through the cheering crowds, witnesses
described the horror.

The fiery twin blasts took place about 12 seconds and about 100 yards apart,
knocking spectators and at least one runner off their feet, shattering windows
and sending dense plumes of smoke rising over the street and through the
fluttering national flags lining the route.

Blood stained the pavement, and huge shards were missing from window panes as
high as three stories.

The explosions ripped into an idyllic afternoon finish for the marathon. The
first men had passed the finish line 2 hours and 10 minutes after the staggered
start, and the first women crossed just 16 minutes later.

The first blast sent a quick plume of smoke two stories high. Runners nearby
stopped in their tracks, confused and unsure. After a few seconds later, a
second explosion happened a half-block away, with a deep boom caught on
television cameras.

Emergency personnel rushed to the area, and the street was quickly sealed off.

'I saw it go off and smoke billowed up. Everyone just stopped and hunched down,'
said Pam Ledtke, 51, from Indianapolis, who was about 75 yards from the finish
line when the explosions went off. 'They didn't know what to do. All of a
sudden, people were screaming.'

One doctor, Allan Panter, stood near to the finish line said he was 25-feet away
from the first blast when it detonated.

CELEBRATION TURNED TO TRAGEDY: HOW THE HORROR AT THE BOSTON MARATHON UNFOLDED

9 A.M. - The 2013 Boston Marathon begins.

11:58 A.M. - Rita Jeptoo of Kenya becomes the women's winner, crossing the
finish line with a time of 2:26:25.

12:10 P.M. - Men's winner Lelisa Desisa, of Ethiopia, finishes with a time of
2:10:22.

2:50 P.M.  - Two blasts go off only seconds apart at the finish line, less than
100 yards from each other on the north side of Boylston Street.

3 P.M. - A fire breaks out in the mechanical room at the JFK Presidential
Library, but is reportedly not related to the explosions at the marathon.

3:34 P.M. - The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority announces multiple
sections of the Green Line will be suspended due to police activity.

4:02 P.M. - The first official reports from the Boston Police Department list
two dead and 23 injured.

4:30 P.M. - A third blast goes off near the JFK Library though no one is
injured. Authorities say the explosion is being treated as an 'ongoing event.'

4:30 P.M. - Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis holds a press conference
urging people to remain indoors and not congregate in large groups.

5:23 P.M. - The fire in the JFK Library is put out.

6:10 P.M

. - President Barack Obama addresses the nation, vowing: 'We'll find out who did
this. We'll find out why they did this.'

6:30 P.M

. - One of the dead is reported to be an 8-year-old boy.

'I saw at least six to seven people down next to me,' he said. 'They protected
me from the blast. One lady expired. One gentleman lost both his (lower) limbs.
Most of the injuries were lower extremities.'

Nickilynn Estologa, a nursing student who was volunteering in a block-long
medical tent designed to treat fatigued runners, said five to six victims
immediately staggered inside. Several were children; one was in his 60s.

'Some were bleeding from the head, they had glass shards in their skin,' she
said.

'One person had the flesh gone from his leg; it was just hanging there.' Another
woman, she added, was lying on a gurney as emergency personnel raced through the
tent, giving her CPR.

'I just can't believe anyone would do something like this,' Estologa said.

Veteran marathon runner Bill Iffrig, 78, was almost at the finish when 'the
shock waves just hit my whole body and my legs just started jittering around.'

Iffrig, can be seen wearing an orange tank top and falling to the ground in
video of the explosion, and was helped to his feet by an event volunteer and had
just a scratch from his fall, he told  CNN.

Right after the blasts, police officers could be seen carrying bloody spectators
to medical tents intended for exhausted runners in desperate attempts to save
lives.

'They just started bringing people in with no limbs,' said runner Tim Davey of
Richmond, Va. He said he and his wife, Lisa, tried to shield their children's
eyes from the gruesome scene inside a medical tent that had been set up to care
for fatigued runners, but 'they saw a lot.'

'They just kept filling up with more and more casualties,' Lisa Davey said.
'Most everybody was conscious. They were very dazed.'

Authorities in New York and Washington tightened security precautions in the
wake of the blasts.

The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives sent all of its bomb
technicians, explosives officers, explosives specialists and canine officers
from their Boston and New York field divisions to the scene, as well as some
investigators from Washington.

The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation, Justice Department, Homeland Security
Department and other agencies were all lending assistance to the investigation,
authorities said.

Obama directed his administration to provide whatever assistance was necessary,
the White House said.

Spectators typically line the 26.2 mile race course, with the heaviest crowds
near the finish line.

The Boston Marathon has been held on Patriot's Day, the third Monday of April,
since 1897. The event, which starts in Hopkinton, Massachusetts and ends in
Boston's Copley Square, attracts an estimated half-million spectators and some
20,000 participants every year.

Of the 23,326 runners who started the race on Monday, 17,584 finished before the
blast, marathon officials said. The runners were diverted before officials
brought the marathon to a halt.

The Boston Marathon released a new statement on Tuesday afternoon, extending its
sympathy to families affected by the bomb blasts and thanking all those who
helped save lives.

'What was intended to be a day of joy and celebration quickly became a day in
which running a marathon was of little importance,' it said.

'Boston is strong. Boston is resilient. Boston is our home. And Boston has made
us enormously proud in the past 24 hours... We are committed to continuing that
tradition with the running of the 118th Boston Marathon in 2014.'

Have a friend running the marathon? Check out  this siteto find their most
recent checkpoint. Additionally, families looking for loved ones should call
617-635-4500. Anyone with info about explosions should call 1800-494-TIPS

Additional reporting by Sara Nathan.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 18, 2013 Thursday 11:25 AM GMT

FBI gives its agents images TWO Boston bombing 'suspects': Hunt for men seen
wearing back-packs near the marathon finish line before terror attack blasts

BYLINE: RACHEL QUIGLEY, LYDIA WARREN, ANNETTE WITHERIDGE IN BOSTON,
MASSACHUSETTS and JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2352 words



     ·    Authorities ask federal and state agents to help identify two men seen
          in photos
     ·    The men are described as of 'high interest' in the probe into the
          deadly Boston Marathon blasts
     ·    Much of key evidence from security video at the Lord and Taylor
          department store - near the site of Monday's second blast
     ·    Lid of pressure cooker found on rooftop of building 35 yards away
     ·    Devices were designed to act as 'Claymore' anti-personnel devices -
          which are meant to maim on the battlefield
     ·    The pressure-cooker bombs were packed with shards of metal, nails and
          ball bearings
     ·    Eight-year-old boy, 29-year-old woman and University of Boston grad
          student killed in the attack
     ·    183 people injured, at least 23 of them in critical condition and 'a
          lot' of amputations have been performed


Federal law enforcement officials are distributing pictures of two men they
consider to be of 'high interest' in relation to Monday's Boston marathon
bombing and who are considered 'possible suspects'.

A circular designated for 'law enforcement eyes only' sent out on Wednesday
evening by authorities includes clear photographs of the two men and is being
shared around police and federal agents 'in an attempt to identify the
individuals'.

According to a reporter who has viewed the images, one of the men is wearing a
backpack that matches one of the recovered bags believed to be have been used in
the terror attack - while the other individual also is seen to have a bag.

The pictures have been seen by  CNN and  Fox News and both organizations have
declined to air the images for fear of jeopardizing the investigation - at the
end of a day which saw them heavily chastised by the FBI for issuing incorrect
reports that law enforcement had arrested a suspect in connection with Monday's
bombings.

Both networks have been informed that authorities have not yet identified the
two men by name and that releasing the images to the public has not been
considered as a strategy just yet.

WARNING: GRAPHIC CONTENT AND VIDEO BELOW

This news is the latest development of a twisting and confusing day for the
public, news organizations and federal law enforcement - during which it was
thought that only one suspect was being sought by the authorities in connection
with the terror attack which killed three and injured over 180

Indeed, by early evening it had been confirmed by Reuters that authorities had
identified an individual seen on security video outside the Lord and Taylor
department store at the finishing line of the marathon.

According to Reuters, a law enforcement source confirmed that the FBI wants to
speak to the man seen on cameras outside the department store which reportedly
show this man planting the second bomb while talking on his cellphone.

Investigators say the man is seen at the site of the second explosion wearing a
black jacket, a grey hooded sweatshirt, about 6 feet or 6-feet-2-inches tall
with a medium build and a white or off-color-white baseball cap backwards
placing a back-pack on the ground.

The video obtained by the FBI captures this lone man using his cellphone at the
moment the first explosion detonated 100 yards away on Boylston Street on Monday
and 12 seconds before the second blast close to where he is standing.

It has not been confirmed yet if this individual is one of the two men whose
images are now being circulated around law enforcement officials.

However, according to CBS investigators are now going through cell phone logs to
determine who made calls from that location near the time of the explosions.

Other sources have said the FBI is working with a list of names of cell phone
owners and attempting to match one of those to the unknown man on the
surveillance.

Authorities have said they are seeking this man either as a witness or indeed as
a possible suspect and do not know his name. At this point, federal officials
stressed no arrests have been made.

City Council President Stephen Murphy, who said he was briefed by Boston police,
said investigators saw the image on surveillance footage they got from a
department store near the finish line and matched the findings with witness
descriptions of someone leaving the scene.

'I know it's very active and very fluid right now - that they are on the chase,'
Murphy said. He added: 'They may be on the verge of arresting someone, and
that's good.'

The bombs were crudely fashioned from ordinary kitchen pressure cookers packed
with explosives, nails and ball bearings, investigators and others close to the
case said. Investigators suspect the devices were then hidden in black duffel
bags and left on the ground.

As a result, they were looking for images of someone lugging a dark, heavy bag.

One department store video 'has confirmed that a suspect is seen dropping a bag
near the point of the second explosion and heading off,' Murphy said.

A law enforcement official who was not authorized to discuss the case publicly
and spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity confirmed only
that investigators had an image of a potential suspect whose name was not known
to them and who had not been questioned.

And according to CBS News senior correspondent John Miller the big debate right
now among law enforcement is whether to release the images of the men to the
public.

'It's been a tough call,' said Miller. 'For investigators, there's always a
difficult choice because if the person doesn't know you're looking for him, he
may stay in place, you may catch up to him,' said Miller.

'If he does know you're looking for him, he may run. On the other hand, if you
don't get him, it's always great to enlist 20 million or so more eyes in the
public who may be able to give you a location right away.

'That's not going to happen tonight anymore. It was going to happen earlier --
they've rethought that. It may happen with the release of that picture tomorrow.
They're reassessing.'

A press conference due to be held at 5 p.m. by Boston police commissioner Ed
Davis was postponed - no reason was given for this decision and it was not
re-scheduled.

And by late afternoon there were conflicting reports about the color of the man
in question - CNN suggested initially that he may be 'dark skinned', while CBS
News claimed he is white.

In the flurry of confusing reports that emanated from the media today, it was
initially believed a suspect had been arrested and was being taken to court but
White House officials later denied that anyone had been take into custody or
even positively identified.

CNN - who broke the arrest news - later backtracked and said it had been a
misunderstanding and no arrest had been made.

Has the Boston bomber's cellphone given him away? How the FBI uses high-tech
triangulation to track criminals


     ·    Cell phone triangulation is a well-known tracking method within the
          wireless industry and is utilized by law enforcement authorities
          across the nation
     ·    Michael Barker, who works with Cell-Loc - a mobile tracking firm
          explained how individuals can be tracked by their mobile phone devices
     ·    'Every time the cell phone is on, it periodically sends a little
          registration message to the phone company, `Here I am! Here I am!'
          Barker said.
     ·    'That message contains the cell phone's electronic serial number and
          tells the service provider when the phone has drifted in and out of
          cell tower range.
     ·    Federal agents then easily can get in contact with the cell phone
          service company and get the location of the nearest cell tower in
          contact with the activated phone
     ·    Law enforcement then can equip agents with devices designed to
          triangulate the signal and determine its location within about a third
          of a mile and the direction it was traveling in, Barker said.


However, the Associated Press stood by their reports that someone was taken into
custody, even after it was widely disputed - they later confirmed their report
was incorrect.

However, earlier on Wednesday afternoon the  LA Times said two suspects have
been singled out in surveillance videos of the scene - which is what was being
widely reported by the end of the day.

A federal official said he has been briefed that authorities believe a second
video or photo showed 'two men with two backpacks'.

Though CNN's John King said sources told him it was a 'dark-skinned man', CBS
reported that it was a white man who was wearing a black jacket, a gray hooded
sweatshirt and a white or off-white baseball cap backwards. He is said to be six
feet or 6-feet-2-inches tall with a medium build.

However, federal officials vehemently denied that anyone had been taken into
custody.

'Despite reports to the contrary there has not been an arrest in the Marathon
attack,' Boston police said from an official Twitter account.

The FBI added: 'Since these stories often have unintended consequences, we ask
the media, particularly at this early stage of the investigation, to exercise
caution and attempt to verify information through appropriate official channels
before reporting.'

Soon after the false arrest stories from CNN were reported, a bomb threat was
called into the federal courthouse and the building - as well as the surrounding
area - was evacuated.

Amateur pictures taken by someone in a nearby office building may show the man
responsible running away from the scene - though this is only speculation.

'I went to the window and I was looking in the direction of the finish line. I
saw simultaneously a runner go down, a huge explosion, and then a deafening
roar,' Benjamin Thorndike said. 'I had my camera in my hand, and I just pushed
the rapid-shutter button down and just took 25 pictures over the course of what
felt like a long time, but I think it was only 15 or 20 seconds.'

He added that he thought it was strange that the man was running away from the
scene while everyone else was instinctively crouched down and taking cover.

It also emerged on Wednesday that the force of the first blast at the marathon
was so strong, the lid of the pressure cooker bomb was found on the sixth-floor
roof of a hotel 35 yards away from the explosion site and is now a vital clue in
the investigation.

A guest at the Charlesmark Hotel discovered the crucial piece of evidence just
minutes after the blast. He picked up the twisted metal - believing it was a
hubcap from a vehicle damaged in the bomb - and gave it to a policeman.

Twenty-four hours later he was quizzed by FBI agents, who revealed the mangled
metal was one of biggest clues so far in the search for the terrorists who
killed three and injured 183 others.

Hotel owner Mark Hagopian said: 'One of the guests had been up on the roof
earlier in the day. Immediately after the blast he went back up there and
spotted what he thought was a hub cap.

'As it hadn't been there earlier he thought it could have come from a damaged
car, so he picked it up and took it downstairs.

'He handed it to a policeman and thought nothing more of it until the FBI
contacted him and hotel manager Curt Butcher on Tuesday evening.

'They met for 35 minutes and the FBI confirmed that it was part of the pressure
cooker bomb.'

Hogopian, 50, was hosting a marathon party for 100 people when the first bomb
exploded on Monday afternoon.

As guests rushed outside the see what was happening, the second bomb went off
just yards from the hotel's outdoor patio.

'We were knocked off our feet by the blast and all around us there were bodies -
seven or eight people missing limbs' he said.

'There was blood splayed everywhere. It was utter chaos.

'One of the fourth-floor guests went up to the roof to see if he could see what
was happening. That's when he found what he thought was the hubcap.

'He handed it to the cop as everyone was being evacuated - at the time it was
feared there were more bombs set to go off.

'Now it turns out that piece of metal is a big piece of the evidence.
Apparently, forensics should be able to get many more clues from that.

 'The FBI also took away video and photos the guest had taken. They are scouring
those for further evidence.'

The Shenyang Evening News reported Wednesday on its official Twitter-like
microblog account that the victim is named Lu Lingzi. An editor at the newspaper
says that Lu's father confirmed his daughter's death

On Tuesday, crime scene photographs of the remnants of the first bomb which
detonated during Monday's Boston marathon showed that a six-liter pressure
cooker was used in at least one of the deadly charges - and experts described
the devices as military-style 'anti-personnel' devices.

The images - released by the Joint Terrorist Task Force - show the wreckage of a
stainless steel pressure cooker with an Underwriters Laboratory safety mark and
an imprint that reads gas or electric.

Furthermore, it was claimed the deadly devices used were designed to act like
'homemade claymores' - powerful, directional anti-personnel devices.

Described as using a 'low explosive', most likely black or smokeless powder, the
bombs are reported to have exploded outwards with shrapnel at 3,300 feet per
second. The lid of a pressure cooker was found on a nearby rooftop and
investigators were able to pinpoint which type of cooker was used.

One brand of pressure cooker with '6L' on the bottom is made by the Spanish
company Fagor, which sells about 50,000 of the six-liter pots in the United
States every year, according to the New York Times.

This gives investigators a real chance to narrow down their list of suspects -
which they said yesterday was 'wide open' - and find out who is responsible for
the worst attacks on U.S. soil since 9/11.

They will use every clue, from the cooker's manufacturer and retailers to the
types of nails used in the shrapnel, to try and find out from where the bomb
parts were purchased and by whom.

Roy Parker, a retired Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives agent
who ­developed the agency's explosives training program, said examiners are
looking at scraps of the bomb components, bags and all other forensic evidence.

He said: 'You're looking for a needle in a haystack, but the needle is there. If
you look long enough, you'll get stuck with it. This is not an unsolvable
crime.'

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 18, 2013 Thursday 7:57 AM GMT

FBI gives its agents images TWO Boston bombing 'suspects': Hunt for men seen
wearing back-packs near the marathon finish line before terror attack blasts

BYLINE: RACHEL QUIGLEY, LYDIA WARREN, ANNETTE WITHERIDGE IN BOSTON,
MASSACHUSETTS and JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2439 words



     ·    Authorities ask federal and state agents to help identify two men seen
          in photos
     ·    The men are described as of 'high interest' in the probe into the
          deadly Boston Marathon blasts
     ·    Much of key evidence from security video at the Lord and Taylor
          department store - near the site of Monday's second blast
     ·    Investigators have reportedly identified a Boston marathon suspect
          using security video and cellphone records
     ·    Lid of pressure cooker found on rooftop of building 35 yards away
     ·    Devices were designed to act as 'Claymore' anti-personnel devices -
          which are meant to maim on the battlefield
     ·    The pressure-cooker bombs were packed with shards of metal, nails and
          ball bearings
     ·    Eight-year-old boy, 29-year-old woman and University of Boston grad
          student killed in the attack
     ·    183 people injured, at least 23 of them in critical condition and 'a
          lot' of amputations have been performed


Federal law enforcement officials are distributing pictures of two men they
consider to be of 'high interest' in relation to Monday's Boston marathon
bombing and who are considered 'possible suspects' - as it emerged the FBI may
have identified one of the individuals through cell phone records.

A circular designated for 'law enforcement eyes only' sent out on Wednesday
evening by authorities includes clear photographs of the two men and is being
shared around police and federal agents 'in an attempt to identify the
individuals'.

According to a reporter who has viewed the images, one of the men is wearing a
backpack that matches one of the recovered bags believed to be have been used in
the terror attack - while the other individual also is seen to have a bag.

And earlier on Wednesday, a law enforcement source confirmed that the FBI wants
to speak to a man seen on cameras outside Boston's Lord and Taylor department
store which reportedly show this man planting the second bomb while talking on
his cellphone just before the second detonation.

CBS News claims investigators are now going through cell phone logs to determine
who made calls from that location near the time of the explosions.

The pictures have been seen by  CNN and  Fox News and both organizations have
declined to air the images for fear of jeopardizing the investigation - at the
end of a day which saw them heavily chastised by the FBI for issuing incorrect
reports that law enforcement had arrested a suspect in connection with Monday's
bombings.

Both networks have been informed that authorities have not yet identified the
two men by name and that releasing the images to the public has not been
considered as a strategy just yet.

WARNING: GRAPHIC CONTENT AND VIDEO BELOW

This news is the latest development of a twisting and confusing day for the
public, news organizations and federal law enforcement - during which it was
thought that only one suspect was being sought by the authorities in connection
with the terror attack which killed three and injured over 180

Indeed, by early evening it had been confirmed by Reuters that authorities had
identified an individual seen on security video outside the Lord and Taylor
department store at the finishing line of the marathon.

According to Reuters, a law enforcement source confirmed that the FBI wants to
speak to the man seen on cameras outside the department store which reportedly
show this man planting the second bomb while talking on his cellphone.

Investigators say the man is seen at the site of the second explosion wearing a
black jacket, a grey hooded sweatshirt, about 6 feet or 6-feet-2-inches tall
with a medium build and a white or off-color-white baseball cap backwards
placing a back-pack on the ground.

The video obtained by the FBI captures this lone man using his cellphone at the
moment the first explosion detonated 100 yards away on Boylston Street on Monday
and 12 seconds before the second blast close to where he is standing.

It has not been confirmed yet if this individual is one of the two men whose
images are now being circulated around law enforcement officials.

But sources close to the investigation who spoke to CBS News have said the FBI
is working with a list of names of cell phone owners and attempting to match one
of those to the unknown man on the surveillance.

Authorities have said they are seeking this man either as a witness or indeed as
a possible suspect and do not know his name. At this point, federal officials
stressed no arrests have been made.

City Council President Stephen Murphy, who said he was briefed by Boston police,
said investigators saw the image on surveillance footage they got from a
department store near the finish line and matched the findings with witness
descriptions of someone leaving the scene.

'I know it's very active and very fluid right now - that they are on the chase,'
Murphy said. He added: 'They may be on the verge of arresting someone, and
that's good.'

The bombs were crudely fashioned from ordinary kitchen pressure cookers packed
with explosives, nails and ball bearings, investigators and others close to the
case said. Investigators suspect the devices were then hidden in black duffel
bags and left on the ground.

As a result, they were looking for images of someone lugging a dark, heavy bag.

One department store video 'has confirmed that a suspect is seen dropping a bag
near the point of the second explosion and heading off,' Murphy said.

A law enforcement official who was not authorized to discuss the case publicly
and spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity confirmed only
that investigators had an image of a potential suspect whose name was not known
to them and who had not been questioned.

And according to CBS News senior correspondent John Miller the big debate right
now among law enforcement is whether to release the images of the men to the
public.

'It's been a tough call,' said Miller. 'For investigators, there's always a
difficult choice because if the person doesn't know you're looking for him, he
may stay in place, you may catch up to him,' said Miller.

'If he does know you're looking for him, he may run. On the other hand, if you
don't get him, it's always great to enlist 20 million or so more eyes in the
public who may be able to give you a location right away.

'That's not going to happen tonight anymore. It was going to happen earlier --
they've rethought that. It may happen with the release of that picture tomorrow.
They're reassessing.'

A press conference due to be held at 5 p.m. by Boston police commissioner Ed
Davis was postponed - no reason was given for this decision and it was not
re-scheduled.

And by late afternoon there were conflicting reports about the color of the man
in question - CNN suggested initially that he may be 'dark skinned', while CBS
News claimed he is white.

In the flurry of confusing reports that emanated from the media today, it was
initially believed a suspect had been arrested and was being taken to court but
White House officials later denied that anyone had been take into custody or
even positively identified.

CNN - who broke the arrest news - later backtracked and said it had been a
misunderstanding and no arrest had been made.

Has the Boston bomber's cellphone given him away? How the FBI uses high-tech
triangulation to track criminals


     ·    Cell phone triangulation is a well-known tracking method within the
          wireless industry and is utilized by law enforcement authorities
          across the nation
     ·    Michael Barker, who works with Cell-Loc - a mobile tracking firm
          explained how individuals can be tracked by their mobile phone devices
     ·    'Every time the cell phone is on, it periodically sends a little
          registration message to the phone company, `Here I am! Here I am!'
          Barker said.
     ·    'That message contains the cell phone's electronic serial number and
          tells the service provider when the phone has drifted in and out of
          cell tower range.
     ·    Federal agents then easily can get in contact with the cell phone
          service company and get the location of the nearest cell tower in
          contact with the activated phone
     ·    Law enforcement then can equip agents with devices designed to
          triangulate the signal and determine its location within about a third
          of a mile and the direction it was traveling in, Barker said.


However, the Associated Press stood by their reports that someone was taken into
custody, even after it was widely disputed - they later confirmed their report
was incorrect.

However, earlier on Wednesday afternoon the  LA Times said two suspects have
been singled out in surveillance videos of the scene - which is what was being
widely reported by the end of the day.

A federal official said he has been briefed that authorities believe a second
video or photo showed 'two men with two backpacks'.

Though CNN's John King said sources told him it was a 'dark-skinned man', CBS
reported that it was a white man who was wearing a black jacket, a gray hooded
sweatshirt and a white or off-white baseball cap backwards. He is said to be six
feet or 6-feet-2-inches tall with a medium build.

However, federal officials vehemently denied that anyone had been taken into
custody.

'Despite reports to the contrary there has not been an arrest in the Marathon
attack,' Boston police said from an official Twitter account.

The FBI added: 'Since these stories often have unintended consequences, we ask
the media, particularly at this early stage of the investigation, to exercise
caution and attempt to verify information through appropriate official channels
before reporting.'

Soon after the false arrest stories from CNN were reported, a bomb threat was
called into the federal courthouse and the building - as well as the surrounding
area - was evacuated.

Amateur pictures taken by someone in a nearby office building may show the man
responsible running away from the scene - though this is only speculation.

'I went to the window and I was looking in the direction of the finish line. I
saw simultaneously a runner go down, a huge explosion, and then a deafening
roar,' Benjamin Thorndike said. 'I had my camera in my hand, and I just pushed
the rapid-shutter button down and just took 25 pictures over the course of what
felt like a long time, but I think it was only 15 or 20 seconds.'

He added that he thought it was strange that the man was running away from the
scene while everyone else was instinctively crouched down and taking cover.

It also emerged on Wednesday that the force of the first blast at the marathon
was so strong, the lid of the pressure cooker bomb was found on the sixth-floor
roof of a hotel 35 yards away from the explosion site and is now a vital clue in
the investigation.

A guest at the Charlesmark Hotel discovered the crucial piece of evidence just
minutes after the blast. He picked up the twisted metal - believing it was a
hubcap from a vehicle damaged in the bomb - and gave it to a policeman.

Twenty-four hours later he was quizzed by FBI agents, who revealed the mangled
metal was one of biggest clues so far in the search for the terrorists who
killed three and injured 183 others.

Hotel owner Mark Hagopian said: 'One of the guests had been up on the roof
earlier in the day. Immediately after the blast he went back up there and
spotted what he thought was a hub cap.

'As it hadn't been there earlier he thought it could have come from a damaged
car, so he picked it up and took it downstairs.

'He handed it to a policeman and thought nothing more of it until the FBI
contacted him and hotel manager Curt Butcher on Tuesday evening.

'They met for 35 minutes and the FBI confirmed that it was part of the pressure
cooker bomb.'

Hogopian, 50, was hosting a marathon party for 100 people when the first bomb
exploded on Monday afternoon.

As guests rushed outside the see what was happening, the second bomb went off
just yards from the hotel's outdoor patio.

'We were knocked off our feet by the blast and all around us there were bodies -
seven or eight people missing limbs' he said.

'There was blood splayed everywhere. It was utter chaos.

'One of the fourth-floor guests went up to the roof to see if he could see what
was happening. That's when he found what he thought was the hubcap.

'He handed it to the cop as everyone was being evacuated - at the time it was
feared there were more bombs set to go off.

'Now it turns out that piece of metal is a big piece of the evidence.
Apparently, forensics should be able to get many more clues from that.

 'The FBI also took away video and photos the guest had taken. They are scouring
those for further evidence.'

The Shenyang Evening News reported Wednesday on its official Twitter-like
microblog account that the victim is named Lu Lingzi. An editor at the newspaper
says that Lu's father confirmed his daughter's death

On Tuesday, crime scene photographs of the remnants of the first bomb which
detonated during Monday's Boston marathon showed that a six-liter pressure
cooker was used in at least one of the deadly charges - and experts described
the devices as military-style 'anti-personnel' devices.

The images - released by the Joint Terrorist Task Force - show the wreckage of a
stainless steel pressure cooker with an Underwriters Laboratory safety mark and
an imprint that reads gas or electric.

Furthermore, it was claimed the deadly devices used were designed to act like
'homemade claymores' - powerful, directional anti-personnel devices.

Described as using a 'low explosive', most likely black or smokeless powder, the
bombs are reported to have exploded outwards with shrapnel at 3,300 feet per
second. The lid of a pressure cooker was found on a nearby rooftop and
investigators were able to pinpoint which type of cooker was used.

One brand of pressure cooker with '6L' on the bottom is made by the Spanish
company Fagor, which sells about 50,000 of the six-liter pots in the United
States every year, according to the New York Times.

This gives investigators a real chance to narrow down their list of suspects -
which they said yesterday was 'wide open' - and find out who is responsible for
the worst attacks on U.S. soil since 9/11.

They will use every clue, from the cooker's manufacturer and retailers to the
types of nails used in the shrapnel, to try and find out from where the bomb
parts were purchased and by whom.

Roy Parker, a retired Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives agent
who ­developed the agency's explosives training program, said examiners are
looking at scraps of the bomb components, bags and all other forensic evidence.

He said: 'You're looking for a needle in a haystack, but the needle is there. If
you look long enough, you'll get stuck with it. This is not an unsolvable
crime.'

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 18, 2013 Thursday 5:59 AM GMT

FBI gives its agents images TWO Boston bombing 'suspects': Hunt for men seen
wearing back-packs near the marathon finish line before terror attack blasts

BYLINE: RACHEL QUIGLEY, LYDIA WARREN, ANNETTE WITHERIDGE IN BOSTON,
MASSACHUSETTS and JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 7096 words



     ·    Investigators have reportedly identified a Boston marathon suspect
          using security video and cellphone records
     ·    Much of key video footage came from Lord and Taylor department store -
          near the site of Monday's second blast
     ·    Video shows man in black with shredded pants running away in the
          aftermath of one of the blasts
     ·    Shows the suspect walking towards the mail box, dropping a package and
          walking away
     ·    New crime scene photographs from the first blast confirms that a
          pressure cooker was used in the device
     ·    Lid of pressure cooker found on rooftop of building 35 yards away
     ·    Other photographs submitted to the FBI reveal the scene before and
          after the second bomb detonated
     ·    Devices were designed to act as 'Claymore' anti-personnel devices -
          which are meant to maim on the battlefield
     ·    The pressure-cooker bombs were packed with shards of metal, nails and
          ball bearings
     ·    Eight-year-old boy, 29-year-old woman and University of Boston grad
          student killed in the attack
     ·    183 people injured, at least 23 of them in critical condition and 'a
          lot' of amputations have been performed


Federal law enforcement officials are distributing pictures of two men they
consider to be of 'high interest' in relation to Monday's Boston marathon
bombing and are considered 'possible suspects'.

A circular designated for 'law enforcement eyes only' sent out on Wednesday
evening by authorities includes clear photographs of the two men and is being
shared around police and federal agents 'in an attempt to identify the
individuals'.

According to a reporter who has viewed the images, one of the men is wearing a
backpack that matches one of the recovered bags believed to be have been used in
the terror attack - while the other individual also is seen to have a bag.

The pictures have been seen by  CNN and  Fox News and both organizations have
declined to air the images for fear of jeopardizing the investigation - at the
end of a day which saw them heavily chastised by the FBI for issuing incorrect
reports that law enforcement had arrested a suspect in connection with Monday's
bombings.

Both networks have been informed that authorities have not yet identified the
two men by name and that releasing the images to the public has not been
considered as a strategy just yet.

WARNING: GRAPHIC CONTENT AND VIDEO BELOW

This news is the latest development of a twisting and confusing day for the
public, news organizations and federal law enforcement - during which it was
thought that only one suspect was being sought by the authorities in connection
with the terror attack which killed three and injured over 180

Indeed, by early evening it had been confirmed by Reuters that authorities had
identified an individual seen on security video outside the Lord and Taylor
department store at the finishing line of the marathon.

According to Reuters, a law enforcement source confirmed that the FBI wants to
speak to the man seen on cameras outside the department store which reportedly
show this man planting the second bomb while talking on his cellphone.

Investigators say the man is seen at the site of the second explosion wearing a
black jacket, a grey hooded sweatshirt, about 6 feet or 6-feet-2-inches tall
with a medium build and a white or off-color-white baseball cap backwards
placing a back-pack on the ground.

The video obtained by the FBI captures this lone man using his cellphone at the
moment the first explosion detonated 100 yards away on Boylston Street on Monday
and 12 seconds before the second blast close to where he is standing.

It has not been confirmed yet if this individual is one of the two men whose
images are now being circulated around law enforcement officials.

However, according to CBS investigators are now going through cell phone logs to
determine who made calls from that location near the time of the explosions.

Other sources have said the FBI is working with a list of names of cell phone
owners and attempting to match one of those to the unknown man on the
surveillance.

Authorities have said they are seeking this man either as a witness or indeed as
a possible suspect and do not know his name. At this point, federal officials
stressed no arrests have been made.

City Council President Stephen Murphy, who said he was briefed by Boston police,
said investigators saw the image on surveillance footage they got from a
department store near the finish line and matched the findings with witness
descriptions of someone leaving the scene.

'I know it's very active and very fluid right now - that they are on the chase,'
Murphy said. He added: 'They may be on the verge of arresting someone, and
that's good.'

The bombs were crudely fashioned from ordinary kitchen pressure cookers packed
with explosives, nails and ball bearings, investigators and others close to the
case said. Investigators suspect the devices were then hidden in black duffel
bags and left on the ground.

As a result, they were looking for images of someone lugging a dark, heavy bag.

One department store video 'has confirmed that a suspect is seen dropping a bag
near the point of the second explosion and heading off,' Murphy said.

A law enforcement official who was not authorized to discuss the case publicly
and spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity confirmed only
that investigators had an image of a potential suspect whose name was not known
to them and who had not been questioned.

And according to CBS News senior correspondent John Miller the big debate right
now among law enforcement is whether to release the image of the man to the
public.

'It's been a tough call,' said Miller. 'For investigators, there's always a
difficult choice because if the person doesn't know you're looking for him, he
may stay in place, you may catch up to him,' said Miller.

'If he does know you're looking for him, he may run. On the other hand, if you
don't get him, it's always great to enlist 20 million or so more eyes in the
public who may be able to give you a location right away.

'That's not going to happen tonight anymore. It was going to happen earlier --
they've rethought that. It may happen with the release of that picture tomorrow.
They're reassessing.'

A press conference due to be held at 5 p.m. by Boston police commissioner Ed
Davis was postponed - no reason was given for this decision, but officials with
said they hoped to re-schedule it later on Wednesday night.

And by late afternoon there were conflicting reports about the color of the man
in question - CNN suggested initially that he may be 'dark skinned', while CBS
News claimed he is white.

Because of that video - and local news footage - authorities were able to get
exactly what they have been looking for - an individual coming in and dropping a
package in a black bag before quickly walking away again.

It was initially believed the man had been arrested and would soon be taken to
court but White House officials later denied that anyone had been take into
custody or even positively identified.

CNN - who broke the arrest news - later backtracked and said it had been a
misunderstanding and no arrest had been made.

Has the Boston bomber's cellphone given him away? How the FBI uses high-tech
triangulation to track criminals


     ·    Cell phone triangulation is a well-known tracking method within the
          wireless industry and is utilized by law enforcement authorities
          across the nation
     ·    Michael Barker, who works with Cell-Loc - a mobile tracking firm
          explained how individuals can be tracked by their mobile phone devices
     ·    'Every time the cell phone is on, it periodically sends a little
          registration message to the phone company, `Here I am! Here I am!'
          Barker said.
     ·    'That message contains the cell phone's electronic serial number and
          tells the service provider when the phone has drifted in and out of
          cell tower range.
     ·    Federal agents then easily can get in contact with the cell phone
          service company and get the location of the nearest cell tower in
          contact with the activated phone
     ·    Law enforcement then can equip agents with devices designed to
          triangulate the signal and determine its location within about a third
          of a mile and the direction it was traveling in, Barker said.


However, the Associated Press stood by their reports that someone was taken into
custody, even after it was widely disputed.

According to the  LA Times, two suspects have been singled out in surveillance
videos of the scene. A federal official said he has been briefed that
authorities believe a second video or photo showed 'two men with two backpacks'.

Though CNN's John King said sources told him it was a 'dark-skinned man', CBS
reported that it was a white man who was wearing a black jacket, a gray hooded
sweatshirt and a white or off-white baseball cap backwards. He is said to be six
feet or 6-feet-2-inches tall with a medium build.

However, federal officials vehemently denied that anyone had been taken into
custody.

'Despite reports to the contrary there has not been an arrest in the Marathon
attack,' Boston police said from an official Twitter account.

The FBI added: 'Since these stories often have unintended consequences, we ask
the media, particularly at this early stage of the investigation, to exercise
caution and attempt to verify information through appropriate official channels
before reporting.'

Soon after the false arrest stories from CNN were reported, a bomb threat was
called into the federal courthouse and the building - as well as the surrounding
area - was evacuated.

Amateur pictures taken by someone in a nearby office building may show the man
responsible running away from the scene - though this is only speculation.

'I went to the window and I was looking in the direction of the finish line. I
saw simultaneously a runner go down, a huge explosion, and then a deafening
roar,' Benjamin Thorndike said. 'I had my camera in my hand, and I just pushed
the rapid-shutter button down and just took 25 pictures over the course of what
felt like a long time, but I think it was only 15 or 20 seconds.'

He added that he thought it was strange that the man was running away from the
scene while everyone else was instinctively crouched down and taking cover.

It also emerged today that the force of the first blast at the marathon was so
strong, the lid of the pressure cooker bomb was found on the sixth-floor roof of
a hotel 35 yards away from the explosion site and is now a vital clue in the
investigation.

A guest at the Charlesmark Hotel discovered the crucial piece of evidence just
minutes after the blast. He picked up the twisted metal - believing it was a
hubcap from a vehicle damaged in the bomb - and gave it to a policeman.

Twenty-four hours later he was quizzed by FBI agents, who revealed the mangled
metal was one of biggest clues so far in the search for the terrorists who
killed three and injured 183 others.

Hotel owner Mark Hagopian said: 'One of the guests had been up on the roof
earlier in the day. Immediately after the blast he went back up there and
spotted what he thought was a hub cap.

'As it hadn't been there earlier he thought it could have come from a damaged
car, so he picked it up and took it downstairs.

'He handed it to a policeman and thought nothing more of it until the FBI
contacted him and hotel manager Curt Butcher on Tuesday evening.

'They met for 35 minutes and the FBI confirmed that it was part of the pressure
cooker bomb.'

Hogopian, 50, was hosting a marathon party for 100 people when the first bomb
exploded on Monday afternoon.

As guests rushed outside the see what was happening, the second bomb went off
just yards from the hotel's outdoor patio.

'We were knocked off our feet by the blast and all around us there were bodies -
seven or eight people missing limbs' he said.

'There was blood splayed everywhere. It was utter chaos.

'One of the fourth-floor guests went up to the roof to see if he could see what
was happening. That's when he found what he thought was the hubcap.

'He handed it to the cop as everyone was being evacuated - at the time it was
feared there were more bombs set to go off.

'Now it turns out that piece of metal is a big piece of the evidence.
Apparently, forensics should be able to get many more clues from that.

 'The FBI also took away video and photos the guest had taken. They are scouring
those for further evidence.'

New crime scene photographs of the remnants of the first bomb which detonated
during Monday's Boston marathon shows that a six-liter pressure cooker was used
in at least one of the deadly charges - as experts described the devices as
military-style 'anti-personnel' devices.

The images - released by the Joint Terrorist Task Force - show the wreckage of a
stainless steel pressure cooker with an Underwriters Laboratory safety mark and
an imprint that reads gas or electric, with experts describing the devices as
military-style 'anti-personnel' devices.

Furthermore, it is being claimed the deadly devices used were designed to act
like 'homemade claymores' - powerful, directional anti-personnel devices.

Described as using a 'low explosive', most likely black or smokeless powder, the
bombs are reported to have exploded outwards with shrapnel at 3,300 feet per
second. The lid of a pressure cooker was found on a nearby rooftop and
investigators were able to pinpoint which type of cooker was used.

One brand of pressure cooker with '6L' on the bottom is made by the Spanish
company Fagor, which sells about 50,000 of the six-liter pots in the United
States every year, according to the New York Times.

This gives investigators a real chance to narrow down their list of suspects -
which they said yesterday was 'wide open' - and find out who is responsible for
the worst attacks on U.S. soil since 9/11.

They will use every clue, from the cooker's manufacturer and retailers to the
types of nails used in the shrapnel, to try and find out from where the bomb
parts were purchased and by whom.

Roy Parker, a retired Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives agent
who ­developed the agency's explosives training program, said examiners are
looking at scraps of the bomb components, bags and all other forensic evidence.

He said: 'You're looking for a needle in a haystack, but the needle is there. If
you look long enough, you'll get stuck with it. This is not an unsolvable
crime.'

The bombs had the power to propel metal shards great distances, designed
primarily to maim - like a military 'claymore' device.

The resulting explosions sent metal tearing through skin and muscle, destroying
the lower limbs of some victims who had only shreds of tissue holding parts of
their legs together when they arrived at the emergency room of Massachusetts
General Hospital, doctors there said.

Initial examination of the bombs revealed they appeared to utilize battery packs
and circuit boards, which indicates a sophisticated triggering mechanism with an
'egg-like' timer.

'It appeared to be built from scratch but with a sophisticated triggering
mechanism. And frankly, at the end of the day, all bombs are crude devices, and
it is the way they are triggered that can be sophisticated,' said one official
with strong knowledge of explosives. 'They functioned as designed.'

Low quality explosive ingredients may have been the bombs' key components,
according to an unnamed expert quoted by CNN. That would explain the yellowness
of the flame, as shown in video and photos of the event.

Higher-quality military explosive is usually gray or black, said the expert.

Photographs taken by a member of the public of the second bomb site before and
after detonation show an orange and grey bag next to the barrier - right where
the bomb appears to have gone off.

Detectives are now investigating the possibility that this bag contained the
device that exploded with such devastating effect.

However images and fabrics from the remains of the bomb shows they were kept in
black nylon duffel bags so it is as yet unclear if the bomb was in he gray and
orange bag.

Vigils were held overnight as hundreds of people gathered to remember the
victims, the third of whom was named yesterday as Chinese Boston University
studentLü Lingzi.

Lingzi was attending the Boston marathon with her friend Zhou Danling, a student
of actuarial science at BU, who was originally said to be in a coma at Boston
Medical Center but showing signs of improvement after suffering serious injuries
in the blast.

The other two fatalities in the bombing have been identified as eight-year-old
Martin Richard, the son of a Dorchester community activist, and 29-year-old
restaurant manager Krystle Campbell.

A five-year-old boy is still critically injured at Boston medical center.

A law enforcement official told  CBS News that the two bombs that exploded were
made to look like discarded property.

Earlier in the day, lead FBI agent Richard DesLauriers confirmed that items from
the first blast have been recovered and are being sent to a special facility at
FBI headquarters in Quantico for study - in the hope that they will lead them to
the killer or killers.

He also admitted the investigation into those responsible was in its 'infancy'
and that the range of suspects remained 'wide open'.

And as the circumstantial evidence builds up around the devastating attacks
builds, one counterterrorism expert told said that the Boston bombings bore all
the hallmarks of the 2004 Madrid attacks - albeit on a lesser scale.

'This has the hallmarks of a Madrid-style event in many respects,' Rossini told
The Daily Beast. 'We don't know who the bombers are, but I assume it was more
than one. It's just my gut that there might have been two people involved.'

The Madrid commuter train bombings were a coordinated attack that used multiple
explosive devices which killed 191 people and wounded 1,800 on March 11th, 2004.

They were attributed to an al Qaeda affiliated terror cell.

'I'm not sure if it's domestic, or if there was shrapnel or ball bearings in the
bombs,' Rossini said,

'But when I saw a still photo of the explosion, there was what looked like a
fireball from an accelerant like a propane tank or gasoline"-yet another
similarity to the carnage in Spain.

'Of course, a pipe bomb could have that effect as well.'

Saying that the bomber or bombers most likely dropped the bags easily amongst
the commotion during the race, Rossini said that the FBI will be looking to the
remnants of the bags to lead them to the killers.

Rossini, however, cautioned against jumping to any conclusions that the bombing
was the result of Islamic-inspired terrorism. 'It could be a white supremacist
group. We just don't know.'

The Shenyang Evening News reported Wednesday on its official Twitter-like
microblog account that the victim is named Lu Lingzi. An editor at the newspaper
says that Lu's father confirmed his daughter's death

More than 2,000 tips from the public were reviewed and analyzed in the first 24
hours but no individual or group has yet claimed responsibility for the attack.
The FBI has issued a plea to members of the public for help in the hunt for
clues saying: 'Someone knows who did this'.

He said among those items were 'pieces of black nylon which could be from a
backpack and fragments of BBs (ball bearings) and nails possibly contained in a
pressure cooker device.

'The bag would have been heavy because of the components believed to be in it.
We won't know with certainty until the laboratory completes its final review.'

The second device was also housed in a metal container says the document, but so
far there is not enough evidence to confirm for certain if a pressure cooker was
also used.

'Someone knows who did this,' added Richard DesLauriers, the special agent in
charge of the FBI's Boston office.

'Importantly, the person who did this is someone's friend, neighbor, coworker or
relative. We are asking anyone who may have heard someone speak about the
marathon, or the date of April 15, in any way that indicated that he or she may
have targeted this event to call us.'

DesLauriers added: 'At this time, there have been no claims of responsibility.'

Earlier he vowed to go 'to the ends of the earth' to find those responsible.

In video footage also handed over to the FBI, an unidentified man is seen to
flee the scene of one of the blasts as everyone else cowers in the seconds after
the explosions.

Dressed all in black, the man's pants have been shredded and he hurriedly looks
from left to right before making off in the opposite direction to the where
members of the public are aiding the injured.

In a press conference held today, Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis confirmed
that the marathon route had been swept twice by bomb detection units and
declared clear.

'[But] people can come and go and bring items in and out after the races
started,' said Davis.

The two bombs that killed three people and injured at least 183 at the Boston
Marathon on Monday were made from six-liter pressure cookers crammed with shards
of metal, nails and ball bearings and stashed in black backpacks, police sources
said today.

The cruelly-designed bombs have 'frequently' been used in Afghanistan, India,
Nepal and Pakistan, according to a 2010 Homeland Security Department pamphlet -
hinting at the origins of the bombers behind the worst terrorist atrocity in the
U.S. since 9/11.

A history of pressure cooker bombs and IEDS since the 1990s: How the crude
device popular with al-Qaeda and the Taliban has traveled to the United States


     ·    First reports of pressure cookers being used as bombs date back to the
          1990s when Maoist rebels used them during the Nepalese civil war that
          began in 1996.
     ·    During the early part of the last decade, pressure cooker devices were
          being used in the creation of IEDs across Afghanistan and Pakistan -
          and were used with alarming frequency against coalition forces in
          Afghanistan.
     ·    However, because pressure cookers are not as common in the United
          States as other developing nations, the Department of Homeland
          Security issued a 2010 warning to report seeing any in public places
          unattended.
     ·    The 2010 warning was released several months after the failed May 2010
          Times Square bombing - which used one as part of its mechanism.
     ·    In 2011 U.S. Army Private Naser Jason Abdo was charged in plotting to
          set off a pressure cooker bomb on Fort Hood, Texas
     ·    He reportedly learned how to construct the device from reading al
          Qaeda's online magazine, Inspire


When the devices exploded near the crowded Boston Marathon finish line around
2.50pm on Monday, victims suffered as many as 40 shrapnel wounds each and at
least 10 people needed amputations. Witnesses described seeing body parts flying
through the air and shoes that 'still had flesh in them'.

And today, FBI investigators said that they will attempt to reconstruct the
deadly bombs that brought havoc to the streets of Boston.

During the day, Federal law enforcement sources have briefed that the two
devices were indeed made from pressure cookers and hidden in back-packs.

The recovered pieces suggest that the two bombs were identical and a Boston law
enforcement source said that parts of a circuit board were also found - which
could have been the method to detonate the devices.

As the evidence strands are brought together, experts have said that despite
pressure cooker bombs being used as IEDs by the Taliban and al Qaeda in
Afghanistan, it doesn't mean that other people can not discover how to create
them.

So far, no one has claimed responsibility and DesLauriers said, 'The range of
suspects and motives remains wide open.'

In Washington, Senator Saxby Chambliss, the ranking Republican on the Senate
Intelligence Committee, told CNN that the facts point to a domestic, home-grown
source.

'There are a lot of things that are surrounding this that would give an
indication that it may have been a domestic terrorist, but that just can't be
assumed,' Chambliss said.

On Tuesday afternoon, a second victim killed in the blasts was identified as
29-year-old Krystle Campbell, from Arlington, Massachusetts. It comes after
another was named as eight-year-old Martin Richard. The third victim has not yet
been named - but is believed to be a Chinese graduate student of Boston
University.

A Chinese student is confirmed to be the third person killed in the Boston
Marathon Bombings. The Chinese Consulate, in New York, is not releasing the
students' name at this time

Though the victim has not been named at the request of the woman's family, she
attended Boston University and had gone to watch the marathon with two friends.

The survivor, identified by the consulate as Zhou Danling, is in stable
condition at Boston Medical Center.

'She cannot talk now but can communicate with pen and paper,' the consulate said
in a statement.

'This is a painful and tragic  lesson, but we will learn from this as well,'
said Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick on Tuesday..

Patrick also announced that President Barack Obama would attend an interfaith
service honoring the victims of the tragedy at 11 a.m. on Thursday at Cathedral
of the Holy Cross in South Boston.

The bombs used to kill and maim are believed to have contained black powder or
gunpowder as the explosive, and information on how to make such a bomb is
available on the internet, experts said. The devices were then left at the scene
to look like discarded property,  CBS News reported.

Investigators have also found pieces of an electronic circuit board which could
indicate a timer was used in the detonation.

Although no group has yet claimed responsibility for the attacks, similar
devices were used in the failed 2010 attempt to bomb Times Square by Faisal
Shahzad, who admitted he had undergone bomb-making training at a militant
Islamist faction camp in Pakistan.

A pressure-cooker bomb is also a preferred weapon of al-Qaeda and listed as the
'most effective' weapon of jihad, according to an English-language terror
magazine called Inspire, in an article entitled 'How to Build a Bomb in the
Kitchen of Your Mom'.

Another article in Inspire last year listed 'the most important enemy targets'
for jihadists in America - and included sporting events,  CNSNews noted.

The aim should be to target 'human crowds in order to inflict maximum human
losses,' a terrorist known as Abu Musab al-Suri wrote. 'This is very easy since
there are numerous such targets such as crowded sports arenas, annual social
events, large international exhibitions... etc.'

If a pressure cooker was used, it probably cost around $100 to construct, say
former federal forensic and explosive investigators. It's like a pipe bomb but
bigger and more powerful.

Also on Tuesday, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said there is no
sign the explosions in Boston were part of a 'broader plot,' but her department
is still being cautious.

'While there is no current indication to suggest that the events in Boston are
indicative of a broader plot.

'Out of an abundance of caution,' she added, 'DHS continues to keep in place
enhanced security measures at transportation hubs, utilizing measures both seen
and unseen.'

Martin Richard, 8, who was waiting at the finish line with his father, mother
and siblings, was among those killed when the two bombs detonated at the crowded
sports event. His mother has undergone brain surgery and his six-year-old sister
lost a leg. His 12-year-old brother escaped injury.

Neighbors told MailOnline about the moment Martin Richard's father, Bill,
returned home still wearing hospital scrubs on Monday night and looking like the
'walking dead' as he struggled to come to terms with his son's death and
injuries suffered by his wife, Denise, and daughter, Jane.

In a statement released on Tuesday, he said: 'My dear son Martin has died from
injuries sustained in the attack on Boston. My wife and daughter are both
recovering from serious injuries.

'We thank our family and friends, those we know and those we have never met, for
their thoughts and prayers. I ask that you continue to pray for my family as we
remember Martin. We also ask for your patience and for privacy as we work to
simultaneously grieve and recover. Thank you.'

Doctors confused another victim, Krystle Campbell, 29, with her friend, so for
hours her parents believed she was alive and undergoing surgery. Only when they
went to visit her in hospital, did they realize the patient was not their
daughter.

A LOOK INSIDE THE HOSPITALS: HOW ARE THE VICTIMS?

Boston Children's Hospital

8 injuries; 0 critical condition

Ages from 2 to 15 years old

Massachusetts General Hospital

29 injuries; 8 critical condition; 4 amputations

Ages from 28 to 71

Brigham and Women's Hospital

31 injuries; 5 critical condition

Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center

24 injuries; 4 critical condition; 13 in serious condition

Tufts Medical Center

9 injuries

Boston Medical Center

23 in total; 19 still remain at the hospital

7 critical condition; 6 serious; 6 fair

Please check back for updates

'My daughter was the most lovable girl,' her father, William Campbell Jr. said.
'She helped everybody, and I'm just so shocked right now. We're just devastated.
She was a wonderful, wonderful girl. Always willing to lend a hand.'

Another, unnamed victim was also killed in the blasts.

Twenty three of the injured remain in a critical condition and CNN reported that
at least 10 victims have needed amputations. At least nine of the wounded are
thought to be children, including a two-year-old boy who suffered a head injury.

Another child hurt in the blast was 11-year-old Aaron Hern, of Martinez,
California, who was hit by flying shrapnel in his thigh as he waited for his
mother to cross the finish line. He is being treated at Boston Children's
Hospital and is expected to undergo further surgeries.

Doctors treating the wounded agreed that it appeared the devices had contained
sharp metal.

Investigators do not know of a motive for the bombings, nor do they have a
specific suspect or anyone in custody. In a desperate move, they have appealed
to members of the public to submit photographs and cell phone footage of the
marathon and explosions.

Earlier reports noted that officials had arrested a Saudi national, who is being
treated for burns and shrapnel wounds, in connection to the bombings after a
civilian saw him acting suspiciously at the scene.

But now officials have revealed the man, Abdulrahman Ali Alharbi, 22, is being
regarded as a witness, rather than a suspect, the Washington Post reported.

It comes after 20 police and federal officials raided his home on Monday night,
but the search turned up nothing.

After the twin detonations ripped through the cheering crowds, one witness told
CNN that it 'felt like a huge cannon' and other described horrifying scenes of
screaming spectators, missing limbs and unresponsive bodies.

WAS THE TIMING SIGNIFICANT? PATRIOTS' DAY IS REVERED BY RIGHT-WING GROUPS
OPPOSED TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT


     ·    Yesterday's attack took place on Patriots' Day, which marks the first
          battle of the Revolutionary War and the 'shot heard 'round the world.'
          It is a day held in reverence by right-wing domestic groups and others
          who oppose the federal government.
     ·    The 1995 bombing of the Oklahoma City federal building, which killed
          168, occurred the day after Patriots' Day. Bomber Timothy McVeigh was
          said believe the date was significant.
     ·    The federal siege of the Branch Dravidian compound, which left 82
          members of the cult dead, began on Patriots' Day in 1993.
     ·    Today is also Tax Day, when federal income tax returns are due. In
          recent years, it has been seized on by members of the Tea Party as
          cause to protest federal government policies and tax rates.
     ·    A Justice Department source tells MailOnline that authorities are
          looking into the possibility that the Boston attack, which killed
          three and injured 183 more at the finish line of the Boston Marathon,
          could have been planned to coincide with Patriots' Day.
     ·    President Barack Obama himself acknowledged the significance of the
          holiday during his briefing this afternoon.
     ·    'Today is Patriots Day,' he said. 'A day that reflects the freedom
          Boston has celebrated throughout its history.'


'Bodies and body parts. Blood all over,' District Fire Chief Ron Harrington of
the Boston Fire Department's District 3 said.

'A little boy lying in the street. A young woman in her twenties. Both dead. It
was mayhem. I saw two people with arms hanging loose, and one without a leg. A
shoe with flesh still in it.'

At a press conference outside Mass Gen hospital on Tuesday morning, Dr George
Velmahos, chief of trauma surgery at the hospital, revealed that eight patients
between the ages of 28 and 71 remained in critical condition at the hospital.

Among them four people had undergone amputations, and he said they were still
trying to save two legs. Other injuries included wounds from 'pellets, shrapnel,
nails', which he believed came from the bombs. Some victims were hit by '10, 30,
40' pieces and most injuries were to the lower extremities.

'The experience is obviously overwhelming,' he said. 'We are all extremely sad.
We are suffering emotionally for what happened to the people of Boston and many
others. But at the same time, we can't feel but proud because the medical
community here in Mass Gen responded in an amazing way.'

He described one doctor who ran the marathon but then, despite being dehydrated,
went straight to work, while others jumped on planes to help out.

Doctors at Brigham and Women's Hospital added that they had treated 31 patients
from the bomb blasts and that five remain in critical condition.

Initially counter-terrorism sources in the city believed that seven devices were
planted across the city - but only two detonated.

A law-enforcement official said late on Monday evening that investigators
believe other packages were simply left behind as runners and pedestrians rushed
away from the scene in the aftermath of the blasts.

A federal law enforcement official told CNN that both bombs which detonated at
the Boston finish line were small, and initial tests showed no C-4 or other
high-grade explosive was used - indicating they were crude devices.

In a press conference on Tuesday morning, Obama reiterated authorities are still
unaware of who was behind the attack - whether it was the work of an
organization or a 'malevolent individual'.

For the first time he acknowledged it was an act of terrorism.

'We will bring them to justice,' he vowed, recounting stories of kindness and
heroism following the blasts.

'The American people refuse to be terrorized... If you want to know who we are,
who America is, how we respond to evil, that's it: Selflessly, compassionately,
not afraid.'

In another press conference on Tuesday, Boston officials said the investigation
continues with a 'multitude of resources on the street'.

Special Agent in Charge Richard DesLauriers said there are no known additional
threats, while Suffolk County District Attorney Daniel Conley branded the attack
'an act of cowardice'.

'We will go to the ends of the Earth to identify the subject or subjects who are
responsible for this despicable crime -- and we will do everything we can to
bring them to justice,' DesLauriers said.

Commending the efforts of volunteers and emergency responders, Mayor Menino
added: 'I've been mayor for 20 years now and I've never seen... people pull
together like this. It's a tragedy, but Boston is a resilient city.'

After the twin detonations ripped through the cheering crowds, witnesses
described the horror.

The fiery twin blasts took place about 12 seconds and about 100 yards apart,
knocking spectators and at least one runner off their feet, shattering windows
and sending dense plumes of smoke rising over the street and through the
fluttering national flags lining the route.

Blood stained the pavement, and huge shards were missing from window panes as
high as three stories.

The explosions ripped into an idyllic afternoon finish for the marathon. The
first men had passed the finish line 2 hours and 10 minutes after the staggered
start, and the first women crossed just 16 minutes later.

The first blast sent a quick plume of smoke two stories high. Runners nearby
stopped in their tracks, confused and unsure. After a few seconds later, a
second explosion happened a half-block away, with a deep boom caught on
television cameras.

Emergency personnel rushed to the area, and the street was quickly sealed off.

'I saw it go off and smoke billowed up. Everyone just stopped and hunched down,'
said Pam Ledtke, 51, from Indianapolis, who was about 75 yards from the finish
line when the explosions went off. 'They didn't know what to do. All of a
sudden, people were screaming.'

One doctor, Allan Panter, stood near to the finish line said he was 25-feet away
from the first blast when it detonated.

CELEBRATION TURNED TO TRAGEDY: HOW THE HORROR AT THE BOSTON MARATHON UNFOLDED

9 A.M. - The 2013 Boston Marathon begins.

11:58 A.M. - Rita Jeptoo of Kenya becomes the women's winner, crossing the
finish line with a time of 2:26:25.

12:10 P.M. - Men's winner Lelisa Desisa, of Ethiopia, finishes with a time of
2:10:22.

2:50 P.M.  - Two blasts go off only seconds apart at the finish line, less than
100 yards from each other on the north side of Boylston Street.

3 P.M. - A fire breaks out in the mechanical room at the JFK Presidential
Library, but is reportedly not related to the explosions at the marathon.

3:34 P.M. - The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority announces multiple
sections of the Green Line will be suspended due to police activity.

4:02 P.M. - The first official reports from the Boston Police Department list
two dead and 23 injured.

4:30 P.M. - A third blast goes off near the JFK Library though no one is
injured. Authorities say the explosion is being treated as an 'ongoing event.'

4:30 P.M. - Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis holds a press conference
urging people to remain indoors and not congregate in large groups.

5:23 P.M. - The fire in the JFK Library is put out.

6:10 P.M

. - President Barack Obama addresses the nation, vowing: 'We'll find out who did
this. We'll find out why they did this.'

6:30 P.M

. - One of the dead is reported to be an 8-year-old boy.

'I saw at least six to seven people down next to me,' he said. 'They protected
me from the blast. One lady expired. One gentleman lost both his (lower) limbs.
Most of the injuries were lower extremities.'

Nickilynn Estologa, a nursing student who was volunteering in a block-long
medical tent designed to treat fatigued runners, said five to six victims
immediately staggered inside. Several were children; one was in his 60s.

'Some were bleeding from the head, they had glass shards in their skin,' she
said.

'One person had the flesh gone from his leg; it was just hanging there.' Another
woman, she added, was lying on a gurney as emergency personnel raced through the
tent, giving her CPR.

'I just can't believe anyone would do something like this,' Estologa said.

Veteran marathon runner Bill Iffrig, 78, was almost at the finish when 'the
shock waves just hit my whole body and my legs just started jittering around.'

Iffrig, can be seen wearing an orange tank top and falling to the ground in
video of the explosion, and was helped to his feet by an event volunteer and had
just a scratch from his fall, he told  CNN.

Right after the blasts, police officers could be seen carrying bloody spectators
to medical tents intended for exhausted runners in desperate attempts to save
lives.

'They just started bringing people in with no limbs,' said runner Tim Davey of
Richmond, Va. He said he and his wife, Lisa, tried to shield their children's
eyes from the gruesome scene inside a medical tent that had been set up to care
for fatigued runners, but 'they saw a lot.'

'They just kept filling up with more and more casualties,' Lisa Davey said.
'Most everybody was conscious. They were very dazed.'

Authorities in New York and Washington tightened security precautions in the
wake of the blasts.

The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives sent all of its bomb
technicians, explosives officers, explosives specialists and canine officers
from their Boston and New York field divisions to the scene, as well as some
investigators from Washington.

The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation, Justice Department, Homeland Security
Department and other agencies were all lending assistance to the investigation,
authorities said.

Obama directed his administration to provide whatever assistance was necessary,
the White House said.

Spectators typically line the 26.2 mile race course, with the heaviest crowds
near the finish line.

The Boston Marathon has been held on Patriot's Day, the third Monday of April,
since 1897. The event, which starts in Hopkinton, Massachusetts and ends in
Boston's Copley Square, attracts an estimated half-million spectators and some
20,000 participants every year.

Of the 23,326 runners who started the race on Monday, 17,584 finished before the
blast, marathon officials said. The runners were diverted before officials
brought the marathon to a halt.

The Boston Marathon released a new statement on Tuesday afternoon, extending its
sympathy to families affected by the bomb blasts and thanking all those who
helped save lives.

'What was intended to be a day of joy and celebration quickly became a day in
which running a marathon was of little importance,' it said.

'Boston is strong. Boston is resilient. Boston is our home. And Boston has made
us enormously proud in the past 24 hours... We are committed to continuing that
tradition with the running of the 118th Boston Marathon in 2014.'

Have a friend running the marathon? Check out  this siteto find their most
recent checkpoint. Additionally, families looking for loved ones should call
617-635-4500. Anyone with info about explosions should call 1800-494-TIPS

Additional reporting by Sara Nathan.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            April 18, 2013 Thursday

Thugs launch terror attack on newsagents with axe and machete

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 213 words


TWO thugs brandishing an axe and machete launched a terrifying attack on a
Boarshaw newsagents.

Both men entered Jubilee Stores at around 6.30pm on Monday evening.

Police say the were clad in black with only their eyes showing.

After storming into the Jubilee Road shop brandishing the axe and machete, they
demanded the cashier open the till.

The terrified victim did and the offenders dipped their hands into the till to
grab cash.

They also pocketed cigarettes from behind the counter, making off with around
1,960 in cash and tobacco.

A third offender stood guard outside the shop as his accomplices robbed the
convenience store.

The first robber who entered the shop with the axe is described as a white male,
20, slim build and around 5ft 8in tall. He was wearing black.

The second offender carrying the machete was a white male, 20, big build and
wearing black.

There is no description of the third offender who stood guard outside the
premises during the raid.

n FIREFIGHTERS were called to a skip fire on Hanson Street at around 5.30am on
Tuesday morning. Crews from Heywood spent around an hour extinguishing the
blaze.

n FIRE swept through a lock-up garage on Gilmour Street on Tuesday morning.

Crews from Blackley used breathing apparatus to enter the garage to put out the
blaze.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            April 18, 2013 Thursday

Thugs launch terror attack on newsagents with axe and machete

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 213 words


TWO thugs brandishing an axe and machete launched a terrifying attack on a
Boarshaw newsagents.

Both men entered Jubilee Stores at around 6.30pm on Monday evening.

Police say the were clad in black with only their eyes showing.

After storming into the Jubilee Road shop brandishing the axe and machete, they
demanded the cashier open the till.

The terrified victim did and the offenders dipped their hands into the till to
grab cash.

They also pocketed cigarettes from behind the counter, making off with around
1,960 in cash and tobacco.

A third offender stood guard outside the shop as his accomplices robbed the
convenience store.

The first robber who entered the shop with the axe is described as a white male,
20, slim build and around 5ft 8in tall. He was wearing black.

The second offender carrying the machete was a white male, 20, big build and
wearing black.

There is no description of the third offender who stood guard outside the
premises during the raid.

n FIREFIGHTERS were called to a skip fire on Hanson Street at around 5.30am on
Tuesday morning. Crews from Heywood spent around an hour extinguishing the
blaze.

n FIRE swept through a lock-up garage on Gilmour Street on Tuesday morning.

Crews from Blackley used breathing apparatus to enter the garage to put out the
blaze.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       April 19, 2013 Friday 7:59 AM GMT

Boston bombings: Police in shoot-out with heavily-armed gunmen after FBI
releases CCTV images of 'armed and dangerous' suspects;
Police yet to confirm whether shoot-out is related to terrorist attack. Incident
comes hours after they make an appeal for information on bombing suspects

BYLINE: Nikhil Kumar, Melanie Leather

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 284 words


Police have converged on a neighbourhood outside Boston where there were reports
of explosives being detonated, following an earlier appeal for information about
two suspects linked to the marathon bombings.

Dozens of officers and National Guard members are in Watertown, where television
outlets report that gunfire and explosions have been heard.

Federal officials last night significantly widened the investigation by
releasing photos and a video showing the men near the site of the explosions.

Richard DesLauriers, the special agent in charge of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation's Boston office, said he considered the two suspects "armed and
extremely dangerous" and asked the public to pass on any tips to law enforcement
officials.

The first suspect was observed wearing a black cap, while the second one was
seen wearing a white cap, Mr DesLauriers said. Both appeared to be carrying bags
on their backs. According to the FBI, the second suspect placed his bag at the
site of the second of the two blasts that struck the marathon on Monday.

The explosions killed three people and wounded more than 170 near the marathon's
finish line on Boston's Boylston Street. The youngest fatality was 8-year old
Martin Richard from the nearby community of Dorchester. 29-year old Kyrstle
Campbell and 23-year old Lu Lingzi, a Boston University graduate student from
China, were also killed by the blasts.

"Today we are enlisting the public's help to identify the two suspects...
Somebody out there knows these individuals," Mr DesLauriers said.

The developments came just hours after President Obama and first lady Michelle
Obama attended a special service for the victims at Boston's Cathedral of the
Holy Cross.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 19, 2013 Friday 11:27 PM GMT

'Saving lives brings me joy': The nursing student 'turned bomber' posted online
messages about saving lives while 'plotting Boston marathon terror attacks'

BYLINE: KATIE DAVIES

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2973 words



     ·    Dzhokhar A. Tsarnaev, 19, is currently on the run from police
     ·    His brother 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed
     ·    Dzhokhar tweeted at 5pm on Monday - hours after the marathon attack -
          saying 'stay safe people'
     ·    The pair's uncle and father have spoken out as Dzhokhar is revealed as
          a nursing student and Harvard lifeguard
     ·    In August he randomly tweeted about the Boston marathon saying it
          'isn't a safe place to smoke'
     ·    Repeatedly posted messages about 9-11 being an 'inside job' and
          wishing soldiers dead


The 19-year-old terrorist on the run in Boston sent out a message on Twitter
just hours after the attack saying 'Stay safe people' but in a chilling post in
August he wrote: 'Boston marathon isn't a good place to smoke tho'.

The account widely reported to belong to wanted terror suspect Dzhokhar A.
Tsarnaev makes for haunting reading as police still search for him in connection
to Monday's horrific terror attack.

Just months before the tweet he said he was changing majors to try and become a
nurse and talked about his work 'saving lives' as a Harvard lifeguard.

'I didn't become a lifeguard just to chill and get paid, I do it for the people,
saving brings me joy,' he wrote on May 29.

He was sacked last summer after he suddenly stopped turning up for shifts,
according to a  Buzzfeed report.

Scroll down for video

The Chechen has been described by friends as a 'careful and jovial' student, who
has lived in the U.S since 2003 and partied 'like a normal American kid' -
painting a conflicting picture of a man now wanted for terror.

It appears he became increasingly radicalized by his older brother Tamerlan with
whom he is said to have carried out the deadly terror attack - killing three and
injuring more than 180.

His cousin, Zaur, told the  Boston Globe that he 'used to warn Dzhokhar that
Tamaralan was up to no good' while Tamaralan's boxing coach said the younger
brother would watch him train, 'he idolized him,' he told the  Boston Herald.

The twitter account also portrays these two contrasting pictures.

Many of his posts are innocuous references to pop culture, college and women.

He posts hip hop lyrics, talks about his love for TV show Breaking Bad and chats
to college friends.

But he also talks about the fact he's growing a beard, his love of Islam and the
fact he wants to leave America.

On April 21 2012 he wrote in Russian: 'I will perish young' while last month he
tweeted 'Never underestimate the rebel with a cause'.

@ therealabdul_ boston marathon isn't a good place to smoke tho

- Jahar (@J_tsar) August 10, 2012

In another he writes: '3rd zombie apocalypse dream in a span of like 2 weeks,
I'm no golden boy but maybe, just maybe we should be expecting something soon,
tbc..'

He also posted: 'Idk [I don't know] why it's hard for many of you to accept that
9/11 was an inside job, I mean I guess f*** the facts y'all are some real
#patriots #gethip.'

And 'September 10th baby, you know what tomorrow is. Party at my house!
#thingsyoudontyellwhenenteringaroom.'

The terror suspect also posted pictures of himself in Times Square and wrote
about visiting New York in November.

Another particularly hateful comment reads: 'You guys know that the suicide rate
for active duty american soldiers is at an all time high for 2012, a suicide a
day, whats the #problem?'

He also wrote: 'A decade in American already, I want out.'

All this talk about the world ending triggered a zombie apocalypse dream last
night, weak part was only gettin to 1st base before worlds end

- Jahar (@J_tsar) December 21, 2012

The context of the Boston Marathon message is not known as the recipient's
account and responses are locked and therefore private.

But half the conversation can be seen on the terror suspect's site.

He writes: '@therealAbdul_ ok we get it, Africans are fast, so fast that they
make fast people seem not fast.'

'@therealAbdul_ boston marathon isn't a good place to smoke tho'

'@therealAbdul_ true that and yea come fall im umd bound'

At 5pm on Monday - just hours after he and his older brother were caught on
surveillance footage coolly walking away from the bomb site - he tweeted: 'Ain't
no love in the heart of the city, stay safe people.'

The next day he replied to a tweet claiming one of the fatalities in the
bombings was a woman whose fiance was proposing to her.

'Fake story' he wrote on the social media website.

The same day he added: 'I'm a stress free kind of guy.'

The suspect appears to have gone some way to cover his tracks following the
attack.

He spent a normal day at school on Wednesday - sleeping in his University of
Massachusetts dorm room and working out in the gym, according to analysis of his
card swipes on campus the Boston Globe reported.

One student even claimed she saw him in a party that night, according to the
local paper.

Dzhokhar was attending the college after graduating from Cambridge Rindge and
Latin School, former high school of Ben Affleck and Matt Damon.

Up until Monday, family and friends said he appeared to be a party-loving guy,
who was never a troublemaker and appeared grateful to America for taking in his
family.

His father described him as a 'true angel' today as news emerged his two sons
were terror suspects wanted for the atrocious attack on Boston on Monday.

Anzor Tsarnaev spoke with The Associated Press by telephone from the Russian
city of Makhachkala.

'My son is a true angel,' he said. 'Dzhokhar is a second-year medical student in
the U.S. He is such an intelligent boy.'

His 26-year-old older son Tamerlan was killed in a shoot-out with police late
last night.

He died in hospital with multiple gunshot wounds and possible blast injuries
after a fierce gun battle.

Both men were legal permanent residents of the United States who hailed from
Chechnya, which has been plagued by an Islamic insurgency stemming from
separatist wars.

The two brothers took to their adoptive country very differently.

It appears Tamerlan became radicalized in recent months. Despite his many years
here, he said he had 'one single American friend.'

Five months ago, he created a YouTube playlist dedicated to terrorism. Named
simply 'Terrorists,' it included a pair of videos, which are now no longer
available.

Among the songs was one called 'I will dedicate my life to Jihad.' He also
featured videos recorded by recent converts to Islam.

His brother on the other hand, who grew up in the country from a much younger
age, seemed to have entirely immersed himself in American life.

High school friends expressed their shock that he would have anything to do with
terrorism.

One friend told CNN: 'He is a normal kid, he parties, he sometimes smokes - if
you know what I mean. He was as American as I am - he was born and raised here.
This kid was a walking angel.'

VIDEO: Headmaster talks about the Tsarnaev family

Former wrestling coach Larry Aaronson told CNN: 'There was nothing in his
character, in his comportment, in his demeanor that said he would be capable of
doing this.

He was so grateful to be here, he was so grateful to be at the school. He was so
grateful to be accepted. He was pleasant, careful, jovial - there was nothing
remotely like this at all. He was a lovely, lovely kid, an outstanding athlete
and never a troublemaker.

'Last time I saw him I spoke to him in the street around Thanksgiving. I asked
if he was still wrestling and he said he was burying himself in his studies.'

At some point, however, that attitude changed.

The University of Massachusetts sent out details of his link to the school today
and announced their closure over fears the terror suspect would travel there and
particularly his old Pine Dale dorm.

The Tsarnaev family reportedly entered the United States more than a decade ago.

Dzhokhar was born in Kyrgyzstan after the family fled Chechnya. The family,
which also included two daughters, Bella and Amina, had the status of refugees.

Both sons had immense pride in their 'home country' with Dzhokhar describing
himself as Chechen and speaking the language.

The family moved around Eastern Europe with their young family.

He went to a school in Makhachkala, the capital city of the Republic of
Dagestan, between 1999-2001.

His former teachers at his first school described him as a 'normal child' today.

'He arrived at our school in the first form and departed in the second,' Irina
Bandurina, the secretary at Makhachkala's School No.1, told RT.

'They arrived from Kyrgyzstan and departed to the US. I'm telling you they lived
here for a year. Not the whole year. They arrived at the school in 2001 and
departed in March 2002 ... There were four of them - two sisters and two
brothers... It's written here that they are from Kyrgyzstan.'

A friend of Dzhokhar, Eric Mercado, told CNN the 19-year-old was just a 'normal
American kid'.

'There was no evidence that would lead us to believe he was capable of any of
this,' he said.

Chechnya: A history of terror

Muslim militants from Chechnya have a long history of unleashing separatist
terror attacks on Russia - but the allegations of involvement in the Boston
Marathon explosions would mark the first time they have targeted the West.

Buried in the heart of Russia's Northern Caucasus, the Islamic state has fought
against Russian rule for centuries.

But it culminated in a bloody and chaotic civil war with the Russian government
in 1994 that left tens of thousands dead and the region in ruins.

As a result, the area became a hotbed for extremism, and was soon infiltrated by
foreign Islamic militants, including those with ties to al Qaeda.

Terrorists have since unleashed a string of attacks on Russian soil and, more
recently, abroad.

Russian troops withdrew from Chechnya in 1996 after the first Chechen war,
leaving it de-facto independent and largely lawless, but then rolled back three
years later following apartment building explosions in Moscow and other cities
blamed on the rebels.

Chechnya has stabilized under the steely grip of Kremlin-backed local strongman
Ramzan Kadyrov, a former rebel whose forces were accused of massive rights
abuses.

But the Islamic insurgency has spread to neighboring provinces, with Dagestan,
sandwiched between Chechnya and the Caspian Sea, becoming the epicenter of
violence with militants launching daily attacks against police and other
authorities.

Militants from Chechnya and neighboring provinces have launched a long series of
terror attacks in Russia

On October 23 2002, over 40, mostly female, terrorists took more than 700
hostages prisoner at a Moscow theater, demanding an end to the Russian presence
in Chechnya. Dressed from head to toe in black hijabs, they became known as The
Black Widows.

But when Russian security forces stormed the theater, guns blazing, the hostage
takers responded by detonating homemade bombs strapped to their bodies, killing
more than 100 innocent theater goers.

Then on September 1 2004, a group of 32 heavily-armed, masked men seized control
of Middle School Number One and more than 1,000 hostages in Beslan, North
Ossetia.

Most of the hostages were children aged from six to sixteen years old.

After a tense two-day standoff, that was beamed around the world, Russian forces
raided the building.

A violent, two-hour gunfight followed bringing an end to a siege that ultimately
claimed the lives of  331 civilians, 11 commandos and 31 hostage-takers.

The rebels have since claimed responsibility for an array of terrorist attacks,
including last year's double suicide bombing of the Moscow subway system that
killed 40 people.

In March 2010, two women suicide bombers killed 40 commuters when they blew
themselves up on two packed tube trains during the busy rush hour.

And in January a year later, a Chechen suicide bomber unleashed terror on
Moscow's Domodedovo Airport when they blew themselves up killing 36 people.

In recent years, however, militants in Chechnya, Dagestan and other neighboring
provinces have largely refrained from attacks outside the Caucasus.

The allegations of the Caucasus men's role in the Boston's explosions would
reinforce long-held claims by Russian officials that insurgents in the Caucasus
have been linked to al-Qaida.

In high school he was a young wrestling star - a member of the team for three
years and captain for two.

Sanjaya Lamichhame, a team-mate, refused to speak against his friend and said:
'He always motivated me. He was a very nice guy. I knew him for four or five
years.'

He urged his friend to 'put down his gun' and hand himself in.

He also showed intellectual promise - winning a scholarship of $2,500 from the
city of Cambridge.

His Page on Vkontakte, the Russian equivalent of Facebook, shows pictures of him
with friends and posing for the camera.

On that site he mentions his interest in Islam but makes no suggestion he was
radicalized.

It has now been overrun with people asking him how he could have committed the
bombing, and wishing him dead.

The first brush with police for the family appears to been have made in June
2012 when the boys mother Zubeidat Tsarnaev was arrested for stealing $1,624 in
clothes from Lord and Taylor.

His high school friend Mercado said there was only one time he remembered him
discussing terrorism.

'A friend of mine remembered a conversation he had had with Dzhokhar. It was
along the lines of when justified, terrorism is not necessarily a bad thing.'

'It was a red flag but people say things all the time and you don't take it out
of context. You don't believe someone's going to be a terrorist because of these
conversations.'

He said friends were in disbelief when they identified Dzhokhar from FBI
pictures by his trademark backwards white cap.

Just a few hours after the FBI released the photos and videos of the two young
men, who were seen carrying backpacks as they mingled among marathon revelers,
clashes began with them around Boston.

Authorities said surveillance tape recorded late Thursday showed him during a
robbery of a 7-Eleven in Cambridge, near the campus of MIT, where a university
police officer was killed while responding to a report of a disturbance, said
State Police Col Timothy Alben.

The officer died of multiple gunshot wounds.

From there, authorities say, the brothers carjacked a man in a Mercedes-Benz,
keeping him with them in the car for half an hour before releasing him at a gas
station in Cambridge.

The man was not injured.

The search for the vehicle led to a chase that ended in Watertown, where
authorities said the suspects threw explosive devices from the car and exchanged
gunfire with police.

Police say the two suspects discharged several explosives at police from the
vehicle during the pursuit.

And according to eyewitness reports, the two men engaged in a furious gun fight
with dozens of police on a backstreet of Watertown.

'During the exchange of the gunfire, we believe that one of the suspects was
struck and ultimately taken into custody,' said a police statement.

A doctor from Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center said the suspect died after
suffering multiple wounds from gunshots and possibly the blast of an explosive.

'There were signs of more than just gunshot wounds, said the doctor, who did not
give his name.

'A second suspect was able to flee from that car and there is an active search
going on at this point in time,' Colonel Timothy Alben, superintendent of the
Massachusetts State Police, told a news conference.

'What we are looking for right now is a suspect consistent with suspect No 2,
the white-capped individual who was involved in Monday's bombing of the Boston
Marathon,' Alben said.

TIMELINE OF TERROR: HOW EVENTS UNFOLDED IN BOSTON

At 5:10 p.m. Thursday, investigators of the bombings release photographs and
video of two suspects. They ask for the public's help in identifying the men.

Around 10:20 p.m., shots are fired on the campus of the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology in Cambridge, just outside Boston.

At 10:30 p.m., an MIT campus police officer who was responding to a disturbance
is found shot multiple times in his vehicle, apparently in a confrontation with
the Boston Marathon bombing suspects. He is later pronounced dead.

Shortly afterward, two armed men reportedly carjack a Mercedes SUV in Cambridge.
A man who was in the vehicle is held for about a half hour and then released
unharmed at a gas station on Memorial Drive in Cambridge.

Police soon pursue the carjacked vehicle in Watertown, just west of Cambridge.

Some kind of explosive devices are thrown from the vehicle in an apparent
attempt to stop police. The carjackers and police exchange gunfire. A transit
police officer is seriously injured. One suspect, later identified as Suspect
No. 1 in the marathon bombings, is critically injured and later pronounced dead.

Authorities launch a manhunt for the other suspect.

Around 1 a.m. Friday, gunshots and explosions are heard in Watertown, just
outside Boston. Dozens of police officers and FBI agents converge on a Watertown
neighborhood. A helicopter circles overhead.

Around 4:30 a.m., Massachusetts state and Boston police hold a short outdoor
news briefing. They tell people living in that section of eastern Watertown to
stay in their homes. They identify the carjackers as the same men suspected in
the marathon bombings. Overnight, police also release a photograph of a man
believed to be Suspect No. 2, apparently taken from store video earlier in the
evening at a 7-Eleven convenience store in Cambridge. He is wearing a grey
hoodie-style sweatshirt.

Around 6:35 a.m., Revealed the bomb suspects are from a Russian region near
Chechnya and lived in the United States for at least 1 year.

Around 6:45 a.m., Surviving Boston bomb suspect is revealed as Dzhokhar A.
Tsarnaev, 19, who has been living in Cambridge, Mass.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 19, 2013 Friday 8:57 PM GMT

'Saving lives brings me joy': The nursing student 'turned bomber' posted online
messages about saving lives while 'plotting Boston marathon terror attacks'

BYLINE: KATIE DAVIES

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3429 words



     ·    Dzhokhar A. Tsarnaev, 19, is currently on the run from police
     ·    His brother 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed
     ·    Dzhokhar tweeted at 5pm on Monday - hours after the marathon attack -
          saying 'stay safe people'
     ·    The pair's uncle and father have spoken out as Dzhokhar is revealed as
          a nursing student and Harvard lifeguard
     ·    In August randomly tweeted about the Boston marathon saying it 'isn't
          a safe place to smoke'
     ·    Repeatedly posted messages about 9-11 being an 'inside job' and
          wishing soldiers dead


The 19-year-old terrorist on the run in Boston sent out a message on Twitter
just hours after the attack saying 'Stay safe people' but in a chilling post in
August he posted: 'Boston marathon isn't a good place to smoke tho'.

The account widely reported to belong to wanted terror suspect Dzhokhar A.
Tsarnaev makes for haunting reading as police still search for him in connection
to Monday's horrific terror attack.

Just months before the tweet he said he was changing majors to try and become a
nurse and his work 'saving lives' as a Harvard lifeguard.

'I didn't become a lifeguard just to chill and get paid, I do it for the people,
saving brings me joy,' he wrote on May 29.

Scroll down for video

The Chechen has been described by friends as a 'careful and jovial' student, who
has lived in the U.S since 2003 and partied 'like a normal American kid',
painting a conflicting picture of a man now wanted for terror.

It appears he became increasingly radicalized by his older brother Tamerlan,
with whom he is said to have carried out the deadly terror attack - killing
three and injuring more than 180.

The twitter account also portrays these two contrasting pictures.

Many of his posts are innocuous references to pop culture, college and women.

He posts hip hop lyrics, talks about his love for TV show Breaking Bad and chats
to college friends.

But he also talks about the fact he's growing a beard, his love of Islam and the
fact he wants to leave America.

On April 21 2012 he wrote in Russian: 'I will perish young'.

@ therealabdul_ boston marathon isn't a good place to smoke tho

- Jahar (@J_tsar) August 10, 2012

In another he writes: '3rd zombie apocalypse dream in a span of like 2 weeks I'm
no golden boy but maybe, just maybe will should be expecting something soon,
tbc.'

He also posted: 'Idk [I don't know] why it's hard for many of you to accept that
9/11 was an inside job, I mean I guess fuck the facts y'all are some real
#patriots #gethip.'

And 'September 10th baby, you know what tomorrow is. Party at my house!
#thingsyoudontyellwhenenteringaroom.'

The terror suspect also posted pictures of himself in Times Square and the
website and wrote about visiting the city in November.

Another particularly hateful comment reads: 'You guys know that the suicide rate
for active duty american soldiers is at an all time high for 2012, a suicide a
day, whats the #problem?'

He also wrote: 'A decade in American already, I want out.'

It isn't known what context of the Boston Marathon message came in as the
recipient's account, whose name is Abdul is locked.

But half the conversation can be seen on the terror suspect's account.

He writes: '@therealAbdul_ ok we get it, africans are fast, so fast that they
make fast people seem not fast.'

'@therealAbdul_ boston marathon isn't a good place to smoke tho'

'@therealAbdul_ true that and yea come fall im umd bound'

At 5pm on  Monday - just hours after he and his older brother were caught on
surveillance footage coolly walking away from the bomb site, he tweeted: 'Ain't
no love in the heart of the city, stay safe people.'

The next day he replied to a tweet claiming one of the fatalities in the
bombings was a woman whose fiance was proposing to her.

'Fake story' he wrote on the social media website.

The same day he added: 'I'm a stress free kind of guy.'

Dzhokhar graduated Cambridge Rindge and Latin School, former high school of Ben
Affleck and Matt Damon. More recently he was a nursing student at theUniversity
of Massachusetts.

He was described by family and friends as a party-loving guy, who was never a
troublemaker and appeared grateful to America for taking in his family.

His father described him as a 'true angel' today as news emerged his two sons
were terror suspects wanted for the atrocious attack on Boston on Monday.

THE CHECHNYA CONNECTION: BOMB SUSPECT BROTHERS LINKED TO ISLAMIC STATE WITH
HISTORY OF VIOLENT REBEL ATTACKS

Muslim militants from Chechnya have a long history of unleashing separatist
terror attacks on Russia - but the allegations of involvement in the Boston
Marathon explosions would mark the first time they have targeted the West.

Buried in the heart of Russia's Northern Caucasus, the Islamic state has fought
against Russian rule for centuries.

It culminated in a bloody and chaotic civil war with the Russian government in
1994 that left tens of thousands dead and the region in ruins. As a result, the
area became a hotbed for extremism, and was soon infiltrated by foreign Islamic
militants, including those with ties to al Qaeda.

Terrorists have since unleashed a string of attacks on Russian soil and, more
recently, abroad.

Russian troops withdrew from Chechnya in 1996 after the first Chechen war,
leaving it de-facto independent and largely lawless, but then rolled back three
years later following apartment building explosions in Moscow and other cities
blamed on the rebels.

Chechnya has stabilized under the steely grip of Kremlin-backed local strongman
Ramzan Kadyrov, a former rebel whose forces were accused of massive rights
abuses.

But the Islamic insurgency has spread to neighboring provinces, with Dagestan,
sandwiched between Chechnya and the Caspian Sea, becoming the epicenter of
violence with militants launching daily attacks against police and other
authorities.

Militants from Chechnya and neighboring provinces have launched a long series of
terror attacks in Russia.

On October 23 2002, over 40, mostly female, terrorists took more than 700
hostages prisoner at a Moscow theatre, demanding an end to the Russian presence
in Chechnya. Dressed from head to toe in black hijabs, they became known as The
Black Widows.

But when Russian security forces stormed the theatre, guns blazing, the hostage
takers responded by detonating homemade bombs strapped to their bodies, killing
more than 100 innocent theatre goers.

Then on September 1 2004, a group of 32 heavily-armed, masked men seized control
of Middle School Number One and more than 1,000 hostages in Beslan, North
Ossetia.

Most of the hostages were children aged from six to sixteen years old. After a
tense two-day standoff, that was beamed around the world, Russian forces raided
the building.

A violent, two-hour gunfight followed bringing an end to a siege that ultimately
claimed the lives of  331 civilians, 11 commandos and 31 hostage-takers.

The rebels have since claimed responsibility for an array of terrorist attacks,
including last year's double suicide bombing of the Moscow subway system that
killed 40 people.

In March 2010, two women suicide bombers killed 40 commuters when they blew
themselves up on two packed tube trains during the busy rush hour.

And in January a year later, a Chechen suicide bomber unleashed terror on
Moscow's Domodedovo Airport when they blew themselves up killing 36 people.

In recent years, however, militants in Chechnya, Dagestan and other neighboring
provinces have largely refrained from attacks outside the Caucasus.

The allegations of the Caucasus men's role in the Boston's explosions would
reinforce long-held claims by Russian officials that insurgents in the Caucasus
have been linked to al-Qaeda.

Anzor Tsarnaev spoke with The Associated Press by telephone from the Russian
city of Makhachkala.

'My son is a true angel,' he said. 'Dzhokhar is a second-year medical student in
the U.S. He is such an intelligent boy.'

His 26-year-old older son Tamerlan was killed in a shoot-out with police late
last night.

He died in hospital with multiple gunshot wounds and possible blast injuries
after a fierce gun battle late last night.

Both men were legal permanent residents of the United States who hailed from
Chechnya, which has been plagued by an Islamic insurgency stemming from
separatist wars.

The two brothers took to their adoptive country very differently.

It appears Tamerlan became radicalized in recent months. Despite his many years
here, he said he had 'one single American friend.'

Five months ago, Tamerlan created a playlist dedicated to terrorism.

Named simply 'Terrorists,' the playlist included a pair of videos, which are now
no longer available.

Although most of the clips in the channel are ordinary music videos, Tamerlan
Tsarnaev's YouTube channel shows signs that he had been drawn to radical
Islamism.

Among the songs on his playlists was one called 'I will dedicate my life to
Jihad.' He also featured videos recorded by recent converts to Islam.

His brother on the other hand, who grew up in the country from a much younger
age, seemed to have entirely immersed himself in American life.

High school friends expressed their shock that he would have anything to do with
terrorism today.

One friend told CNN: 'He is a normal kid, he parties, he sometimes smokes - if
you know what I mean. He was as American as I am - he was born and raised here.
This kid was a walking angel.'

VIDEO: Headmaster talks about the Tsarnaev family

Former wrestling coach Larry Aaronson told CNN: 'There was nothing in his
character, in his comportment, in his demeanor that said he would be capable of
doing this.

He was so grateful to be here, he was so grateful to be at the school. he was so
grateful to be accepted. He was pleasant, careful, jovial - there was nothing
remotely like this at all. He was a lovely, lovely kid, an outstanding athlete
and never a troublemaker.

'Last time I saw him I spoke to him in the street around Thanksgiving. I asked
if he was still wrestling and he said he was burying himself in his studies.'

At some point, however, that attitude changed.

The University of Massachusetts sent out details of his link to the school today
and announced their closure over fears the terror suspect would travel there and
particularly his old Pine Dale dorm.

The Tsarnaev family reportedly entered the United States more than a decade ago.

Dzhokhar was born in Kyrgyzstan after the family fled Chechnya. The family,
which also included two daughters, Bella and Amina, had the status of refugees
at the time they moved to Russia.

They both had immense pride in their 'home country' with Dzhokhar describing
himself as Chechen and speaking the language.

The family moved around Eastern Europe with their young family.

He went to a school in Makhachkala, the capital city of the Republic of
Dagestan, between 1999-2001.

His former teachers at his first school described him as a 'normal child' today.

'He arrived at our school in the first form and departed in the second,' Irina
Bandurina, the secretary at Makhachkala's School No.1, told RT.

VIDEO: Video of  on Yout

'They arrived from Kyrgyzstan and departed to the US. I'm telling you they lived
here for a year. Not the whole year. They arrived at the school in 2001 and
departed in March 2002 ... There were four of them - two sisters and two
brothers... It's written here that they are from Kyrgyzstan.'

A friend of Dzokhar, Eric Mercado told CNN the 19-year-old was just a 'normal
American kid'.

'There was no evidence that would lead us to believe he was capable of any of
this,' he said.

Chechnya: A history of terror

Muslim militants from Chechnya have a long history of unleashing separatist
terror attacks on Russia - but the allegations of involvement in the Boston
Marathon explosions would mark the first time they have targeted the West.

Buried in the heart of Russia's Northern Caucasus, the Islamic state has fought
against Russian rule for centuries.

But it culminated in a bloody and chaotic civil war with the Russian government
in 1994 that left tens of thousands dead and the region in ruins.

As a result, the area became a hotbed for extremism, and was soon infiltrated by
foreign Islamic militants, including those with ties to al Qaeda.

Terrorists have since unleashed a string of attacks on Russian soil and, more
recently, abroad.

Russian troops withdrew from Chechnya in 1996 after the first Chechen war,
leaving it de-facto independent and largely lawless, but then rolled back three
years later following apartment building explosions in Moscow and other cities
blamed on the rebels.

Chechnya has stabilized under the steely grip of Kremlin-backed local strongman
Ramzan Kadyrov, a former rebel whose forces were accused of massive rights
abuses.

But the Islamic insurgency has spread to neighboring provinces, with Dagestan,
sandwiched between Chechnya and the Caspian Sea, becoming the epicenter of
violence with militants launching daily attacks against police and other
authorities.

Militants from Chechnya and neighboring provinces have launched a long series of
terror attacks in Russia

On October 23 2002, over 40, mostly female, terrorists took more than 700
hostages prisoner at a Moscow theatre, demanding an end to the Russian presence
in Chechnya. Dressed from head to toe in black hijabs, they became known as The
Black Widows.

But when Russian security forces stormed the theater, guns blazing, the hostage
takers responded by detonating homemade bombs strapped to their bodies, killing
more than 100 innocent theater goers.

Then on September 1 2004, a group of 32 heavily-armed, masked men seized control
of Middle School Number One and more than 1,000 hostages in Beslan, North
Ossetia.

Most of the hostages were children aged from six to sixteen years old.

After a tense two-day standoff, that was beamed around the world, Russian forces
raided the building.

A violent, two-hour gunfight followed bringing an end to a siege that ultimately
claimed the lives of  331 civilians, 11 commandos and 31 hostage-takers.

The rebels have since claimed responsibility for an array of terrorist attacks,
including last year's double suicide bombing of the Moscow subway system that
killed 40 people.

In March 2010, two women suicide bombers killed 40 commuters when they blew
themselves up on two packed tube trains during the busy rush hour.

And in January a year later, a Chechen suicide bomber unleashed terror on
Moscow's Domodedovo Airport when they blew themselves up killing 36 people.

In recent years, however, militants in Chechnya, Dagestan and other neighboring
provinces have largely refrained from attacks outside the Caucasus.

The allegations of the Caucasus men's role in the Boston's explosions would
reinforce long-held claims by Russian officials that insurgents in the Caucasus
have been linked to al-Qaida.

Growing up in the U.S, he was a young wrestling star attending Cambridge Rindge
and Latin School. He won a scholarship of $2,500 in the city if Cambridge.

His Page on Vkontakte, the Russian equivalent of Facebook, shows pictures of him
with friends and posing for the camera.

He appears to be interested in Islam but there is no suggestion he was
radicalized like his older brother and he makes no posts about violence or
terror.

It has now been overrun with people asking him how he could have committed the
bombing, and wishing him dead.

The first brush with police the family appear to have made was in June 2012 when
the boys mother Zubeidat Tsarnaev was arrested for stealing $1624 in clothes
from Lord and Taylor.

His high school friend Mercado said there was only one time he remembered him
discussing terrorism.

'A friend of mine remembered a conversation he had had with Dzhokhar. It was
along the lines of when justified, terrorism is not necessarily a bad thing.'

'It was a red flag but people say things all the time and you don't take it out
of context. You don't believe someone's going to be a terrorist because of these
conversations.'

He said friends were in disbelief when they identified Dzhokhar from FBI
pictures by his trademark backwards white cap.

Just a few hours after the FBI released the photos and videos of the two young
men, who were seen carrying backpacks as they mingled among marathon revelers,
clashes began with them around Boston.

Authorities said surveillance tape recorded late Thursday showed him during a
robbery of a 7/11 in Cambridge, near the campus of MIT, where a university
police officer was killed while responding to a report of a disturbance, said
State Police Col Timothy Alben.

The officer died of multiple gunshot wounds.

From there, authorities say, the brothers carjacked a man in a Mercedes-Benz,
keeping him with them in the car for half an hour before releasing him at a gas
station in Cambridge.

The man was not injured.

The search for the vehicle led to a chase that ended in Watertown, where
authorities said the suspects threw explosive devices from the car and exchanged
gunfire with police.

Police say the two suspects discharged several explosives at police from the
vehicle during the pursuit.

And according to eyewitness reports, the two men engaged in a furious gun fight
with dozens of police on a backstreet of Watertown.

'During the exchange of the gunfire, we believe that one of the suspects was
struck and ultimately taken into custody,' said a police statement.

And according to eyewitness reports, the two men engaged in a furious gun fight
with dozens of police on a backstreet of Watertown.

'During the exchange of the gunfire, we believe that one of the suspects was
struck and ultimately taken into custody,' said a police statement.

A doctor from Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center said the suspect died after
suffering multiple wounds from gunshots and possibly the blast of an explosive.

'There were signs of more than just gunshot wounds, said the doctor, who did not
give his name.

'A second suspect was able to flee from that car and there is an active search
going on at this point in time,' Colonel Timothy Alben, superintendent of the
Massachusetts State Police, told a news conference.

'What we are looking for right now is a suspect consistent with suspect No 2,
the white-capped individual who was involved in Monday's bombing of the Boston
Marathon,' Alben said.

TIMELINE OF TERROR: HOW EVENTS UNFOLDED IN BOSTON

At 5:10 p.m. Thursday, investigators of the bombings release photographs and
video of two suspects. They ask for the public's help in identifying the men.

Around 10:20 p.m., shots are fired on the campus of the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology in Cambridge, just outside Boston.

At 10:30 p.m., an MIT campus police officer who was responding to a disturbance
is found shot multiple times in his vehicle, apparently in a confrontation with
the Boston Marathon bombing suspects. He is later pronounced dead.

Shortly afterward, two armed men reportedly carjack a Mercedes SUV in Cambridge.
A man who was in the vehicle is held for about a half hour and then released
unharmed at a gas station on Memorial Drive in Cambridge.

Police soon pursue the carjacked vehicle in Watertown, just west of Cambridge.

Some kind of explosive devices are thrown from the vehicle in an apparent
attempt to stop police. The carjackers and police exchange gunfire. A transit
police officer is seriously injured. One suspect, later identified as Suspect
No. 1 in the marathon bombings, is critically injured and later pronounced dead.

Authorities launch a manhunt for the other suspect.

Around 1 a.m. Friday, gunshots and explosions are heard in Watertown, just
outside Boston. Dozens of police officers and FBI agents converge on a Watertown
neighborhood. A helicopter circles overhead.

Around 4:30 a.m., Massachusetts state and Boston police hold a short outdoor
news briefing. They tell people living in that section of eastern Watertown to
stay in their homes. They identify the carjackers as the same men suspected in
the marathon bombings. Overnight, police also release a photograph of a man
believed to be Suspect No. 2, apparently taken from store video earlier in the
evening at a 7-Eleven convenience store in Cambridge. He is wearing a grey
hoodie-style sweatshirt.

Around 6:35 a.m., Revealed the bomb suspects are from a Russian region near
Chechnya and lived in the United States for at least 1 year.

Around 6:45 a.m., Surviving Boston bomb suspect is revealed as Dzhokhar A.
Tsarnaev, 19, who has been living in Cambridge, Mass.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 19, 2013 Friday 5:48 PM GMT

Estranged wife of would-be suicide bomber cleared of knowing about husband's
plans for a terror attack to rival 7/7

BYLINE: HUGO GYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 632 words



     ·    Salma Kabal, 23, said she did not listen to husband Ashik Ali's terror
          plots
     ·    She texted friends while he ranted about plans to 'go jihad' with
          bombing
     ·    After verdict she said she is 'a proud British woman who is also a
          Muslim'


The wife of an Islamic extremist was today cleared of knowing about his plans to
launch a terror attack after she claimed she was busy texting friends when he
revealed his desire to 'go jihad'.

Salma Kabal insisted she did not understand her husband Ashik Ali's murderous
intentions, and only wanted to rescue her marriage after the couple became
estranged.

After being cleared of wrongdoing, the 23-year-old said she was not an
extremist, proclaiming: 'I am a proud British woman who is also a Muslim.'

Ali, 28, was one of three terrorists jailed in February for plotting a suicide
bomb attack which they intended would be as big as the July 7 Underground
bombings.

Prosecutors claimed that Ms Kabal must have known of her husband's intentions,
and said she had compared the attacks to Chris Morris comedy Four Lions.

But a jury at Woolwich Crown Court today cleared her of having information about
acts of terrorism.

In a statement read out by her lawyer after the verdict was delivered, Ms Kabal
said the decision showed she 'is not and never have been an extremist of any
kind'.

She continued: 'Today the flood of British freedom still flows from Woolwich
Crown Court, the home of the "invincible army" of old.

'The unanimous decision of the jury to acquit me in under four hours amounts to
an emphatic rejection of the prosecution's case against me.

'In the trial, it was accepted I am not and never have been an extremist of any
kind. I am a proud British woman who is also a Muslim.

'I do have concerns about the way the decision to prosecute me was taken, and
the way that decision was kept under review.

'To adopt a phrase, no one seemed to have read Men are from Mars, Women are from
Venus.'

Ms Kabal concluded: 'I want to thank my family and friends who stood by me - I
love them deeply.'

During the trial, she told jurors she was motivated by love for her husband and
had no idea that he was serious about his extremist rhetoric.

She said she thought his threat to 'go jihad' was just a 'load of c**p' designed
as an excuse to end their marriage.

In recordings played to the jury, Ali told Ms Kabal: 'What I am going to do,
what my situation is at the moment, we can't be together.

'You don't understand I'm actually serious about this.'

She denied knowing he held terrorist intentions, and said she completely ignored
other parts of his rambling speeches.

'How can somebody make a marriage work with someone who is going to be a
terrorist?', she said. 'If I had taken him seriously, I would have reported it
to the authorities.'

Ms Kabal told the court her attention in the conversations recorded the day
before he was arrested had often wandered.

'It was a long conversation, he was going on and on, and my attention was
diverted because I was texting someone on my phone', she said.

'I was constantly texting - I can't remember who I was texting, but it must have
been my sister at the time or a friend.'

Ali was convicted in February of running a terrorist cell along with Irfan
Khalid and Irfan Naseer.

They experimented with making bombs from sports injury treatments, plotted to
cook up deadly hand cream, and recruited fellow extremists to their cause.

Ali's home, the cell's makeshift bomb factory, was raided on September 18, 2011,
as security services swooped on the would-be bombers.

Ms Kamal married Ali under Islamic law in February 2009, but their relationship
soured after a year under cramped living conditions with Ali's family.

At the time of their arrests, the couple were living separately and had verbally
divorced, although were still married under British law.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             April 19, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terrorists trained in Wales as they plotted attack on TA;
FOUR EXERCISED IN BRECON BEACONS AND SNOWDONIA

BYLINE: DAVID MERCER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 544 words


TERRORISTS who trained in Snowdonia and the Brecon Beacons as they plotted an al
Qaeda-inspired attack in the UK have been ordered to serve up to 16 years and
three months in jail.

Zahid Iqbal, 31, and Mohammed Sharfaraz Ahmed, 25, discussed sending a
remote-controlled toy car carrying a home-made bomb under the gates of a
Territorial Army centre in Luton, London's Woolwich Crown Court heard. Mr
Justice Wilkie QC said the pair posed "a significant risk of serious harm to the
public" as he imposed a custodial sentence of least 11 years and three months,
with a five-year extension period subject to licence.

Umar Arshad, 24, was jailed for six years and nine months and Syed Farhan
Hussain, 22, for five years and three months for their roles in preparing for a
terrorist attack.

The men, all from Luton, had admitted one count of engaging in conduct in
preparation for acts of terrorism between January 1 2011 and April 25 2012 at a
hearing on March 1. The court heard Ahmed was observed by surveillance on
numerous occasions attending a gym for training and going on trips to
mountainous regions with others.

Prosecuting, Max Hill QC said conversations picked up from covert surveillance
revealed he was carrying out the training with a view to being physically fit
for "purposes connected with terrorism".

"He stated that Snowdon was a particular favourite location to train because
within the UK it bears the most resemblance to the mountainous regions of
Pakistan," said Mr Hill.

"The surveillance in Snowdon shows on occasions Ahmed and others carrying out
regimental walking, press-ups, running in formation and using logs and branches
perhaps as mock firearms."

The court also heard the Brecon Beacons were used for training. The men
considered methods, materials and targets for a terrorist attack, the court
heard. Iqbal and Ahmed spoke about making an improvised explosive device (IED)
based on instructions in an al Qaeda manual entitled "make a bomb in the kitchen
of your mom - by the al Qaeda chef", the court was told.

Covert recordings of the pair heard Iqbal suggesting attaching the bomb to a
remote controlled toy car and sending it under the gap of a gate to a
Territorial Army (TA) centre in Luton.

Iqbal was recorded telling Ahmed: "I was looking and drove past like the TA
centre, Marsh Road. At the bottom of their gate there's quite a big gap. If you
had a little toy car it drives underneath one of their vehicles or something."

The men were arrested following a series of raids at their homes in April last
year after an intelligence-led joint operation by the Metropolitan Police
Counter Terrorism Command and the Security Service.

The court heard that Iqbal was acting as a "facilitator" for people who wanted
to travel for "extremist purposes" and he had direct contact with a Pakistani
operative who was given the pseudonym "Modern Sleeve". He helped Ahmed travel to
Pakistan in March 2011 for military training and discussed methods of avoiding
detection, the court heard. By spring 2011 Iqbal, a married father-of-one, lost
contact with "Modern Sleeve" in Pakistan.

As a result of this, and inspired by information from the banned al Qaeda online
magazine Inspire, Iqbal and Ahmed began to focus on attack planning in the UK,
Mr Hill said.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ Snowdon was a particular favourite location for training
¦ Zahid Iqbal, Mohammed Sharfaraz Ahmed, Umar Arshad and Syed Farhan Hussain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            April 20, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Was Boston bombing Chechen terrorists' first attack on West?;
ANALYST ON BLAST LINK

BYLINE: Dr SIMON BENNETT

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 589 words


THERE were fears that militants from Chechnya had spread their campaign of
terror to the West yesterday after the Boston Marathon bombers were named as
ethnic Chechen brothers Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev.

Chechen fighters waging an Islamic insurgency have launched a long series of
attacks in Russia, including the bombing of a Moscow apartment building in 1999,
killing 94 people, and the 2002 hostagetaking raid in Moscow's Dubrovka theatre,
in which 129 died.

There was also a 2004 siege in a school in Beslan that left more than 330 dead -
most of them children - and a bombing of the Moscow underground system in 2010
which killed more than 40. But Monday's outrage would be the first attack on
America, a country which, according to family members yesterday, has been home
to the Tsarnaev brothers since they were young children.

Here, a leading security expert and the director of the Civil Safety and
Security Unit at the University of Leicester suggests a possible link between
Chechnya and Boston.

ALL week - up until the latest developments - I have been convinced the Boston
Marathon bombing was likely to have been the work of domestic terrorists.

Certainly the bombing had all the hallmarks of a neo-Nazi attack.

It is possible it has nothing to do with Chechnya, and the brothers, if they are
the culprits, have come under some other influences while they lived in the US.

The pipe-bombing at the Atlanta Olympics in 1996 and Timothy McVeigh's
devastating bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City, which killed 168
people in 1995, had similarities to Boston.

Pipe bombs are often used by neo-Nazis because fragmentation creates shrapnel
which maximises injuries.

The use of pressure-cooker bombs packed with nails and ball-bearings in Boston
was classic neo-Nazi style.

Having said that, one of the few things in the last five to ten years that has
brought Russia and the US closer together has been the combined fight against
Islamist terrorism across the world. If you think of Beslan and the attacks on
Moscow's underground, President Putin's Russia has had very visceral experience
of Islamic terrorism.

Putin may not have endeared himself to David Cameron or Presidents Bush and
Obama, but there is common ground on the need to exchange intelligence on
Islamic terrorism. If I was a Chechen terrorist and I wanted to make a big
splash but not run the risk of having the people I purport to represent attacked
by the Russian state, I would commit an act of terrorism not on Russian soil.

You are still getting the full impact of a terrorist attack in an advanced
state, where there is huge media coverage and everyone is sensitised to Islamic
terrorism.

In 2011, a Chechen-born man was sentenced to 12 years in Denmark for preparing a
letter bomb filled with steel pellets that exploded as he assembled it in a
Copenhagen hotel.

Last month, police arrested three suspected Islamic extremists of Chechen origin
near Paris.

It is not unfeasible that Chechen terrorists would export their terrorism to
London as the city stages its own marathon tomorrow. Certainly the Metropolitan
Police Commissioner is very aware of these threats.

He will be in close contact with the CIA, FBI and other agencies, together with
MI6 and GCHQ, who will be trying to locate any possible communications between
these individuals in America and anyone here.

2002 850 hostages held at Moscow's Dubrovka Theatre, 130 died

2004 Militants occupied a school in Beslan - 334 hostages died.

2010 Two female suicide bombers killed 40 on the Moscow Metro

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATION ... main picture, Boston blast. Above, Beslan siege. Below,
the aftermath of the 1999 apartment complex bombing in Moscow

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 21, 2013 Sunday 4:07 PM GMT

Family of missing student falsely named as Boston terror suspect bombarded with
hate messages;
The father of a missing university student who was wrongly identified as a
suspect in the Boston marathon terror attack said he and his family had been
flooded with abusive messages as they searched for their son.

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson New Delhi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 559 words


Sunil Tripathi, a 22 year old philosophy student at Brown University was falsely
identified as one of the suspects on Twitter after photographs of the two wanted
men were released by the police.

His name was circulated around millions of people on social networking sites
amid false rumours that his name had been overheard on police radio scanners.
The fact that he had been missing for more than a month was cited as
corroboration.

His father, Akhil Tripathi, a mechanical engineer and businessman, said Sunil
had been missing since March 16th and that he and his family were co-ordinating
their search for him from Providence, Rhode Island, when they were suddenly
targeted as the parents of a "terrorist."

They were forced to suspend their Facebook page 'Help Us Find Sunil Tripathi' as
it was targeted with abusive messages denouncing him and his wife as the parents
of a "terrorist," Mr Tripathi told the Telegraph. "We had a team of people
deleting messages, not even reading them. How could you raise a terrorist? that
kind of stuff. Nasty messages. We just tried to get them out fast," he said in a
telephone interview.

"It was absolutely horrible. The FBI released pictures of the suspects and
somehow somebody thought it was Sunil. We couldn't understand it, they looked
nothing like Sunil. And then the social media went crazy. There was no
corroboration from the authorities. It was a terrible experience. We didn't eat
or sleep and we had to take down our Facebook page. It was a horrific ordeal.
They posted outrageous, illogical and nasty messages on it. There were a lot of
media trucks at our home 30 miles from Philadelphia.

"All the authorities knew he was not a suspect. It was just people on Twitter
and it went wild. It was the most horrific experience and I wouldnﾒt wish it on
anybody. These kind of rumours must be corroborated with the authorities, but it
was just individuals speculating and radio talk shows. It was the most harmful
experience for 18 hours," he added.

Officials from the Federal Bureau of Investigation visited them to offer
support, he said, and were forced to name the real suspects, Tamerlan Tsarnaev
and his younger brother Dzhokhar, earlier than they had planned.

But while Boston police and residents celebrated the capture of the Chechen
brothers, the Tripathi family revived their campaign to find Sunil who has now
been missing for 35 days. Their Facebook page was relaunched and received "tens"
of apologies, Mr Tripathi said.

While he, his wife Judy, son Ravi and daughter Sangeeta remain deeply worried,
he said the publicity given to the fact that Sunil is missing was a "silver
lining" which they hope will help them find him.

No-one knows why he went missing last month, he said, because he had no obvious
problems. He was an A student at Brown, he said, and he had spent the evening
before he disappeared chatting to his girlfriend. "It's an awful feeling but we
are relentless, we will not stop, we'll keep looking," he said.

"We have no clue where he is, but our optimism is higher now. After 35 days if
he was not alive someone would have found him. We believe he is alive and it is
a question of whether he is in a homeless shelter in some city. We'll keep
looking We ae more optimistic in the light of this event and we hope to find him
soon because there is more awareness now," he added.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             April 22, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

HARRY: I JUST HAD TO BE HERE!;
Prince salutes massive London Marathon turnout for the Boston terror attack
victims

BYLINE: MARC WALKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 629 words


PRINCE Harry paid tribute to brave Brits who ran in the London Marathon
yesterday just six days after the Boston bombings.

The royal praised the 36,000 runners and half-a-million spectators and even
hinted he will run in the event himself next year.

Harry, 28, there to hand out winners' medals, said: "It's fantastic, it's
typically British.

"We're stuck here at the finish line, but hopefully next year I can get out on
the course and soak up the atmosphere."

Crowds swelled the numbers in the capital despite fears of a copycat attack of
the Boston blasts that killed three people and injured 178.

Runners and their supporters, some caught up in the US bloodbath, sported
banners declaring: "This is for Boston!"

Hundreds of extra police of-ficers were drafted in and security measures were
stepped up tighter than usual.

Runners wore black ribbons and observed a 30-second silence in memory of victims
Martin Richard, eight, Krystle Campbell, 29, and Lu Lingzi, 23. Proud Harry
added: "People have been saying they haven't seen crowds like this for eight
years around the route.

"The way Boston has dealt with it has been absolutely remarkable. It's never
going to get anyone down here.

"The great thing about the marathon is no matter what colour, religion, or
nationality you are, everyone comes together to raise money for amazing causes."

Asked about speculation before the event that he would pull out of his role
handing out medals for security reasons, Harry added: "It was never an option as
far as I was concerned.

"Everyone who was planning on coming is still here, no-one has changed any
plans.

"It was always going to be really well run and it always is. It's the British
way."

Mike Harris, from London, who ran the Boston Marathon in 2012, said the
30-second silence was particularly poignant. "I did Boston last year, so it hit
home," he said.

The 32-year-old broke a world record by running the fastest ever time for a man
dressed as a nurse.

Double above-the-knee amputee Richard Whitehead, 36, who won the T42 200m at
last summer's Paralympics, finished in 3hrs 15mins.

Celebs running the route included singer Katherine Jenkins, 32, McFly star Harry
Judd, 27, and actress Nikki Sanderson, 29.

Chubby Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls completed the race in 5hrs 14mins and then
revealed bitter rival George Osborne had sponsored him £50.

Thousands of members of the public ran, many in wacky outfits, including a Peppa
Pig one.

The men's race was won by Ethiopian Tsegaye Kebede, 26, while the women's title
was taken by Kenyan Priscah Jeptoo, 28.

Women's favourite 25-year-old Ethiopian Tiki Gelana's hopes were dashed after
she was in a collision with Canadian wheelchair racer Josh Cassidy, 28.

The men's wheelchair champion was Australia's Kurt Fearnley, 32. Team GB star
David Weir, 33, came fifth. The women's wheelchair race was won by the USA's
Tatyana McFadden, 24.

marc.walker@dailystar.co.uk BOMBER'S SUICIDE BID: Page 6 Running late OLYMPICS
star Mo Farah had to make a mad dash to catch a bus to the start line - after he
overslept.

Mo, 30, ran half the course but said he'll do a full marathon in 2014.

Amy made it!

EX TOWIE babe Amy Childs, 22, sizzled in the sunshine but trailed in with the
backmarkers after she spent time reapplying her lip gloss.

It came after the dizzy redhead pledged to scoff jelly beans to keep going and
to use the sat nav on her phone in case she got lost.

Let's run off .

MARATHON runner James Carvel bagged himself a runaway bride when he proposed to
girlfriend Lianne Humphries.

He dropped to one knee, produced a ring, and Lianne, who also took part,

SO PROUD: Prince Harry at the finish line said the race was brilliantly
organised

TRIUMPH: Katherine Jenkins, Harry Judd and Nikki Sanderson

SHARED GRIEF: The supporters remember the Boston tragedy

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pictures: WAYNE STARR / TIM MERRY / ACTION IMAGES /LNP / PA / PCN /
WENN / XPOSURE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             April 22, 2013 Monday

Comment: Atrocities such as Boston are hard to tackle, gun crime isn't: The
greatest threat to US citizens is not one-off terror attacks, but the menace
that comes with mass gun-ownership

BYLINE: Gary Younge

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1065 words


Nobody knows why he did it. But that hasn't stopped them speculating. In
retrospect, from the testimony of those who knew him, there were signs. But
nobody could have predicted anything on this scale. What influences came to
bear? What motives could there be? What would drive a young man to wilfully
murder as many innocents as possible, leaving the country both vulnerable and
mournful?

I pose these questions not of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the 19-year-old chief surviving
suspect in the Boston bombing saga that left three dead and injured more than
170 last week, but of Adam Lanza, who shot 20 children and six teachers in
Newtown, Connecticut in December. The contradictions in the political responses
to the two tragedies and the issues they raise could not be more glaring or
obscene.

On Monday the Boston Marathon was bombed. Within a day of suspects being
identified, politicians who defended the status quo on guns were calling for
"increased surveillance of Muslims" and addressing "loopholes in the immigration
system" (Tsarnaev and his brother, Tamerlan, who was killed in a firefight, grew
up in Kyrgyzstan).

On Wednesday the Senate declined to pass even the most anaemic gun control
measures in response to the Newtown shootings. Twenty children, aged between six
and seven, are slaughtered in school and the American polity takes five months
to decide do nothing. Unable to break the filibuster limit, it didn't even come
to a vote. Hiding behind the National Rifle Association's (NRA) talking points,
gun rights senators cloaked themselves in the constitution, insisting support
for gun control would violate the second amendment "right to bear arms".

While the authorities denied the still unconscious Dzhokhar his Miranda rights
(informing him that he has the right to remain silent), some Republicans
insisted he be tried as "an enemy combatant" - the legal aberration and moral
abomination that paved the way to Guantanamo Bay. Their devotion to
constitutional rights, it turns out, is partial; their embrace of guns is
complete. The NRA even opposes legislation banning gun sales to people on the
terrorist watchlist, meaning those who can't board a flight can still lock and
load.

As John Oliver, a UK comedian on the Daily Show, noted: "One failed attempt at a
shoe bomb and we all have to take off our shoes at the airport. Thirty one
school shootings since Columbine and no change in the regulation of guns."

The ramifications of this neglect cannot be overstated. More than 85 people -
including eight children - are killed with guns on an average day in America and
more than twice that number are injured. Even taking into account the fact that
most gun deaths are suicides, that's still several times the death toll of 9/11
every year.

Numbers alone, however, don't quite do the cognitive dissonance justice. The
effect of a terrorist attack such as Boston cannot be measured in the number of
slain alone. Terrorism creates a culture of fear and suspicion that spreads
beyond those immediately affected and impacts upon our understanding of risk. It
means no one feels safe, anyone is a potential suspect and danger could be
anywhere. "Terror is first of all the terror of the next attack," writes Arjun
Appadurai in Fear of Small Numbers. "Terror . . . opens the possibility that
anyone may be a soldier in disguise, a sleeper among us, waiting to strike at
the heart of our social slumber."

The trouble is this is precisely the culture that many Americans have lived in
for years. It's estimated that in Chicago 20-30% of the children have witnessed
a school shooting. Carolyn Murray, whose son was shot dead on his grandmother's
lawn in a Chicago suburb, does not enjoy much in the way of "social slumber".
She has become so accustomed to gunfire at the weekends she could call the
police and tell them what calibre was used and the direction of the shooting,
just by listening in bed. Put bluntly, a significant section of America lives in
constant terror and Congress just decided they should continue to do so.

In the hierarchy of suffering and security in America there are, in short,
places where you are supposed to be safe - marathons, suburban schools, cinemas
- and places where you are apparently entitled to no such expectation:
particularly poor black and Latino neighbourhoods. Only in a handful of
exceptions - when the killers are white, American-born Christians (the media has
developed no default anxiety about them), the dead mostly white and the murders
in large numbers - do shootings stand a chance of attracting mainstream
political attention. Even then, only rarely, and even then, as last week proved,
to little tangible effect.

The uncomfortable reality is that there is precious little that can be done to
prevent an atrocity such as that in Boston. "We've had a lot of successes in
degrading the ability of al-Qaida to launch massive attacks," Democratic
congressman Adam Schiff, a former federal prosecutor and member of the house
intelligence committee, told the Washington Post. "But we've had a proliferation
of one-off, foreign-born plots and self-radicalised individuals . . . We're
going to have to recognise a certain vulnerability, and adopt a determined view
that we will go on as we have, taking prudent precautions, but not changing the
way we live."

Conversely there is a great deal that can be done to change the way Americans
die daily. Gun rights advocates insist the gun-control measure that had the best
chance last week, which demanded background checks for guns sold online and at
gun shows, would not have prevented Lanza's crime. He used his mother's gun,
which had been purchased legally. That's true, although since 90% of Americans
and even 74% of gun-owning members of the NRA agreed with it, they should have
passed it anyway. But the reason the compromise proposal was so tepid is because
they scuppered efforts to ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, which
enabled Lanza to kill far more children far more quickly.

Expressing frustration at the failure to pass anything, Andrew Goddard, whose
son Colin was injured during the 2007 shootings at Virginia Tech, told the New
York Times: "It's almost like you can see the finish line, but you just can't
get there. It's more annoying to be able to see it and not get to it."

There's many a Boston marathon runner who knows exactly how that feels.

twitter@garyyounge

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 22, 2013 Monday 9:17 PM GMT

Canadian security forces arrest two and thwart terrorist plot to attack
passenger trains in Toronto that was ordered by al-Qaeda in IRAN

BYLINE: REUTERS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 325 words


Canadian security forces have thwarted a plot to attack passenger trains in the
Toronto-area and arrested two men they believe were acting on the orders of
al-Qaeda leader in Iran, it was revealed today.

The Royal Canadian Mounted Police say two men, who are not Canadian citizens,
were planning to derail a train in the hopes of killing passengers and crew
members.

Chiheb Esseghaier, 30,  and Raed Jaser, 35, were not on the verge of the attack,
but were in the planning stages.

Esseghaier was arrested today in Montreal and Jaser was taken into custody in
Toronto.

One of the biggest surprises to come out of the details of the plot are that the
orders were given by al-Qaeda leaders in Iran.

Iran, a Shi'a-majority country, is a strange ally for the fiercely Sunni Muslim
terrorist group.

Still, CNN reported last month that the few surviving members of Osama bin
Laden's inner circle currently reside in Iran.

Some of bin Laden's family are said to be under house arrest in Tehran. Others -
including top advisers - live in the ski resort city of Chalus on the Caspian
Sea.

Canadian authorities, though, were careful to make clear that this was not an
instance of state-sponsored terrorism.

The police statement, which gave no details of arrests, said various Canadian
security forces had conducted joint operations in the two cities.

A U.S. law enforcement source told Reuters the alleged plot was not linked with
last week's Boston Marathon bombings.

The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation said the operations was conducted with the
U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the FBI.

The arrests follow not only the Boston bombings but revelations that Canadians
took part in an attack by militants on a gas plant in Algeria in January.

It also recalls the arrests in 2006 of a group of more than a dozen Toronto-area
men accused of planning to plant bombs at various Canadian targets. Eleven men
were eventually convicted of taking part on the plot.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 22, 2013 Monday 8:58 PM GMT

Canadian security forces arrest two and thwart al-Qaeda-linked terrorist plot to
attack passenger trains in Toronto

BYLINE: REUTERS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 225 words


Canadian security forces have thwarted a plot to attack passenger trains in the
Toronto-area and arrested two men they believe were acting on the orders of
al-Qaeda.

The Royal Canadian Mounted Police searched several homes in Toronto and Montreal
today.

U.S. security and law enforcement sources also said the suspects had sought to
attack the railroad between Toronto and New York City. Canadian media said two
men had been arrested after raids in Toronto and Montreal, Canada's two biggest
cities.

Canadian police are holding a briefing about a 'national security criminal
investigation' at 3.30pm.

The police statement, which gave no details of arrests, said various Canadian
security forces had conducted joint operations in the two cities.

A U.S. law enforcement source told Reuters the alleged plot was not linked with
last week's Boston Marathon bombings.

The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation said the operations was conducted with the
U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the FBI.

The arrests follow not only the Boston bombings but revelations that Canadians
took part in an attack by militants on a gas plant in Algeria in January.

It also recalls the arrests in 2006 of a group of more than a dozen Toronto-area
men accused of planning to plant bombs at various Canadian targets. Eleven men
were eventually convicted of taking part on the plot.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 22, 2013 Monday 8:36 PM GMT

Canadian security forces arrest two and thwart terrorist plot to attack rail
line between New York and Toronto

BYLINE: REUTERS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 214 words


Canadian security forces thwarted a plot to blow up a rail line between Canada
and the United States and will announce arrests on Monday afternoon, police and
intelligence agencies said.

U.S. security and law enforcement sources also said the suspects had sought to
attack the railroad between Toronto and New York City. Canadian media said two
men had been arrested after raids in Toronto and Montreal, Canada's two biggest
cities.

Canadian police are holding a briefing about a 'national security criminal
investigation' at 3.30pm.

The police statement, which gave no details of arrests, said various Canadian
security forces had conducted joint operations in the two cities.

A U.S. law enforcement source told Reuters the alleged plot was not linked with
last week's Boston Marathon bombings.

The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation said the operations was conducted with the
U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the FBI.

The arrests follow not only the Boston bombings but revelations that Canadians
took part in an attack by militants on a gas plant in Algeria in January.

It also recalls the arrests in 2006 of a group of more than a dozen Toronto-area
men accused of planning to plant bombs at various Canadian targets. Eleven men
were eventually convicted of taking part on the plot.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 22, 2013 Monday 11:14 PM GMT

Canada foils al-Qaeda linked terror plot to derail train;
Chief Superintendent Jennifer Strachan says Canadian police have arrested and
charged two men with plotting an al-Qaeda supported terrorist attack against a
passenger train.

LENGTH: 132 words


Chief Supt Strachan, from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, said that Chiheb
Esseghaier and Raed Jaser, who live in the Montreal and Toronto areas, were
conspiring to carry out an attack against Via Rail, but posed no immediate
threat.

"It was definitely in the planning stage but not imminent," she told reporters.

Charges against the two men include conspiring to carry out an attack and murder
people in association with a terrorist group.

Police said the men, who had "direction and guidance" from members of al-Qaeda,
were not Canadian citizens, but declined to say where they were from.

The investigation was part of a cross-border operation involving Canadian law
enforcement agencies, the FBI and the US Department of Homeland Security.

Source: AP

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 22, 2013 Monday 11:07 PM GMT

Canadian police foil al Qaeda-backed plot to derail train;
Canadian police have foiled an al Qaeda-backed plot to derail a passenger train
in the Toronto area in a "a major terrorist attack", officials said last night.

BYLINE: By By Philip Sherwell in New York

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 568 words


The suspects allegedly received direction and guidance from al Qaeda militants
based in Iran, but there was no evidence of a link to the Iranian government,
investigators said.

Two Canadian residents were arrested in Toronto and Montreal yesterday after a
cross-border Canadian-US surveillance operation that began last August.

The plot has no connection to the Boston marathon bombings. But the timing of
the arrests - on the day that the sole surviving Boston suspect was charged -
will further heighten concerns about terror attacks in North America.

Police did not disclose why they swooped yesterday. The attack was in the
planning stages and the men had the capacity and intent to conduct the attacks
but the public were in no imminent danger, according to the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police (RCMP).

Chiheb Esseghaier, 30, and Raed Jaser, 35, are expected to appear in court today
on charges that they conspired to carry out an attack and commit murder in
association with a terrorist group. They are not Canadian citizens, but the
authorities did not disclose their home countries or how long they have been in
Canada.

There were unconfirmed media reports that one was Tunisian and the other came
from the United Arab Emirates and that they had not been in Canada for a long
period.

During the surveillance operation, the two men were monitored as they cased out
trains and railways in the Greater Toronto area, Canada's most populous area.
They are thought to have been planning to attack a train destined for New York.

The arrests were executed by a special joint task force of Canadian police and
anti-terrorism units. Operation Smooth was conducted with the assistance of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Homeland Security in the
US.

The Canadian authorities said the operation was still underway and they were
last night searching addresses linked to the two men. They are understood to
have been tracking the men's movements, email messages, Internet activity and
mobile phone calls since receiving a tip-off from the Muslim community in
Canada.

"Had this plot been carried out, it would have resulted in innocent people being
killed or seriously injured," said James Malizia, the RCMP's assistant
Commissioner

"While the RCMP believed that these individuals had the capacity and intent to
carry out these criminal acts, there was no imminent threat to the general
public, rail employees, train passengers or infrastructure."

Al Qaeda has a long record of identifying public transport targets, including
the July 2005 London Underground and bus attacks and the 2004 Madrid train
bombings.

The terror faction's affiliate in Yemen has taken on an increasingly active role
in co-ordinating international terrorist plots, but this is thought to have been
the first time that al Qaeda representatives in Iran have been accused of
involvement.

Although Iran is a Shia-led theocracy and al Qaeda is an extremist Sunni group,
Teheran has sheltered several leading al Qaeda figures since they were forced
out of neighbouring Afghanistan by the fall of the Taliban regime in late 2001.

The Iranians hold most of them under house arrest and monitor their activities
but have allowed them to maintain links with al Qaeda operatives in Pakistan.
But if Teheran has now allowed them to guide an operation in Canada, that would
be an alarming new development for Western counter-terrorism officials.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 22, 2013 Monday 10:10 PM GMT

Canada foils 'al-Qaeda linked' terror plot to derail train;
Chief Superintendent Jennifer Strachan says Canadian police have arrested and
charged two men with plotting an al-Qaeda supported terrorist attack against a
passenger train.

LENGTH: 133 words


Chief Supt Strachan, from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, said that Chiheb
Esseghaier and Raed Jaser, who live in the Montreal and Toronto areas, were
conspiring to carry out an attack against Via Rail, but posed no immediate
threat.

"It was definitely in the planning stage but not imminent," she told reporters.

Charges against the two men include conspiring to carry out an attack and murder
people in association with a terrorist group.

Police said the men. who had "direction and guidance" from members of al-Qaeda,
were not Canadian citizens, but declined to say where they were from. .

The investigation was part of a cross-border operation involving Canadian law
enforcement agencies, the FBI and the US Department of Homeland Security.

Source: AP

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       April 22, 2013 Monday 10:44 PM GMT

Two men held in Canada over terror plot to attack train

BYLINE: Alexandra Frean, Washington

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 558 words


Canadian police and intelligence agencies said last night they had foiled a
"major terrorist attack" and arrested two men planning an "al-Qaeda supported"
attack on a passenger train

The alleged plotters, Chiheb Esseghaier, 30 of Montreal and Raed Jaser, 35, from
Toronto, were arrested yesterday morning after being under surveillance since
August 2012, Assistant Commissioner James Malizia of the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police (RCMP) said.

"Had this plan been carried out, it could have resulted in innocent people being
killed or severely injured," he said at a press conference, adding that the pair
had both the "capacity and intent" to carry out the attacks.

The two men, who are not Canadian nationals, were supported by "al-Qaeda
elements in Iran", police said. Some media reports suggested the men are
Tunisian, but this was not confirmed by officials.

Canadian teams monitored the pair as they "watched trains in the greater Toronto
area" and plotted to attack a route in the area operated by Canada's intercity
rail operator, Via Rail Canada.

Officials would not say which route was being targeted although law enforcement
sources told some media outlets that it was the Toronto to New York route.

They pair were apprehended as "a result of extensive collaborative efforts" in a
covert operation code-named Project Smooth, which was carried out by the RCMP
with the help of the US FBI. The Canadian team included experts from the
Canadian Security Intelligence Services, regional, local and transport police
and border control officers.

The two men were charged with conspiring to murder persons unknown "in
association with a terrorist group" and will appear in court today for a bail
hearing.

Law enforcement officials in Canada said the suspects had no connection to the
two brothers, Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev, accused of last week's bombing of
the Boston Marathon.

Mr Malizia said the arrests were the latest in a string of successful
interventions against terror cells in Canada.

In 2006 the Canadian authorities uncovered and thwarted a string of attacks
planned by a terror group that became known as the Toronto 18 and which had
links to al-Qaeda.

They were accused of planning to detonate truck bombs and to open fire in a
crowded area, in southern Ontario, to take hostages and to behead political
leaders, including the Prime Minister.

The group members were arrested before being able to carry out any of their
plans. Eleven were convicted of taking part in various plots. Four are serving
sentences of 18 years to life in prison, while the other seven received terms
ranging from 30 months to just over seven years.

In August 2010 three Canadian citizens were charged with facilitating a
terrorist activity. One of the men, Hiva Alizadeh, was also charged with
possession of circuit boards allegedly to be used as remote detonators for
bombs. Their cases have yet to go to court.

Earlier this year Canadian authorities identified two Canadians, Ali Medlej and
Xristos Katsiroubas, as being among the militants who died in an attack on a
desert gas plant in Algeria in January.

The two former high school friends from London, Ontario were said to have joined
al-Qaeda. At least 38 hostages, 37 foreigners, one Algerian and 29 militants
were killed during a siege of the plant and the rescue operation by the Algerian
Army.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                             April 23, 2013 Tuesday

Canadian terrorism attack foiled

LENGTH: 102  words


Two men have been arrested and charged with plotting a terrorist attack against
a Canadian passenger train.

Two men have been arrested and charged with plotting a terrorist attack against
a Canadian passenger train with support from al Qaida elements in Iran.

Chiheb Esseghaier, 30, and Raed Jaser, 35, had "direction and guidance" from al
Qaida members in Iran, though there was no reason to believe the planned attacks
were state-sponsored, Royal Canadian Mounted Police Assistant Commissioner James
Malizia said.

Police said the men did not get financial support from al Qaida but declined to
provide more details.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2013 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 23, 2013 Tuesday 6:39 PM GMT

Tragedy of Irish-dance loving Jane Richard, 7, who has lost a leg and is still
fighting for her life days after her brother was killed in the Boston terror
attack

BYLINE: DAMIEN GAYLE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1367 words



     ·    It is understood Jane Richard is one of three victims still seriously
          ill
     ·    A dancer since the age of three, she has now lost a leg and continues
          to fight serious injuries
     ·    Her brother Martin, eight, was killed in the blast, and her mother
          Denise has undergone brain surgery
     ·    He was buried in a private funeral attended by family today
     ·    48 people remain in hospital but more people with minor injuries come
          forward


Eight days after the terror attack that claimed the life of Martin Richard, 8,
his family still has an anxious wait for news on his little sister, Jane, who
has lost a leg and remains in a critical condition, it has emerged today.

Jane Richard, 7, is believed to have been standing on the marathon fence next to
the big brother she idolized when Monday's blast took place.

Father Bill and mother Denise - who also suffered head injuries - are having to
remain strong for their youngest child, who is fighting 'multiple injuries' from
the terror attack after losing a leg.

The couple buried their second oldest son in a private funeral today while their
youngest remains hospitalised.

'The outpouring of love and support over the last week has been tremendous. This
has been the most difficult week of our lives and we appreciate that our friends
and family have given us space to grieve and heal,' they said in a statement.

'A private Funeral Mass was celebrated this morning with immediate family. We
laid our son Martin to rest, and he is now at peace.  We plan to have a public
memorial service in the coming weeks to allow friends and loved ones from our
community to join us for a celebration of Martin's life.'

Jane is an enthusiastic Irish dancer having attended classes at the Clifden
Academy of Irish Dance in Milton since the age of three.

Several Irish dance groups are now raising money to support her.

'She is just a beautiful little girl. We taught her since she was a baby,
pointing her little toe,' Eileen Dillon Dinn, owner of the Clifton Academy, told
the Irish Voice.

'We are just in a state of shock and disbelief. The Richard family is lovely.
They went to the marathon as a happy family, and then this happened. We don't
know what to say.'

Jane loved to learn all the new moves at the academy, according to her teacher,
and was on the sidelines at the recent Irish World Dance Championships in Boston
dreaming that someday she would get the chance to compete.

'She's a beauty, always smiling,' said Dillon Dinn. 'Jane really lives to
dance.'

Her eldest brother Henry, 12, and father Bill managed to escape from the bomb
attack uninjured.

Images from the scene appear to show Bill, 42, a community organizer, holding
his youngest children up on the railings as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev plants his
backpack bomb just behind them.

It isn't clear whether any of the women in the photograph is the children's
mother, school librarian Denise, 43, who sustained head injuries and had to
undergo brain surgery following the attack.

A spokesman for the family said he was unable to confirm the identities of those
in the marathon image or provide an update for Jane's condition given she is
under a privacy order.

The Children's Hospital of Boston did not identify the seven-year-old girl they
said was still in a critical condition.

However, previous reports of the injured suggest that Jane Richard is the only
one of 11 or so youngsters injured in the terror attacks that fits the sparse
description.

The family were watching elated runners cross the finish line on Monday.

Bill is a former marathon runner himself so the young family liked to support
other participants in the event, according to friends of the family.

Neighbors said Jane looked up to her older brother and they both attended the
Neighborhood House Charter School in Dorchester, where their mother served as
the school librarian.

Tracey Monroe, a bystander who came to Jane's aid in the moments after the
blast, told WCVB.com: 'I saw her laying in the street. I held her head in my
hands and I tried to rub her and comfort her. I asked what her name was and she
said Jane.

'She was just a baby and so badly injured and scared. But she was so incredibly
brave. I saw him [Martin] and at that point I knew he was gone. I'll never
forget them - that little girl, she was so brave.'

The bombs, described by experts as makeshift anti-personnel devices, were made
from pressure cookers packed with shrapnel and ball bearings to cause the
maximum injuries to those caught in the blast.

Tsarnaev, whose older brother and suspected accomplice Tamerlan Tsarnaev was
killed in the manhunt to track the bombers down, has been charged with using a
weapon of mass destruction against persons or property.

The bombing killed three and injured more than 200, 48 of whom were still in
hospital today, three in a critical condition, according to Reuters.

THE INJURED

A spokesman for the Boston Health Commission reported a sudden jump in the
number of injured on Saturday

264 are now being treated across 26 Boston hospitals, according to Reuters

The sudden jump from 180 came as dozens of people came forward with delayed
minor health complaints, such as hearing issues of minor shrapnel wounds

48 remain hospitalised

At least 14 people lost all or part of a limb and three of them lost more than
one.

But doctors say every one of the people injured in the Boston Marathon blasts
who made it to a hospital alive now seem likely to survive.

On Saturday estimates of the injured jumped from 180 to 264 as people with
delayed health issues arrived at hospital.

Nick Martin, a spokesman for the health commission, explained the sudden jump
across 26 hospitals.

'One of the best examples is hearing issues," Martin said. 'People might have
first thought their hearing problems would be temporary.'

Others sought delayed care for minor shrapnel wounds.

The injured include several people who arrived with legs attached by just a
little skin, a 3-year-old boy with a head wound and bleeding on the brain, and a
little girl riddled with nails.

Even a transit system police officer whose heart had stopped and was close to
bleeding to death after a shoot-out with the suspects now appears headed for
recovery.

News of the injured came as mourners attended a private funeral yesterday for
Krystle Campbell, 29, at St Joseph's Church in Medford, Massachusetts.

Miss Campbell, a steakhouse manager who attended the marathon every year, was
caught in the first blast as she cheered on runners with a friend.

Around a thousand members of the local chapter of the Teamsters Union took part
in a vigil outside the church to head off threatened protests by the extremist
Westboro Baptist Church, ABC News  reported.

And last night the family of Chinese graduate student Lu Lingzi, 23, attended a
memorial service at Boston University for their daughter.

Hundreds of people, including state Governor Deval Patrick, joined her father
and her aunt who had travelled from Shenyang, China, to repatriate their
daughter's remains.

'She's gone but our memories of her are very much alive,' said her father, Lu
Jun, who spoke in his native tongue and was followed by an English interpreter.

'An ancient Chinese saying says every child is actually a little Buddha that
helps their parents mature and grow up.'

Miss Lu was their only child.

Services have not been announced for Martin Richard, of Boston.

Gov Patrick has visited the family

The suspected bombers are also believed to have fatally shot a campus police
officer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on Thursday night, before a
gun battle with police and day-long manhunt that left most of the Boston area
locked down.

The city's residents and many of their well-wishers - including President Barack
Obama at the White House - observed a moment of silence at 2:49 pm yesterday, a
week to the minute that the bombs exploded

'I think they know that there's a lot of love and concern for them out in the
community,' Patrick said.

'I hope they do and I hope they find some strength in that.'

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 23, 2013 Tuesday 6:20 PM GMT

Women's basketball team the Boston Bombers to rename their franchise after
terror attack

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 225 words



     ·    Team is now called the Boston Bulldogs
     ·    Bulldogs are Boston's only semi-professional women's basketball team


Up until last week the Boston Bombers were just a basketball team out of New
England.

The city's only semi-professional women's basketball team has changed their name
after abruptly closing their Facebook page and website in a bid to disassociate
themselves from last week's horrific attack.

They revealed their new name of the Boston Bulldogs on Tuesday.

'We was planning on changing it once the Boston incident happened,' a team
spokesperson confirmed to MailOnline.

The Bombers were one of more than 40 teams part of the Women's Blue Chip League,
a non-salaried league that provided its players with advanced exposure for
opportunities to compete in the next level.

The team featured a red and black logo of a detonating bomb with four basketball
seams crossing the front.

Their website BostonBombersBasketball.com has since been abandoned and their
Twitter page shows Tweets only up until last December.

The city is still recovering after the two bombings that went off at the finish
line of the Boston marathon which left three dead and injured more than 180
people.

Suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed in a police shoot out while his
brother, 19-year-old Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, a second suspect in the attack, is
currently recovering in hospital.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 23, 2013 Tuesday 4:09 PM GMT

Tragedy of Irish-dance loving Jane Richard, 7, who has lost a leg and is still
fighting for her life days after her brother was killed in the Boston terror
attack

BYLINE: DAMIEN GAYLE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1247 words



     ·    It is understood Jane Richard is one of three victims still seriously
          ill
     ·    A dancer since the age of three, she has now lost a leg and continues
          to fight serious injuries
     ·    Her brother Martin, eight, was killed in the blast, and her mother
          Denise has undergone brain surgery
     ·    Yesterday 51 people remained in hospital, three in a critical
          condition


Eight days after the terror attack that claimed the life of Martin Richard, 8,
his family still have an anxious wait for news on his little sister, Jane, who
has lost a leg and remains in a critical condition, it has emerged today.

Jane Richard, 7, is believed to have been standing on the marathon fence next to
the big brother she idolized when Monday's blast took place.

And father Bill and mother Denise - who also suffered head injuries - are having
to remain strong for their youngest child, who is fighting 'multiple injuries'
from the terror attack after losing a leg.

Jane is an enthusiastic Irish dancer having attended classes at the Clifden
Academy of Irish Dance in Milton since the age of three.

Several Irish dance groups are now raising money to support her.

'She is just a beautiful little girl. We taught her since she was a baby,
pointing her little toe,' Eileen Dillon Dinn, owner of the Clifton Academy, told
the Irish Voice.

'We are just in a state of shock and disbelief. The Richard family is lovely.
They went to the marathon as a happy family, and then this happened. We don't
know what to say.'

Jane loved to learn all the new moves at the academy, according to her teacher,
and was on the sidelines at the recent Irish World Dance Championships in Boston
dreaming that someday she would get the chance to compete.

'She's a beauty, always smiling,' said Dillon Dinn. 'Jane really lives to
dance.'

Her eldest brother Henry, 12, and father Bill managed to escape uninjured.

Images from the scene appear to show Bill, 42, a community organizer, holding
his youngest children up on the railings as Dzhokhar Tsarnaev plants his
backpack bomb just behind them.

It also isn't clear whether any of the women in the photograph is the children's
mother school librarian, Denise, 43, who sustained head injuries and had to
undergo brain surgery following the attack.

A spokesman for the family said he was unable to confirm the identities of those
in the image or provide an update for Jane's condition given she is under a
privacy order.

The Children's Hospital of Boston did not identify the seven-year-old girl they
said was still in a critical condition today.

However, previous reports of the injured suggest that Jane Richard is the only
one of 11 or so youngsters injured in the terror attacks that fits the sparse
description.

The family were watching elated runners cross the finish line on Monday.

Bill is a former marathon runner himself, so the young family liked to support
other participants in the event according to friends of the family.

Neighbors said Jane looked up to her older brother and they both attended the
Neighborhood House Charter School in Dorchester, where their mother served as
the school librarian.

Tracey Monroe, a bystander who came to Jane's aid in the moments after the
blast, told WCVB.com: 'I saw her laying in the street. I held her head in my
hands and I tried to rub her and comfort her. I asked what her name was and she
said Jane.

'She was just a baby and so badly injured and scared. But she was so incredibly
brave. I saw him [Martin] and at that point I knew he was gone. I'll never
forget them - that little girl, she was so brave.'

The bombs, described by experts as makeshift anti-personnel devices, were made
from pressure cookers packed with shrapnel and ball bearings to cause the
maximum injuries to those caught in the blast.

Tsarnaev, whose older brother and suspected accomplice Tamerlan Tsarnaev was
killed in the manhunt to track the bombers down, has been charged with using a
weapon of mass destruction against persons or property.

The bombing killed three and injured more than 200, 48 of whom were still in
hospital today, three in a critical condition, according to Reuters.

THE INJURED

A spokesman for the Boston Health Commission reported a sudden jump in the
number of injured on Saturday

264 are now being treated across 26 Boston hospitals, according to Reuters

The sudden jump from 180 came as dozens of people came forward with delayed
minor health complaints, such as hearing issues of minor shrapnel wounds

48 remain hospitalised

At least 14 people lost all or part of a limb and three of them lost more than
one.

But doctors say every one of the people injured in the Boston Marathon blasts
who made it to a hospital alive now seem likely to survive.

On Saturday estimates of the injured jumped from 180 to 264 as people with
delayed health issues arrived at hospital.

Nick Martin, a spokesman for the health commission, explained the sudden jump
across 26 hospitals.

'One of the best examples is hearing issues," Martin said. 'People might have
first thought their hearing problems would be temporary.'

Others sought delayed care for minor shrapnel wounds.

The injured include several people who arrived with legs attached by just a
little skin, a 3-year-old boy with a head wound and bleeding on the brain, and a
little girl riddled with nails.

Even a transit system police officer whose heart had stopped and was close to
bleeding to death after a shoot-out with the suspects now appears headed for
recovery.

News of the injured came as mourners attended a private funeral yesterday for
Krystle Campbell, 29, at St Joseph's Church in Medford, Massachusetts.

Miss Campbell, a steakhouse manager who attended the marathon every year, was
caught in the first blast as she cheered on runners with a friend.

Around a thousand members of the local chapter of the Teamsters Union took part
in a vigil outside the church to head off threatened protests by the extremist
Westboro Baptist Church, ABC News  reported.

And last night the family of Chinese graduate student Lu Lingzi, 23, attended a
memorial service at Boston University for their daughter.

Hundreds of people, including state Governor Deval Patrick, joined her father
and her aunt who had travelled from Shenyang, China, to repatriate their
daughter's remains.

'She's gone but our memories of her are very much alive,' said her father, Lu
Jun, who spoke in his native tongue and was followed by an English interpreter.

'An ancient Chinese saying says every child is actually a little Buddha that
helps their parents mature and grow up.'

Miss Lu was their only child.

Services have not been announced for Martin Richard, of Boston.

Gov Patrick has visited the family

The suspected bombers are also believed to have fatally shot a campus police
officer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on Thursday night, before a
gun battle with police and day-long manhunt that left most of the Boston area
locked down.

The city's residents and many of their well-wishers - including President Barack
Obama at the White House - observed a moment of silence at 2:49 pm yesterday, a
week to the minute that the bombs exploded

'I think they know that there's a lot of love and concern for them out in the
community,' Patrick said.

'I hope they do and I hope they find some strength in that.'

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 23, 2013 Tuesday 2:25 PM GMT

Women's basketball team the Boston Bombers to rename their franchise after
terror attack

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 235 words



     ·    Team is Boston's only semi-professional women's basketball team


Up until last week the Boston Bombers were a basketball team out of New England.

The city's only semi-professional women's basketball team says they are changing
their name after abruptly closing their Facebook page and website in a bid to
disassociate themselves from last week's horrific attack.

'We changed it due to the events Monday,' a team spokesperson confirmed to
Gawker.'Our fans [were] not happy with the name.'

The Bombers were one of more than 40 teams part of the Women's Blue Chip League,
a non-salaried league that provided its players with advanced exposure for
opportunities to compete in the next level.

The team featured a red and black logo of a detonating bomb with four basketball
seams crossing the front.

They say they plan to reveal their new name sometime this week.

In the meantime their website BostonBombersBasketball.com has been abandoned and
their Twitter page shows Tweets only up until last December.

The city is still recovering after the two bombings that went off at the finish
line of the Boston marathon which left three dead and injured more than 180
people.

Suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed in a police shoot out while his
brother, 19-year-old Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, a second suspect in the attack, is
currently recovering in hospital.

A request for comment from the basketball team was not immediately returned.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 23, 2013 Tuesday 3:57 PM GMT

Iranian travelling on fake Israeli passport 'arrested in Nepal';
An Iranian man travelling on a fake Israeli passport is in police custody
suspected of plotting a terrorist attack after being arrested outside Israel's
embassy in Nepal's capital, Kathmandu, it has been reported.

BYLINE: By Robert Tait Jerusalem

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 385 words


Israeli                      media - citing Nepalese sources - said security
staff detained the man, later identified as Mohsin Khosravian, after spotting
him behaving suspiciously outside the embassy grounds on April 13.

They then handed him over to the Nepalese police, who established that he had
entered the Himalayan country 10 days earlier on a false Israeli passport while
concealing his genuine Iranian documents in his luggage.

Nepal's central bureau of investigation has begun an investigation to establish
possible terrorist links due to Mr Khosravian's "frequent and suspicious visits"
to the area near the Israeli compound, the Himalayan Times reported.

Mr Khosravian, who was carrying a tourist map of the neighbourhood when he was
detained, initially told police he had been looking for a computer shop to
repair his laptop.

He later admitted travelling from Iran to the Malaysian capital, Kuala Lumpur,
where he had been given the forged passport that named him as "Alexander".
Subsequently, he flew to Sri Lanka, and from there to Kathmandu. Mr Khosravian
had been living in Thailand since 2004 and is married to a Thai woman, according
to the Himalayan Times.

Israeli foreign ministry officials refused to comment, saying they never speak
about security issues surrounding their embassies.

But the newspaper, Maariv, concluded that the arrest was evidence that Iran was
planning a "terror attack" in Kathmandu, which is a favourite location of
Israeli tourists.

"The assessment is that the Iranians, apparently by means of the Revolutionary
Guard's Al-Quds Force, had been planning to attack either the Israeli embassy,
some of its staff members or groups of Israelis who gathered in the city," the
newspaper wrote.

Investigators have implicated Iran in plots to simultaneously attack Israeli
interests in India, Thailand and Georgia in February last year.

While the alleged conspiracies in Thailand and Georgia failed, the wife of the
Israeli military attaché in Delhi was injured when a car bomb exploded near
Israel's embassy.

Officials in Bulgaria have blamed the Lebanese Shia group Hizbollah, Iran's
close ally, for a suicide bomb attack on a bus in the town of Burgas last July
that killed five Israelis and the Bulgarian driver, along with the bomber.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 23, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Attack on New York train thwarted;
Arrests 'halt major terrorist attack' on passenger train

BYLINE: Alexandra Frean

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,27

LENGTH: 428 words


Canadian police and intelligence agencies said yesterday that they had foiled an
al-Qaeda supported terrorist attack by two men against a passenger train.

The alleged plotters, Chiheb Esseghaier, 30, of Montreal, and Raed Jaser, 35,
from Toronto, were arrested yesterday morning. They had been under surveillance
since August 2012.

James Malizia, the Assistant Commissioner of the Royal Canadian

Mounted Police (RCMP), said: "Had this plan been carried out, it could have
resulted in innocent people being killed or severely injured." He added that the
men had the "capacity and intent" to carry out the attack.

The two men, who are not Canadian nationals, were supported by al-Qaeda elements
in Iran, police said. Some media reports suggested that the men were Tunisian.

Canadian teams monitored the pair as they "watched trains in the greater Toronto
area" and allegedly plotted to attack a train route in the area operated by
Canada's intercity rail operator Via Rail Canada. Officials would not say which
route was being targeted, although law enforcement sources told some media that
it was the Toronto to New York route.

The pair were apprehended as a result of "extensive collaborative efforts" in an
operation codenamed Project Smooth, which was carried out by the RCMP with the
help of the FBI. The Canadian team included experts from the Canadian Security
Intelligence Services, regional, local and transport police and border control
officers.

The two men were charged with conspiring to murder persons unknown "in
association with a terrorist group" and will appear in court today.

Law enforcement officials in Canada said the suspects had no connection to the
brothers Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev. The former has been charged over the
Boston Marathon bombing last week.

Mr Malizia said the arrests were the latest in a string of successful
interventions against terrorist cells in Canada. In 2006 Canadian authorities
uncovered and thwarted a string of attacks planned by a group that became known
as the Toronto 18 and which had links to al-Qaeda. They were accused of planning
to detonate truck bombs, to take hostages and to behead political leaders,
including the Prime Minister. The group members were arrested before being able
to carry out their plans. Eleven were convicted of taking part in various plots.
Four are serving 18 years to life, while the others received terms from 30
months to more than seven years.

Ali Medlej and Xristos Katsiroubas, both Canadian, were among the militants who
died in an attack on a desert gas plant in Algeria in January.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             April 23, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Wales faces 'small but ever-present' risk of terrorist attack warn security
chiefs;
CARDIFF COULD BE SOFTER TARGET THAN LONDON FOR TERRORISTS

BYLINE: SAM MALONE; PETER LAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1744 words


AL-QAEDA and its affiliate groups pose a "very real" threat to Wales, Welsh
Cabinet ministers have been told.

In a briefing by the Contest Board Wales (CBW), an association of senior
officials and police officers which provides advice on dealing with terrorist
threats to the nation, ministers were warned that recent events in Wales
demonstrated the risks to its communities.

However, Wales' most senior counter-terrorism officer last night moved to
reassure the nation, saying that while there was a "small but everpresent risk"
officers were dealing robustly with threats with the help of a "vigilant"
general public.

CBW briefed members of the Welsh Cabinet at a private meeting on January 29.
Using the Freedom of Information Act, the Western Mail obtained a redacted copy
of the presentation. The document - marked "restricted" - shows ministers were
told Wales, like the rest of the UK, faces a range of terrorist threats.

This includes al-Qaeda, in particular its affiliates and like-minded
organisations, as well as other terrorist groups and lone terrorists who have
all tried to operate in the UK.

"Some have planned and recruited people in Wales for attacks in the UK and
overseas, spread propaganda and raised funds. Recent events in Wales have
demonstrated that the threat is very real to our local communities," it states.

According to the Wales Contest Plan, Cardiff, as a capital city and home to a
devolved government, may present a "softer alternative target to London" for
terrorists.

While among the other dangers listed in the document are the "increased
incidents of radicalisation in Cardiff".

The plan also identifies the nation's vulnerabilities - including its ports and
large areas of rural landscapes ideal for terrorist training - as well as
detailing how police and other authorities are working together to tackle
violent extremism.

South Wales Police Assistant Chief Constable Matt Jukes, who is also head of the
Wales Extremism and Counter Terrorism Unit (Wectu), told the Western Mail that
the risk to Wales was no more significant than to the rest of the UK.

But he added that since the "very significant operation" in 2010 which saw three
Cardiff men jailed for planning to blow up the London Stock Exchange, the unit
has identified "a small group of individuals" which it was monitoring.

He said: "Since [that operation] we've seen a number of other actions by the
police and by other agencies [and] what we are seeing is the reality that there
are individuals in our communities vulnerable to radicalisation and a very small
number of those who are prepared to go one step further and get involve in
terrorist planning."

And even though the three jailed were involved in a plot to attack a target
outside of Wales, Mr Jukes warned the country could not be complacent about the
threats it may face.

"In relation to the group arrested in 2010, we know that they were targeting the
London Stock Exchange and their focus was outside Wales but Wales has got iconic
buildings, it's got its major cities, it's got its infrastructure, so we are not
complacent that those targets could not ever be hit and far from it.

He added: "Terrorist attack planning is often sinister and in a very sinister
way creative and so we have to deal with a whole range of possibilities and
understand the vulnerabilities of locations and the likelihood they might be
attacked and so we make those assessments for the iconic sites of Wales." Yet Mr
Jukes said while Wectu has plans in place to deal with an attack on Wales, it is
not because the country is in imminent danger but more to reassure members of
the public.

He said: "This is not all about disrupting the terrorists but about giving
people confidence in their everyday lives. So when you visit some of our
buildings you will go through security in the same way you will go through at
airports, it's not to suggest it's under threat."

He added Wectu is "ever mindful of the need to protect our communities both from
the threat of radicalisation and a direct threat".

Mr Jukes also said the improved relationship between police and the public is
helping to combat the issue of radicalisation, particularly in the Welsh
capital. He cited how both in October 2011 and in January 2012, members of
Cardiff's Muslim community came to police with concerns about individuals among
them.

This led to the safe return of two teenage boys suspected of having links with
Islamist group Al Sha-baab being returned home after travelling to Kenya and the
disruption of a meeting in Canton Community Hall.

Mr Jukes said making those individuals who feel disillusioned or isolated feel
part of the community is the key to reducing the number turning to extremism.

He said: "This is not about brainwashing or deprogramming there's nothing that's
quite so scientific in that respect, it's about providing the support of a
community around individuals so that they know if they have concerns or
grievances there are other ways of working them out."

A spokesman for the Welsh Government said it prioritised public safety and
protection of civil liberties above all else.

"The Welsh Government jointly chair the Wales Contest Board, with the
Association of Chief Police Officers Cymru, and is in regular contact with
police and emergency services as well as other statutory partners and community
and faith groups across the country.

"This has enabled us to play a central role in addressing the threat of
terrorism and promoting the rejection of violence of all kinds."

TERROR INFLUENCE 'REDUCING' THE number of extremists in the Welsh capital and
their influence on the wider community has actually diminished in recent months,
according to the secretary general of the Muslim Council of Wales.

Saleem Kidwai said there was a known group of about 12 to 15 men who had been
isolated from the community. The group has gone by various names, was known to
police and was banned from preaching or handing out flyers at any of the city's
mosques, he said.

Imams, Mr Kidwai said, had become "very vigilant" at tackling the threat,
reaching out to vulnerable young people "so they did not have the chance to fall
into the trap".

A scheme aimed at supporting Muslims being released from Welsh prisons has also
been a success. In the past year about 15 ex-offenders were offered help in
adjusting to their release, he said.

"The Muslim community in Cardiff are very well integrated. You always have
individuals, but as long as the majority are united in dealing with it, they
will not become successful."

Butetown's Labour councillor Ali Ahmed agreed that incidences of radicalisation
was "definitely not" increasing in the Welsh capital.

" I do not see any increase at all. It has, in fact, decreased a lot. I do not
see any threat at all," he said.

"Obviously we are aware that there was a group, but I think that the group's
profile is very low.

"They have no access to any of the mosques and I do not see them gathering
anywhere else."

EXTREMISM IN WALES: A TIMELINE APRIL 2010 - Muslim leaders condemn the
distribution of a leaflet urging members of their community to boycott the
upcoming general election.

The leaflet, which was handed out outside mosques and Indian restaurants by a
group calling itself The Path of Success, warned Muslims will "go to hellfire"
if they vote in the May election.

Saleem Kidwai, secretary of the Muslim Council of Wales, said the group was
deliberately skewing Islamic teachings to fit its own agenda.

DECEMBER 2010 - Three would-be terrorists are arrested after police foil their
plot to bomb the London Stock Exchange and even launch a "Mumbai-style"
atrocity.

Cardiff brothers Abdul Miah, 25, of Ninian Park Road, Riverside, and Gurukanth
Desai, 30, of Albert Street, Riverside, along with Omar Sharif Latif, 28, of
Albert Street, Riverside, planned their al-Qaeda-inspired attacks on walks
around Roath Park.

They were eventually jailed for a total of nearly 40 years.

OCTOBER 2011 - Two teenage boys from Cardiff suspected of having links with
Islamist group Al Sha-baab are arrested on their return to the UK after being
deported from Kenya.

The men, who were both 18 at the time, were detained by Metropolitan Police
Officers under the Terrorism Act before being released without charge.

JANUARY 2012 - Specialist anti-terror police swooped on a Cardiff community
centre after concerns were raised that local Muslims, who it was claimed were
affiliated with a banned extremist group, were holding secret meetings.

Officers from the Wales Extremism and Counter Terrorism Unit (WECTU) raided
Canton Community Hall on Leckwith Road after it emerged up to 30 Muslim men had
been gathering there for up to eight months.

Mohammed Abdin, 21, of Clare Road, Grangetown, was later jailed for four months
for a public order offence after telling police: "I'm going to chop your head
off. I'm going to shoot you with a machine gun."

FEBRUARY 2012 - Four men are arrested and bailed on suspicion of being in
possession of funds for terrorist purposes.

The arrests were made after a series of raids across Swansea and Powys which
involved a number of officers from the Metropolitan Police's counter-terrorism
command.

JULY 2012 - The sister of would-be London Stock Exchange bombers is jailed for a
year for having al-Qaeda terrorist material in her mobile phone.

Ruksana Begum admitted having material likely to be useful to someone committing
or preparing an act of terrorism. This was two editions of al-Qaeda's Inspire
magazine on a micro SD memory card in her mobile.

The 22-year-old, who has a first-class accountancy degree, had previously lived
next door to her brother Miah in Ninian Park Road, Riverside, before moving to
London a month before her arrest.

JULY 2012 - A Cardiff jihadist who applied to work at the Millennium Stadium
during the Olympic Games was jailed for nine months after a jury found him
guilty of a terror offence.

Norman Idris Faridi, 32, of Pen-y-Wain, Roath, Cardiff, was found to have a
"terrorist's manual", 39 Ways To Serve And Proceed In Jihad, on his external
hard drive.

He was also found to have downloaded a video of extremist preacher Abu Hamza on
his mobile phone.

APRIL 2013 - Four terrorists who trained in Snowdonia and the Brecon Beacons as
they plotted an al-Qaeda-inspired attack in the UK are jailed.

London's Woolwich Crown Court heard how the men, from Luton, chose Snowdon as a
location to train because within the UK it bears the most resemblance to the
mountainous regions of Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ Specialist anti-terror police swooped on Canton Community Hall in
Cardiff in January 2012
Assistant Chief Constable Matt Jukes
An armed police officer stands guard as the Queen went from Buckingham Palace to
the Houses of Parliament, for the State Opening of Parliament last year

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 24, 2013 Wednesday

Russian state TV talk show discusses Boston terror attack, corrupt opposition

LENGTH: 993 words


The 21 April edition of the "Sunday Night with Vladimir Solovyev" talk show on
state-owned Rossiya 1 TV featured discussions on the causes and aftermath of the
Boston marathon bombing in the USA, and on the corruption revelations,
particularly those concerning State Duma member Ilya Ponomarev (A Just Russia).

Boston bombings and global terrorism

Presenter, Vladimir Solovyev, said that one of the things that led to the Boston
bombings was that the Americans supported terrorists, whom they described as
freedom fighters, during the Chechen war. Solovyev also predicted the rise of
extreme-right terrorism in Russia, targeting mosques and such, in response to
Islamist terror.

Veteran intelligence officer Lev Korolkov said that he strongly doubted the
suspected bombers, the Tsarnayev brothers, could have acted alone. They were
likely someone's tools, like the Domodedovo suicide bombers, he added. Amateur
attacks like the Boston one can stretch resources of special services as it is
hard to prevent such attacks, Korolkov said. Terrorism which has large
recruiting and funding base is practically unstoppable, he added. The Islamists
are being set up to be used on Russia, and Syria is only a corridor for their
forces, Korolkov said. Western intelligence services were providing cover to the
so-called freedom fighters, and countries like Norway and Finland are full of
their sleeper cells which are yet to emerge, he added.

President of the Middle East Institute Yevgeniy Satanovskiy offered a vision
largely similar to Korolkov's, saying that supporting terrorists that are
fighting your enemies means that they will eventually turn on you. American
support for anti-Soviet guerrillas in Afghanistan produced al-Qa'idah, and
support for the Arab Spring led to the death of US ambassador in Libya,
Christopher Stevens, Satanovskiy pointed out. Russia is also facing a war with
terrorists, and the number of terror attacks in Russia corresponds to the state
of war, he added. Russia has the Kazan Universiade and the Sochi Olympics coming
up, and has to solve issues with terrorism by any means necessary, perhaps by
something like the Israeli practice of targeted assassinations, Satanovskiy
said.

Director of the Moscow Carnegie Centre Dmitriy Trenin said that Russia and the
USA are natural allies in the fight against Islamist extremism, and should quit
criticizing each other for rights abuses such as Guantanamo. Syria is turning
into a major terrorist hotspot, something like Mediterranean Afghanistan, he
added. To the credit of US special services, Boston was the first successful
terror attack in the USA in 10 years, Trenin noted.

World Economy and International Relations Institute researcher Sergey
Oznobishchev noted that the common trouble united USA and Russia, and
confrontations like the Magnitskiy list are being downplayed. Terrorism is
attracted by all countries which aim to lead the world, and is fed by the
failure of multiculturalism, he added.

Director of the International Security Problems Institute under the Russian
Academy of Science Andrey Kokoshin said that he was not certain whether the
bombers acted on their own. US started wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to reduce
domestic terror threat, and largely succeeded, he added. China and India are
increasingly setting agenda for fighting international terrorism, Kokoshin said.
Russia's special services and armed forces should be strengthened to be able to
cope with threats, he added.

President of the Global Interests Centre Nikolay Zlobin said that the Boston
attack was a systemic failure, as migration, education and security services in
the USA all failed to prevent it. Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies
of China under the Peoples' Friendship University of Russia Aleksey Maslov
predicted that a wave of terror will continue to rise. Author Aleksandr
Prokhanov described the causes of terrorism as a clash of ideologies.

Corruption allegations against opposition

Introducing the second half of the programme, presenter noted that Russia's
oppositioners have to pay the same bills that they presented to the authorities.
Solovyev also noted that he would not invite on his programme anti-corruption
campaigner and opposition leader Aleksey Navalnyy, who is fighting several
corruption-related criminal cases, as he "despises Nazis" (Rus: ya natsikov
prezirayu). Presenter noted that he discusses many criminals in their absence,
like Adolf Hitler, and cited videos made by Navalnyy for the nationalist Narod
party, showing how to shoot at non-Russians.

State Duma member Ponomarev denied that payments he received for his work on
behalf of Skolkovo innovations centre were in any way unbecoming. He criticized
Liberal Democratic Party of Russia (LDPR) leadership for "illegally" obtaining
degrees, and LDPR leader Vladimir Zhirinovskiy for divorcing his wife just
before submitting a property declaration. State Duma member Vladimir Ovsyannikov
(LDPR) noted that his party has the most corruption-free list of members in the
State Duma.

Deputy State Duma speaker Sergey Zheleznyak (One Russia) pointed out that
payments to Ponomarev have been made before a wave of rallies started in 2011,
and ahead of a tough State Duma campaign. Zheleznyak also said that no
accusations should be made before a court ruling, and cited allegations against
State Duma member Dmitriy Gudkov (A Just Russia) of lobbying construction firm
interests. Gudkov denied lobbying, and predicated that the compromising
information (Rus: kompromat) wars will continue.

Other panellists included Higher School of Economics politologist Leonid
Polyakov, who said that the Skolkovo case will have international impact,
president of research company Romir Andrey Milekhin, who joked that the only way
for Russia's criminals to get exposed is to get into politics, and director
general of the Centre for Political Information Aleksey Mukhin.

Source: Rossiya 1 TV, Moscow, in Russian 1930 gmt 21 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 24, 2013 Wednesday

Romania offers anti-terror support to France after attack on embassy in Libya

LENGTH: 221 words


Text of report by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

[Unattributed report: "Basescu in Message to Hollande: Romania Remains France's
Friend and Constant Partner in Fight Against Terrorism"]

Bucharest, April 24 /Agerpres/ - President Traian Basescu, on Tuesday [23
April], sent a solidarity message to his French counterpart Francois Hollande,
after the terrorist attack on France's Embassy in Tripoli, and assured the
latter that Romania acts as a stable partner in the fight against terrorism.

'We have indignantly found out about the terrorist attack on France's Embassy in
Tripoli. As President of Romania, I condemn such violent acts against innocent
people and above all against freedom and democracy, tenets that France
represents and promotes worldwide. At the same time, I express my confidence
that France and Romania, developing strategic partnership relations will
continue defending the values of democracy and liberty, in a world marked with
violence. Mr. President, I assure you of Romania's commitment to remain France's
friend and act as a constant partner in the fight against terrorism,' reads
President Basescu's message.

A car bomb targeted France's Embassy in Tripoli on Tuesday, injuring two guards
and causing important material damage.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 0602gmt 24 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 24, 2013 Wednesday

Russian TV show comments on Boston terror attacks, oppositioner's trial

LENGTH: 279 words


The 20 April episode of "Vasserman's Reaction" current affairs discussion
programme on Gazprom-owned NTV, jointly presented by Ukrainian Stalinist
Anatoliy Vasserman and Russian nationalist Yegor Kholmogorov, focused on the
recent news stories, such as a series of attacks against children, medics'
hunger strike in Izhevsk, or the threat of bird flu epidemic coming from China.
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitriy Rogozin was shown criticizing trains arriving to
Russia from Tajikistan, and Kholmogorov called for introduction of visas for
residents of Central Asian countries, quoting French far-right leader Marine Le
Pen.

The programme started with the discussion of the Boston marathon terror attacks.
Vasserman said that the Americans have fed enough terrorists in the post-Soviet
region, who now start to bite the hand that feeds them. Security services can
close eyes and open cages when needed, he said, before mentioning conspiracy
theories concerning the 2001 attacks on the USA. Vasserman added that he was not
sure if the Boston attack was another conspiracy of security services and
politicians but the USA will use it to tighten the screws at home, and to put
pressure on the rest of the world.

The last section of the programme profiled the embezzlement trial against
opposition activist Aleksey Navalnyy, which started in Kirov. Vasserman
described Navalnyy as a "master of self-promotion", and said that his
anti-corruption project Rospil has a very low success rate. Vasserman noted that
the details of the Kirovles case, as reported by the media, indicate that
Navalnyy deserves to be imprisoned for several years.

Source: NTV, Moscow, in Russian 1950 gmt 20 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                            April 24, 2013 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Terror attacks foiled

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 89 words


BAHRAIN: Authorities foiled possible attacks before the kingdom s Formula One
race earlier this week, which was held under tight security amid a spike in
anti-government unrest.

The Interior Ministry says a weapons cache,  including 1000 firebombs, was found
in a warehouse on Saturday, a day before the race. Two girls were held for
allegedly plotting to carry out an attack.

The race went ahead without incident.

Bahrain has faced more than two years of unrest as majority Shiites seek a
greater political voice in the Sunni-ruled nation.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 24, 2013 Wednesday 4:49 PM GMT

UK under threat from terror attack launched by 'substantial numbers' of Brits
fighting with Syrian rebels, William Hague warns

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, MAILONLINE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 777 words



     ·    Foreign Secretary says violent Islamist groups are attracting fighters
     ·    EU security chief Gilles de Kerchove also raises concerns about rebels
     ·    Fears they will be radicalised by groups with al-Qaeda links
     ·    William Hague says next few weeks will be critical to stepping up
          support


A terror attack could be launched in the UK by Britons radicalised while
fighting with rebels in Syria, William Hague warned today.

The Foreign Secretary said a 'substantial number' of British fighters had joined
the battle to defeat president Bashar Assad, posing 'current and future risks to
UK national security'.

It comes after the EU's counter terror chief  warned radicalised Europeans pose
'a serious threat when they get back' from Syria.

Britain has promised to step up its support for the rebels, hinting that it
could be ready to send arms.

But intelligence agencies have stepped up operations after a rise in the number
of Europeans, notably from Britain, France and Ireland, joining fighters.

Security bodies are tracking Brits and Belgians while the Netherlands has raised
its terror threat to 'substantial' in part because of fears about citizens being
radicalised in Syria.

Mr Hague said: 'The conflict is precipitating a growth of extremism in Syria
which poses current and future risks to UK national security.

'As the conflict has progressed, violent Islamist groups have been gaining
ground in Syria and have attracted a large number of foreign fighters of all
nationalities, including a substantial number of UK citizens.

'The overall number of foreign fighters travelling to Syria is greater than for
all other areas of jihad combined. There is enough uncontested space in Syria
for some violent Islamist groups to provide extensive training.

'This is particularly concerning as we assess some of the individuals being
trained will seek to carry out attacks against Western interests in the region
or in Western states now or in the future," he said in a letter to the foreign
affairs committee.

He had challenged by MPs on the committee to justify a decision to push for the
further easing or lifting of an EU arms embargo.

Britain and France are spearheading the move - which would allow the arming of
rebel groups - but face opposition from partners concerned weapons could fall
into the hands of jihadists.

Richard Ottaway, the Tory MP who chairs the committee, told Mr Hague in a letter
last month that it was concerned the UK was 'out of step' with almost all
European partners on the issue.

European Union's security chief Gilles de Kerchove also warned the fighters to
bring down President Assad, including many Britons, will be 'radicalised' before
returning home where they will pose a 'serious threat' to national security.

It is feared some will become members of groups with links to al-Qaeda before
launching terror attacks at home.

Mr de Kerchove, the EU's counter-terrorism coordinator, said: 'We are concerned,
of course.'

He said most of the Europeans agreeing to fight with the rebels were being
converted by radicals in Syria.

'Not all of them are radical one day when they leave but most likely many of
them will be radicalised there, they will be trained,' he told the BBC.

'And as we have seen in previous situations this might create a serious threat
when they get back.'

The UK has already sent non-lethal equipment to rebels in Syria, including body
armour and four-by-four vehicles, and there has been pressure from both the
British and the French to lift an EU arms embargo against the country.

Foreign Secretary William Hague believes the few weeks are a crucial period in
deciding what further action the international community can take.

Any shipment of weapons would have to be 'very carefully controlled', Mr Hague
said amid fears that arms could fall in to the hands of jihadists operating in
the country.

The Foreign Secretary told MPs: 'The next few weeks are a very crucial period in
this matter because we need to decide with our European Union partners, and
indeed the United States, what are the next steps we can realistically take and
should take in order to... strengthen the opposition on the ground and increase
the incentives for a political settlement in Syria.

'We have taken no decision about that but if we do so, I will come to the House
of Commons and describe that decision.'

His comments followed a question in the Commons from Liberal Democrat former
Leader Sir Menzies Campbell, who said ministers needed to state their position
on Syria more clearly.

The language being used by ministers was 'equivocal and delphic', he said,
adding the Government should seek the 'express endorsement' of MPs if there was
'any material change in policy'.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 24, 2013 Wednesday 3:30 PM GMT

Who is Misha? Boston bombing investigation hunts for mysterious 'bald,
red-bearded Armenian man' as experts speculate on his role in the deadly terror
attacks

BYLINE: JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1870 words



     ·    Tamerlan Tsarnaev is thought to have fallen under the influence of a
          new friend, a Muslim convert known only as Misha
     ·    He is said to have steered the 26-year-old elder Boston bomber to a
          radical strain of Islam
     ·    'Somehow, he just took his brain,' said Tamerlan's uncle, Ruslan
          Tsarni, who recalled conversations with Tamerlan's worried father
          about Misha's influence
     ·    Zubeidat Tsarnaeva, mother of the bomber's said it was 'nonsense' that
          Misha converted her son to terrorism


As the investigation into why and how the Boston bombers unleashed their deadly
attacks continues, the focus has centered to an elusive and mysterious Muslim
convert known only as Misha.

Family members of Tamerlan Tsarnaev describe Misha as the guiding influence in
the elder bomber developing radicalized views - but to date it is believed that
law enforcement and the media have failed to find him.

Speculation as to who Misha is wildly varies, with some suggesting he is the
mastermind behind the marathon bombings while others think that he could be a
Russian spy - sent to identify and keep tabs on young men like Tamerlan who are
at risk of turning to militant Islam.

All that is known about him is that he is an Armenian man in his 30s with
distinctive red beard and that he has disappeared - no longer living in the
Cambridge, Massachusetts area.

However, family members have been telling reporters that in the years before the
Boston marathon bombings, Tamerlan, 26, fell under the strong influence of a new
friend, a Christian who converted to Islam and who steered the religiously
apathetic young man towards adopting strong Islamic views.

'It started in 2009. And it started right there, in Cambridge,' said Tamerlan's
uncle Ruslan Tsarni to  CNNfrom his home in Maryland.

'This person just took his brain. He just brainwashed him completely.'

The moment of the explosion at the Boston Marathon finish line: Three people
were killed and a further 264 injured in the two blasts, which happened last
Monday afternoon

Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a police shootout Friday. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was
charged Monday with using a weapon of mass destruction to kill, and he could
face the death penalty if convicted.

Under the tutelage of a friend known to the Tsarnaev family only as Misha,
Tamerlan gave up boxing and stopped studying music, his family said. He began
opposing the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

He turned to websites and literature claiming that the CIA was behind the
terrorist attacks of September 11th, 2001, and Jews controlled the world.

According to Ruslan, Tamerlan's radicalization happened right under the nose of
his mother, Zubeidat Tsarnaeva.

Speaking to MailOnline last week, Ruslan said that Misha was around 30-years-old
and that he was an Armenian who, unusually for such a largely Christian people,
had converted to Islam.

Tamerlan's relationship with Misha could be a clue in understanding the motives
behind his religious transformation and, ultimately, the attack itself.

Indeed, the struggle to understand why the Tamerlan and his brother Dzhokhar
carried out their attacks deepened when U.S. officials said that Tamerlan had no
tie to terrorist groups.

As authorities try to piece together that information, they are touching on a
question asked after so many terrorist plots: What turns someone into a
terrorist?

The brothers emigrated in 2002 or 2003 from Dagestan, a Russian republic that
has become an epicenter of the Islamic insurgency that spilled over from the
region of Chechnya.

They were raised in a home that followed Sunni Islam, the religion's largest
sect. They were not regulars at the mosque and rarely discussed religion, said
Elmirza Khozhugov, 26, the ex-husband of Tamerlan's sister, Ailina.

Then, in 2008 or 2009, Tamerlan met Misha, a slightly older, heavyset bald man
with a long reddish beard. Khozhugov didn't know where they'd met but believed
they attended a Boston-area mosque together.

Misha was an Armenian native and a convert to Islam and quickly began
influencing his new friend, family members said.

Once, Khozhugov said, Misha came to the family home outside Boston and sat in
the kitchen, chatting with Tamerlan for hours.

'Misha was telling him what is Islam, what is good in Islam, what is bad in
Islam,' said Khozhugov, who said he was present for the conversation. 'This is
the best religion and that's it. Mohammed said this and Mohammed said that.'

The conversation continued until Tamerlan's father, Anzor, came home from work.

'It was late, like midnight,' Khozhugov said. 'His father comes in and says,
'Why is Misha here so late and still in our house?' He asked it politely.
Tamerlan was so much into the conversation he didn't listen.'

Khozhugov said Tamerlan's mother, Zubeidat, told him not to worry.

'Don't interrupt them,' Khozhugov recalled the mother saying. 'They're talking
about religion and good things. Misha is teaching him to be good and nice.'

As time went on, Tamerlan and his father argued about the young man's new
beliefs.

'When Misha would start talking, Tamerlan would stop talking and listen. It
upset his father because Tamerlan wouldn't listen to him as much,' Khozhugov
said.

'He would listen to this guy from the mosque who was preaching to him.'

Anzor became so concerned that he called his brother, worried about Misha's
effects.

'I heard about nobody else but this convert,' Tsarni said. 'The seed for
changing his views was planted right there in Cambridge.'

It was not immediately clear whether the FBI has spoken to Misha or was
attempting to.

While Misha is a very common name across the former Soviet Union, Dan Amira
makes the point that 'there can't be that many bald, red-bearded Armenian
Muslims in Boston.

Respected national security writer Laura Rozen took to Twitter to speculate that
Misha could be 'the kind of mole Russia plants to keep on eye on emigre
communities of concern.'

Indeed, she theorizes that Misha could even be the souce that tipped off Russian
security sevices to Tamerlan's conversion to radical Islam in 2011.

Tsarnaev became an ardent reader of jihadist websites and extremist propaganda,
two U.S. officials said. He read Inspire magazine, an English-language online
publication produced by al-Qaida's Yemen affiliate.

Tamerlan loved music and, a few years ago, he sent Khozhugov a song he'd
composed in English and Russian. He said he was about to start music school.

Six weeks later, the two men spoke on the phone. Khozhugov asked how school was
going.

'I quit,' Tamerlan said.

'Why did you quit?' Khozhugov asked. 'You just started.'

'Music is not really supported in Islam,' he replied.

'Who told you that?'

'Misha said it's not really good to create music. It's not really good to listen
to music,' Tamerlan said, according to Khozhugov.

Suspects: Tamerlan Tsarnaev, left, was killed in a police shoot-out on Friday.
His younger brother Dzokhar, right, was charged on Monday with using a weapon of
mass destruction to kill and could face death if convicted

Tamerlan took an interest in Infowars, a conspiracy theory website. Khozhugov
said Tamerlan was interested in finding a copy of the book 'The Protocols of the
Elders of Zion,' the classic anti-Semitic hoax, first published in Russia in
1903, that claims a Jewish plot to take over the world.

'He never said he hated America or he hated the Jews,' Khozhugov said. 'But he
was fairly aggressive toward the policies of the U.S. toward countries with
Muslim populations. He disliked the wars.'

One of the brothers' neighbors, Albrecht Ammon, recently recalled an encounter
in which Tamerlan argued about U.S. foreign policy, the wars in Afghanistan and
Iraq, and religion.

Ammon said Tamerlan described the Bible as a 'cheap copy' of the Quran, used to
justify wars with other countries.

'He had nothing against the American people,' Ammon said. 'He had something
against the American government.'

Khozhugov said Tamerlan did not know much about Islam beyond what he found
online or what he heard from Misha.

'Misha was important,' he said. 'Tamerlan was searching for something. He was
searching for something out there.'

But, the mother of the alleged Boston bombers denied reports that her sons had
been radicalized by a mysterious convert to Islam named Misha.

'Nonsense. He was just a friend,' Zubeidat Tsarnaeva told ABC News by phone
today shortly before she sat down with FBI investigators for a second day of
interviews here in the restive region of Dagestan, in southern Russia.

Tsarnaeva said Misha knew a lot about Islam and that it was interesting to learn
from him, but denied his views were extreme.

She said their relationship with Misha, an Armenian with a red beard whose
identity and full name remain a mystery, was short because he moved to another
part of the United States since. She would not say where.

Throughout his religious makeover, Tamerlan maintained a strong influence over
his siblings, including Dzhokhar, who investigators say carried out the deadly
attack by his older brother's side, killing three and injuring 264 people.

'They all loved Tamerlan. He was the eldest one and he, in many ways, was the
role model for his sisters and his brother,' said Elmirza Khozhugov, 26, the
ex-husband of Tamerlan's sister, Ailina.

'You could always hear his younger brother and sisters say, 'Tamerlan said
this,' and 'Tamerlan said that.' Dzhokhar loved him. He would do whatever
Tamerlan would say.

'Even my ex-wife loved him so much and respected him so much,' Khozhugov said.
'I'd have arguments with her and if Tamerlan took my side, she would agree: 'OK,
if Tamerlan said it.''

Khozhugov said he was close to Tamerlan when he was married and they kept in
touch for a while but drifted apart in the past two years or so.

He spoke to the AP from his home in Almaty, Kazakhstan. A family member in the
United States provided the contact information.

'Of course I was shocked and surprised that he was Suspect No. 1,' Khozhugov
said, recalling the days after the bombing when the FBI identified Tamerlan as
the primary suspect.

'But after a few hours of thinking about it, I thought it could be possible that
he did it.'

Based on preliminary written interviews with Dzhokar in his hospital bed, U.S.
officials believe the brothers were motivated by their religious views. It has
not been clear, however, what those views were.

History: Bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev (left) displayed a disturbing pattern
of verbal abuse and violence toward women, including his wife, Katherine Russell
(right)

This comes as FBI agents question members of the mosque where one of the
suspected Boston bombers attended services.

Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who was killed in a shoot-out with police on Friday, was
still going to prayer services at a Cambridge, Massachusetts, mosque just weeks
before the bombing.

Mosque spokesman Yusuf Vali said the 26-year-old had previously caused
disturbances there, and imams had threatened to ban him following a
confrontation during a prayer service.

Mr Vali told NBC News that as soon as they learned of Tamerlan's alleged
involvement 'we immediately called law enforcement and said: "Listen, we've got
folks who knew him and if you need any information, we're here."'

'Those folks have already met with the FBI,' he added.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 24, 2013 Wednesday 3:09 PM GMT

Who is Misha? Boston bombing investigation hunts for mysterious 'bald,
red-bearded Armenian man' as experts speculate on his role in the deadly terror
attacks

BYLINE: JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2136 words



     ·    Tamerlan Tsarnaev is thought to have fallen under the influence of a
          new friend, a Muslim convert known only as Misha
     ·    He is said to have steered the 26-year-old elder Boston bomber to a
          radical strain of Islam
     ·    'Somehow, he just took his brain,' said Tamerlan's uncle, Ruslan
          Tsarni, who recalled conversations with Tamerlan's worried father
          about Misha's influence


As the investigation into why and how the Boston bombers unleashed their deadly
attacks continues, the focus has centered to an elusive and mysterious Muslim
convert known only as Misha.

Family members of Tamerlan Tsarnaev describe Misha as the guiding influence in
the elder bomber developing radicalized views - but to date it is believed that
law enforcement and the media have failed to find him.

Speculation as to who Misha is wildly varies, with some suggesting he is the
mastermind behind the marathon bombings while others think that he could be a
Russian spy - sent to identify and keep tabs on young men like Tamerlan who are
at risk of turning to militant Islam.

All that is known about him is that he is an Armenian man in his 30s with
distinctive red beard and that he has disappeared - no longer living in the
Cambridge, Massachusetts area.

However, family members have been telling reporters that in the years before the
Boston marathon bombings, Tamerlan, 26, fell under the strong influence of a new
friend, a Christian who converted to Islam and who steered the religiously
apathetic young man towards adopting strong Islamic views.

'It started in 2009. And it started right there, in Cambridge,' said Tamerlan's
uncle Ruslan Tsarni to CNN from his home in Maryland.

'This person just took his brain. He just brainwashed him completely.'

The moment of the explosion at the Boston Marathon finish line: Three people
were killed and a further 264 injured in the two blasts, which happened last
Monday afternoon

Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a police shootout Friday. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was
charged Monday with using a weapon of mass destruction to kill, and he could
face the death penalty if convicted.

Under the tutelage of a friend known to the Tsarnaev family only as Misha,
Tamerlan gave up boxing and stopped studying music, his family said. He began
opposing the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

He turned to websites and literature claiming that the CIA was behind the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and Jews controlled the world.

According to Ruslan, Tamerlan's radicalization happened right under the nose of
his mother, Zubeidat Tsarnaeva.

Speaking to MailOnline last week, Ruslan said that Misha was around 30-years-old
and that he was an Armenian who, unusually for such a largely Christian people,
had converted to Islam.

Tamerlan's relationship with Misha could be a clue in understanding the motives
behind his religious transformation and, ultimately, the attack itself.

Indeed, the struggle to understand why the Tamerlan and his brother Dzhokhar
carried out their attacks deepened when U.S. officials said that Tamerlan had no
tie to terrorist groups.

As authorities try to piece together that information, they are touching on a
question asked after so many terrorist plots: What turns someone into a
terrorist?

The brothers emigrated in 2002 or 2003 from Dagestan, a Russian republic that
has become an epicenter of the Islamic insurgency that spilled over from the
region of Chechnya.

They were raised in a home that followed Sunni Islam, the religion's largest
sect. They were not regulars at the mosque and rarely discussed religion, said
Elmirza Khozhugov, 26, the ex-husband of Tamerlan's sister, Ailina.

Then, in 2008 or 2009, Tamerlan met Misha, a slightly older, heavyset bald man
with a long reddish beard. Khozhugov didn't know where they'd met but believed
they attended a Boston-area mosque together.

Misha was an Armenian native and a convert to Islam and quickly began
influencing his new friend, family members said.

Once, Khozhugov said, Misha came to the family home outside Boston and sat in
the kitchen, chatting with Tamerlan for hours.

'Misha was telling him what is Islam, what is good in Islam, what is bad in
Islam,' said Khozhugov, who said he was present for the conversation. 'This is
the best religion and that's it. Mohammed said this and Mohammed said that.'

The conversation continued until Tamerlan's father, Anzor, came home from work.

'It was late, like midnight,' Khozhugov said. 'His father comes in and says,
'Why is Misha here so late and still in our house?' He asked it politely.
Tamerlan was so much into the conversation he didn't listen.'

Khozhugov said Tamerlan's mother, Zubeidat, told him not to worry.

''Don't interrupt them,' Khozhugov recalled the mother saying. 'They're talking
about religion and good things. Misha is teaching him to be good and nice.'

As time went on, Tamerlan and his father argued about the young man's new
beliefs.

'When Misha would start talking, Tamerlan would stop talking and listen. It
upset his father because Tamerlan wouldn't listen to him as much,' Khozhugov
said.

'He would listen to this guy from the mosque who was preaching to him.'

Anzor became so concerned that he called his brother, worried about Misha's
effects.

'I heard about nobody else but this convert,' Tsarni said. 'The seed for
changing his views was planted right there in Cambridge.'

It was not immediately clear whether the FBI has spoken to Misha or was
attempting to.

While Misha is a very common name across the former Soviet Union, Dan Amira
makes the point that 'there can't be that many bald, red-bearded Armenian
Muslims in Boston.

Respected national security writer Laura Rozen took to Twitter to speculate that
Misha could be 'the kind of mole Russia plants to keep on eye on emigre
communities of concern.'

Indeed, she theorizes that Misha could even be the souce that tipped off Russian
security sevices to Tamerlan's conversion to radical Islam in 2011.

Tsarnaev became an ardent reader of jihadist websites and extremist propaganda,
two U.S. officials said. He read Inspire magazine, an English-language online
publication produced by al-Qaida's Yemen affiliate.

Tamerlan loved music and, a few years ago, he sent Khozhugov a song he'd
composed in English and Russian. He said he was about to start music school.

Six weeks later, the two men spoke on the phone. Khozhugov asked how school was
going.

'I quit,' Tamerlan said.

'Why did you quit?' Khozhugov asked. 'You just started.'

'Music is not really supported in Islam,' he replied.

'Who told you that?'

'Misha said it's not really good to create music. It's not really good to listen
to music,' Tamerlan said, according to Khozhugov.

Suspects: Tamerlan Tsarnaev, left, was killed in a police shoot-out on Friday.
His younger brother Dzokhar, right, was charged on Monday with using a weapon of
mass destruction to kill and could face death if convicted

Tamerlan took an interest in Infowars, a conspiracy theory website. Khozhugov
said Tamerlan was interested in finding a copy of the book 'The Protocols of the
Elders of Zion,' the classic anti-Semitic hoax, first published in Russia in
1903, that claims a Jewish plot to take over the world.

'He never said he hated America or he hated the Jews,' Khozhugov said. 'But he
was fairly aggressive toward the policies of the U.S. toward countries with
Muslim populations. He disliked the wars.'

One of the brothers' neighbors, Albrecht Ammon, recently recalled an encounter
in which Tamerlan argued about U.S. foreign policy, the wars in Afghanistan and
Iraq, and religion.

Ammon said Tamerlan described the Bible as a 'cheap copy' of the Quran, used to
justify wars with other countries.

'He had nothing against the American people,' Ammon said. 'He had something
against the American government.'

Khozhugov said Tamerlan did not know much about Islam beyond what he found
online or what he heard from Misha.

'Misha was important,' he said. 'Tamerlan was searching for something. He was
searching for something out there.'

But, the mother of the alleged Boston bombers denied reports that her sons had
been radicalized by a mysterious convert to Islam named Misha.

'Nonsense. He was just a friend,' Zubeidat Tsarnaeva told ABC News by phone
today shortly before she sat down with FBI investigators for a second day of
interviews here in the restive region of Dagestan, in southern Russia.

Tsarnaeva said Misha knew a lot about Islam and that it was interesting to learn
from him, but denied his views were extreme.

She said their relationship with Misha, an Armenian with a red beard whose
identity and full name remain a mystery, was short because he moved to another
part of the United States since. She would not say where.

Throughout his religious makeover, Tamerlan maintained a strong influence over
his siblings, including Dzhokhar, who investigators say carried out the deadly
attack by his older brother's side, killing three and injuring 264 people.

'They all loved Tamerlan. He was the eldest one and he, in many ways, was the
role model for his sisters and his brother,' said Elmirza Khozhugov, 26, the
ex-husband of Tamerlan's sister, Ailina.

'You could always hear his younger brother and sisters say, 'Tamerlan said
this,' and 'Tamerlan said that.' Dzhokhar loved him. He would do whatever
Tamerlan would say.

'Even my ex-wife loved him so much and respected him so much,' Khozhugov said.
'I'd have arguments with her and if Tamerlan took my side, she would agree: 'OK,
if Tamerlan said it.''

Khozhugov said he was close to Tamerlan when he was married and they kept in
touch for a while but drifted apart in the past two years or so.

He spoke to the AP from his home in Almaty, Kazakhstan. A family member in the
United States provided the contact information.

'Of course I was shocked and surprised that he was Suspect No. 1,' Khozhugov
said, recalling the days after the bombing when the FBI identified Tamerlan as
the primary suspect.

'But after a few hours of thinking about it, I thought it could be possible that
he did it.'

Based on preliminary written interviews with Dzhokar in his hospital bed, U.S.
officials believe the brothers were motivated by their religious views. It has
not been clear, however, what those views were.

Throughout his religious makeover, Tamerlan maintained a strong influence over
his siblings, including Dzhokhar, who investigators say carried out the deadly
attack by his older brother's side, killing three and injuring 264 people.

'They all loved Tamerlan. He was the eldest one and he, in many ways, was the
role model for his sisters and his brother,' said Elmirza Khozhugov, 26, the
ex-husband of Tamerlan's sister, Ailina.

'You could always hear his younger brother and sisters say, 'Tamerlan said
this,' and 'Tamerlan said that.' Dzhokhar loved him. He would do whatever
Tamerlan would say.

'Even my ex-wife loved him so much and respected him so much,' Khozhugov said.
'I'd have arguments with her and if Tamerlan took my side, she would agree: 'OK,
if Tamerlan said it.'

Khozhugov said he was close to Tamerlan when he was married and they kept in
touch for a while but drifted apart in the past two years or so.

History: Bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev (left) displayed a disturbing pattern
of verbal abuse and violence toward women, including his wife, Katherine Russell
(right)

He spoke to the AP from his home in Almaty, Kazakhstan. A family member in the
United States provided the contact information.

Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in a police shootout Friday. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was
charged Monday with using a weapon of mass destruction to kill, and he could
face the death penalty if convicted.

'Of course I was shocked and surprised that he was Suspect No. 1,' Khozhugov
said, recalling the days after the bombing when the FBI identified Tamerlan as
the primary suspect. 'But after a few hours of thinking about it, I thought it
could be possible that he did it.'

Based on preliminary written interviews with Dzhokar in his hospital bed, U.S.
officials believe the brothers were motivated by their religious views. It has
not been clear, however, what those views were.

This comes as FBI agents question members of the mosque where one of the
suspected Boston bombers attended services.

Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who was killed in a shoot-out with police on Friday, was
still going to prayer services at a Cambridge, Massachusetts, mosque just weeks
before the bombing.

Mosque spokesman Yusuf Vali said the 26-year-old had previously caused
disturbances there, and imams had threatened to ban him following a
confrontation during a prayer service.

Mr Vali told NBC News that as soon as they learned of Tamerlan's alleged
involvement 'we immediately called law enforcement and said: "Listen, we've got
folks who knew him and if you need any information, we're here."'

'Those folks have already met with the FBI,' he added.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 24, 2013 Wednesday 3:23 PM GMT

Former TA soldier in terror cell that planned Wootton Bassett attack;
A British terror cell which planned to attack the military-linked town of Royal
Wootton Bassett included a former Territorial Army soldier, a court heard.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 477 words


Jahangir Alom spent a year with the TA in London in 2006 and would have learnt
basic firearms skills before he was discharged on medical grounds.

Five years later, Alom, who is also a former police PCSO, was part of a British
terror group that planned to attack the UK or fight British soldiers overseas.

His co-accused, Richard Dart, is a white British convert who was the subject of
a documentary filmed by his half brother about his transformation from a midde
class boy from Weymouth in to an Islamic extremist.

The pair, along with Imran Mahmood, have admitted engaging in the preparation of
terrorist acts and are being sentenced at the Old Bailey.

At one stage Dart, 30, a former BBC security guard from Ealing, and Mahmood
discussed attacking mourners at Wootton Bassett, the town where soldiers killed
overseas are honoured by residents in a parade.

Mahmood, 22, from Northolt, west London, and Alom, 26, of Abbey Road, Stratford
who had had up to a year's terror training in Pakistan, claimed it was fine to
blow up civilians because "they're all combatants".

The pair also discussed attacking MI5 and MI6 but Dart and Alom also wanted to
travel to Pakistan for terror training and to fight over seas.

The conversations were carried out by the men typing them on a computer screen
and then deleted the passages, in a sign they were conscious they could be under
watch.

However, police were able to recover parts of the exchanges.

In one exchange at Dart's flat in Ealing, west London, in November, 2011,
Mahmood wrote: 'Ywooten basset if yh then yh if not.

'Their all combatanat so if it cmes down to it its that or even to just deal
with a few mi5 mi6 heads i can show you locations but you would have to go
there.'

Prosecutor Jonathan Laidlaw QC said: "Mahmood's view was that the real war, as
he cast it, is in the UK and not Pakistan.

"Mahmood is plainly suggesting Royal Wootton Bassett - the village in Wiltshire
where the bodies of servicemen killed in the Iraqi and Afghani conflicts passed
through - as a potential target.

"And not only an attack targeting soldiers, as he's saying, 'They're all
combatants'."

Dart and Alom, 26, from Stratford, had failed to get terror training during a
visit to Pakistan in the summer of 2011 and after they returned, Dart approached
Mahmood for advice on who to contact.

But in one exchange with Mahmood, Dart alluded again to attacking the UK,
writing: "If you have ability why travel so far when its on your doorstep!!!!"

In another he said: "Things have to be done. It doesn't matter even if you're in
this country or abroad, things have to be done."

Dart, Alom and Mahmood have admitted preparing for an act of terrorism - though
Alom and Mahmood deny they were planning to attack civilians or target sites in
the UK.

Mr Justice Simon is due to rule on the point before he sentences the trio
tomorrow. The hearing continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     April 24, 2013 Wednesday 12:01 AM GMT

Assad's Victims Need Arming;
Reports of chemical attacks suggest a new terror against a captive people

SECTION: LEADING ARTICLES

LENGTH: 560 words


Since protests against his rule erupted more than two years ago, President Assad
has created a desert and called it peace. His depredations have met with
condemnation but little hindrance from a divided UN Security Council. Some
70,000 Syrians have been killed and three million displaced in violence that the
Assad regime has unleashed.

The peculiar horror of the regime's strategy is the remorseless increase in
brutality. After deploying tanks against demonstrators, Assad's forces turned to
shelling cities. There are now credible claims that the regime has used chemical
weapons against civilians. Western nations ought much earlier in this crisis to
have provided heavy weaponry for Syrian rebels to defend themselves. They should
do so now.

The claim of chemical use comes from Israeli intelligence. Senior Israeli
officials yesterday produced harrowing and highly plausible evidence of such an
attack last month near Damascus. It included photographs of victims foaming at
the mouth. The symptoms would be consistent with poisoning by sarin, a nerve gas
that causes paralysis of the neuromuscular system.

Chuck Hagel, the US Defence Secretary, said that US intelligence was still
assessing the evidence. If use of chemical weapons by the regime is confirmed,
it would pressure the Obama Administration, which has declared such tactics a
"red line". It should already be clear, however, how great are the costs of
non-intervention. They may prove higher still.

Western diplomacy might have shown solidarity from the outset with secular
elements within Syria and the diaspora opposed to Assad. Should transplanted
jihadists succeed in gaining control of the revolt against a despotic regime,
they would be a danger to the peace and security of the region and a permanent
threat to Syria's already abused civilian population. With that danger in mind,
the US and its allies need to consider carefully how to respond to the charges
levelled against Assad.

The reports of chemical use need to be independently assessed. That is surely a
position that even Russia and China, which have repeatedly stymied sanctions
against Syria, can reasonably be expected to support on the Security Council.
The Red Cross performed a valuable service in the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s in
confirming Saddam Hussein's use of chemical weapons. Russia and China should
insist that independent investigators gain unfettered access to Syria.

Even so, Assad would doubtless manufacture claims that his forces had been
attacked by rebel forces first, and insist on a right to retaliation. Rather
than get bogged down in arguments on the Security Council, Western nations
should resolve that Assad has already violated the criteria whereby a legitimate
ruler exercises sovereignty.

A dynastic autocrat has inflicted death, squalor and starvation on a captive
population. Use of chemical weapons would demonstrate also a strategy of
spreading terror. Assad's victims seek the means of protection. That should mean
deploying Patriot missiles on the border with Turkey and creating safe havens,
guarded by heavy weaponry, where Syrians know they will have refuge. That
statement of intent would be designed also to deter Assad from using chemical
weapons. The regime's strategy is to crush and intimidate Syrians. It is long
past time to give them assurance that such attacks will be countered.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 25, 2013 Thursday

Jordan condemns terrorist attack on French embassy in Libya

LENGTH: 93 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

Petra News Agency) -Amman, April 24 (Petra) -Jordan on Wednesday condemned the
recent terrorist attack on the French Embassy in the Libyan capital Tripoli.

Minister of State for Media Affairs and Communications and Minister of Political
Development and Parliamentary Affairs Mohammad al-Momani, who is also the
Government Spokesman, reiterated Jordan's stance, which fully rejects of all
forms of terrorism and violence.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 1035 gmt 24 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            April 25, 2013 Thursday
                                   2 Edition

Terrorist  attack leaves 21 dead

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 63 words


beijing: Violence has left 21 people dead in China s far-west region in what
officials called a terrorist attack. Nine locals, six police and six ethnic
Uighurs died in yesterday s incident in Xinjiang, which involved axes, knives, a
gun and ended with a house burning down. There was no immediate claim of
responsibility but China blamed previous attacks on Islamic separatists.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 25, 2013 Thursday 8:51 PM GMT

Boston terrorists DID plan to attack New York City with pressure cooker bomb and
multiple pipe bombs

BYLINE: PAUL THOMPSON IN BOSTON and JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1851 words



     ·    Mayor Michael Bloomberg confirmed on Thursday that the Boston bombers
          were  planning to stage an attack in Times Square, New York
     ·    Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev were carrying a pressure cooker device
          and 5 pipe-bombs with them when they were intercepted by officer Sean
          Collier on the MIT campus
     ·    The plan was thwarted when the brothers ran out of gas and became
          involved in a huge gun battle in Watertown, Massachusetts
     ·    Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was
          captured during the huge police operation


The Boston bombers planned to unleash a devastating terror attack on New York
City - armed with a pressure cooker bomb and five pipe bombs - that would have
caused 'significant' casualties.

New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg confirmed on Thursday that Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev, 19, told the FBI that he and his older brother Tamerlan intended to
travel to New York from Boston on Friday- targeting the thousands of tourists
and revelers in the city's Times Square.

Speaking at an afternoon press conference, Bloomberg said that despite the city
having heightened security following the marathon attacks, 'We don't know if we
would have been able to stop the terrorists if they had arrived from Boston.'

The startling revelations added pressure onto U.S. authorities who are coming
under fire for their handling of the case.

Especially how the FBI dealt with warnings from Russian intelligence over
Tamerlan Tsarnaev and his visits to terrorist hotbed, Dagestan.

Scroll Down for Video

Praising the work of law enforcement in Boston in apprehending and catching the
Tsarnaev brothers, Bloomberg said that New York was 'lucky' it never had to find
out.

Both Mayor Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly spoke at the briefing
where they revealed that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev told Boston investigators from his
hospital bed that he and his brother had discussed going to New York to detonate
their remaining explosives.

'Last night we were informed by the FBI that the surviving attacker revealed
that New York City was next on their list of targets,' Bloomberg said at New
York City Hall.

'He and his older brother intended to drive to New York and detonate those
explosives in Times Square.'

Kelly confirmed to reporters the two suspects had a pressure cooker bomb and
five pipe bombs they wanted to set off to kill and maim in New York City.

While they haven't had the opportunity to speak to the teenager, both men
confirmed that Dzhokhar told law enforcement that the plan was 'spontaneously'
arranged after they had hijacked a black Mercedes SUV in Boston late on Thursday
evening.

However, it was also claimed that the two terror suspects aborted their
adrenaline fuled plan when they realized they had no gas.

Stopping to collect some, the owner of the car they were holding hostage managed
to escape and alert police - who then engaged the pair in a ferocious gun battle
which led to Tamerlan's death and Dzhokhar evading authorities for a further 21
hours.

While the investigation into these new developments continues, Bloomberg said
that Dzhokhar visited Times Square in April 2012 and November of the same year.

Three people died and over 260 were wounded in the 15th  April Boston attack.

In 2010, Times Square was targeted with a car bomb that never went off.
Pakistani immigrant Faisal Shahzad had planted a bomb in an SUV, but street
vendors noticed smoke and it was disabled. Shahzad was arrested as he tried to
leave the country and was sentenced to life in prison.

Authorities do not  know if these visits were connected to the planned terror
attacks on New York City.

Previously, Ray Kelly confirmed on Wednesday that Tamerlan and Dzhokhar were
headed to the Big Apple to 'party' - but now officials know that the two
brothers had at least discussed the possibility of carrying out another terror
attack on American soil.

Today unnamed officials issued a cautionary note that the Tsarnaev's plan was
underdeveloped - with one senior official describing the plan as 'aspirational
at most' to  NBC News.

This harrowing confirmation suggests that the duo behind the Boston Marathon
bombings were not finished, and were headed to New York City with additional
bombs.

But their plans were abandoned as police caught up with them, engaging the
Tsarnaev brothers in a wild shootout in which 26-year-old Tamerlan was killed.

Dzhokhar, 19, was seriously wounded in the gun-battle and is currently
recovering in a Boston hospital.

The startling information that a New York attack was real reportedly came from
the Chinese man who was carjacked by the suspects early on Friday morning.

He told investigators that the men did not speak English but he recognized the
word 'Manhattan' in their conversation.

CBS' John Miller reported that the information 'tripped a lot' of alarm for
authorities, who reacted by cutting Amtrak train service from Boston to New York
and searched trains on Friday.

Miller additionally reported that the NYPD activated 'license plate readers at
all bridges and tunnels coming into the city' with the hope of intercepting the
suspects before they reached the Big Apple.

He was arraigned on Monday and has reportedly confessed his role in the bombings
to federal investigators.

However, it has now been reported that since he was read his Miranda Rights he
has become less co-operative with authorities.

On Tuesday, images were released that showed suspected bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev
with his arms full of snacks and soda as he and his brother Tamerlan attempt a
getaway after becoming prime terror suspects.

Dressed in a grey hoodie, the surveillance footage is believed to show
19-year-old Dzhokhar  as he enters a gas station in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

The man following him into the store in the beige cap appears to be 26-year-old
Tamerlan.

In another image, Dzhokhar is seen wearing a beige flat cap pulled low at an ATM
machine, withdrawing $800.

The card was stolen from a man taken hostage by the alleged terrorists after he
was car-jacked last Thursday during the bombers' chilling but futile plan to
travel to New York.

The victim was able to jump out of the car and flee while the alleged terrorists
went to buy snacks.

From interviews with the staff at both gas stations and court records,
MailOnline has been able to piece together the frantic events of the early hours
of last Friday.

The terrifying sequence of events began when Tamerlan carjacked a Mercedes SUV
car at gun point barely 40 minutes after MIT campus police officer Sean Collier
was killed as he sat in his patrol car.

Tamerlan jumped into the passenger seat of the Mercedes and told the driver:
'Did you hear about the Boston explosion... I did that.'

Dzhokhar was caught on a CCTV camera entering an all night garage with his face
partially hidden by a grey hooded sweatshirt.

But he left empty handed after his brother Tamerlan hammered on the glass front
door of the gas station kiosk saying: 'We've got to go.'

His intervention came after the victim of the carjacking managed to escape and
run across to another all night gas station across the street where he pleaded
with the cashier for help.

The images were released on Tuesday as Dzhokhar told investigators that his
brother orchestrated the attacks because he 'wanted to defend Islam from
attack'.

In scrawled notes from his hospital bed, the 19-year-old told Guantanamo Bay
interrogators that he and his brother were not linked to any Islamic terrorist
groups.

According to  CNN, Dzhokhar said his older brother, Tamerlan, 26, was the
ringleader in the attacks that shook the nation a week ago, but that the pair
were working alone.

The dramatic escape of the carjacking victim was the beginning of the end for
the alleged bombers as they were found by police and involved in a fierce gun
battle.

Tamerlan was shot multiple times, while his brother was later found cowering in
a covered-up boat and taken into custody.

After encountering Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the terrified victim was shown a gun and
forced into the passenger seat.

After picking up his brother, and transferring guns and bombs into the trunk,
the car spend off.

Tamerlan was driving and his 19-year-old brother was in the rear passenger seat.
The victim was in the front passenger seat.

After being forced to hand over $45, they drove to an ATM where $800 was
withdrawn from the victim's account.

All three headed towards an all night Shell garage on Memorial Drive in
Cambridge where Tamerlan pulled up alongside one of the gas pumps.

Dzhokhar went inside - and was captured on the CCTV camera at the front of the
store.

The photograph was released by the FBI hours after the impromptu stop and gave
law enforcement and members of the public a much clearer view of the alleged
bomber.

The image with Dzhokhar wearing a hoodie was clearer than those released earlier
by the FBI which been taken prior to the bombs going off at the finish line of
the marathon.

Mohammed Malah, 46, was working the night shift but paid little attention to the
customer who headed to the row of fridge where the drinks were stored.

He only realized he had been with the alleged bomber when the FBI swarmed into
garage in the early hours of the morning last Friday.

They had been alerted to the garage stop by the carjacking victim who had
managed to escape and run across the road to a neighboring Mobil garage.

FBI agents recovered footage from the security camera at the entrance to the
first garage.

Owner Alan Mendick:'The police came and we went through the CCTV footage.

'Yes, one of them came in here, but I am told before he could buy anything his
brother came and hammered on the window and told him they had to go.

'He had some stuff in his hands but he just put it down and left. There are
reports that he was shoplifting, but that's not true.'

'His brother called him to come out before he could do anything.

'My cashier who was on duty is scared. He is really shaken up by it all.'

Malah's colleague Brahim Asseban,37, said: 'The manager was called and they told
him to close the station down.

'They took the CCTV footage.The picture of the Tsarnaev in the grey hoodie was
from the camera at the front door. Everyone who comes in is filmed,it is part of
the security you have when open all night.

'Mohammed is a bit shaken up by it all. He said it was very busy that night, and
he does not really remember him coming in.

'Lots of people come in late at night but it has shaken him up.'

'He said one of the brothers, the younger one came in and looked at the Red Bull
and candy bars.

The victim told FBI agents he managed to escape while Tamerlan became distracted
as his brother was in the store shopping.

Neither brother made any attempt to kill the carjacking victim.

After speeding away along Memorial Drive the stolen car was spotted by police in
Watertown having been given its licence plate and description.

They gave chase and in an ensuing gun battle where over 200 shots were fired 26
year old Tamerlan was hit multiple times.

He was run over by his brother who fled in the stolen SUV, later abandoning it
and taking refuge in a covered up boat, where he later surrendered.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 25, 2013 Thursday 7:59 PM GMT

Boston terrorists DID plan to attack New York City with pressure cooker bomb and
multiple pipe bombs

BYLINE: PAUL THOMPSON IN BOSTON and JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1723 words



     ·    Unnamed official sources revealed today the Tsarnaev brothers may have
          been planning to stage an attack in Times Square, New York
     ·    Pair had another pressure cooker bomb and 5 pipe-bombs
     ·    The plan was thwarted when the brothers ran out of gas and became
          involved in a huge gun battle in Watertown, Massachusetts
     ·    Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was
          captured


The Boston bombers planned to unleash a devastating terror attack on New York
City - armed with a pressure cooker bomb and five pipe bombs - that would have
caused 'significant' casualties.

New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg confirmed today that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev,
19, told the FBI that he and his older brother Tamerlan intended to travel to
New York from Boston on Friday- targeting the thousands of tourists and revelers
in the city's Times Square.

Speaking at a press conference this afternoon, Bloomberg said that despite the
city having heightened security following the marathon attacks, 'We don't know
if we would have been able to stop the terrorists if they had arrived from
Boston.'

Scroll Down for Video

Praising the work of law enforcement in Boston in apprehending and catching the
Tsarnaev brothers, Bloomberg said that New York was 'lucky' it never had to find
out.

Both Mayor Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly spoke at the briefing
where they revealed that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev told Boston investigators from his
hospital bed that he and his brother had discussed going to New York to detonate
their remaining explosives.

'Last night we were informed by the FBI that the surviving attacker revealed
that New York City was next on their list of targets,' Bloomberg said at New
York City Hall.

'He and his older brother intended to drive to New York and detonate those
explosives in Times Square.'

Kelly confirmed to reporters the two suspects had a pressure cooker bomb and
five pipe bombs they wanted to set off to kill and maim in New York City.

While they haven't had the opportunity to speak to the teenager, both men
confirmed that Dzhokhar told law enforcement that the plan was hastily arranged
after they had hijacked a black Mercedes SUV in Boston late on Thursday evening.

However, it was also claimed that the two terror suspects aborted their
adrenaline fuled plan when they realized they had no gas.

Stopping to collect some, the owner of the car they were holding hostage managed
to escape and alert police - who then engaged the pair in a ferocious gun battle
which led to Tamerlan's death and Dzhokhar evading authorities for a further 21
hours.

While the investigation into these new developments continues, Bloomberg said
that Dzhokhar visited Times Square in April 2012 and November of the same year.

Authorities do not  know if these visits were connected to the planned terror
attacks on New York City.

Previously, Ray Kelly confirmed on Wednesday that Tamerlan and Dzhokhar were
headed to the Big Apple to 'party' - but now officials know that the two
brothers had at least discussed the possibility of carrying out another terror
attack on American soil.

Today unnamed officials issued a cautionary note that the Tsarnaev's plan was
underdeveloped - with one senior official describing the plan as 'aspirational
at most' to  NBC News.

This harrowing confirmation suggests that the duo behind the Boston Marathon
bombings were not finished, and were headed to New York City with additional
bombs.

But their plans were abandoned as police caught up with them, engaging the
Tsarnaev brothers in a wild shootout in which 26-year-old Tamerlan was killed.

Dzhokhar, 19, was seriously wounded in the gun-battle and is currently
recovering in a Boston hospital.

The startling information that a New York attack was real reportedly came from
the Chinese man who was carjacked by the suspects early on Friday morning.

He told investigators that the men did not speak English but he recognized the
word 'Manhattan' in their conversation.

CBS' John Miller reported that the information 'tripped a lot' of alarm for
authorities, who reacted by cutting Amtrak train service from Boston to New York
and searched trains on Friday.

Miller additionally reported that the NYPD activated 'license plate readers at
all bridges and tunnels coming into the city' with the hope of intercepting the
suspects before they reached the Big Apple.

He was arraigned on Monday and has reportedly confessed his role in the bombings
to federal investigators.

However, it has now been reported that since he was read his Miranda Rights he
has become less co-operative with authorities.

On Tuesday, images were released that showed suspected bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev
with his arms full of snacks and soda as he and his brother Tamerlan attempt a
getaway after becoming prime terror suspects.

Dressed in a grey hoodie, the surveillance footage is believed to show
19-year-old Dzhokhar  as he enters a gas station in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

The man following him into the store in the beige cap appears to be 26-year-old
Tamerlan.

In another image, Dzhokhar is seen wearing a beige flat cap pulled low at an ATM
machine, withdrawing $800.

The card was stolen from a man taken hostage by the alleged terrorists after he
was car-jacked last Thursday during the bombers' chilling but futile plan to
travel to New York.

The victim was able to jump out of the car and flee while the alleged terrorists
went to buy snacks.

From interviews with the staff at both gas stations and court records,
MailOnline has been able to piece together the frantic events of the early hours
of last Friday.

The terrifying sequence of events began when Tamerlan carjacked a Mercedes SUV
car at gun point barely 40 minutes after MIT campus police officer Sean Collier
was killed as he sat in his patrol car.

Tamerlan jumped into the passenger seat of the Mercedes and told the driver:
'Did you hear about the Boston explosion... I did that.'

Dzhokhar was caught on a CCTV camera entering an all night garage with his face
partially hidden by a grey hooded sweatshirt.

But he left empty handed after his brother Tamerlan hammered on the glass front
door of the gas station kiosk saying: 'We've got to go.'

His intervention came after the victim of the carjacking managed to escape and
run across to another all night gas station across the street where he pleaded
with the cashier for help.

The images were released on Tuesday as Dzhokhar told investigators that his
brother orchestrated the attacks because he 'wanted to defend Islam from
attack'.

In scrawled notes from his hospital bed, the 19-year-old told Guantanamo Bay
interrogators that he and his brother were not linked to any Islamic terrorist
groups.

According to  CNN, Dzhokhar said his older brother, Tamerlan, 26, was the
ringleader in the attacks that shook the nation a week ago, but that the pair
were working alone.

The dramatic escape of the carjacking victim was the beginning of the end for
the alleged bombers as they were found by police and involved in a fierce gun
battle.

Tamerlan was shot multiple times, while his brother was later found cowering in
a covered-up boat and taken into custody.

After encountering Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the terrified victim was shown a gun and
forced into the passenger seat.

After picking up his brother, and transferring guns and bombs into the trunk,
the car spend off.

Tamerlan was driving and his 19-year-old brother was in the rear passenger seat.
The victim was in the front passenger seat.

After being forced to hand over $45, they drove to an ATM where $800 was
withdrawn from the victim's account.

All three headed towards an all night Shell garage on Memorial Drive in
Cambridge where Tamerlan pulled up alongside one of the gas pumps.

Dzhokhar went inside - and was captured on the CCTV camera at the front of the
store.

The photograph was released by the FBI hours after the impromptu stop and gave
law enforcement and members of the public a much clearer view of the alleged
bomber.

The image with Dzhokhar wearing a hoodie was clearer than those released earlier
by the FBI which been taken prior to the bombs going off at the finish line of
the marathon.

Mohammed Malah, 46, was working the night shift but paid little attention to the
customer who headed to the row of fridge where the drinks were stored.

He only realized he had been with the alleged bomber when the FBI swarmed into
garage in the early hours of the morning last Friday.

They had been alerted to the garage stop by the carjacking victim who had
managed to escape and run across the road to a neighboring Mobil garage.

FBI agents recovered footage from the security camera at the entrance to the
first garage.

Owner Alan Mendick:'The police came and we went through the CCTV footage.

'Yes, one of them came in here, but I am told before he could buy anything his
brother came and hammered on the window and told him they had to go.

'He had some stuff in his hands but he just put it down and left. There are
reports that he was shoplifting, but that's not true.'

'His brother called him to come out before he could do anything.

'My cashier who was on duty is scared. He is really shaken up by it all.'

Malah's colleague Brahim Asseban,37, said: 'The manager was called and they told
him to close the station down.

'They took the CCTV footage.The picture of the Tsarnaev in the grey hoodie was
from the camera at the front door. Everyone who comes in is filmed,it is part of
the security you have when open all night.

'Mohammed is a bit shaken up by it all. He said it was very busy that night, and
he does not really remember him coming in.

'Lots of people come in late at night but it has shaken him up.'

'He said one of the brothers, the younger one came in and looked at the Red Bull
and candy bars.

The victim told FBI agents he managed to escape while Tamerlan became distracted
as his brother was in the store shopping.

Neither brother made any attempt to kill the carjacking victim.

After speeding away along Memorial Drive the stolen car was spotted by police in
Watertown having been given its licence plate and description.

They gave chase and in an ensuing gun battle where over 200 shots were fired 26
year old Tamerlan was hit multiple times.

He was run over by his brother who fled in the stolen SUV, later abandoning it
and taking refuge in a covered up boat, where he later surrendered.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 25, 2013 Thursday 7:39 PM GMT

Boston terrorists DID plan to attack New York City with pressure cooker bomb and
multiple pipe bombs

BYLINE: PAUL THOMPSON IN BOSTON and JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1874 words



     ·    Unnamed official sources revealed today the Tsarnaev brothers may have
          been planning to stage an attack in Times Square, New York
     ·    Pair had another pressure cooker bomb and homemade grenades
     ·    The plan was thwarted when the brothers ran out of gas and became
          involved in a huge gun battle in Watertown, Massachusetts
     ·    Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was
          captured


The Boston bombers planned to unleash a devastating terror attack on New York
City - armed with a pressure cooker bomb and five pipe bombs - that would have
caused 'significant' casualties.

New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg confirmed today that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev,
19, told the FBI that he and his older brother Tamerlan intended to travel to
New York from Boston on Friday- targeting the thousands of tourists and revelers
in the city's Times Square.

Speaking at a press conference this afternoon, Bloomberg said that despite the
city having heightened security following the marathon attacks, 'We don't know
if we would have been able to stop the terrorists if they had arrived from
Boston.'

Scroll Down for Video

Praising the work of law enforcement in Boston in apprehending and catching the
Tsarnaev brothers, Bloomberg said that New York was 'lucky' it never had to find
out.

Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly both spoke at the
briefing on Thursday.

Kelly confirmed to reporters the two suspects had a pressure cooker bomb and
five pipe bombs they wanted to set off to kill and maim in New York City.

They said Dzhokhar Tsarnaev told Boston investigators from his hospital bed that
he and his brother had discussed going to New York to detonate their remaining
explosives.

While they haven't had the opportunity to speak to the teenager, both men
confirmed that Dzhokhar told law enforcement that the plan was hastily arranged
after they had hijacked a black Mercedes SUV in Boston late on Thursday evening.

However, it was also claimed that the two terror suspects aborted their plan
when they realized they had no gas.

Stopping to collect some, the owner of the car they were holding hostage managed
to escape and alert police - who then engaged the pair in a ferocious gun battle
which led to Tamerlan's death and Dzhokhar evading authorities for a further 21
hours.

While the investigation into these new developments continues, Bloomberg said
that Dzhokhar visited Times Square in April 2012 and November of the same year.

Authorities do not  know if these visits were connected to the planned terror
attacks on New York City.

Ray Kelly confirmed on Wednesday that Tamerlan and Dzhokhar were headed to the
Big Apple to 'party' - but now officials know that the two brothers had at least
discussed the possibility of carrying out another terror attack on American
soil.

Today unnamed officials issued a cautionary note that the Tsarnaev's plan was
underdeveloped - with one senior official describing the plan as 'aspirational
at most' to  NBC News.

This harrowing confirmation suggests that the duo behind the Boston Marathon
bombings were not finished, and were headed to New York City with additional
bombs.

It is believed that Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev were planning further
bloodshed but were thwarted when Massachusetts authorities found them in a
Boston suburb.

The pair had another pressure cooker bomb - the device used in the marathon
attack - and homemade grenades.

But their plans were abandoned as police caught up with them, engaging the
Tsarnaev brothers in a wild shootout in which 26-year-old Tamerlan was killed.

Dzhokhar, 19, was seriously wounded in the gun-battle and is currently
recovering in a Boston hospital.

The information reportedly came from the Chinese man who was carjacked by the
suspects early on Friday morning.

And now has apparently been confirmed by investigators.

He told investigators that the men did not speak English but he recognized the
word 'Manhattan' in their conversation.

CBS' John Miller reported that the information 'tripped a lot' of alarm for
authorities, who reacted by cutting Amtrak train service from Boston to New York
and searched trains on Friday.

Miller additionally reported that the NYPD activated 'license plate readers at
all bridges and tunnels coming into the city' with the hope of intercepting the
suspects before they reached the Big Apple.

He was arraigned on Monday and has reportedly confessed his role in the bombings
to federal investigators.

Also on Tuesday, new images showed suspected bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev with his
arms full of snacks and soda as he and his brother Tamerlan attempt a getaway
after becoming prime terror suspects.

Dressed in a grey hoodie, the surveillance footage is believed to show
19-year-old Dzhokhar  as he enters a gas station in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

The man following him into the store in the beige cap appears to be 26-year-old
Tamerlan.

In another image, Dzhokhar is seen wearing a beige flat cap pulled low at an ATM
machine, withdrawing $800.

The card was stolen from a man taken hostage by the alleged terrorists after he
was car-jacked last Thursday during the bombers' desperate but futile plan to
escape.

The victim was able to jump out of the car and flee while the alleged terrorists
went to buy snacks.

From interviews with the staff at both gas stations and court records,
MailOnline has been able to piece together the frantic events of the early hours
of last Friday.

The terrifying sequence of events began when Tamerlan carjacked a Mercedes SUV
car at gun point barely 40 minutes after MIT campus police officer Sean Collier
was killed as he sat in his patrol car.

Tamerlan jumped into the passenger seat of the Mercedes and told the driver:
'Did you hear about the Boston explosion... I did that.'

Dzhokhar was caught on a CCTV camera entering an all night garage with his face
partially hidden by a grey hooded sweatshirt.

But he left empty handed after his brother Tamerlan hammered on the glass front
door of the gas station kiosk saying: 'We've got to go.'

His intervention came after the victim of the carjacking managed to escape and
run across to another all night gas station across the street where he pleaded
with the cashier for help.

The images were released on Tuesday  as Dzhokhar told investigators that his
brother orchestrated the attacks because he 'wanted to defend Islam from
attack'.

In scrawled notes from his hospital bed, the 19-year-old told Guantanamo Bay
interrogators that he and his brother were not linked to any Islamic terrorist
groups.

According to  CNN, Dzhokhar said his older brother, Tamerlan, 26, was the
ringleader in the attacks that shook the nation a week ago, but that the pair
were working alone.

The dramatic escape of the carjacking victim was the beginning of the end for
the alleged bombers as they were found by police and involved in a fierce gun
battle.

Tamerlan was shot multiple times, while his brother was later found cowering in
a covered-up boat and taken into custody.

After encountering Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the terrified victim was shown a gun and
forced into the passenger seat.

After picking up his brother, and transferring guns and bombs into the trunk,
the car spend off.

Tamerlan was driving and his 19-year-old brother was in the rear passenger seat.
The victim was in the front passenger seat.

After being forced to hand over $45, they drove to an ATM where $800 was
withdrawn from the victim's account.

All three headed towards an all night Shell garage on Memorial Drive in
Cambridge where Tamerlan pulled up alongside one of the gas pumps.

Dzhokhar went inside - and was captured on the CCTV camera at the front of the
store.

The photograph was released by the FBI hours after the impromptu stop and gave
law enforcement and members of the public a much clearer view of the alleged
bomber.

The image with Dzhokhar wearing a hoodie was clearer than those released earlier
by the FBI which been taken prior to the bombs going off at the finish line of
the marathon.

Mohammed Malah, 46, was working the night shift but paid little attention to the
customer who head to the row of fridge where the drinks were stored.

Moroccan-born Malah, who speaks little English, told colleagues that he did not
take any notice of Tsarnaev when he came into the all night store.

He only realized he had been with the alleged bomber when the FBI swarmed into
garage in the early hours of the morning last Friday.

They had been alerted to the garage stop by the carjacking victim who had
managed to escape and run across the road to a neighboring Mobil garage.

Mr Ahmed described how the victim burst into kiosk.

'He was shaking, absolutely terrified and started shouting that some men had
guns and they were trying to kill him,' he said.

'He said they had a bomb. He was so scared that he could not stand up. He fell
over and at first I thought he was drunk.

'But then he got up and pushed his way to the back of the counter and said 'you
have to hide me.'

He kept saying there were men out there who wanted to kill him. I'ver never seen
anyone so scared.

Ahmed said the man hid behind a metal door in a back room and he again pleaded
with him to call police.

'I rang 911 and told them what happened. Within three minutes there were police
cars here.'

He added: I did not see who he was running from, but he was so scared.'

Police spoke with the victim and were able to get a description of the car and
it license plate.

FBI agents recovered footage from the security camera at the entrance to the
Shell garage.

Owner Alan Mendick:'The police came and we went through the CCTV footage.

'Yes, one of them came in here, but I am told before he could buy anything his
brother came and hammered on the window and told him they had to go.

'He had some stuff in his hands but he just put it down and left. There are
reports that he was shoplifting, but that's not true.'

'His brother called him to come out before he could do anything.

'My cashier who was on duty is scared. He is really shaken up by it all.'

Malah's colleague Brahim Asseban,37, said: 'The manager was called and they told
him to close the station down.

'They took the CCTV footage.The picture of the Tsarnaev in the grey hoodie was
from the camera at the front door. Everyone who comes in is filmed,it is part of
the security you have when open all night.

'Mohammed is a bit shaken up by it all. He said it was very busy that night, and
he does not really remember him coming in.

'Lots of people come in late at night but it has shaken him up.'

Asseban said Mohammed did not see the victim of the car jacking.

'He said one of the brothers, the younger one came in and looked at the Red Bull
and candy bars.

The victim told FBI agents he managed to escape while Tamerlan became distracted
as his brother was in the store shopping.

Neither brother made any attempt to kill the carjacking victim.

After speeding away along Memorial Drive the stolen car was spotted by police in
Watertown having been given its licence plate and description.

They gave chase and in an ensuing gun battle where over 200 shots were fired 26
year old Tamerlan was hit multiple times.

He was run over by his brother who fled in the stolen SUV, later abandoning it
and taking refuge in a covered up boat, where he later surrendered.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 25, 2013 Thursday 7:14 PM GMT

Boston terrorists DID plan to attack New York City with pressure cooker bomb and
multiple pipe bombs

BYLINE: PAUL THOMPSON IN BOSTON and DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1594 words



     ·    Unnamed official sources revealed today the Tsarnaev brothers may have
          been planning to stage an attack in Times Square, New York
     ·    Pair had another pressure cooker bomb and homemade grenades
     ·    The plan was thwarted when the brothers became involved in a huge gun
          battle in Watertown, Massachusetts
     ·    Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was
          captured


The teenage terror suspect in the Boston marathon bombings has made the
startling revelation to investigators that he and his older brother planned on
carrying out a terror attack in Times Square.

Senior law enforcement officials confirmed to NBC News that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev,
19, told the FBI that they intended to travel to New York from Boston - where
they could have detonated at least one of the explosives from the cache they had
stockpiled.

The New York police commissioner confirmed on Wednesday that Tamerlan and
Dzhokhar were headed to the Big Apple to 'party' - and officials told the
network that the two brothers had at least discussed the possibility of carrying
out another terror attack on American soil.

Scroll Down for Video

The unnamed officials issued a cautionary note that the Tsarnaev's plan was
underdeveloped - with one senior official describing the plan as 'aspirational
at most' to  NBC News.

This harrowing confirmation suggests that the duo behind the Boston Marathon
bombings were not finished, and were headed to New York City with additional
bombs.

It is believed that Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev were planning further
bloodshed but were thwarted when Massachusetts authorities found them in a
Boston suburb.

The pair had another pressure cooker bomb - the device used in the marathon
attack - and homemade grenades.

But their plans were abandoned as police caught up with them, engaging the
Tsarnaev brothers in a wild shootout in which 26-year-old Tamerlan was killed.

Dzhokhar, 19, was seriously wounded in the gun-battle and is currently
recovering in a Boston hospital.

The information reportedly came from the Chinese man who was carjacked by the
suspects early on Friday morning.

And now has apparently been confirmed by investigators.

He told investigators that the men did not speak English but he recognized the
word 'Manhattan' in their conversation.

CBS' John Miller reported that the information 'tripped a lot' of alarm for
authorities, who reacted by cutting Amtrak train service from Boston to New York
and searched trains on Friday.

Miller additionally reported that the NYPD activated 'license plate readers at
all bridges and tunnels coming into the city' with the hope of intercepting the
suspects before they reached the Big Apple.

He was arraigned on Monday and has reportedly confessed his role in the bombings
to federal investigators.

Also on Tuesday, new images showed suspected bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev with his
arms full of snacks and soda as he and his brother Tamerlan attempt a getaway
after becoming prime terror suspects.

Dressed in a grey hoodie, the surveillance footage is believed to show
19-year-old Dzhokhar  as he enters a gas station in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

The man following him into the store in the beige cap appears to be 26-year-old
Tamerlan.

In another image, Dzhokhar is seen wearing a beige flat cap pulled low at an ATM
machine, withdrawing $800.

The card was stolen from a man taken hostage by the alleged terrorists after he
was car-jacked last Thursday during the bombers' desperate but futile plan to
escape.

The victim was able to jump out of the car and flee while the alleged terrorists
went to buy snacks.

From interviews with the staff at both gas stations and court records,
MailOnline has been able to piece together the frantic events of the early hours
of last Friday.

The terrifying sequence of events began when Tamerlan carjacked a Mercedes SUV
car at gun point barely 40 minutes after MIT campus police officer Sean Collier
was killed as he sat in his patrol car.

Tamerlan jumped into the passenger seat of the Mercedes and told the driver:
'Did you hear about the Boston explosion... I did that.'

Dzhokhar was caught on a CCTV camera entering an all night garage with his face
partially hidden by a grey hooded sweatshirt.

But he left empty handed after his brother Tamerlan hammered on the glass front
door of the gas station kiosk saying: 'We've got to go.'

His intervention came after the victim of the carjacking managed to escape and
run across to another all night gas station across the street where he pleaded
with the cashier for help.

The images were released on Tuesday  as Dzhokhar told investigators that his
brother orchestrated the attacks because he 'wanted to defend Islam from
attack'.

In scrawled notes from his hospital bed, the 19-year-old told Guantanamo Bay
interrogators that he and his brother were not linked to any Islamic terrorist
groups.

According to  CNN, Dzhokhar said his older brother, Tamerlan, 26, was the
ringleader in the attacks that shook the nation a week ago, but that the pair
were working alone.

The dramatic escape of the carjacking victim was the beginning of the end for
the alleged bombers as they were found by police and involved in a fierce gun
battle.

Tamerlan was shot multiple times, while his brother was later found cowering in
a covered-up boat and taken into custody.

After encountering Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the terrified victim was shown a gun and
forced into the passenger seat.

After picking up his brother, and transferring guns and bombs into the trunk,
the car spend off.

Tamerlan was driving and his 19-year-old brother was in the rear passenger seat.
The victim was in the front passenger seat.

After being forced to hand over $45, they drove to an ATM where $800 was
withdrawn from the victim's account.

All three headed towards an all night Shell garage on Memorial Drive in
Cambridge where Tamerlan pulled up alongside one of the gas pumps.

Dzhokhar went inside - and was captured on the CCTV camera at the front of the
store.

The photograph was released by the FBI hours after the impromptu stop and gave
law enforcement and members of the public a much clearer view of the alleged
bomber.

The image with Dzhokhar wearing a hoodie was clearer than those released earlier
by the FBI which been taken prior to the bombs going off at the finish line of
the marathon.

Mohammed Malah, 46, was working the night shift but paid little attention to the
customer who head to the row of fridge where the drinks were stored.

Moroccan-born Malah, who speaks little English, told colleagues that he did not
take any notice of Tsarnaev when he came into the all night store.

He only realized he had been with the alleged bomber when the FBI swarmed into
garage in the early hours of the morning last Friday.

They had been alerted to the garage stop by the carjacking victim who had
managed to escape and run across the road to a neighboring Mobil garage.

Mr Ahmed described how the victim burst into kiosk.

'He was shaking, absolutely terrified and started shouting that some men had
guns and they were trying to kill him,' he said.

'He said they had a bomb. He was so scared that he could not stand up. He fell
over and at first I thought he was drunk.

'But then he got up and pushed his way to the back of the counter and said 'you
have to hide me.'

He kept saying there were men out there who wanted to kill him. I'ver never seen
anyone so scared.

Ahmed said the man hid behind a metal door in a back room and he again pleaded
with him to call police.

'I rang 911 and told them what happened. Within three minutes there were police
cars here.'

He added: I did not see who he was running from, but he was so scared.'

Police spoke with the victim and were able to get a description of the car and
it license plate.

FBI agents recovered footage from the security camera at the entrance to the
Shell garage.

Owner Alan Mendick:'The police came and we went through the CCTV footage.

'Yes, one of them came in here, but I am told before he could buy anything his
brother came and hammered on the window and told him they had to go.

'He had some stuff in his hands but he just put it down and left. There are
reports that he was shoplifting, but that's not true.'

'His brother called him to come out before he could do anything.

'My cashier who was on duty is scared. He is really shaken up by it all.'

Malah's colleague Brahim Asseban,37, said: 'The manager was called and they told
him to close the station down.

'They took the CCTV footage.The picture of the Tsarnaev in the grey hoodie was
from the camera at the front door. Everyone who comes in is filmed,it is part of
the security you have when open all night.

'Mohammed is a bit shaken up by it all. He said it was very busy that night, and
he does not really remember him coming in.

'Lots of people come in late at night but it has shaken him up.'

Asseban said Mohammed did not see the victim of the car jacking.

'He said one of the brothers, the younger one came in and looked at the Red Bull
and candy bars.

The victim told FBI agents he managed to escape while Tamerlan became distracted
as his brother was in the store shopping.

Neither brother made any attempt to kill the carjacking victim.

After speeding away along Memorial Drive the stolen car was spotted by police in
Watertown having been given its licence plate and description.

They gave chase and in an ensuing gun battle where over 200 shots were fired 26
year old Tamerlan was hit multiple times.

He was run over by his brother who fled in the stolen SUV, later abandoning it
and taking refuge in a covered up boat, where he later surrendered.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 25, 2013 Thursday 3:20 PM GMT

Bomb victim takes first painful steps ten days after blast as family reveals her
'nightmares' about terror attacks

BYLINE: JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 409 words


One victim of the Boston marathon bombings - injured on her 29th birthday - is
taking her first steps on the long road to recovery.

Brittany Loring suffered serious wounds to her left leg in the twin blasts
detonated by brothers Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev on Monday 15th April - and
for a while doctors did not know whether it would be amputated.

Now, ten days later, the Boston native is up and about as she inches towards
full-health despite her cracked skull and three surgeries to clean the shrapnel
wounds caused by the terror attacks.

Scroll Down for Video

'She's starting to walk on her crutches, still in a lot of pain and on heavy
medication,' said her father, Dan Loring, who is a 53-year-old real estate
agent.

'She's looking good. She actually wore clothes today and did her hair.'

Her fiancé, John McLoughlin, has been keeping a constant vigil at Brittany's
bedside, taking time off from his job as a loan officer.

'She's half the team, so I've got to be here,' said McLoughlin to  NBC News.
'Her spirits are good. She's still up and down, but overall she's better.'

Currently at Boston Medical Center where doctors describe her condition as fair,
her physicians have not put a time frame on her leaving.

She will need physical and mental health therapy to aid her recovery from her
traumatic experience - which her family have yet to discuss with her yet.

'She wakes up in the middle of the night. She has nightmares,' McLoughlin said
to  NBC News. He believes they are all related

'We wake up a couple of times a night. She's startled, and I try to get her back
to bed.'

Focusing only on her recovery, doctors at Boston Medical Center have told her
father. that it is best to not confront the devastating bombing attacks with
Brittany just yet.

'We're not bringing that in at this point,' said Loring, of Lancaster,
Massachusetts.

'We're trying to build up her stamina - you know she had three surgeries in six
days and... the heavy medication. So trying to get her to eat, think positive
thoughts.'

And in positive news, Boston College informed her that she will graduate this
spring with a joint degree in business and law, waiving her final exams and some
last assignments.

'She's very strong. She'll move on. This will be a blip in the past,' McLoughlin
said to  NBC News.

'I hope a year from now we're all good.'

To help Brittany's recovery please feel free to donate to

Recovery for Brittany at GiveForward

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      April 25, 2013 Thursday 12:40 AM GMT

White Muslim convert faces jail for planning terror attacks on British spy
chiefs

BYLINE: Fiona Hamilton, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 447 words


A white convert to Islam who is "entirely committed to acts of terrorism" is
facing jail today after he was caught discussing attacks on the town of Royal
Wootton Bassett and the heads of MI5 and MI6.

Richard Dart, 30, held "silent conversations" with his co-conspirators about
carrying out atrocities, bomb-making techniques and travelling to Pakistan for
terrorist training. The trainee carpenter, who grew up in Weymouth, Dorset, and
is the son of teachers, will be sentenced at the Old Bailey after he admitted
engaging in conduct in preparation of acts of terrorism. He rose to prominence
after his stepbrother, Robb Leech, produced a TV documentary titled My Brother
the Islamist.

Imran Mahmood, 22, and Jahangir Alom, 26, a former Metropolitan Police community
support officer, will also be sentenced after pleading guilty to the same
offence last month.

Dart and Alom had planned to travel to Pakistan for terrorist training as part
of their "commitment to fighting jihad", the court was told. Mahmood, who had
previously attended a training camp but had been deported from Pakistan to
Britain, had offered advice on how to go about their mission.

Jonathan Laidlaw, QC, for the prosecution, told how Dart and Mahmood tried to
avoid surveillance by typing into a Microsoft Word document on a laptop, and
then deleting the conversation. However, the text was recovered by Scotland Yard
detectives, who thwarted their plans.

In one, the pair discussed "WB", interpreted by police as Royal Wootton Bassett
- the Wiltshire town granted royal patronage for its role in repatriating the
country's war dead.

Another message read: "If it comes down to this, it is that or even to just deal
with a few MI5 or MI6 heads."

Dart and Alom had planned to travel to Pakistan for training in November 2011,
but were stopped at the airport by police. The trio were arrested last July,
just weeks before the Olympics.

It emerged yesterday that Alom had been a member of the Territorial Army and, at
one stage, had wanted to go to Afghanistan on peace-keeping duties. However, he
was discharged on medical grounds and joined the Met as a PCSO.

Aftab Jafferjee, QC, defending, told the court that Alom wanted only to fight
Allied forces in Afghanistan, not attack civilians in Britain. Mr Jafferjee
said: "He failed in relation to the Territorial Army and was made to feel guilty
about being a part of the police community support officer team. In all those
circumstances he was ripe for conversion."

The court heard that a fourth British national remains on the run after it was
found that he helped Dart in his quest to launch a terrorist attack. Mohammed
Tariq Nasar is thought to have fled to Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 26, 2013 Friday

Pakistan's Sindh-based party announces day-long mourning post terror attacks

LENGTH: 155 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 26 April

Karachi: The Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) is observing a day of mourning today
(Friday) across Sindh over a deadly bombing which killed five people outside one
of its election offices in Karachi, Geo News reported.

In a statement issued here, the MQM Coordination Committee appealed to all the
trade and transport bodies to keep the businesses closed and public transport
off the roads respectively.

Meanwhile, Private Schools Association has also announced a holiday today,
following the MQM's appeal.

All the government schools and colleges will also remain closed, while the
examinations scheduled for Friday have also been rescheduled.

At least five people were killed and 13 others suffered wounds after a powerful
blast ripped through Nusrat Bhutto Colony, North Nazimabad here on Thursday
night.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 26 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             April 26, 2013 Friday

Trio jailed over plot to carry out terror attacks: Fundamentalists were prepared
to kill, says judge Wootton Bassett, MI5 and MI6 were possible targets

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 538 words


Three men, including a convert to Islam and a former police employee, were
yesterday jailed for secret conversations about preparing a possible terrorist
strike against the United Kingdom.

Richard Dart, from Dorset, converted to Islam around 2010 after attending
lectures by the extremist Anjem Choudary. Dart, Imran Mahmood, and Jahangir
Alom, who was also schooled in an extremist interpretation of Islam by Choudary,
were jailed for a total of more than 20 years for terrorist involvement.

Choudary told the Guardian he had been a key influence in Dart's understanding
of Islam. Dart, the son of teachers from Weymouth, changed his name to
Salahuddin al-Britani.

"Everything he knew, he studied with me," Choudary said. "He attended one of my
lectures in west London to find out about Islam, and then he basically attended
everything we had."

The three men pleaded guilty to acts preparatory to terrorism. They were not
found with any explosives or chemicals.

Mahmood had gone to Pakistan where he received terrorist training. A rucksack of
his was found to have traces of the explosive PETN on it. Dart and Alom tried to
find terrorists to train them in Pakistan, but failed.

An investigation by Scotland Yard and MI5 led to "silent conversations" between
Dart and Mahmood being recovered from a laptop. To avoid their discussions being
picked up by listening devices, they had sat in Dart's west London flat typing
out messages to each other in a Word file on a computer.

Investigators were able to recover the files, and the crown alleged the men had
discussed targets in the UK, including Wootton Bassett, the town to which
British soldiers killed in Afghanistan and Iraq were returned to throngs of
locals paying their respects. Targets including MI5 and MI6 were also discussed.

Choudary dismissed the guilty pleas, saying: "It was just talk, people say these
things all the time, it doesn't mean they are going to do it."

He said that in the months before the three men were arrested in July 2012, Dart
and Alom became distant. Choudary said he would have taught them that violent
jihad abroad may be justified but attacks against Britain were not.

But he said his view ran contrary to those of popular extremist preachers on the
internet such as Anwar al-Awlaki, a preacher based in Yemen linked to major
terrorist plots such as the Fort Hood massacre in the US and plots in the UK
including the attempted murder of Stephen Timms MP.

Dart, 30, of Broadway, Ealing, west London; Mahmood, 22, of Northolt, west
London, and Alom, 26, of Stratford, east London, were stopped at airports while
travelling to and from Pakistan. Counter-terrorism officers want to question a
fourth man, Mohammed Tariq Nasar, believed to be living in Pakistan.

Dart was sentenced to 11 years, of which he will serve six in prison and five
years on licence. Alom was given four years and six months, and Mahmood more
than 14 years, of which he must serve nine years and nine months behind bars.

Mr Justice Simon said they were all "committed fundamentalists" who would have
been prepared to kill.

Captions:

Richard Dart, top, Imran Mahmood and Jahangir Alom were stopped at airports
travelling to and from Pakistan. They admitted acts preparatory to terrorism

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 April 26, 2013
                                 First Edition

Suspect brothers were 'planning a second terror attack in Times Square';
BOSTON BOMBINGS

BYLINE: Nikhil Kumar IN NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 280 words


Tamerlan Tsarnaev and his younger brother Dzhokhar, the suspects in the Boston
marathon bombings, were planning to mount a second attack in New York's bustling
Times Square, New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg claimed yesterday.

The brothers' "spontaneously" decided to target the city after hijacking a car
in Cambridge, Massachusetts, on Thursday night, New York's police commissioner,
Ray Kelly, said. But their plans were foiled by a police chase. A subsequent
shootout with officers led to 26 year old Tamerlan's death early on Friday
morning. Dzhokhar, 19, was captured in a Boston suburb on Friday night.

The revelations came after it emerged that Tamerlan, inset, was added to a huge
federal database of known and suspected terrorists around 18 months before the
marathon attack.

The elder Tsarnaev brother was added to the Terrorist Identities Datamart
Environment (TIDE), a database of over half a million names managed by the
National Counterterrorism Centre, in late 2011. His inclusion reportedly came at
the request of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). The CIA is said to have
become involved following a request for information from Russia, which had made
a similar request to the Federal Bureau of Investigation earlier in 2011.

The FBI followed up the request by looking into Tamerlan's background but did
not find any evidence of terrorist activity. It passed on this information to
Russia, and also asked for further details about the suspect, but did not hear
back.

Anzor Tsarnaev and Zubeidat Tsarnaeva, again denied yesterday that their sons
attacked the Boston race. "America took my kids from me... My kids were not
involved," Zubeidat Tsarnaeva told press.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 26, 2013 Friday 11:31 PM GMT

Part of landing gear from 9/11 plane is found wedged between two Manhattan
buildings - 11 years after the terror attacks on New York

BYLINE: MEGHAN KENEALLY and JOSHUA GARDNER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 602 words



     ·    Police say the 5-foot piece of landing gear from one of the planes was
          found Wednesday lodged in a tiny alley just blocks from Ground Zero
     ·    Scene being treated like a crime scene
     ·    Medical Examiner will determine whether or not they search for human
          remains in the alley between the two lower Manhattan buildings


Police have just found a sizable piece of one of the engines from a plane that
crashed into the World Trade Center, more than 11 years after the September 11,
2001 terrorist attacks.

The piece of landing gear was found wedged between two buildings just blocks
from Ground Zero- in between the buildings at 51 Park Place and 50 Murray Street
in downtown Manhattan.

The address is particularly noteworthy because 51 Park Place is the site of the
Islamic Cultural Center that stirred up controversy and months of protests two
years ago when the site developers wanted to turn it into a mosque.

Police have secured the alley where the landing gear was found and are treating
it as a crime scene as they investigate the area, and decide whether or not to
search for possible human remains near the engine.

'There was some surveying being done on the property line there,' NYPD deputy
commissioner Paul Browne told  CBS radio Friday afternoon.

'To the surveyors, it just looked like some damaged machinery of some kind but
upon further examination it was identified as a Boeing, some part of a Boeing
landing craft.'

It is unclear which of the two planes the new-found part belonged to, as both
were Boeing aircrafts.

Browne said that they first realized that the discarded machinery was actually a
piece of evidence to the deadliest terrorist attack in American history when
they spotted a visible Boeing identification number on the object.

He estimated that the  landing gear was about three-feet wide by five-feet long.

The discovery came on Wednesday April 24 when surveyors were inspecting the
ground level of the building at 51 Park Place. They immediately called 911 and
alerted authorities when they found the object.

'No, it has not been known that its been there,' Browne said, denying that the
building owners were aware that their back alley contained a piece of evidence
from the 2001 terrorist attack.

'It was just only recently observed because it's wedged between a very narrow
space between the rears of two buildings that almost touch.'

He said that the space between the buildings is only about three feet.

'The aircraft landing gear part of it is a significant size, maybe three by five
feet, something like that, so it has to accommodate something that big, but its
not like a large backyard type of space, it's relatively narrow,' he said during
the CBS interview.

'And because it's wedged, it didn't go down to the ground, would explain why
it's escaped attention for more than a decade.'

The inspectors were the ones to call police and since that call, the NYPD has
secured the scene as if it were a crime scene in order to document it and
catalog evidence.

'We're going to treat this as a crime scene for the next week at least,' Browne
said.

Police say the medical examiner's office will complete a health and safety
evaluation to determine whether to sift the soil around the buildings for
possible human remains.

'The medical examiner is an important part of the investigation to first see if
there's any contamination of the soil that makes it any health safety on the
soil below it on the ground. And then they will then make a determination, the
office of the medical examiner, as to whether to sift for any possible human
remains that might be associated with this find,' Browne said.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 26, 2013 Friday 8:27 PM GMT

Revealed: Mother of Boston 'bombers' was put on CIA terrorist watchlist 18
months before attacks and is now a 'person of interest'

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER and ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1526 words



     ·    Zubeidat Tsarnaev and her son Tamerlan were added to the CIA terrorism
          watchlist 18 months before the Boston bombings
     ·    Lawmakers say the mother is a 'person of interest' in the
          investigation
     ·    She is suspected of encouraging her sons to pursue radical Islamic
          ideas
     ·    Officials have traveled to Dagestan, Russia to interview her
          associates
     ·    FBI had investigated both Zubeidat and Tamerlan in 2011
     ·    Ex-Russian official told Congress that Cold War distrust may have made
          U.S. officials less inclined to act on Russia's tip


The mother of the Boston Marathon bombing suspects was put on the CIA terrorist
watchlist 18 months before the tragedy, officials said on Friday as lawmakers
revealed Zubeidat Tsarnaev is now considered a 'person of interest' in the
federal investigation into the attack.

Two U.S. lawmakers said that investigators have traveled to Dagestan, Russia, to
learn more from close associates who knew the suspects' mother.

The outspoken mother shot back, saying that claims that she had ties to
terrorist activity were 'lies and hypocrisy.'

In a series of bizarre media interviews, Zubeidat Tsarnaev has staunchly
defended her sons Tamerlan and Dzhokhar, who are accused of the terrorist attack
on April 15 that left 3 dead and more than 260 injured.

Zubeidat Tsarnaeva, 45, has sparked outrage for her incendiary comments to the
media and now officials say they are probing her possible involvement in the
tragedy.

'[She (Zubeidat) is a person of interest that we're looking at to see if she
helped radicalize her son, or had contacts with other people or other terrorist
groups,' Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger, a Democrat from Maryland, who serves on the
House Intelligence Committee, said on Friday.

Rep. Michael McCaul, the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, said
investigators are looking into whether the mother encouraged her son, Tamerlan,
to embrace Islam extremism.

'The mother in my judgment has a role in his radicalization process in terms of
her influence over him (and) fundamental views of Islam,' the Texas Republican
told reporters.

He added that a team of U.S. investigators had traveled to the Chechen region to
interview sources who knew the family.

Unnamed officials have also reveled that the CIA asked for the Boston terror
suspect and his mother to be added to a terrorist database in the fall of 2011,
after the Russian government contacted the agency with concerns that both had
become religious militants, according to officials briefed on the investigation.

About six months earlier, the FBI investigated Tamerlan Tsarnaev and his mother,
Zubeidat Tsarnaeva, also at Russia's request, one of the officials said.

The FBI found no ties to terrorism.

The revelation that the FBI had also investigated Zubeidat Tsarnaeva and the CIA
arranged for her to be added to the terrorism database deepened the mystery
around the family.

A former official of the Russian government told Congress on Friday that Cold
War-era distrust may have made American officials less inclined to act on tips
from Russian security services about one of the alleged Boston Marathon bombers

Andranik Migranyan, a former member of the President Council of the Russian
Federation, told a House Foreign Affairs subcommittee on Friday that Russia and
the United States have long viewed each other warily.

Because of that, he said, American officials, in his words, 'just didn't pay
enough attention' when Russian agencies asked the FBI and CIA to look into
bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev.

The Tsarnaevs are ethnic Chechens from southern Russia who immigrated to the
Boston area in the past 11 years.

This new revelation shows that both major intelligence agencies were aware of
his possible terrorist ties, as it has been reported that the Russians contacted
the FBI about Tsarnaev earlier that year.

The FBI conducted an investigation and did not find he had any terror
connections.

Tamerlan was listed on the U.S. government's highly classified central database
of people it views as potential terrorists.

But the list is so vast that authorities did not automatically keep close tabs
on him, sources close to the bombing investigation said on Tuesday.

The details come as it's revealed that Russian authorities had contacted the
U.S. government repeatedly about Tsarnaev's suspected ties to radical Islam,
according to senators briefed on the FBI investigation.

The FBI has previously said that it was only contacted once regarding a
potential threat posed by Tsarnaev, but after an investigation, found nothing of
concern.

Following a closed briefing of the Senate Intelligence Committee on Tuesday,
Sen. Richard Burr, a Republican representing North Carolina, said he believed
that Russia alerted the United States about Tsarnaev in 'multiple contacts.'

Tsarnaev, 26, was killed in a police shootout early on April 19, while his
younger brother Dzhokhar, 19, was captured later that day.

Prosecutors say the brothers, ethnic Chechens who had been living in the United
States for more than a decade, planted two bombs that exploded near the finish
line of the marathon on April 15.

Sources said Tamerlan Tsarnaev's details were entered into TIDE, a database
maintained by the National Counterterrorism Center, because the FBI spoke to him
in 2011 while investigating a Russian tip-off that he had become a follower of
radical Islamists.

The FBI found nothing to suggest he was an active threat, but all the same
placed his name on the 'Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment' list. The FBI
has not said what it did find about Tsarnaev.

But the database, which holds more than half a million names, is only a
repository of information on people who U.S. authorities see as known, suspected
or potential terrorists from around the world.

Because of its huge size, U.S. investigators do not routinely monitor everyone
registered there, said U.S. officials familiar with the database.

As of 2008, TIDE contained more than 540,000 names, although they represented
about 450,000 actual people, because some of the entries are aliases or
different name spellings for the same person.

Fewer than 5 per cent of the TIDE entries were U.S. citizens or legal residents,
according to a description of the database on the NCTC website.

The TIDE database is one of many federal security databases set up after the
September 11, 2001, attacks.

The database system has been criticized in the past for being too cumbersome,
especially in light of an attempted attack on a plane in 2009. Intelligence and
security agencies acknowledged in Congress that they had missed clues to the
Detroit 'underpants bomber' Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab.

Officials said after the incident that he had been listed in the TIDE database.

Republican Senator Susan Collins said there were problems in sharing information
ahead of the Boston bombings, too.

'This is troubling to me that this many years after the attacks on our country
in 2001 that we still seem to have stovepipes that prevent information from
being shared effectively,' she said.

Collins was speaking after the FBI gave a closed-door briefing to the Senate
Intelligence Committee on Tuesday, but she did not elaborate.

However, in the case of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the issue appeared to be that because
he was not deemed an active threat, his name was only briefly on a list that
would have triggered monitoring.

Tsarnaev was not put on the 'no-fly' list that would have banned him from
boarding an airplane in the United States. Neither was he named on the Selectee
List, which would have required him to be given extra security screening at
airports.

Another list, the Terrorist Screening Database, is a declassified version of the
highly classified TIDE with fewer details about terrorist suspects. One source
said Tsarnaev was on this list, too.

After being put in the TIDE system, his name was entered in another database,
this one maintained by the Homeland Security Department's Customs and Border
Protection bureau which is used to screen people crossing U.S. land borders and
entering at airports or by sea.

Tsarnaev was flagged on that database when he left the United States for Russia
in January 2012 but no alarm was raised, presumably because the FBI had not
identified him as a threat after the interview.

When he returned from Russia six months later, he had already been automatically
downgraded in the border database because there was no new information that
required him to continue to get extra attention.

So he did not get secondary inspection on his re-entry at New York's JFK
Airport. It was unclear exactly what the procedure was for such a downgrade.

Sean Joyce, deputy director of the FBI, defended the FBI's performance in the
Boston bombings at two closed hearings in Congress on Tuesday.

While government agencies declined to publicly discuss how the watch list system
handled Tsarnaev, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano disclosed some
details at a separate, open hearing on immigration on Capitol Hill.

'Yes, the system pinged when he was leaving the United States. By the time he
returned, all investigations - the matter had been closed,' Napolitano told the
Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 26, 2013 Friday 12:08 PM GMT

Life in jail for ringleader of terror plot which could have been bigger than
July 7 attacks

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 774 words



     ·    Irfan Naseer, 31, sent four young men to Pakistan for terrorism
          training
     ·    Judge describes him as 'skilful bomb-maker' and 'driving force' of
          plot
     ·    Mr Justice Henriques said: 'Your plot had the blessing of Al Qaeda'
     ·    Gang of 11 wanted to kill up to 2,000 Britons with eight rucksack
          bombs


The ringleader of a terror plot which could have been more devastating than the
July 7 attacks was jailed for life today and told he must serve at least 18
years before being considered for release.

Irfan Naseer, 31, must take sole responsibility for 'sending four young men to
Pakistan for terrorism training', Mr Justice Henriques told London's Woolwich
Crown Court.

The judge said: 'Irfan Naseer was the leader, driving force and man in charge
and he alone must take responsibility for sending four young men to Pakistan for
terrorism training.'

Turning to Naseer, who appeared to mutter under his breath during the sentencing
hearing, the judge added: 'Your plot had the blessing of Al Qaeda and you
intended to further the aims of Al Qaeda.'

Mr Justice Henriques, who described Naseer as a 'skilful bomb-maker', said:
'Clearly nothing was going to stop you, short of intervention of the
authorities.

'I have no doubt you would have continued with your plan but for that
intervention.

'Many deaths were planned by a determined team of individuals who were fully
radicalised and you, Naseer, were their leader.

'No lack of assets, skill or manpower was going to stop you.'

Police believe it was the most significant terror plot to be uncovered since the
2006 conspiracy to blow up transatlantic airliners using bombs disguised as soft
drinks.

The gang, who are all from Birmingham, planned to set off up to eight rucksack
bombs and possibly other devices on timers in crowded places.

Naseer, a science graduate known as 'Big Irfan' or 'Chubbs' because of his
23-stone weight, was also heard to say: 'Seven or eight different places with
timers on at the same time... boom... boom... boom'.

Scroll down for video

Sentencing Khalid to an extended term of 23 years in prison and to serve 12
years before he can be released on licence, Mr Justice Henriques said he took
into account that he had been found to be in the bottom two to five per cent in
terms of cognitive ability.

The judge said Khalid had been under the influence of Naseer, adding: 'The
sooner you are separated from him, the better.'

Partially-sighted Ali, wearing a white robe, was handed an extended sentence of
20 years in prison and will serve a minimum of 10 years before he can be
considered for parole.

The judge said he did not accept the defendant's portrayal of himself as the
group's 'tea boy or runner for others'.

Naseer was found guilty of five counts of engaging in conduct in preparation of
terrorist acts, Khalid of four, and Ali of three, all between Christmas Day 2010
and September 19, 2011.

For Naseer, from Sparkhill, Khalid, from Sparkbrook, and Ali, from Balsall
Heath, this included planning a bombing campaign, collecting money for terrorism
and recruiting others for terrorism.

Naseer sent aspiring jihadists Shahid Khan, 21, Khobaib Hussain, 21, Ishaaq
Hussain, 21, and Naweed Ali, 25, all from the Sparkhill area, to Pakistan for
terror training in August 2011.

But Khobaib Hussain, Ishaaq Hussain and Naweed Ali were forced to return just
three days later after a relative got wind of the real reason for their journey.

All four pleaded guilty to engaging in conduct in preparation for terrorist acts
by travelling to Pakistan for training in terrorism.

'It is an especially aggravating feature that the four young men were sent
without their parents having any knowledge that they were being sent for
terrorism training, believing indeed that they were still in the country,' Mr
Justice Henriques told Naseer.

The group tried to fund their plot by posing as Muslim Aid charity street
collectors, duping legitimate supporters into giving them money.

They raised £12,000 for themselves in this way, but were forced to apply for
tens of thousands of pounds in loans after losing more than £9,000 of the money
playing foreign currency markets.

'Chief financier' Rahin Ahmed, 26, from Moseley, pleaded guilty to collecting,
investing and managing money for terrorism, and assisting others to travel to
Pakistan for training in terrorism.

Today he was given an extended sentence of 17 years and will serve six years
before he can be released on licence.

Mr Justice Henriques said he accepted that Ahmed was not aware of the details of
the plot, but added that he had raised 'money for a terrorist purpose knowing
that acts of terrorism were being prepared'.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 27, 2013 Saturday

Yemeni security agencies warn against possible terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 184 words


Text of report by Yemeni newspaper Al-Thawrah website on 25 April

[Unattributed report: "The Security Services Warn Against Possible Terrorist
Attacks on Military and Security Sites in Rada"]

The security services in Rada District have said that they raised the level of
readiness and security alert to guard against any possible attacks by terrorist
elements in the Al-Qa'idah organization.

The security services pointed out that raising the level of their readiness was
based on information that asserted the presence of gatherings and movements of
the terrorist elements in the Al-Sawdah and Mash'abah areas.

The information also noted that these elements are likely to launch terrorist
attacks against military and security sites, similar to what took place against
Al-Tha'alib military site on the past two days.

On its website, the Security Media Centre cited the security agencies in Rada
District as saying that they will firmly and strongly respond to any adventure
of this kind and that they are able to deal with all potential terrorist
attacks.

Source: Al-Thawrah website, Sanaa, in Arabic 25 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 27, 2013 Saturday 2:41 AM GMT

Part of landing gear from 9/11 plane is found wedged between two Manhattan
buildings - 11 years after the terror attacks on New York

BYLINE: MEGHAN KENEALLY, JOSHUA GARDNER and SNEJANA FARBEROV

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1111 words



     ·    Police say the 5-foot piece of landing gear from one of the planes was
          found Wednesday lodged in a tiny alley just blocks from Ground Zero
     ·    Area is being treated like a crime scene and Commissioner Ray Kelly
          told reporters the gear had a rope wrapped around it and may could
          have been lowered into the 18-inch gap
     ·    Medical Examiner will determine whether or not they search for human
          remains in the alley between the two lower Manhattan buildings


Police have found a sizable piece of one of the engines from a plane that
crashed into the World Trade Center, more than 11 years after the September 11,
2001 terrorist attacks.

The piece of landing gear was found wedged between two buildings just blocks
from Ground Zero- in between the buildings at 51 Park Place and 50 Murray Street
in downtown Manhattan.

The location is particularly noteworthy because 51 Park Place is the site of the
Islamic Cultural Center that stirred up controversy and months of protests two
years ago when the site developers wanted to turn it into a mosque.

Just before 7pm Friday, New York City Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly arrived
on the scene and was escorted inside the rundown building, where he put on a
crime scene suit and was led to the site of the unexpected discovery.

In a press conference that took place across the street about 30 minutes later,
Kelly told reporters that Wednesday surveyors were working in the narrow space
when they came across an unidentified mechanical part.

Police received a report about the discovery, but officers who responded were
not sure what the large piece of metal was resting in a very confined space
littered with debris. Kelly then showed reporters a hand-drawn diagram of the
scene made on a small piece of paper.

A short time later, the FBI, the National Transportation Safety Board and the
Medical Examiner's Office were notified. Pilots who were consulted ruled that
the large piece of steel measuring 5 feet by 4 feet by 17 inches at one time was
part of a plane's landing gear.

Kelly said that mechanical part was wedged in narrow space measuring about 18
inches, and according to Kelly, a rope could be seen intertwined with the steel.

Police officers cordoned off the section of Park Place surrounding the site of
the discovery located inside a former Burlington Coat Factory department store,
which was controversially turned into an Islamic center and mosque just blocks
away from the World Trade Center site.

NYPD deputy commissioner Paul Browne told CBS radioFriday afternoon, 'No, it has
not been known that its been there,' Browne said, denying that the building
owners were aware that their back alley contained a piece of evidence from the
2001 terrorist attack.

'It was just only recently observed because it's wedged between a very narrow
space between the rears of two buildings that almost touch.'

Kelly said that the investigation will look at the possibility that the part had
been somehow lowered down into the narrow space. The gear has a serial number
visible next to the word 'Boeing.'

It is unclear which of the two planes the new-found part belonged to, as both
were Boeing aircrafts.

Kelly said that on Monday, the medical examiner will investigate to determine if
there are any human remains at the site, and it will then be determined how to
move the plane remnants.

'It's a manifestation of a horrific terrorist act,' Kelly said, adding that this
latest discovery may bring up difficult memories for the families of the
victims.

Van Vanable, 63, a construction worker with Benson Industry Local 580, has been
working on the yet-to-be completed Freedom Tower just a few blocks away.

On Friday, he was sitting on a bench in his red work helmet just steps away from
the mosque building, next door to the Dakota Roadhouse bar, when he says police
officers converged on the area.

'It's an amazing situation,' Vanable said of the discovery made nearly 12 years
after the 9/11 attacks.

The 63-year-ld construction worker, who lives in Harlem, came to Ground Zero a
week after the tragedy and joined the massive cleanup effort hauling away
debris. Speaking to MailOnline, Vanable said he is not surprised by the find.

The inspectors were the ones to call police and since that call, the NYPD has
secured the scene as if it were a crime scene in order to document it and
catalog evidence.

'We're going to treat this as a crime scene for the next week at least,' Browne
said.

'The medical examiner is an important part of the investigation to first see if
there's any contamination of the soil that makes it any health safety on the
soil below it on the ground. And then they will then make a determination, the
office of the medical examiner, as to whether to sift for any possible human
remains that might be associated with this find,' Browne said.

5-FOOT BY 3-FOOT CHUNK OF DEBRIS NOT THE FIRST PIECE OF RUBBLE FOUND FROM 9/11
ATTACKS OR EVEN THE LARGEST

Today's discovery of the sizable portion of a plane fuselage is not the first
time that evidence from the tragic day were found on the streets of lower
Manhattan.

In previous years, large pieces from United Flight 175's jet engines were found
blocks away from where the planes crashed into the World Trade Center on
September 11, 2001.

Those pieces, along with a 31-foot section of the broadcast antenna from the
WTC's North Tower were shown as part of an FBI evidence exhibit that ran at
Washington, DC's Newseum through 2012.

A 10,000 pound elevator motor was also taken from the ruins and has become part
of another exhibit at the 9/11 Memorial at Ground Zero.

Small artifacts, like countless cell phones and even tinier human remains
continue to be uncovered.

About 60 truckloads of debris that could contain tiny fragments of bone or
tissue were unearthed by construction crews that have been working on the new
World Trade Center in recent years.

Around 9,000 pieces of human remains too degraded for DNA matching have so far
been found.

More than 1.6 million tons of materials were moved from Ground Zero to the Fresh
Kills landfill on Staten Island, and family members of some victims later sued
saying the debris could contain human remains. The lawsuit was dismissed by the
U.S. Supreme Court in 2008.

New sifting efforts this month, the first since 2010, have so far uncovered at
least 6 potential human remains from debris transported to a park atop the
Staten Island landfill.

Some 2,750 people died at the WTC in the 2001 attacks, but only 1,634 people
have been identified. Some degree of closure came for dozens of families as 34
new positive identifications of victims have been found since 2006.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      April 27, 2013 Saturday 12:36 AM GMT

Part of landing gear from 9/11 plane is found wedged between two Manhattan
buildings - 11 years after the terror attacks on New York

BYLINE: MEGHAN KENEALLY and JOSHUA GARDNER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 870 words



     ·    Police say the 5-foot piece of landing gear from one of the planes was
          found Wednesday lodged in a tiny alley just blocks from Ground Zero
     ·    Scene being treated like a crime scene
     ·    Medical Examiner will determine whether or not they search for human
          remains in the alley between the two lower Manhattan buildings


Police have just found a sizable piece of one of the engines from a plane that
crashed into the World Trade Center, more than 11 years after the September 11,
2001 terrorist attacks.

The piece of landing gear was found wedged between two buildings just blocks
from Ground Zero- in between the buildings at 51 Park Place and 50 Murray Street
in downtown Manhattan.

The address is particularly noteworthy because 51 Park Place is the site of the
Islamic Cultural Center that stirred up controversy and months of protests two
years ago when the site developers wanted to turn it into a mosque.

Police have secured the alley where the landing gear was found and are treating
it as a crime scene as they investigate the area, and decide whether or not to
search for possible human remains near the engine.

'There was some surveying being done on the property line there,' NYPD deputy
commissioner Paul Browne told  CBS radio Friday afternoon.

'To the surveyors, it just looked like some damaged machinery of some kind but
upon further examination it was identified as a Boeing, some part of a Boeing
landing craft.'

It is unclear which of the two planes the new-found part belonged to, as both
were Boeing aircrafts.

Browne said that they first realized that the discarded machinery was actually a
piece of evidence to the deadliest terrorist attack in American history when
they spotted a visible Boeing identification number on the object.

He estimated that the  landing gear was about three-feet wide by five-feet long.

The discovery came on Wednesday April 24 when surveyors were inspecting the
ground level of the building at 51 Park Place. They immediately called 911 and
alerted authorities when they found the object.

'No, it has not been known that its been there,' Browne said, denying that the
building owners were aware that their back alley contained a piece of evidence
from the 2001 terrorist attack.

'It was just only recently observed because it's wedged between a very narrow
space between the rears of two buildings that almost touch.'

He said that the space between the buildings is only about three feet.

'The aircraft landing gear part of it is a significant size, maybe three by five
feet, something like that, so it has to accommodate something that big, but its
not like a large backyard type of space, it's relatively narrow,' he said during
the CBS interview.

'And because it's wedged, it didn't go down to the ground, would explain why
it's escaped attention for more than a decade.'

The inspectors were the ones to call police and since that call, the NYPD has
secured the scene as if it were a crime scene in order to document it and
catalog evidence.

'We're going to treat this as a crime scene for the next week at least,' Browne
said.

Police say the medical examiner's office will complete a health and safety
evaluation to determine whether to sift the soil around the buildings for
possible human remains.

'The medical examiner is an important part of the investigation to first see if
there's any contamination of the soil that makes it any health safety on the
soil below it on the ground. And then they will then make a determination, the
office of the medical examiner, as to whether to sift for any possible human
remains that might be associated with this find,' Browne said.

5-FOOT BY 3-FOOT CHUNK OF DEBRIS NOT THE FIRST PIECE OF RUBBLE FOUND FROM 9/11
ATTACKS OR EVEN THE LARGEST

Large pieces from United Flight 175's jet engines were found blocks away from
where the planes crashed into the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001.

Those pieces, along with a 31-foot section of the broadcast antenna from the
WTC's North Tower were shown as part of an FBI evidence exhibit that ran at
Washington, DC's Newseum through 2012.

A 10,000 pound elevator motor was also taken from the ruins and has become part
of another exhibit at the 9/11 Memorial.

Small artifacts, like countless cell phones and even tinier human remains
continue to be uncovered.

About 60 truckloads of debris that could contain tiny fragments of bone or
tissue were unearthed by construction crews that have been working on the new
World Trade Center in recent years.

Around 9,000 pieces of human remains too degraded for DNA matching have so far
been found.

1.6 million tons of materials were moved from Ground Zero to the Fresh Kills
landfill on Staten Island, and family members of some victims later sued saying
the debris could contain human remains. The suit was dismissed by the U.S.
Supreme Court in 2008.

New sifting efforts this month, the first since 2010, have so far uncovered at
least 6 potential human remains from debris transported to a park atop the
Staten Island landfill.

Some 2,750 people died at the WTC in the 2001 attacks, but only 1,634 people
have been identified.

34 new positive identifications of victims have been found since 2006.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Sunday Sun

                                 April 28, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GIRLFRIEND'S STEROID RAGE ATTACK TERROR;
Boyfriend bit her as she slept

BYLINE: ROB KENNEDY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 361 words


TERRIFIED Rachel White woke up in the middle of the night to find her
steroid-addled boyfriend strangling and biting her.

Steroid-pumped thug Christopher Anderson launched the shocking attack on his
sleeping partner for no apparent reason.

Anderson, who has previous for attacking his partners, gripped Miss White's
throat tightly then savagely bit her on the cheek.

The attack was only brought to an end when police turned up, having been called
by a worried neighbour.

Miss White then realised Anderson had smashed items in the house and had brought
a meat cleaver from the kitchen to the bedroom.

Jailing Anderson for eight months at Newcastle Crown Court, Judge John Milford
QC told him: "It was a very frightening experience for her.

"She woke to find you were strangling her then you deliberately bit her on the
cheek.

"You have a bad record, particularly for offences against former partners."

Miss White, 27, was living with Anderson at Northumberland Street, Wallsend,
North Tyneside, on March 29.

They had been drinking and Miss White went to bed, the court heard.

Caroline McGuirk, prosecuting, said: "She woke to find the defendant was
strangling her with both hands.

"She said the pressure was immense and caused her breathing to become shallow.

"Then he bit her cheek." Miss White blacked out and came round to the sound of
banging outside when police arrived, and this finally made Anderson get off her.

Anderson, who was drunk, was then abusive and threatening towards police when
they arrested him.

In a victim impact statement, Miss White said: "This incident left me feeling
vulnerable, scared, dazed, confused and helpless.

"I never want to see him again."

Anderson, 29, pleaded guilty to assault and was jailed for eight months and
given a restraining order to keep him away from the victim.

Brian Mark, mitigating, said Anderson has now stopped taking steroids and has
lost five stone.

Mr Mark added: "He is very ashamed of this matter, he is quite shocked at his
behaviour.

"This offence arises out of him using substances to try to make himself stronger
in the gym.

"He took steroids to bulk himself up and this made him ill and angry. He is now
not on steroids."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SSN


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 29, 2013 Monday

Targeted Pakistani political parties meet to discuss ongoing terror attacks

LENGTH: 125 words


Text of report by private Pakistani television channel Geo News website on 29
April

Karachi: A meeting of Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), Muttahida Qaumi Movement
(MQM), and Awami National Party (ANP) was held here at the residence of former
Sindh Chief Minister Qaim Ali Shah.

According to the sources, the meeting expressed reservations over a ongoing wave
of poll-related terrorist activities.

Farooq Sattar, Shahi Syed and Taj Haider among various other leaders were
present in the meeting.

The sources said that the leaders also deliberated to chalk out a joint strategy
to compete with the prevailing situation.

MQM and ANP would hold joint press conference today (Monday), the sources added.

Source: Geo News TV website, Karachi, in English 29 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 30, 2013 Tuesday

China police say 11 more terror suspects linked to Xinjiang attack arrested

LENGTH: 659 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Kashgar, Xinjiang, 29 April: Eleven runaway suspected terrorists linked to a
deadly attack on April 23 in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
have been captured, local police sources said on Monday [29 April].

Police said that as of Sunday, they had nabbed all 19 suspects from the region's
Kashgar Prefecture, the Mongolian Autonomous Prefecture of Bayingolin and the
regional capital of Urumqi.

The announcement came six days after a violent clash between the terrorists and
authorities in a town at Kashgar's Bachu County, some 1,200 km southwest of
Urumqi, leaving 21 people dead.

The fatalities included 15 community workers and police officers and six
terrorists, local authorities said after the attack.

Eight terrorist suspects were captured on the day of the clash, they added.

According to the Xinjiang police, the terrorist group, headed by Qasim Muhammat,
was founded in September 2012.

The group members regularly watched video clips advocating religious extremism
and terrorism and attended illegal preaching ceremonies.

Since early December 2012, they had always gathered at the house of Muhanmetemin
Barat, a group member, to do physical training and to practise killing skills
they had learned from the terrorist video clips, the police said.

In early March this year, the ring made explosive devices and remote controllers
and later carried out five explosion testing.

They had planned to "do something big" in the densely populated public areas in
Kashgar in the summer, the police said.

The group members were spotted making explosives on April 23 by local police and
community workers, which led to the deadly clash.

Vice Minister of Public Security Meng Hongwei said on Monday that police have
tracked down a batch of homemade explosives, lethal weapons, and flags of "East
Turkistan" terrorists after the April 23 clash.

He called the clash "a serious violent terrorist criminal case," which led to
significant losses.

Meng warned of the "prolonged and complicated" nature of the anti-terror fight
in Xinjiang at present. He said sometimes the fight can be "relatively intense,"
with the incessant incitement and influence from overseas "East Turkistan"
secessionist terrorists.

During the clash, the terrorist suspects brutally killed law enforcement
personnel and innocent residents, disregarding their gender or ethnic group.

The tragedy "fully showed their anti-human and anti-social nature," Meng said.

The "three evil forces" of separatism, extremism and terrorism, which could do
great harm to Xinjiang's prosperity and stability, are the common enemies of the
people of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang, he said.

The official vowed an iron-handed crackdown against terrorism, saying the police
will use every possible means to find and punish terrorists with no mercy.

Also on Monday, the 15 community workers and police officers who died during the
attack were honoured for their bravery and sacrifice.

A commendation meeting was held in the morning with the regional committee of
the Communist Party of China (CPC) and government posthumously awarding them
each as a "regional anti-terrorist hero," according to the regional government.

Ten of the 15 were of the Uygur ethnic group. Three were of the Han ethnic
group. The remaining two were of the Mongolian ethnic group.

Seven of the 15 were also posthumously honoured as a "regional outstanding CPC
member."

Nur Bekri, the regional governor, said at the meeting that the nature of the
terrorist clash was not about ethnic or religious issues, but a terrorist act to
split the motherland and undermine national unity.

"It is a political fight between separatism and anti-separatism, and between
safeguarding the national unity and undermining the national unity," he said.
"We will leave no room for compromises and concessions."

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1555gmt 29 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 30, 2013 Tuesday

Iran nuclear official condemns "terrorist" attacks in Syria

LENGTH: 158 words


Text of report by state-run Iranian TV channel one on 30 April

Secretary of Iran's National Security Council Sa'id Jalili in a meeting with the
Syrian Parliament Speaker, Muhammed Jihad al-Laham, in Tehran on 30 April
condemned the recent terrorist attacks in Damascus and said that such acts are
merely signs of the desperation of terrorist groups and the reason for the
increasing hatred of the Syrians and the people of the world for supporters of
these terrorist acts.

Muhammed Jihad al-Laham also appreciated Iran's stances in supporting the Syrian
nation.

Also in his meeting with the chairman of the Iraqi Islamic Supreme Council,
Ammar al-Hakim, Sa'id Jalili referred to the enemies' role in creating a rift
among Muslim countries and said that unity and solidarity among various nations
and religions are the way forward for failing foreign plots.

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 1, Tehran, in Persian
1438 gmt 30 Apr 13

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 30, 2013 Tuesday

TERROR OF THE EVEREST BRITON ATTACKED

LENGTH: 598 words


SHERPAS AT 23,000FT

BY CHRIS BROOKE

A BRITISH climber told yesterday how he and two colleagues feared they would be
killed as they were attacked by Sherpas on Everest.

Jonathan Griffith said they were punched, kicked and had stones thrown at them
by up to 150 Sherpas in an extraordinary confrontation as they headed towards
the summit of the world's highest mountain.

The three men ended up running for their lives down a treacherous glacier to
escape the out-of-control mob' and have now been forced to abandon their attempt
on the summit.

The row broke out on Saturday as the men were on their way to a camp at 23,000
feet on the 29,000ft mountain.

The Nepalese Sherpas accused them of kicking ice down on them and breaking
mountain etiquette by stepping over their ropes.

Mr Griffith, 29, a photographer and mountaineer attempting his first ascent of
Everest, and his highly experienced colleagues - Italian Simone Moro, 45, and
Swiss national Ueli Steck, 36 - returned to camp where they were immediately set
upon.

An angry mob of between 100 and 150 Sherpas came up to our tent,' said Mr
Griffith. We all suffered cuts and bruises and Ueli took a stone to his face.

It was very scary. As climbers we all get into very dangerous situations but
this was the first time I really thought this was the end.

We were told one of us would die that night and the rest would follow later.'

He said they had initially ignored advice by other Western climbers to just run
now' as they mob headed for their tent.

We thought we could discuss the situation and sort it out,' he said.

Sherpas are not angry people but they are easily rallied and three or four
ringleaders were to blame.'

He said the crowd attacked in small groups, moving in and throwing rocks before
retreating. We couldn't lash back because the mob would have gone for us then.
We honestly felt we were going to die.'

Mr Griffith said they were saved by other Western climbers who acted as a buffer
and put themselves in front of the three men.

He singled out the bravery of American guide Melissa Arnot, who stood guard over
another tent the three climbers managed to get to some 50 yards away. For a
Sherpa to hit a woman is really bad and Melissa saved our lives,' he said.

As tempers began to calm slightly it became clear the men would have to escape
and retreat to base camp immediately.

They packed up what equipment they could and, to avoid further attacks from the
Sherpas, set off on an unbelievably treacherous route' across a glacier, going
as fast as possible without even using a rope for safety.

The men did what is usually a full day's walk in two-and-a-half hours.

Mr Griffith said last night from base camp that he was preparing to return to
Chamonix in France, where he lives.

Although climbing Everest was once the ultimate human challenge, these days
hundreds of people pay tens of thousands of pounds to make the ascent every
year. The small army of Sherpas are used to help them and carry supplies.

It is the clash of cultures' and ill feeling' towards the foreigners that is
being blamed for the unprecedented attack.

Foreign climbers pay royalties to scale Everest and Nepalese government
officials were quick to play down the seriousness of the incident for fear of
losing vital income.

Tourism ministry official Dipendra Paudel said there had been a slight
misunderstanding' which had been sorted out and pledged to ensure the safety of
climbers.

About 4,000 climbers have reached the top of Everest since it was first scaled
by New Zealander Sir Edmund Hillary and Sherpa Tenzing Norgay in 1953.

c.brooke@dailymail.co.uk

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             April 30, 2013 Tuesday

UN chief condemns terrorist attack on Syrian Prime Minister's convoy

LENGTH: 241 words


April 29, 2013

Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon condemned the terrorist attack earlier today in
Damascus on the convoy of Syrian Prime Minister Wael al-Halqi that resulted in
deaths and injuries.



Mr. al-Halqi has reportedly survived the attack, which took place in the western
Mazzeh district of the capital.

The Secretary-General, in a statement issued by his spokesperson, expressed his
deepest condolences to the families of the victims and wished those injured a
speedy recovery.

"The Secretary-General has consistently condemned all acts of terrorism. The
targeting of civilians and civilian objects by anyone is unacceptable."

The statement added that Mr. Ban remains "extremely worried" at the escalation
of violence in Syria, where civilians continue to be killed, injured, detained
and abducted every day, including most recently the kidnapping of two prominent
clerics in northern Syria.

"The Secretary-General has repeatedly stressed that all violence must end
immediately, all sides in the Syrian conflict should move towards a political
solution, and all should stop supplying weapons to any side in Syria."

The UN estimates that there 6.8 million people in need as a result of the
ongoing crisis in Syria, with 4.25 million people internally displaced and an
additional 1.3 million seeking refuge in neighbouring countries. The conflict
has killed over 70,000 people since efforts to oust President Bashar Al-Assad
began in March 2011.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 30, 2013 Tuesday 9:43 PM GMT

In rare public Q-and-A with reporters, Obama denies knowing Benghazi
terror-attack survivors have been forbidden from talking to Congress

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 618 words



     ·    At least four career officials have hired lawyers as they prepare to
          share sensitive information with Congress
     ·    Would-be State Department whistle-blowers claim harassment,
          intimidation
     ·    Obama: I'm not familiar with this notion that anybody's been blocked
          from testifying'


President Barack Obama said during a rare public session answering reporters'
questions that he was unaware of any efforts to prevent survivors of the 2012
Benghazi, Libya terror attack from testifying before Congress about what they
experienced.

'I'm not familiar with this notion that anybody's been blocked from testifying,'
the president said Tuesday in response to a question from Fox News Channel
correspondent Ed Henry.

'They've hired an attorney,' Henry told Obama, 'because they're saying that
they've been blocked from coming forward.'

'What I'll do,' the president offered, 'is I will find out what exactly you're
referring to.'

Scroll down for video

'What I've been very clear about from the start is that our job with respect to
Benghazi has been to find out exactly what happened, to make sure that U.S.
embassies not just in the Middle East but around the world are safe and secure,
and to bring those who carried it out to justice.'

The White House has yet to take a formal position on the hundreds of Americans
who lived through the Sept. 11, 2012 attack that claimed the lives of U.S.
Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens and two others.

'There are some survivors of that terror attack who say they want to come
forward and testify - some in your State Department,' Henry said, 'and they say
they've been blocked. Will you allow the Benghazi survivors to testify?' he
asked.

Obama gave the question a brief answer, insisting that he didn't know about
alleged efforts to keep the survivors quiet.

'I'm not familiar with it,' he reiterated, later adding, 'I'll look into that.'

Fox News reported Monday that at least four CIA and State Department career
officials have retained lawyers to help them with plans to provide sensitive
information to Congress about the Benghazi attacks.

It's unknown whether those potential whistle-blowers were part of the U.S.
contingent on the ground in Benghazi.

One of them reportedly has information about the federal government's
inner-workings during the months before the Sept. 11, 2012 attack when the
diplomatic mission in Libya unsuccessfully sought tighter security, during the
attack itself, and during the crucial week afterward.

It was in those first days that U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice
falsely claimed a spontaneous protest, inspired by a YouTube video critical of
the Muslim prophet Muhammad, resulted in the consulate's destruction.

Victoria Toensing, the man's attorney, told  Fox News that her client has been
threatened by unnamed persons in the Obama administration who have warned about
the impact on his career if he cooperates with Republican investigators in
Congress.

'It's frightening, and they're doing some very despicable threats to people,'
Toensing said.

'Not "we're going to kill you," or not "we're going to prosecute you tomorrow,"
but they're taking career people and making them well aware that their careers
will be over.'

Utah Republican Rep. Jason Chaffetz told Fox News in March that he only had
access to a 'handful of people' when he visited Libya shortly after the Benghazi
attack, and that he has not been given access to other survivors in the months
that followed.

'We want talk to the survivors. They won't do that,' Chaffetz said of the Obama
administration.

'And then the president has the gall to go on television and say "Oh, we're
providing all the access"? Baloney. Bull-crap. That is not happening.'

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 30, 2013 Tuesday 3:43 PM GMT

EDL attack: the terror plot foiled by luck;
It was a plot that could have led to mass deaths and sparked a race war - and
yet it was only by sheer luck and the incompetence of the terror group that it
failed.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 905 words


Six Islamic fanatics, inspired by al-Qaeda, planned to attack a rally of the
English Defence League (EDL) with homemade bombs, guns and knives.

It is possible they wanted to assassinate the far-right group's leader Tommy
Robinson, who was due to speak at the event.

Despite one of them being under watch by MI5 and two others also known to the
counter-terror agencies, the only reason the plot failed was because the
Jihadist group turned up too late for the event.

And the only reason they were caught was because one of the group accidentally
gave a car insurance company the wrong registration meaning one of their
vehicles was stopped by a traffic officer on its way home.

The six-strong group was a mixture of British and foreign born Muslims all
living in Birmingham.

Omar Khan, 28, Mohammed Hasseen, 23, both of Sparkhill, and Mohammed Saud, 22,
from Smethwick are British.

Jewel Uddin, 27, of Sparkhill was born in Bangladesh while Zohaib Kamran Ahmed,
22, of Alum Rock and Anzal Hussain, 24, of Moseley, were born in Pakistan.

The group planned to target an EDL rally in Dewsbury on June 30 last year and
turned up heavily armed with explosives, two shot guns and up to a dozen knives
and machetes.

EDL leader Tommy Robinson was due to speak at the event, which involved up to
700 supporters, and it was expected to run all afternoon.

However, Mr Robinson cancelled his appearance and the rally wound up around 2pm.

The terror group did not arrive in the town until 4pm, by which time the EDL
demonstrators had left.

It was on the journey back to Birmingham that the police and security services
had their second stroke of luck.

Khan and Uddin were travelling in a Renault Laguna that they believed had been
insured for that day.

A South Yorkshire Police traffic officer on routine patrol on the M1 motorway
made a check on the vehicle and it flashed up as having no insurance.

It later transpired that Saud had made a slight error in the registration number
when taking the policy out meaning it was not on the records.

The officer stopped the car and ordered it be impounded but even then the true
scale of what he had stumbled across was not known.

The car was taken to the Woodhead Motors pound near Sheffield and sat there for
two days before an inspection by staff unearthed a terror cache.

In the boot were two sawn-off shotguns, ammunition and a selection of knives and
machetes.

When police arrived, they also discovered a homemade bomb adapted from a regular
firework and three small, partially constructed pipe bombs.

The firework contained more than 350 nails and 187g of explosive, made up of
twice the number of explosive pellets normally found in the rocket.

There was also CDs containing Islamic extremism, including lectures by the
al-Qaeda fanatic Anwar al-Awlaki.

Crucially for the police, officers also found ten copies of a letter which spelt
out the gang's plans to attack the EDL and which was addressed to the Queen and
David Cameron.

Khan, who was the driver of the Laguna, had given false details when he was
stopped so an urgent hunt was launched to track him and his passenger down.

It quickly became clear that a larger group was involved as a second car, a
Rover, had travelled with the Laguna to Dewsbury and left at the same time.

That car had contained Hussain, Saud and Ahmed. Hasseen had not travelled to
Birmingham as he was at a wedding that day but all six men were soon identified
and arrested over July 3 and 4.

Khan is believed to have been the bomb maker but fingerprints or DNA linked the
other five to various other items found in the Laguna.

At one stage, shortly before his arrest he had even called the car pound to
inquire whether he could go and collect "something" he had left in the car.

Uddin had been under watch by MI5 after he had been investigated during a
separate plot in 2011 by a Birmingham gang to attack the UK with eight suicide
bombers.

The three ringleaders of that group were convicted earlier this year and others
either pleaded guilty or await a further trial.

There was insufficient evidence to link Uddin, who had been seen carrying out
street collections with members of the other terror gang, with the plot.

He remained under surveillance but only as a "low level" risk and on June 25 was
seen with Khan going in to a shop in Birmingham.

It later emerged the men bought kitchen knives in that shop which were found in
the back of the Laguna car.

Two of the other defendants were also known to the police and security services.

Hussain is the brother of Ishaaq Hussain, who was part of the suicide bomb plot
group.

At the time of his arrest, Ahmed was on bail on charges of possessing terrorist
material, the Inspire magazine, for which he was later jailed for 14 months in
October last year.

Sources insist there was no intelligence to link Uddin with the others or
anything to indicate a coherent group.

There was also no intelligence to suggest a plot to target the EDL.

Analysis of computers seized after the arrests showed the group had researched
the EDL in depth, including details of Mr Robinson, for up to a month before the
rally.

They had also researched an EDL rally held in Rochdale on June 9 before turning
their attention to the Dewsbury one.

The men had left their mobile phones behind on the day they travelled to
Dewsbury indicating they were conscious of possible surveillance and did not
want the temptation of using their phones.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 30, 2013 Tuesday 10:55 AM GMT

Islamist extremists admit planning gun and bomb attack on far-right EDL rally;
Six Muslim terrorists have admitted planning to attack a rally by the far-right
English Defence League with homemade bombs, guns and knives.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 359 words


The al-Qaeda inspired Birmingham gang may have wanted to assassinate EDL leader
Tommy Robinson, who had been due to speak at the event.

The plot, last summer, only failed by sheer luck because the Jihadist group
turned up too late and the rally had already finished.

And they were only caught by another stroke of luck because an error by one of
the terrorists when taking out car insurance led to one of their vehicles being
stopped by a traffic officer as they returned home.

Even then, the car, loaded with homemade bombs, weapons and a letter attacking
the Queen and detailing the plot, sat in pound for two days before the terror
cache was discovered.

The atrocity almost came off even though one of the cell was under surveillance
by MI5 and police after being investigated during another Birmingham terror plot
the year before.

Another was also on bail for separate terror charges after being found with
editions of the banned al-Qaeda online magazine Inspire.

Jewel Uddin, 27, Omar Khan, 28, Mohammed Hasseen, 23, Mohammed Saud, 22, Zohaib
Kamran Ahmed, 22, and Anzal Hussain, 24, all from Birmingham, today admitted
intending to commit acts of terrorism.

They had planned to attack an EDL rally in Dewsbury on June 30 last year, just
weeks before the 2012 Olympics were due to start.

They had gone armed with a bomb adapted from a standard firework, three homemade
pipe bombs, two sawn-off shotguns and a number of knives and machetes.

Mr Robinson had been due to speak at the event but pulled out at the last minute
and police cannot rule out that he may have been the target.

Had the attack happened it would almost certainly have sparked a race war
between far right groups and Muslim fanatics.

Copies of a letter, likely to have been distributed during or after the attack,
also insulted the Queen as a "kuffir devil" and said the EDL or "English
Drunkards League" was being attacked in retaliation for blasphemy of Allah and
the prophet Muhammed.

Although it remains unclear whether the terrorists planned to martyr themselves,
the letter, which was addressed to the Queen and David Cameron, added that they
"love death more than you love life."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 30, 2013 Tuesday 10:43 AM GMT

Islamist extremists admit planning gun and bomb attack on far-right EDL rally;
Six Islamist terrorists have admitted planning to attack a rally by the
far-right English Defence League with homemade bombs, guns and knives.

BYLINE: By Agencies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 117 words


The plot only failed by chance despite one of the men being under surveillance.

At London's Woolwich Crown Court, Jewel Uddin, Omar Mohammed Khan, Mohammed
Hasseen, Anzal Hussain, Mohammed Saud and Zohaib Ahmed admitted preparing an act
of terrorism between May 1 and July 4 last year.

The plan targeting the English Defence League fell apart because the gathering
in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, finished earlier than expected.

Police and security services had no intelligence about the planned attack on
June 30 last year, although one of the would-be killers was under surveillance
in relation to another terrorist plan.

Edited at Telegraph.co.uk by Richard Holt

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 1, 2013
                                 First Edition

Prominent lawyer joins bombing suspect's defence;
BOSTON TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Nikhil Kumar IN NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 406 words


A prominent American defence lawyer known for successfully helping some of the
country's most notorious criminals avoid the death penalty has joined the legal
team representing Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the surviving suspect in the Boston
marathon bombings.

Judy Clarke's former clients include Jared Lee Loughner, who was sentenced to
life in prison for killing six people and wounding 13, including Congresswoman
Gabrielle Giffords, in a shooting rampage in Tuscon, Arizona. She also
represented Theodore Kaczynski, the so-called "Unabomber", who avoided death and
has been locked up for life on charges related to a domestic bombing spree.

Her newest client, Dzhokhar, 19, was captured following a massive manhunt on 19
April, days after two pressure-cooker bombs allegedly planted by him and his
brother Tamerlan, 26, killed three and injured hundreds near the marathon's
finish line in downtown Boston.

Tamerlan was killed in the early hours of 19 April following a police chase and
a shootout with officers in suburban Boston. Dzhokhar has since been charged
with using a weapon of mass destruction, a reference to the pressure-cooker
bombs. The chargers could carry the death penalty.

Ms Clarke's appointment was requested by the suspect's lead lawyer, Miriam
Conrad, who heads the local public defender's office. Ms Conrad is among the
country's most experienced public defenders, counting the convicted
"shoe-bomber" Richard Reid as one of her former clients. Along with Ms Clarke,
Ms Conrad had also requested the appointment of another death penalty expert,
David Bruck. For the time being, however, Mr Bruck's appointment has been denied
by Magistrate Judge Marianne Bowler, who is presiding over the case.

Late last week, days before her appointment was confirmed, the California-based
Ms Clarke spoke of how she had been "sucked into the black hole, the vortex" of
death-penalty cases nearly two decades ago when she represented Susan Smith, who
was convicted of killing her two children in the mid-1990s. Smith was also
sentenced to life behind bars.

"I got a dose of understanding human behaviour and I learned what the death
penalty does to us," she said in a speech on Friday. "I don't think it's a
secret that I oppose the death penalty."

Investigators have obtained DNA from Tamerlan's widow, Katherine Russell, to
compare it to female DNA found on one of the Boston bombs. But there could be
many explanations, such as a stray hair.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              May 2, 2013 Thursday

Surviving a nightmare terror attack

BYLINE: Pjwx03

SECTION: FEATURES; ARTS; Plays; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 562 words


When a child is asked which superhero quality they would like, the common answer
is "to be invisible".

But for north-east businessman Roger Hunt, 47, being invisible was not a game.
It was the means of survival.

In November 2008, Roger, from Macduff, travelled to Mumbai on a business trip.
Little did he know that he would spend 40 hours hiding as terrorists ravaged his
hotel during an attack known as India's 9/11.

And now, Roger's astounding story of survival - described in his self-penned
book Be Silent Or Be Killed - has been adapted for Scottish stages by theatre
company Right Lines Productions, opening at Eden Court tomorrow evening.

On Wednesday, November 26, 2008, Roger finished dinner in the five-star Oberoi
Trident Restaurant, refusing the offer to stay for dessert and coffee. Upon
leaving the restaurant, he noticed several young people whose casual clothes
looked out of place in the stylish lobby.

Thinking nothing of it, Roger pushed the button for the 14th floor. As he did
so, the group of youngsters opened fire in the restaurant, murdering the diners
Roger had sat among only minutes before.

This was the first stage in a two-day terrorist attack on Mumbai, in which bombs
and gunfire killed over 160 innocent people.

For Roger, the moment of chaotic bloodshed sparked a horrific and life-changing
experience, every second of which could have been his last.

"From the 14th floor, I could see what was unfolding below," Roger said.

"The terrorists were killing everyone in sight. I knew my life was in danger. I
returned to my room, locked the door and told myself that, from that moment on,
every decision I made was one of life or death.

"I knew I had three options: I could jump from the 14th floor and be killed
instantly; I could go out into the lobby and most likely be murdered, or I could
hide in my room with the hope of rescue."

Deciding against his human instinct to run, Roger crouched behind a sofa for 40
hours without sleep, food or water.

"I had to become invisible," he said.

"I couldn't answer the phone, open the mini-bar or look out the window, in case
the terrorists noticed my presence."

Remarkably, Roger was able to use his Blackberry to e-mail and text his
colleagues in Edinburgh, who swiftly alerted MI5 to his situation. Together,
they co-ordinated his dramatic rescue.

Two days after the initial attack, India's National Security Guard, often known
as the Black Cats, stormed the war-torn hotel, defeated the terrorists,
discovered Roger and led him to safety.

Two years after the attack, Roger's book, Be Silent Or Be Killed, was published,
vividly documenting what he went through.

"Seeing the book and my story on stage is going to be an exciting but surreal
experience," he said.

"The play has been produced by a very good company and although it has had to be
adapted, the story will remain the same.

"I've survived the terrorists, both physically and mentally. I've learned to see
that every day is a gift and it has been a privilege to see my experience
helping others."

Be Silent Or Be Killed will tour Scotland during May, opening to the public at
Eden Court tomorrow night and then performing at venues including Universal
Hall, Findhorn, and the Lemon Tree, Aberdeen. Roger will also be hosting
post-performance Q&A sessions at Eden Court and the Lemon Tree. For ticket and
performance information, please see www.rightlines.net

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: North-east businessman Roger Hunt spent 40 hours hiding as terrorists
ravaged his Mumbai hotel in 2008
Ewan Donald and James Mackenzie in Be Silent Or Be Killed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2013 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 2, 2013 Thursday

Pakistan says terrorists from Afghanistan behind election-related attacks

LENGTH: 471 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 2 May

Islamabad: The interior ministry has claimed that election-related attacks in
the country are being patronised from across the western borders.

"We have intelligence reports that terrorists who have infiltrated from
Afghanistan are involved in attacks on political parties during electioneering,"
the director general of the ministry's National Crisis Management Cell (NCMC),
Tariq Lodhi, told Dawn on Wednesday.

He said although the caretaker government had issued directives for strict
vigilance by security forces along the western borders to curb infiltration of
terrorists, many had entered Pakistan before implementation of the orders.

The official, however, said that anti-state elements would not be able to
sabotage the May 11 elections. A security plan prepared at the federal level was
working to ensure that polls were held in a peaceful manner, he added.

The Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP), in a statement issued on Tuesday, had
expressed dissatisfaction over the security arrangements for the polls and
called for chalking out an action plan to maintain peace during the
electioneering.

"We have informed the Election Commission that we have enough resources to cope
with election-related terrorism and violence," the official said.

Interior Minister Malik Habib also said: "We will hold the elections under all
circumstances. The whole nation is fully prepared to participate in the
elections and the law-enforcement agencies are fully prepared to frustrate
nefarious designs of the undesired elements."

Replying to a question about security threats to parties like the PPP, the Awami
National Party (ANP) and the Muttahida Qaumi Movement, the NCMC director general
said: "No restriction has been imposed on any party's election activities...and
guidelines have been issued to counter the designs of those who want to sabotage
the elections."

He said not only the public meetings and offices of the PPP, ANP and MQM but of
almost all mainstream parties, including the PML-N, had come under attack.

The official said provincial authorities had been asked to allow candidates to
hire private security guards. "Candidates in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa have been
allowed to have five guards and their salaries will be paid by the provincial
government. Similar arrangements have been put in place in the other provinces,"
he said.

He, however, said all attacks on parties during electioneering were not carried
out by terrorists and over half of them had been linked to political rivalry.
"Many attacks in Sindh and Balochistan have been carried out by political
rivals. The attack on Sanaullah Zehri was also carried out by his rivals and he
lodged an FIR against his political opponents," the NCMC chief said.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 02 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        May 2, 2013 Thursday 7:44 PM GMT

Three more men charged over Boston terror attacks

BYLINE: Daily Star Reporter

LENGTH: 134 words


POLICE investigating the Boston Marathon bombings are to charge three more men
over the attacks.

The US Attorney's Office in Massachusetts said they were accused of conspiring
to obstruct justice and making false statements.

Sources claimed two were college classmates of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, and the
third is a US citizen.

Dzhokhar, 19, is in a prison medical centre after being charged with crimes that
carry the death penalty.

His brother Tamerlan, 26, died in a gunfight with police three days after the
bombing two weeks ago.

Three people were killed and another 264 injured.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                              May 2, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Young families tell of their blaze terror after double arson attack

BYLINE: MARTIN NAYLOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 414 words


A YOUNG mum carrying her five-year-old son ran by a blazing door during a double
arson attack in Derby.

Terrified Pamela Crews clutched her son Kenzie while partner Richard Knapton
screamed at them to get out of the house.

Mr Knapton said he used saucepans of water to douse the flames as they engulfed
the front door of the family home in Allenton.

Less than 45 minutes later, a garage and shed were gutted at the back of an
empty property less than a mile away. At that incident, in Baker Street,
Alvaston, Nicola Halstead spoke of her terror when she saw flames rising more
than 50ft at her neighbour's home yards away from her house, where her
20-month-old son Leo was asleep. Police are linking the incidents and treating
both as arson. Detectives are working with the fire service to find out how they
were started. A 26-year-old local man has been arrested and was last night being
held in custody for questioning.

Mr Knapton said that the drama unfolded at his home in Kettlewell Close, close
to Harvey Road, at 3.15am yesterday.

The 24-year-old and Miss Crews were woken by the smoke alarm.

He said: "It was terrifying, the most horrible thing in the world to see. There
were flames shooting through the letterbox. "Pamela grabbed Kenzie and started
coming down the stairs, she was petrified, screaming. I ran into the kitchen and
filled a saucepan with water which I threw at the door handle to cool it.

"I grabbed and opened the door and told Pamela to run out with Kenzie while I
carried on putting the fire out.

The whole of the front door on the outside was alight and they had to run past
it.'' Mr Knapton said he put out the flames as fire engines arrived.

Around 45 minutes later the second property was targeted by arsonists.

Miss Halstead, 25, said she, partner Simon Tooth and her son Leo were in their
house when she awoke at 4am.

She said: "I walked into Leo's room and I could see flames coming from next
door. The garage was alight and it had started to spread to the neighbouring
shed, trees and fences. I grabbed Leo and shouted for my partner.

"I was so scared it would spread to our house."

Mr Tooth, 34, said the rented property where the fire happened was empty.

Detective Sergeant Steve Shaw, of Pear Tree CID, said: "Our investigations lead
us to believe that whoever is responsible made a concerted effort to start both
fires deliberately.

A 26-year-old local man has been arrested in suspicion of arson. We are linking
both incidents.'' mnaylor@derbytelegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Simon Tooth, Leo Halstead, aged one, and Nicola Halstead.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DET


                     Copyright 2013 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 2, 2013
                                 First Edition

Police charge three college friends of surviving suspect in terror attacks;
BOSTON BOMBING

BYLINE: Nikhil Kumar in new york

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 197 words


Three college friends of 19 year old Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the surviving Boston
marathon bombing suspect, have been charged with interfering with the
investigation following the attack.

Azamat Tazhayakov and Dias Kadyrbayev, both students from Kazakhstan, have been
charged with conspiracy to obstruct justice by throwing away a backpack
containing fireworks and a laptop computer belonging to Dzhokhar, who is accused
of planting the bombs near the marathon finish line on 15 April with his elder
brother Tamerlan. A third man, an American citizen named Robel Phillipos, was
charged with lying to investigators.

Dzhokhar was captured on 19 April and has since been charged with using a weapon
of mass destruction for his alleged role in the marathon attack.

Tamerlan, 26, was killed during a police shootout in the early hours of 19
April.

The three men charged yesterday attended the University of Massachusetts at
Dartmouth, the college where Dzhokhar was a student. Mr Tazhayakov and Mr
Kadyrbayev were already facing accusations of having overstayed their student
visas, and had appeared in immigration court hours before the charges related to
the bombing investigation were announced.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 2, 2013 Thursday 6:05 PM GMT

Iranians guilty of Kenya bomb plot;
Two Iranians accused by Israel of planning to target its citizens in East Africa
face 15 years in a Kenyan prison after they were convicted of plotting a terror
attack.

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 427 words


Ahmad Mohammed and Sayed Mousavi had 33lb of powerful explosives they intended
either to use themselves or to give to others preparing bombings, a senior
Kenyan judge ruled on Thursday.

The two men were arrested last June outside a five-star Libyan-owned hotel in
the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, after an eight-day surveillance operation.

Intelligence agents trailed the pair as tahey appeared to scout for targets
including the British High Commission, the Israeli embassy and a nearby
synagogue.

They also allegedly made contact with a Kenyan man living in the port city of
Mombasa who was known to have links to al-Qaeda in Somalia.

Mohammed and Mousavi made several trips to Kenya's coast during the week before
they were arrested.

Within hours being taken into custody, they were flown from Nairobi to Mombasa
where they led investigators to where they had hidden 33lb of RDX explosives in
two grey rucksacks on the edge of a golf course.

RDX is more powerful than TNT and Kenyan police told the men's trial that the
amount found would have been enough to bring down a multi-storey building.

Detectives fear that the original consignment that the men allegedly brought
from Iran was 220lb and that most of it has yet to be found.

"I have no doubt in my mind that they were part of the group that placed
explosives there," Kiarie Wa Kiarie, the presiding magistrate, told the court in
Nairobi.

"I must appreciate our Kenyan security personnel for detecting and taking swift
action to stop the catastrophe and ensure our country was safe."

Kenya was hit by a spate of bombings and attacks last year, which the Nairobi
government mostly blamed on Somalia's al-Shabaab army that Kenyan forces were
fighting inside Somalia.

Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, claimed that Mohamed and Mousavi
were members of the elite al-Quds division of Iran's Revolutionary Guards and
were planning attacks on Israelis in East Africa.

"Iranian terrorism knows no borders," he said at the time. "The international
community must fight against this major player in the world of terrorism."

Israel said Iranian agents were also behind an alleged conspiracy to assassinate
Saudi Arabia's ambassador to Washington, and other plots in Thailand, India and
Azerbaijan.

Analysts believe each mission was to be carried out by al-Quds agents as part of
a retaliation programme against Israel following the deaths in recent years of
five Iranian scientists with links to Tehran's nuclear programme.

Mohammed and Mousavi will be sentenced on May 6. They face up to 15 years in
jail.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 3, 2013 Friday

AU forces foil terror attacks in Somali port city of Kismaayo

LENGTH: 438 words


Text of report by Lucas Barasa entitled "AU forces foil terror attacks in
Kismaayo" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on
3 May

African Union and Somali troops on Thursday [2 May] foiled two planned terror
attacks by suspected Al-Shabab terrorists in Kismaayo.

The joint forces apprehended a woman carrying explosives and attempting to
access Kismaayo University, where delegates are discussing issues to do with
Jubaland.

The woman, a casual labourer at the university, was carrying a grenade and an
improvised explosive device.

She was placed in custody of the Somalia forces and the explosives destroyed.

The African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom) forces also thwarted an attack on
Kismaayo International Airport.

A group planning the bombing was traced by surveillance and engaged by Amisom
troops. This forced the terrorists to hastily fire their mortars, which landed
outside the airport. They fled soon after.

Amisom Force Commander, Lt-Gen Andrew Gutti congratulated the forces on their
alertness, saying their speedy actions had saved many civilian lives.

"This is a reminder that though there is relative calm in the city and
surrounding areas, we have to be vigilant against terrorists who wish to harm
the people of Somalia," he said.

Since Amisom and Somali National Forces forced the Al-Qa'idah affiliated terror
group out of Kismaayo last October, the area has been relatively peaceful. Many
of those who had been displaced have returned to their homes. Humanitarian aid
agencies have resumed operations.

Meanwhile, leaders from the breakaway Puntland region have opposed elections
without use of national identification documents.

The leaders, among them presidential candidate Abdullahi Ali, said allowing
everybody to vote without IDs would compromise the elections in favour of
President Abdirahaman Sheikh Mahmud Farole.

"With all patience exercised up to now by our political associations, we would
not whatsoever compromise on our principles towards achieving a fair and
transparent democratic process that can uphold the wishes of our people," Mr Ali
said.

Speaking in Nairobi, Mr Ali said identification documents were crucial in
ensuring integrity of elections.

Puntland elections were due on 8 January, this year, but were rescheduled.
Somali President Hasan Shaykh Mahmud visited Puntland on Monday to discuss a
wide range of issues with Mr Farole ahead of the London Conference next week.

President Hasan congratulated Puntland on the process underway to deliver the
first democratic multiparty local elections next month.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 3 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 3, 2013 Friday

Two Kazakh men said jailed for plotting terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 180 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Aktobe, 3 May: The court No 2 in Aktobe town (the administrative centre of
Kazakhstan's Aktobe Region) has delivered a guilty verdict against Aybek
Tanatarov and Yeltay Yeleuov, who were plotting terrorist attacks on the
national security forces.

The court found Aybek Tanatarov guilty of propagating terrorism or extremism,
publicly calling for terrorist attacks, illegally obtaining and possessing guns,
ammunition and explosives. The chief spokesperson of the regional court's press
service, Gulziya Maksatkyzy, told the Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency about it
today.

Aybek Tanatarov was sentenced to five years in a minimum security prison.

Yeltay Yeleuov was convicted of illegally obtaining and possessing guns,
ammunition and explosives. He was sentenced to four years in a minimum security
prison.

[Passage omitted: the convicts, aged 29 and 22 respectively, were arrested in
2012 for propagating jihad and recruiting accomplices]

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0551 gmt 3 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                               May 3, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

COWEN PAL ESCAPES MURDER BID;
HITMAN ATTACK TERROR Ex-councillor tells of horror after shooting ambush

BYLINE: CATHAL McMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 92 words


A PAL of ex-Taoiseach Brian Cowen last night told how he survived a terrifying
assassination bid.

Gerard Killally, his two children and elderly father escaped after their car was
ambushed by a gunman.

The 42-year-old property developer said: "Somebody is trying to shoot me. They
didn't fire a warning shot."

His dad Jay added: "Only for Gerard we would all be dead."

It is believed a large sum of money was found in Mr Killally's boot.

The Mirror has learned the ex-councillor was targeted over debts - he owes more
than (EURO)80million.

FULL STORY: PAGES 4&5

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRIENDS Gerard Killally ex-with exTaoiseach Brian Cowen
TARGETED Mr Killally's car lies damaged

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                               May 3, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Race against time to foil a terrorist attack;
CINEMA

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 216 words


STAR TREK INTO DARKNESS (12A) Genre: Fantasy IN 2009, director JJ Abrams
propelled the foundering Star Trek franchise back to warp factor 10 with a sexy,
action-packed revamp that took the worldwide box office by storm, outperforming
the previous three films in the series combined. For the sequel, Abrams returns
with all-principal cast to test the bonds of trust and friendship once again
between gung-ho Captain James T Kirk (Chris Pine) and coolly logical
human-Vulcan science officer Spock (Zachary Quinto), right.

Starfleet is rocked by a terrorist attack in London masterminded by one of its
own best agents, John Harrison (Benedict Cumberbatch). Kirk, who has been
stripped of his captaincy and now serves under his mentor, Rear Admiral
Christopher Pike (Bruce Greenwood), becomes embroiled in the hunt for Harrison,
reuniting him with communications officer Uhura (Zoe Saldana), navigator Pavel
Chekov (Anton Yelchin), chief medical officer Dr Leonard McCoy (Karl Urban),
chief engineer Montgomery Scott (Simon Pegg) and helmsman Sulu (John Cho).

Kirk, Spock and their academy friends race against time to stop Harrison from
obliterating everyone and everything they hold dear, including beautiful Dr
Carol Marcus (Alice Eve), but how much are they willing to sacrifice in the name
of freedom?

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JOURNEY: Zachary Quinto, Benedict Cumberbatch and Chris Pine in Star
Trek Into Darkness.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2013 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday

Boy, 2, in dog attack terror

BYLINE: Amanda Alcock

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS (BOLTON NEWS)

LENGTH: 307 words


A TWO-year-old boy has been left "terrified" after he was bitten by a dog
outside a community centre.

Little Ryan Magee, who has been having nightmares since the attack, was bitten
as he walked with his father to the UCAN centre in Halliwell .

The collie cross animal bit the toddler's arm, leaving a mark but it did not
break the skin.

His father, Benjamin Magee, aged 25, is calling for action to be taken.

He said: "Ryan has been terrified since this incident. When it happened I called
the police and the owner left.

"We were just walking into the UCAN centre and it was tied up on the railing.

"The dog was obstructing the way and Ryan was just walking when it happened, he
did not provoke it.

"He has been really upset since this happened and has been having nightmares."

Mr Magee said the dog was dangerous and should be put down as it could attack
other children.

He is also calling for the owner to be prosecuted.

He said: "One bite is enough. This dog could harm other children."

Insp Andy Sidebotham, of Bolton Central policing team, said: "I can confirm that
a two-year-old child was bitten by a dog and we are fully investigating the
circumstances."

The attack, which happened at about 1.30pm on Tuesday, is one of a number of dog
attacks in the town in recent months.

Last month six-year-old Abigail Boyd had to have surgery to her face after being
attacked by a dog.

She was dragged around a neighbour's garden, which she had been playing in.

And in March Jade Anderson, aged 14, was killed by four dogs at her friend's
house in Atherton.

Her parents are calling for new measures, including the introduction of dog
control notices, which could allow conditions such as muzzling, keeping dogs on
a lead, keeping them away from children and limiting the number of dogs in a
household to be imposed on owners of animals judged to be out of control.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Thug sliced cabbie's head open with axe;
TAXI TERROR ; Passenger launched attack after refusing to pay fare

BYLINE: Express Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 467 words


A taxi driver was subjected to a horror attack by an axe-wielding thug after
taking him and a pal to a house in Paisley's Gallowhill area.

The town's sheriff court heard how Stephen Meechan responded to a call at 5.30am
on February 10 and picked up Grant McNamara and another man who asked to be
taken to an address in Knowe Road.

On arrival, McNamara's friend left and said he was going into the house to get
money to pay the £5.50 fare.

When he didn't return, McNamara, of Ferguslie Walk, Paisley, who was sitting
directly behind the driver, became agitated, said he did not have any money and
pleaded with the driver not to take him to the police station.

He began to swear and without any warning, produced an axe which he had been
hiding and struck Mr Meechan on the head, causing a serious injury which sent
blood pouring down the driver's face and neck.

Mr Meechan panicked and, terrified, tried to grab the axe to prevent being
struck again, causing McNamara to headbutt him twice as they struggled with each
other.

McNamara, 20, who appeared to be under the influence of some substance, then
told the cabbie chillingly: "I'll chop you. Look at the state of your head -
it's halved in two," threatening to inflict further injury.

He then held the blade of the axe against the driver's throat as the driver
battled desperately to free the automatic door locks with his other hand, to
allow a chance of escape.

When he eventually did so, McNamara fled and Mr Meechan, in a state of panic,
was able to drive a short distance before stopping the vehicle to tell his
controller what had happened and ask him to summon police and an ambulance.

He was bleeding heavily from the five-centimetre head wound and rushed to the
town's Royal Alexandra Hospital where it was cleaned and stitched.

Doctors examined him and confirmed there was no skull fracture but he was
detained and kept under observation.

The court heard that McNamara, of Ferguslie Walk, Paisley, had gone on to attend
a party, taking the blood-stained axe with him and was eventually detained by
police.

In court, he admitted committing the assault as outlined to severe injury and
permanent disfigurement and making threats to Mr Meechan's life. Doctors
confirmed that his victim will remain scarred for life.

Sheriff James Spy deferred sentence and remanded the accused in custody, calling
for background reports and a risk assessment to be carried out.

He told the accused that, in order to ensure public protection, he would
consider imposing an extended sentence to act as a deterrent against further
violent crime, or a Supervised Release Order to keep him closely monitored on
release, with the threat of a return to prison to serve any jail term imposed in
full, if he re-offends.

McNamara will be hauled back to court to learn his fate on May 30.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 5, 2013 Sunday 9:15 AM GMT

How many Bostonians wished they had a gun two weeks ago? NRA Chief Wayne La
Pierre points to terrorist attacks as he defends right to own firearms

BYLINE: REUTERS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 772 words


Heavy-handed gun laws and a culture disapproving of gun ownership put citizens
in a vulnerable position during the door-to-door search for Boston Marathon
bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev last month, NRA Chief Executive Wayne LaPierre
said on Saturday.

"How many Bostonians wished they had a gun two weeks ago?" LaPierre asked in a
speech at the National Rifle Association's annual convention in Houston.

"Residents were imprisoned behind the locked doors of their own home, a
terrorist with bombs and guns just outside," LaPierre said, referring to the
police search in the Boston suburb of Watertown.

Reiterating a theme from earlier speakers, he said law-abiding gun owners were
under attack through government moves to control gun ownership, despite the need
for self-protection.

"Lying in wait right now is a terrorist, a deranged school shooter, a kidnapper,
a rapist, a murderer, waiting and planning and plotting in every community
across our country, lying in wait right now," LaPierre said.

"No amount of political schemes, congressional legislation, presidential
commissions or media round tables will ever change that inevitable reality."

The convention is the first national gathering of members since last year's
high-profile shooting sprees at a theater in Aurora, Colorado, and Sandy Hook
Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut.

It also comes less than a month after the U.S. Senate voted down a measure to
expand background checks for gun buyers, a step favored by U.S. President Barack
Obama and most Americans.

An online Reuters/Ipsos poll released in January showed that 86 percent of those
surveyed favored expanded background checks of all gun buyers.

A CBS News/New York Times poll released on Wednesday showed that 88 percent
support background checks for all gun buyers and that 59 percent are
disappointed or angry about the Senate vote.

Several demonstrations in support of stricter gun control took place across the
street from the convention center.

Speakers lambasted Obama, Vice President Joe Biden, U.S. Senator Dianne
Feinstein and New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, among others.

LaPierre announced that the NRA had reached 5 million members, increasing by 1
million since December after the Newtown shooting.

NRA First Vice President Jim Porter told members that the background-check
proposal would have made criminals out of honest gun owners.

"Selling a gun to a good neighbor, just like you would do today, becomes a
felony, and the government takes your guns," he said.

Porter, who is expected to be voted in as the NRA's next president by board
members on Monday, highlighted the role of the rank-and-file in the fierce
political battle over guns.

"That family, our family encompasses tens of millions of Americans. We are the
vanguard of those citizens. The gun lobby - that's you," he said. "With our
liberties at stake, we trump the billionaires, the media and the politicians
every time."

On Friday and Saturday, a group gathered outside the center to read aloud the
names of people who had died from gun violence in the United States since the
Sandy Hook massacre in December.

Austin resident Heather Ross said on Saturday morning that she had been there
since 7 a.m. on Friday.

"It's really intense to read these names because a few of them on there are zero
or 1 years old, and that's hard. That's a baby," Ross said.

"Then when you read one that's your age, or your sibling's age, or you read all
the names (of people who died) on your mother's birthday - that's very impactful
and you go through it a little bit slower."

A group called Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America gathered signatures
and messages on large signs set to be delivered to U.S. Senators Ted Cruz and
John Cornyn of Texas.

They held a photo session on Saturday with some former Harlem Globetrotters and
former NBA players and broadcaster Steve "Snapper" Jones to bring attention to
children who were shot and killed.

Another group, Texans for Smart Gun Regulation, organized a protest in front of
the convention center Saturday afternoon.

Occupy the NRA, organized by Aaron Black, an unofficial spokesman for last
year's Occupy Wall Street protesters, held a news conference on Saturday morning
to "say yes to guns and no to the NRA."

"I'm tired of watching our democracy being hijacked by these guys," Black said.
"It's time for people to stand in front of this issue and not just send email
petitions around."

NRA organizers expected 70,000 people at the three-day convention, which ends on
Sunday.

Saturday's events also included a sold-out "Stand Up and Fight Rally" featuring
conservative TV and radio personality Glenn Beck.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 6, 2013 Monday

Syrian clerics condemn "terrorists" attack on prophet's companion

LENGTH: 173 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

(SANA) -DAMASCUS, (SANA) - Mosque imams and preachers on Friday [3 May]
condemned the terrorists' attacks on houses of worship and shrines of Companions
of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH), the latest was destroying the shrine of Companion
Hajar Bin Oudai in Adra city in Damascus Countryside.

In their Friday sermons, the imams and preachers said this terrorist act is "a
flagrant attack on the true tolerant Islam and the sanctity of all Muslims."

They also expressed strong condemnation of the terrorist bombings which took
place in Damascus few days ago and claimed the lives of several citizens,
stressing that such criminal acts rejected by all holy religions and
international conventions.

These acts, the preachers added, indicate the scale of the conspiracies and
plots hatched by Syria's enemies, topped by the US and the Zionist entity, and
carried out by their mercenaries and agents in the region.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 3 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                         May 6, 2013 Monday 4:54 PM GMT

FBI raid 'disrupted terror attack'

LENGTH: 124 words


The FBI said it believes "a terror attack was disrupted" when authorities raided
a western Minnesota mobile home.

The FBI arrested 24-year-old Buford Rogers on Friday, after a search of his home
in Montevideo uncovered Molotov cocktails, suspected pipe bombs and firearms.

The FBI said it believes "the lives of several local residents were potentially
saved" by the search and arrest.

The agency said a terror plot was discovered through analysis of intelligence
gathered by local, state and federal authorities.

The statement does not offer further details about the extent or manner of the
alleged plot.

Rogers is in federal custody and is charged with one count of being a felon in
possession of a firearm. It is not clear if he has an attorney.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 6, 2013 Monday 8:55 PM GMT

Deputy of slain ambassador to Libya told Congress the U.S. government DENIED
Special Forces permission to intervene in Benghazi terrorist attack

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO IN WASHINGTON and DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1467 words



     ·    Deputy Chief of Mission Gregory Hicks will testify that military
          intervention, including scrambling a fighter jet, could have saved
          lives
     ·    U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans died in
          September 11, 2012 assault on consulate
     ·    Stevens' last message to Hicks was: 'Greg, we are under attack'
     ·    Hicks is one of three State Department 'whistle blowers' who will
          testify to Congress about the Administration's handling of the attacks
     ·    Congressman Darrell Issa said the testimony is evidence of 'a
          misinformation campaign at best and a coverup at worst'


The former number two diplomat in Libya has told members of Congress that U.S.
Special Operation Command in Africa denied U.S. commandos permission to fly to
the scene of the slaughter to intervene.

Gregory Hicks gave private testimony in April about the events of September 11,
2012, and will testify in public during a Washington, D.C. hearing on Wednesday.

Hicks is one of three State Department 'whistle blowers' expected to appear
publicly in front of the House Oversight Committee to speak out about the Obama
Administration's response to the attacks that killed Ambassador Chris Stevens
and three other Americans.

According to a partial transcript released Monday and first reported by  CBS
News, Hicks said a lieutenant colonel who was readying his team in the Libyan
capital of Tripoli, was told to stand down instead of boarding a military C-130
aircraft bound for Benghazi.

Additionally, the military was unable to scramble fighter jets to engage the
attackers because air support was too far away.

Hicks believes fighters could have saved lives by dispersing the Libyan
attackers.

SOCAFRICA, the special operations command on the African continent, which
answers to the Pentagon, reportedly delivered the order.

The special ops officer, Hicks testified, 'got a phone call from SOCAFRICA which
said, "You can't go now, you don't have the authority to go now." And so they
missed the flight... They were told not to board the flight, so they missed it.'

He added that his aim was to fill the scheduled C-130 flight with special-forces
rescuers, specifically because security measures at the Benghazi outpost were
known to be lax.

'We fully intended for those guys to go,' Hicks said, 'because we had already
essentially stripped ourselves of our security presence, or our security
capability, to the bare minimum.'

But ultimately, he insisted, 'They were told not to board the flight.'

The U.S. State Department gave the order, according to Hicks' recollection of
remarks from the SOCAFRICA commander, whom he identified only as Lieutenant
Colonel Gibson.

'I still remember Colonel Gibson,' Hicks recalled. 'He said, "I have never been
so embarrassed in my life that a State Department officer has bigger balls than
somebody in the military." A nice compliment.'

While mortars and rocket-propelled grenades rained down on the American outpost,
no American military forces came to the rescue of the consulate's personnel.
Four Americans perished, including Ambassador Stevens.

Hicks said he believed a quickly scrambled fighter jet could have prevented
additional casualties after the first wave of terrorist attacks, which the CIA
determined almost immediately came from the militant group Ansar al-Sharia and
other al-Qaeda-related Islamist rebels.

'If we had been able to scramble a fighter or aircraft or two over Benghazi as
quickly as possible after the attack commenced, I believe there would not have
been a mortar attack on the annex in the morning because I believe the Libyans
would have split,' he testified.

'They would have been scared to death that we would have gotten a laser on them
and killed them.'

In the wake of the attack, the Obama administration repeatedly claimed that a
YouTube video that mocked the Muslim prophet Muhammad angered a spontaneous mob
of protesters outside the consulate, and that the protest turned unpredictably
deadly.

U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice appeared on five Sunday morning
political talk shows on September 16, repeating that line from a set of
unclassified talking points provided by the White House.

Reporting from The Weekly Standard has since established that  those talking
points originated as a frank description from the CIA of a coordinated,
pre-planned terror attack. Following a meeting of administration deputies, the
conservative magazine has reported, the talking points were reduced to the
inconclusive report that informed Rice's television appearances - sanitized of
all references to premeditation and Islamist terrorism.

Information trickling out of the Obama administration has suggested in recent
weeks that the White House was aware from the beginning that the Benghazi
consulate was under attack by organized terrorists. Hicks' testimony reinforces
that line of thought.

'I was in communications with Washington all night long,' he said. 'I was
reporting all night long what was happening to Washington by telephone.'

'I thought it was a terrorist attack from the get-go. I think everybody in the
mission thought it was a terrorist attack from the beginning,' Hicks said,
according to excerpts of interviews released to  CBS' Face the Nation.

Hicks, a 22-year veteran of the foreign service, says he was furious when U.N.
Ambassador Susan Rice appeared on TV five days after the attack and declared
that U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans died as part of an
anti-American 'demonstration' by Libyans.

'I've never been as embarrassed in my life, in my career, as on that day,' he
told Congressional interviewers.

He added: 'I never reported a demonstration. I reported an attack on the
consulate. Chris's last report - if you want to say his final report - is,
"Greg, we are under attack."'

Asked by congressional investigators if military authorities ever considered
sending an F-16 fighter jet into the airspace over Benghazi, Hicks said he asked
twice and heard the same negative answer both times.

'I talked with the Defense Attache, Lt. Col. Keith Phillips,' Hicks said, 'and I
asked him, "Is there anything coming?" And he said that the nearest fighter
planes were [at] Aviano [Air Force Base, in Italy], that he had been told that
it would take two to three hours to get them airborne, but that there were no
tanker assets near enough to support a flight from Aviano.'

Hicks later mentioned 'the second time that night' that he asked Phillips 'is
there anything coming, is there anything out there to help our people from, you
know, big military? And the answer, again, was the same as before. ... The
answer was, "it's too far away, there are no tankers, there is nothing, there is
nothing that could respond."'

Another witness of the attacks, Mark I. Thompson, a U.S. Marine veteran and a
State Department counter-terrorism adviser, plans to testify that then-Secretary
of State Hillary Clinton tried to leave her department's own counter-terrorism
bureau out of the loop as government in the hours after the attacks as officials
figured out how to respond to the attacks.

The third witness is Eric Nordstrom, a former State Department diplomatic
security officer in charge of regional security in Libya.

The Wednesday afternoon hearing before the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform will include testimony from Hicks and two other
whistle-blowers who have first-person knowledge of what happened on the ground.

'Clearly, there was a political decision to say something different than what
was reasonable to say,' House Oversight Committee Chairman Darrell Issa told
Face the Nation.

He said State Department and White House officials launched 'what is a
misinformation campaign, at best, and a cover-up at worst.'

Political fallout for the Obama administration could be devastating, although
not as much as it might have been if the testimony had been heard in September
or October - before the 2012 presidential election.

Barack Obama claimed during one presidential debate with former Republican
nominee Mitt Romney that he designated the Benghazi attack 'an act of terrorism'
during a press conference on the day after it occurred. A transcript of the
president's remarks from that September 12 event show that he used the word
'terrorism,' but not specifically in reference to the Benghazi attack.

During a CBS News interview taped just hours after that press conference, 60
Minutes correspondent Steve Kroft asked Obama to comment on early reports that
armed militia men carried out the assault on the U.S. consulate.

'Do you believe that this was a terrorist attack?' Kroft asked the president.

'Well, it's too early to know exactly how this came about, what group was
involved,' Obama replied, 'but obviously it was an attack on Americans.'

CBS broadcast that interview only on November 4, one day before Obama was
re-elected.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 6, 2013 Monday 7:32 PM GMT

FBI foils 'terror attack' in 'planning stages' after raid on 'militia' man's
Minnesota trailer turns up Molotov cocktails, pipe bombs and an assault rifle

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER and DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 322 words


The FBI disrupted a potential terror attack after raiding a mobile home in
Minnesota and finding Molotov cocktails, pipe bombs and an assault rifle.

Buford Rogers, 24, was arrested Friday after a search of his Montevideo home.
Authorities believe he was planning an attack against a target in western
Minnesota and that he is a linked to an unidentified militia group.

FBI spokesman Kyle Loven wouldn't further elaborate Monday about the nature or
target of the alleged plot, but says authorities believe there 'would have been
a localized terror attack, and that's why law enforcement moved quickly.'

The FBI says it believes authorities potentially saved the lives of several
local residents. The investigation is ongoing.

The terror plot was discovered through analysis of intelligence gathered by
local, state and federal authorities, the agency said.

Rogers is charged with one count of being a felon in possession of a firearm.
It's not clear if he has an attorney.

According to a federal affidavit obtained by The Associated Press on Friday, FBI
agents from the domestic terrorism squad searched the property at the mobile
home park in Montevideo and discovered the Molotov cocktails, suspected pipe
bombs and firearms.

The affidavit said Buford was there at the time of the search, and one firearm
recovered from Buford's residence was a Romanian AKM assault rifle.

In an interview with authorities, Rogers admitted firing the weapon on two
separate occasions at a gun range in Granite Falls, the affidavit said.

Rogers has a past conviction for felony burglary and is not allowed to have a
firearm.

Rogers is expected to make his initial appearance in federal court this week.

Rogers' 2011 felony burglary conviction stems from an incident in Lac qui Parle
County. He also has a 2009 misdemeanor conviction for dangerous handling of a
weapon in Hennepin County, as well as other criminal violations, according to
online court records.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                         May 6, 2013 Monday 3:27 PM GMT

No. 2 U.S. official in Libya says diplomats knew Benghazi consulate attack was
terrorism 'from the get-go' despite Obama Administration's claims that deadly
assault was the result of a protest

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 838 words



     ·    Testimony from Deputy Chief of Mission Gregory Hicks shows diplomats
          never thought attack stemmed from protest against anti-Islamic video
     ·    U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans died in
          September 11, 2012 assault on consulate
     ·    Stevens' last mission to Hicks was: 'Greg, we are under attack'
     ·    Hicks is one of three State Department 'whistle blowers' who will
          testify to Congress about the Administration's handling of the attacks
     ·    Congressman Darrell Issa said the testimony is evidence of 'a
          misinformation campaign at best and a coverup at worst'


Diplomats in Libya knew the assault on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi was a
terrorist attack 'from the get-go,' the number-two American official in the
country will testify this week.

The revelation by Gregory Hicks, the deputy chief of mission in Libya, shows
that the Obama Administration knew the the September 11, 2012 attack was not the
result of a popular protest over an anti-Islamic YouTube video - as the American
public was initially told.

Hicks is one of three State Department 'whistle blowers' expected to appear in
front of the House Oversight Committee Wednesday to give evidence of a 'coverup'
by the Obama administration over its response to the attack that killed
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans.

The combined testimony is likely to re-ignite criticism of the Obama
Administration's handling of the run-up to the Benghazi attacks and its handling
of the aftermath.

'I thought it was a terrorist attack from the get-go. I think everybody in the
mission thought it was a terrorist attack from the beginning,' Hicks said,
according to excerpts of interviews released to  CBS' Face the Nation.

Hicks, a 22-year veteran of the foreign service, says he was furious when U.N.
Ambassador Susan Rice appeared on TV five days after the attack and declared
that U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans died as part of an
anti-American 'demonstration' by Libyans.

'I've never been as embarrassed in my life, in my career, as on that day,' he
told Congressional interviewers.

He added: 'I never reported a demonstration. I reported an attack on the
consulate. Chris's last report - if you want to say his final report - is,
"Greg, we are under attack."'

Utah Congressman Jason Chaffetz, a Republican and members of the House
committee, said told  Fox News that Hicks was in Tripoli on the night of the
attack when he received a distress call from Ambassador Stevens.

'We're under attacks! We're under attacks' Stevens reportedly yelled into his
cell phone.

According to the Utah congressman, Hicks reacted to the news by calling
Washington to alert officials and set off an 'inter-agency response.'

Another witness of the attacks, Mark I. Thompson, a U.S. Marine veteran and a
State Department counter-terrorism adviser, plans to testify that then-Secretary
of State Hillary Clinton tried to leave her department's own counter-terrorism
bureau out of the loop as government in the hours after the attacks as officials
figured out how to respond to the attacks.

The third witness is Eric Nordstrom, a former State Department diplomatic
security officer in charge of regional security in Libya.

'Clearly, there was a political decision to say something different than what
was reasonable to say,' House Oversight Committee Chairman Darrell Issa told
Face the Nation.

He said State Department and White House officials launched 'what is a
misinformation campaign, at best, and a cover-up at worst.'

Two major targets of the Republican-controlled investigation are Clinton and
Under Secretary for Management Patrick Kennedy.

Spokespeople for both the state department and Clinton denied the allegations.

For Nordstrom, the upcoming hearing would not be the first time that he was
called to testify on the events of last September.

'For me the Taliban is on the inside of the [State Department] building,' the
former mission deputy chief angrily said while speaking at a hearing chaired by
California Republican Rep. Darrell Issa in October 2012.

During his testimony at the time, Nordstrom detailed for lawmakers how he and
the late ambassador had repeatedly asked to increase security at the embassy in
the months leading up to the attack, but said that their pleas fell on deaf ears
as the situation in the country continued deteriorating.

The two other State Department officials have never publicly spoken about the
attacks.

Hicks and Thompson are believed to be represented pro bono by Joe diGenova, a
former US attorney, and his wife, Victoria Toensing, a former chief counsel of
the Senate Intelligence Committee.

Of the three men, Nordstrom is the only one who does not consider himself a
whistle-blower.

According to diGenova and Toensing, their clients' accounts of the attacks in
Benghazi were dismissed by then-Secretary Hillary Clinton's Accountability
Review Board, and the two civil servants have been subjected to an intimidation
campaign by their superiors meant to stop them from telling the truth about the
tragic events in Libya.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday

Gulf states condemn "terrorist" attack targeting Somali interior minister

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

[Unattributed report: "GCC States Condemn Terrorist Attack in Mogadishu"]

Riyadh, Jumada II 26, 1434, May 6, 2013, SPA - The Gulf Cooperation Council
(GCC) Member States have condemned the terrorist bomb attack that targeted
yesterday the Somali Interior Minister which resulted in killing a dozen of
innocent people and injured several others.

In a statement issued today, Dr Abd-al-Latif bin Rashid Al-Zayani, GCC Secretary
General, described the incident as a criminal act which is a against
humanitarian values and international law, expressing the GCC strong
condemnation of this terrorist act.

He also expressed regret for a continuing violence in Somalia, offering his
condolences to families of the victims and prayed for the quick recovery of the
those injured.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 1637 gmt 6 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday

Death toll rises to 24 in terror attack on Pakistani Islamist party rally

LENGTH: 194 words


Text of report by Pakistani news agency APP

Parachinar, 7 May: The death toll of the deadly explosion at the election rally
of Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam-Fazl (JUI-F) candidate in the Central Kurram Agency has
risen to 24 and about 70 injured are being treated at Kohat, Parachinar and
Peshawar hospitals.

According to official sources in political administration here, the death toll
of the explosion that has ripped through the public meeting of JUI-F candidate
for NA-38 [constituency] Tribal Areas, Munir Orakzai at Sewak area on Monday [6
May] has jumped to 24 while about 70 injured. The injured are being treated at
Peshawar, Kohat and Parachinar Hospitals. Emergency in Agency Headquarters
Hospital, Parachinar has been imposed and doctors and para medics in leave have
been called in for duties.

The powerful explosion apparently caused by Improvised Explosive Device (IED)
has occurred when Haji Munir Orakzai was about to leave the venue after
delivering speeches to workers of JUI-F as part of his election campaign. JUI-F
candidate Munir Orakzai remained unhurt in the attack

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0751gmt
07 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday

Writer says Somali capital residents should not be cowed by terror attacks

LENGTH: 536 words


Text of report by Somali news website Hiiraan

Suicide bombing by brainwashed Somalis is a frightening phenomenon that has
instilled fear and anxiety in the hearts and minds of many Somalis who are now
confused because suicide bombing has never been part of their culture. So far
over 12 suicide bombings have been carried out by such lost souls, the latest
being the suicide bomber who has detonated his car at KM 4 in Mogadishu. The
target was obviously to assassinate government officials. However, victims of
this barbaric act of violence are all innocent people who were going about their
daily business.

Al-Shabab has claimed responsibility for this heinous crime against peace loving
Mogadishu citizens. And what makes this action distasteful and heart-wrenching
is that Ahmed Godane, leader of this criminal organisation, has released a
recorded message, praising the action of his brained-washed puppets, calling
them martyrs and heroes. Having just killed 10 innocent civilians, the man then
went on to indulge himself in political and religious propaganda based on
self-delusion to justify his awful crime against innocent Mogadishu citizens
whose only crime was to have dared to come out of their homes doing their daily
business.

But Mogadishu citizens should know that Al-Shabab's reign of terror and its
network have been dismantled piece by piece thanks to the concerted efforts of
our brave Somali forces and the international community. This organisation is
now a history. Gone are those days when they terrorised Mogadishu citizens with
politically motivated public executions: beheadings, chopping limbs and other
despicable actions. Mogadishu residents should also understand this: using some
brain-washed puppets, this criminal organisation will strike now and then,
causing havoc and mayhem. But this should only make you stronger, resolute,
determined and united behind your government to defeat this extremist
organisation. I know Mogadishu citizens will stand up against this murderous
sect as they stood up against the infamous warlords, religious extremists, and
murderous Ethiopian forces.

Furthermore, Mogadishu citizens are now busy participating in the efforts of
re-building Mogadishu as a great city to re-claim its past glory soon. And they
know that acts of violence by villains will never ever stop them from getting on
with their lives as they will not weaken their determination and resilience.

Indeed, rather than being intimidated, Mogadishu citizens should take to the
streets to condemn these kinds of barbaric actions; they should hold huge music
festivals in theatres, and should also congregate at Mogadishu's lovely and
beautiful sandy beaches to demonstrate to the leaders of this mad sect of
murders that their days of terror and religious oppression have gone, and that
Mogadishu citizens can now freely enjoy and entertain themselves in bars,
restaurants, theatres, stadiums and night clubs without fear and intimidation.
It is these kinds of social civic activities that will ultimately destroy the
minds and hearts of these evil and lunatic religious dogmatists as this will
make them realise that their time is over.

Writer: Muse Yusuf

Source: Hiiraan in Somali 03 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack foiled, says FBI;
UNITED STATES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 61 words


THE FBI said it believes "a terror attack was disrupted" when authorities raided
a western Minnesota mobile home.

The FBI arrested Buford Rogers, 24, after a search of his home in Montevideo
uncovered Molotov cocktails, pipe bombs and firearms.

The FBI said a terror plot was discovered through analysis of intelligence
gathered by local, state and federal authorities.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2013 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday

FBI: Minn. raid disrupts planned terror attack

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 180 words


WASHINGTON - The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has taken into custody a
man in US state of Minnesota who was believed to be plotting a terrorist attack,
the agency's local division announced on Monday.

The FBI special agents arrested Buford Rogers, 24, in Montevideo, Minnesota
without incident and discovered several guns and explosive devices during the
search of his residence, the FBI Minneapolis Division confirmed in a statement.

A complaint against Rogers has been filed in Federal District Court, District of
Minnesota.

The FBI said it believed a terror attack was disrupted by law enforcement
personnel and that the lives of several local residents were potentially saved.

Special Agent in charge of the Minneapolis Division of the FBI J. Christopher
Warrener stated that "cooperation between the FBI and its federal, state, and
local partners enabled law enforcement to prevent a potential tragedy in
Montevideo".

The terror plot was discovered and subsequently thwarted through the timely
analysis of intelligence and the investigation remains ongoing, said the FBI.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Coventry Telegraph

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack was disrupted, say FBI;
InBrief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 113 words


THE FBI said it believes "a terror attack was disrupted" when authorities raided
a western Minnesota mobile home.

The FBI arrested 24-year-old Buford Rogers on Friday, after a search of his home
in Montevideo uncovered Molotov cocktails, suspected pipe bombs and firearms.

The FBI said it believes "the lives of several local residents were potentially
saved" by the search and arrest.

The agency said a terror plot was discovered through analysis of intelligence
gathered by local, state and federal authorities. The statement does not offer
further details about the extent or manner of the alleged plot.

Rogers is charged with one count of being a felon in possession of a firearm.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2013 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 7, 2013
                                 First Edition

Authorities prevent 'local terror attack';
The News Matrix The day at a glance UNITED STATES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 44 words


The FBI believes authorities disrupted "a localised terror attack" in its
planning stages in western Minnesota when they arrested a man after converging
on a mobile home that contained Molotov cocktails, suspected pipe bombs and
firearms, the agency said yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        May 7, 2013 Tuesday 12:01 AM GMT

US consulate assault in Benghazi 'was organised terrorist attack'

BYLINE: David Taylor, US Editor

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 500 words


The terrorist attack on the US consulate in Benghazi comes back to haunt the
Obama Administration tomorrow amid claims of a cover-up on top of security and
intelligence failures.

Eight months after the heavily armed assault on the US consulate, in which four
Americans died, three so-called whistleblowers will give evidence to a
congressional committee, challenging the way in which President Obama and
Hillary Clinton handled the episode.

Republicans have been trying hard to prove that the Administration played down
the nature of the attack on the poorly defended compound last September, two
months before the presidential election.

In the immediate aftermath, the White House suggested that the attack had grown
spontaneously out of a demonstration in protest at an anti-Muslim YouTube video,
which had provoked angry scenes elsewhere in the Middle East. But it emerged
that the consulate had been stormed in a planned attack by more than 100 men,
with an arsenal of weapons including mortar bombs, rocket-propelled grenades and
heavy machine guns. In the weeks afterwards it was revealed that warnings about
a lack of security had been fed back to the State Department, but went unheeded.

Tomorrow Gregory Hicks, who was the deputy chief of mission at the US Embassy in
Tripoli, will give evidence that could be damaging to the White House and the
State Department, then run by Mrs Clinton. In extracts of his video recorded
evidence to the committee, which have been made public, Mr Hicks said: "I
thought it was a terrorist attack from the get-go. I think everybody in the
mission thought it was a terrorist attack from the beginning."

Ambassador Chris Stephens, one of the four Americans killed at Benghazi,
telephoned Mr Hicks in Tripoli to tell him they were under attack and made no
mention of any earlier demonstration, he said. Five days after the attack, Susan
Rice, Mr Obama's Ambassador to the UN, went on television news shows and used
CIA briefing notes as a basis for saying that the violence happened after
extremists had joined a spontaneous protest against the video.

Last week the White House and the State Department faced repeated questions
about their handling of the affair. Jay Carney, the White House spokesman,
prefaced his remarks by saying: "Benghazi happened a long time ago," before
denying suggestions that pressure had been placed upon some witnesses not to
give evidence. He also expressed regret at the politicisation of the issue.

The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, chaired by the Republican
Darrell Issa, will also hear from Mark Thompson, deputy assistant secretary of
counter-terrorism at the State Department, and Eric Nordstrom, a regional
security officer in Libya for the State Department.

Mr Issa issued a statement at the weekend claiming that some witnesses were
afraid to come forward. "In many cases their principal reticence of appearing in
public is their concern of retaliation at the hands of their respective
employers," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

'Benghazi was an organised terror attack'

BYLINE: David Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 154 words


The terrorist attack on the US consulate in Benghazi comes back to haunt the
Obama Administration tomorrow, with claims of a cover-up on top of security and
intelligence failures.

The White House suggested that the attack eight months ago, in which four
Americans died, had grown spontaneously out of a demonstration in protest at an
anti-Muslim YouTube video.

But it emerged that it was a planned assault by more than 100 men armed with
mortar bombs, rocket-propelled grenades and heavy machineguns.

Tomorrow, Gregory Hicks, who was the deputy chief of mission at the US Embassy
in Tripoli, will testify before the House of Representatives Oversight and
Government Reform Committee.

In extracts of his video-recorded evidence to the committee, which have been
made public, Mr Hicks said: "I thought it was a terrorist attack from the
get-go. I think everybody in the mission thought it was a terrorist attack from
the beginning."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                              May 7, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FBI raid 'disrupted terror attack';
WORLDBULLETINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 85 words


THE FBI said it believes "a terror attack was disrupted" when authorities raided
a western Minnesota mobile home.

The FBI arrested 24-year-old Buford Rogers on Friday, after a search of his home
in Montevideo uncovered Molotov cocktails, suspected pipe bombs and firearms.

The FBI said it believes "the lives of several local residents were potentially
saved" by the search and arrest.

The agency said a terror plot was discovered through analysis of intelligence
gathered by local, state and federal authorities.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday

Security beefed up in southern Indian city following inputs of terror attacks

LENGTH: 617 words


Text of report headlined "Hyderabad on terror radar of Al-Jihad militant outfit"
published by Indian newspaper The New Indian Express website on 8 May;
subheading as carried

Hyderabad: Security has been stepped up across Hyderabad following an alert from
the Intelligence Bureau (IB) suggesting that a militant outfit "Al-Jihad" - may
carry out terror strikes in the city.

Police officials, however, said that the alert is not Hyderabad specific.

Sources disclosed to Express that a letter was received by the US Consulate in
Kolkata about 20 days ago in which the outfit, claiming to be members of
Al-Jihad, warned of terror strikes across Kolkata and other cities. The
Intelligence Bureau issued alerts to several states including Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Delhi among other cities and suggested that security
be stepped up at crowded places including shopping malls, multiplexes, railway
stations and other places which witness huge gatherings.

Sources said that security has also been stepped up in and around the US
Consulate in Begumpet in Hyderabad as well and other consulate offices across
the country.

Soon after the alert reached the state intelligence wing, it was passed on to
the Hyderabad police. Frisking and checking operations were taken up by the task
force teams. Security has also been stepped up in Secunderabad, Hyderabad and
Kacheguda railway stations. When contacted, Hyderabad police commissioner Anurag
Sharma said that the alert was not specific to Hyderabad. "However, we have
stepped up security at all important places and we are watching the situation.
All our teams have taken up frisking and checking operations and other necessary
measures," he said.

Sources further said that though this terror group is unknown in India, with
some pointing out that it is not even active in Jammu and Kashmir, they believe
that it could be associated with Al-Qaeda terror group which may try to make its
'presence felt' in the country.

"The letter has Al-Jihad written on top of it and makes a mention that their
targets could be Americans besides crowded places like railway stations. The
threat is being viewed seriously," a source in Delhi told this paper over phone.

Police officials said that earlier, Al Jihad was active in Egypt, Sudan and
Albania where they have carried out assassination bids on some key leaders. "The
available information indicates that Al-Jihad had forged an alliance with
Al-Qaeda in early 2000," they said.

Curbs on parking at railway stations

Hyderabad: In the view of the intelligence alerts, the railway police has asked
the parking lot contractors not to allow vehicles to be parked for more than two
or three days at railway stations. Speaking at an awareness programme on
'Security and Safety Aspects' organised on Platform 1 of the Secunderabad
railway station on Tuesday [7 May], railway police superintendent M. Kantha Rao
asked the contract sweepers and sanitation workers to alert the railway police
or RPF [Railway Protection Force] about any suspicious objects found in and
around the station. He said the security personnel of a VIP should be in uniform
and display their identity cards while carrying weapons aboard a train. If they
disregard the rule, RPF will be forced to take action against them in accordance
with law. Further, no security men should move on platforms in mufti carrying
weapons without valid identity cards. Rao stressed the need for joint checking
of every train by RPF and government railway police. He asked RPF personnel to
ensure that all the CC cameras at the Secunderabad station were in working
condition.

Source: The New Indian Express online (www.newindianexpress.com), Chennai, in
English 08 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday

Turkey wishes peaceful election in Pakistan, condemns terror attacks

LENGTH: 249 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia)

[Unattributed report: "Turkey wishes peaceful general elections in Pakistan
-Turkish Foreign Ministry wished that the general elections in Pakistan would be
held in a safe, peaceful and healthy atmosphere"]

ANKARA (AA) - 08.05.2013 - Turkish Foreign Ministry wished that the general
elections in Pakistan, which will be held on May 11, would take place in a safe,
peaceful and healthy atmosphere.

In a statement released on Wednesday, the Ministry condemned the recent
terrorist attacks perpetrated against a large number of candidates and political
parties with the purpose of affecting the elections negatively.

"We believe that the general elections in Pakistan will once again reflect the
democratic preferences of all segments of the brotherly nation of Pakistan and
contribute in overcoming various challenges that are being faced, as in all
democratic countries," it said.

Stating that Turkey would maintain its solidarity with friendly and brotherly
Pakistan for the peace and prosperity of the country, the ministry said "we take
pride in seeing the importance attached by all parties participating in the
general elections in Pakistan to the relations between Turkey and Pakistan,
which take their source in the historic friendship and cultural brotherhood
between the peoples of the two countries."

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency, Ankara, in English 1108
gmt 8 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 8, 2013 Wednesday 11:49 PM GMT

Secret email reveals top official told Libya's U.S. Abmassador that terrorists
were behind Benghazi attack - four days BEFORE U.S. Ambassador to UN said it was
a spontaneous attack

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 673 words



     ·    Sept. 11: Terrorists attack the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya
     ·    Sept. 12: State Dept. Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs
          tells Libya's President that Ansar al-Sharia was responsible
     ·    Sept. 13: CIA writes candid talking points for members of Congress
     ·    Sept. 15: White House deputies edit the talking points, removing all
          references to Islamic terrorism
     ·    Sept. 16: UN Ambassador Susan Rice, in five television interviews,
          blames the attack on a spontaneous mob angered by an anti-Islam
          YouTube video


A top State Department appointee told Libya's ambassador to the United States
one day after the military-style assault on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi that
the terror group Ansar al-Shariah was responsible.

But four days later, the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations said on
television that it was the product of a spontaneous protest.

During a fiery and emotional congressional hearing on the 2012 attack on the
U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Rep. Trey Gowdy read aloud from an email dated Sept.
12, 2012 to senior State Department officers, from Elizabeth Jones, the acting
Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs.

Describing a conversation she had with then-Libyan ambassador Ali Aujali, Jones
wrote in the previously undisclosed email that 'I told him that the group that
conducted the attacks, Ansar al-Sharia, is affiliated with Islamic terrorists.'

'Let me say that again,' Gowdy emphasized during the hearing: 'She told him.'

Aujali was Libya's ambassador in Washington, D.C. until November 2012. He was
later proposed as a candidate to be the country's foreign minister, but he was
never sworn in. News reports at the time attributed his failure to win the job
to his history of involvement with the regime of the dictator Muammar Gaddafi.

President Obama appointed Jones to her post on June 1, 2012, following her
service as U.S. Ambassador to Kazakhstan during the 1990s, and as assistant
secretary for Europe and Eurasia.

Her email, Gowdy said, went to 'almost everyone in the State Department,'
including spokeswoman Victoria Nuland.

Nuland, according to a report in The Weekly Standard, was instrumental in
raising red flags about the CIA's candid assessment of how and why the consulate
was attacked, which the agency prepared as talking points for members of
Congress.

And according to a report from House Republicans released in April, Nuland wrote
in an email that 'my building leadership' at the State Department wasn't happy
with those talking points.

In the ensuing 24 hours, the talking points were edited heavily, reportedly by
White House deputies, and all references to Islamic terrorism were removed.

Gowdy's statement came in a hearing before the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform.

In the days following the attack, various Obama administration officials said
publicly that a spontaneous protest, not a terror attack, destroyed the
consulate and killed four Americans, including Ambassador Chris Stevens.

UN Ambassador Susan Rice, in particular, appeared on five Sunday morning
political talk shows and repeated that talking point.

Greg Hicks, formerly the U.S. State Department's Deputy Chief of Mission in
Libya, testified Rice never spoke with him before appearing on those television
programs.

'She did not bother to have a conversation with you before she went on national
television?' Gowdy asked Hicks.

'No sir,' he replied.

Asked for his reaction when he heard Rice contradict the best intelligence from
the CIA and the email from Jones, Hicks said, 'I was stunned. My jaw dropped.
And I was embarrassed.'

Asked later in the hearing by Ohio Republican Rep. Jim Jordan about a phone call
he had with Jones after Rice's television interviews, Hicks said he asked why
Rice said what she did.

"'She said "I don't know."... The sense I got was that I should stop that line
of questioning.'

Hicks also testified that it took 'maybe 18 days to get the FBI team to
Benghazi' for an investigation to commence.

'The crime scene was unsecured for 18 days?' Gowdy asked, his voice rising?

'Yes,' came Hicks' reply.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 8, 2013 Wednesday 7:14 PM GMT

Secret email reveals top official told Libya's president that terrorists were
behind Benghazi attack - four days BEFORE U.S. Ambassador to UN said it was a
spontaneous attack

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 618 words



     ·    Sept. 11: Terrorists attack the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya
     ·    Sept. 12: State Dept. Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs
          tells Libya's President that Ansar al-Sharia was responsible
     ·    Sept. 13: CIA writes candid talking points for members of Congress
     ·    Sept. 15: White House deputies edit the talking points, removing all
          references to Islamic terrorism
     ·    Sept. 16: UN Ambassador Susan Rice, in five television interviews,
          blames the attack on a spontaneous mob angered by an anti-Islam
          YouTube video


A top State Department appointee told Libya's president one day after the
military-style assault on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi that the terror group
Ansar al-Shariah was responsible.

But four days later, the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations said on
television that it was the product of a spontaneous protest.

During a fiery and emotional congressional hearing on the 2012 attack on the
U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Rep. Trey Gowdy read aloud from an email dated Sept.
12, 2012 to senior State Department officers, from Elizabeth Jones, the acting
Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs.

Describing a conversation she had with Libyan president Mohammad al-Magarief,
Jones wrote in the previously undisclosed email that 'I told him that the group
that conducted the attacks, Ansar al-Sharia, is affiliated with Islamic
terrorists.'

'Let me say that again,' Gowdy emphasized during the hearing: 'She told him.'

President Obama appointed Jones to her post on June 1, 2012, following her
service as U.S. Ambassador to Kazakhstan during the 1990s, and as assistant
secretary for Europe and Eurasia.

Her email, Gowdy said, went to 'almost everyone in the State Department,'
including spokeswoman Victoria Nuland.

Nuland, according to a report in The Weekly Standard, was instrumental in
raising red flags about the CIA's candid assessment of how and why the consulate
was attacked, which the agency prepared as talking points for members of
Congress.

And according to a report from House Republicans released in April, Nuland wrote
in an email that 'my building leadership' at the State Department wasn't happy
with those talking points.

In the ensuing 24 hours, the talking points were edited heavily, reportedly by
White House deputies, and all references to Islamic terrorism were removed.

Gowdy's statement came in a hearing before the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform.

In the days following the attack, various Obama administration officials said
publicly that a spontaneous protest, not a terror attack, destroyed the
consulate and killed four Americans, including Ambassador Chris Stevens.

UN Ambassador Susan Rice, in particular, appeared on five Sunday morning
political talk shows and repeated that talking point.

Greg Hicks, formerly the U.S. State Department's Deputy Chief of Mission in
Libya, testified Rice never spoke with him before appearing on those television
programs.

'She did not bother to have a conversation with you before she went on national
television?' Gowdy asked Hicks.

'No sir,' he replied.

Asked for his reaction when he heard Rice contradict the best intelligence from
the CIA and the email from Jones, Hicks said, 'I was stunned. My jaw dropped.
And I was embarrassed.'

Asked later in the hearing by Ohio Republican Rep. Jim Jordan about a phone call
he had with Jones after Rice's television interviews, Hicks said he asked why
Rice said what she did.

"'She said "I don't know."... The sense I got was that I should stop that line
of questioning.'

Hicks also testified that it took 'maybe 18 days to get the FBI team to
Benghazi' for an investigation to commence.

'The crime scene was unsecured for 18 days?' Gowdy asked, his voice rising?

'Yes,' came Hicks' reply.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 8, 2013 Wednesday 7:03 PM GMT

Secret email shows top State Department official TOLD LIBYA'S PRESIDENT on Sept.
12 that terrorists were behind Benghazi attack the day before

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 531 words


A top State Department appointee told Libya's president one day after the
military-style assault on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi that the terror group
Ansar al-Shariah was responsible. But four days later, the U.S. Ambassador to
the United Nations said on television that it was the product of a spontaneous
protest.

During a congressional hearing on the 2012 attack on the U.S. Consulate in
Benghazi, Rep. Trey Gowdy read aloud from an email dated Sept. 12, 2012 to
senior State Department officers, from Elizabeth Jones, the acting Secretary of
State for Near Eastern Affairs.

Describing a conversation she had with Libyan president Mohammad al-Magarief,
Jones wrote in the previously undisclosed email that 'I told him that the group
that conducted the attacks, Ansar al-Sharia, is affiliated with Islamic
terrorists.'

'Let me say that again,' Gowdy emphasized during the hearing: 'She told him.'

President Obama appointed Jones to her post on June 1, 2012, following her
service as U.S. Ambassador to Kazakhstan during the 1990s, and as assistant
secretary for Europe and Eurasia.

Her email, Gowdy said, went to 'almost everyone in the State Department,'
including spokeswoman Victoria Nuland.

Nuland, according to a report in The Weekly Standard, was instrumental in
raising red flags about the CIA's candid assessment of how and why the consulate
was attacked, which the agency prepared as talking points for members of
Congress.

And according to a report from House Republicans released in April, Nuland wrote
in an email that 'my building leadership' at the State Department wasn't happy
with those talking points.

In the ensuing 24 hours, the talking points were edited heavily, reportedly by
White House deputies, and all references to Islamic terrorism were removed.

Gowdy's statement came in a hearing before the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform.

In the days following the attack, various Obama administration officials said
publicly that a spontaneous protest, not a terror attack, destroyed the
consulate and killed four Americans, including Ambassador Chris Stevens.

UN Ambassador Susan Rice, in particular, appeared on five Sunday morning
political talk shows and repeated that talking point.

Greg Hicks, formerly the U.S. State Department's Deputy Chief of Mission in
Libya, testified Rice never spoke with him before appearing on those television
programs.

'She did not bother to have a conversation with you before she went on national
television?' Gowdy asked Hicks.

'No sir,' he replied.

Asked for his reaction when he heard Rice contradict the best intelligence from
the CIA and the email from Jones, Hicks said, 'I was stunned. My jaw dropped.
And I was embarrassed.'

Asked later in the hearing by Ohio Republican Rep. Jim Jordan about a phone call
he had with Jones after Rice's television interviews, Hicks said he asked why
Rice said what she did.

"'She said "I don't know."... The sense I got was that I should stop that line
of questioning.'

Hicks also testified that it took 'maybe 18 days to get the FBI team to
Benghazi' for an investigation to commence.

'The crime scene was unsecured for 18 days?' Gowdy asked, his voice rising?

'Yes,' came Hicks' reply.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday

Turkey condemns recent terrorist attacks in Pakistan

LENGTH: 385 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 8 May

The Foreign Ministry has condemned recent terrorist attacks targeting political
party workers and candidates running for Pakistan's national elections set for
this Saturday.

The ministry said in a statement on Wednesday that Turkey hopes the 11 May
elections, which aim to be another step towards Pakistan's democratic
development, will take place in a harmonious and secure environment. The
statement added that the recent attacks targeting political candidates aimed to
negatively affect the elections.

On Tuesday, three bombings in northwest Pakistan targeting individuals involved
in this week's elections killed 18 people, pushing the death toll from attacks
on candidates and party workers to more than 100 since the beginning of last
month.

Two of Tuesday's attacks targeted candidates from Islamist parties, indicating a
new trend in the pre-election violence, which had only plagued secular parties
before this week.

"We believe the general elections in Pakistan will once again reflect the
democratic preferences of all segments of the brotherly nation of Pakistan and
contribute to overcoming various challenges that are being faced, as in all
democratic countries," the statement said.

Stating that Turkey would maintain its solidarity with Pakistan for the peace
and prosperity of the country, the ministry said, "We are proud to see the
importance attached to relations between Turkey and Pakistan by all parties
participating in the general elections in Pakistan."

The Pakistani Taleban has claimed responsibility for many of the attacks in the
run-up to the elections and specifically threatened several secular parties back
in March.

In a separate incident, prominent Pakistani politician Imran Khan, a former
cricket legend whose party is a leading contender in the elections, fell about
five meters from a forklift on Tuesday that was raising him and three guards
onto the stage at a rally in the eastern city of Lahore. Khan is expected to
make a full recovery despite fracturing three vertebrae and a rib in the
dramatic fall, his doctor said on Wednesday. It is possible that Khan could
benefit from the accident if Pakistanis choose to vote for him out of sympathy.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 8 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 9, 2013 Thursday

Bahrain: Two accused of plotting "terrorist attacks" fail to appear in court

LENGTH: 180 words


Text of report in English by Bahrain newspaper Gulf Daily News website on 9 May

[Unattributed report: "Terror Accused Fail To Appear in Court"]

TWO men accused of being part of a plot to carry out terrorist attacks across
Bahrain failed to show up in court yesterday for the second time.

The Bahrainis, who are being held in custody, reportedly refused to leave their
cells to attend the hearing at the High Criminal Court.

However, two other men standing trial in the same case appeared in court after
refusing to appear at the last hearing.

All deny involvement in a bomb-making factory discovered in Salmabad last July.

The trial was adjourned until May 29 for the defendants in custody to attend.

Six other men standing trial in the same case remain on the run and are being
tried in absentia.

Authorities announced at the time that five tonnes of explosive materials had
been seized during police raids.

However, only four of the nine suspects have so far been arrested and their
alleged accomplices are being tried in absentia.

Source: Gulf Daily News website, Manama, in English 9 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 10, 2013 Friday

EU warns against terror attacks by Al-Shabab in Mogadishu

LENGTH: 184 words


The EU has warned against possible terror attacks by Al-Shabab in Mogadishu and
central regions of the country

Speaking to the media, EU representative for political and foreign affairs
Catherine Ashton warned against possible attacks by Al-Shabab Islamists fighters
in the country, especially in Mogadishu and central regions of Somalia,
privately-owned Radio Dalsan reported on 8 May.

Ashton urged federal government of Somalia's security institutions to intensify
their operations in order to prevent possible attacks which could occur in the
country, according to the radio.

"The representative strongly denounced latest suicide explosion attacks in
Mogadishu, promised assistance to the federal government of Somalia to enable it
take full control of security in the country, commended current security
operations by the federal government of Somalia and AU peacekeepers", added the
report.

This is coming at a time when European Union has urged the international
community to assist Somalia's federal government in ensuring security and
justice.

Source: Radio Dalsan, Mogadishu, in Somali 1600 gmt 9 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 10, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MOYES DEATH THREAT TERROR;
New Man U boss attacked BEFORE he's even started

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 42 words


DAVID Moyes was blitzed with death threats yesterday after his dramatic switch
to the Manchester United hot seat.

The Everton boss's move triggered a violent reaction from fans enraged by his
appointment as Sir Alex Ferguson's successor.

Full story: Page 5

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 10, 2013 Friday 6:37 PM GMT

The Obama administration's State Department had a direct hand in revising the
official story on the 2012 Benghazi terror attack, new documents show

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 926 words



     ·    State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland objected to the CIA's
          summary, which concluded that terrorists killed four Americans
     ·    Attack came in the weeks before the 2012 election, as President Obama
          was campaigning on the strength of having defeated al Qaeda
     ·    White House Press Secretary Jay Carney has denied that the
          administration had a substantial hand in changing the official story
     ·    ABC News reports that the administration's line was edited 12 times


The Obama administration rewrote the CIA's official story about the Dept. 11,
2012 terror attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, judging from 12
different versions of a summary that emerged Friday.

White House Press Secretary Jay Carney has claimed that the intelligence
community was solely responsible for drafting and revising the document - known
now as the Benghazi 'talking points - and that editing by political appointees
in the administration was limited to changing no more than two words.

But  ABC News reported that the State Department had direct influence on the
edits, and specifically requested the removal of references to the
al-Qaeda-affiliated terror group Ansar al-Sharia, and the deletion of references
to CIA warnings in the months before the attack that terror attacks in the
eastern Libyan city were expected.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

In one email leaked to ABC, State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland raised
a red flag about the CIA-written portion which warned that 'The Agency has
produced numerous pieces on the threat of extremists linked to al-Qa'ida in
Benghazi and eastern Libya.'

'Since April,' the CIA assessment continued, 'there have been at least five
other attacks against foreign interests in Benghazi by unidentified assailants,
including the June attack against the British Ambassador's convoy. We cannot
rule out the individuals has previously surveilled the U.S. facilities, also
contributing to the efficacy of the attacks.'

Nuland emailed White House and intelligence officials, warning that the
sentences 'could be abused by members [of Congress] to beat up the State
Department for not paying attention to warnings, so why would we want to feed
that either?'

The words in question did not appear in the final version that was distributed
to members of Congress.

Unfortunately your browser does not support IFrames.

US News | Syria News | More ABC News Videos

In subsequent emails, the CIA stuck to its guns, retaining language that said,
'we do know that Islamic extremists with ties to al-Qa'ida participated in the
attack,' naming Ansar al-Sharia. The draft went on to specifically name the al
Qaeda-affiliated group named Ansar al-Sharia.

After Nuland objected again, saying that terrorist groups should not be named
because the administration did not 'want to prejudice the investigation,' a
member of the National Security Council staff noted that 'The FBI did not have
major concerns with the points and offered only a couple minor suggestions.'

But Nuland wrote that 'my building' - likely referring to the State Department's
top leadership - was still unhappy.

Ultimately, according to the emails ABC News unearthed, Deputy National Security
Advisor Ben Rhodes conceded that the State Department's concerns should be
considered.

Carney has briefed the press and insisted that 'the CIA drafted these talking
points and redrafted these talking points.'

'The fact that there are inputs is always the case in a process like this, but
the only edits made by anyone here at the White House were stylistic and
nonsubstantive. They corrected the description of the building or the facility
in Benghazi from consulate to diplomatic facility and the like.'

Any input the White House did have likely came at a meeting of White House
deputies four days after the attack. 'The significant edits - deleting
references to al Qaeda and the CIA's warnings - came [that] White House
meeting,' ABC News reported on its blog.

On the day following that meeting, UN Ambassador Susan Rice appeared on five
television talk shows and kept to the resulting line that a spontaneous protest
- not a terror attack - was behind the destruction of the consulate and the loss
of life.

Nuland, ABC News adds, was not at the deputies' meeting and did not prepare Rice
for her interviews.

'We must make sure that the talking points reflect all agency equities,
including those of the State Department, and we don't want to undermine the FBI
investigation,' Rhodes emailed the group reviewing the talking points. 'We thus
will work through the talking points tomorrow morning at the Deputies Committee
meeting.'

Then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has become the focus of post-Benghazi
political wrangling, with Republicans on Capitol Hill accusing her of
stonewalling a congressional investigation and adding accusations of an
administration cover-up.

Clinton is likely to run for president in 2016, Democratic political analysts
predict, making the performance of her agency a political football.

The State Department did not respond to requests for comment.

But Clinton's tenure at State will continue to be a source of controversy. A
career diplomat who was second-in-command in Libya on the night of the Benghazi
attack testified before Congress on Wednesday that a commando team was turned
back from flying from Tripoli to Benghazi after the State Department intervened.

Gregory Hicks quoted an Army colonel telling him over the phone that 'this is
the first time in my career that a diplomat has more balls than somebody in the
military.'

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 10, 2013 Friday 6:21 PM GMT

The Obama administration's State Department had a direct hand in revising the
official story on the 2012 Benghazi terror attack, new documents show

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 744 words



     ·    State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland objected to the CIA's
          summary, which concluded that terrorists killed four Americans
     ·    Attack came in the weeks before the 2012 election, as President Obama
          was campaigning on the strength of having defeated al Qaeda
     ·    White House Press Secretary Jay Carney has denied that the
          administration had a substantial hand in changing the official story


The Obama administration rewrote the CIA's official story about the Dept. 11,
2012 terror attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, judging from 12
different versions of a summary that emerged Friday.

White House Press Secretary Jay Carney has claimed that the intelligence
community was solely responsible for drafting and revising the document - known
now as the Benghazi 'talking points - and that editing by political appointees
in the administration was limited to changing no more than two words.

But  ABC News reported that the State Department had direct influence on the
edits, and specifically requested the removal of references to the
al-Qaeda-affiliated terror group Ansar al-Sharia, and the deletion of references
to CIA warnings in the months before the attack that terror attacks in the
eastern Libyan city were expected.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

In one email leaked to ABC, State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland raised
a red flag about the CIA-written portion which warned that 'The Agency has
produced numerous pieces on the threat of extremists linked to al-Qa'ida in
Benghazi and eastern Libya.'

'Since April,' the CIA assessment continued, 'there have been at least five
other attacks against foreign interests in Benghazi by unidentified assailants,
including the June attack against the British Ambassador's convoy. We cannot
rule out the individuals has previously surveilled the U.S. facilities, also
contributing to the efficacy of the attacks.'

Nuland emailed White House and intelligence officials, warning that the
sentences 'could be abused by members [of Congress] to beat up the State
Department for not paying attention to warnings, so why would we want to feed
that either?'

The words in question did not appear in the final version that was distributed
to members of Congress.

Unfortunately your browser does not support IFrames.

US News | Syria News

| More ABC News Videos

In subsequent emails, the CIA stuck to its guns, retaining language that said,
'we do know that Islamic extremists with ties to al-Qa'ida participated in the
attack,' naming Ansar al-Sharia. The draft went on to specifically name the al
Qaeda-affiliated group named Ansar al-Sharia.

After Nuland objected again, saying that terrorist groups should not be named
because the administration did not 'want to prejudice the investigation,' a
member of the National Security Council staff noted that 'The FBI did not have
major concerns with the points and offered only a couple minor suggestions.'

But Nuland wrote that 'my building' - likely referring to the State Department's
top leadership - was still unhappy.

Ultimately, according to the emails ABC News unearthed, Deputy National Security
Advisor Ben Rhodes conceded that the State Department's concerns should be
considered.

'We must make sure that the talking points reflect all agency equities,
including those of the State Department, and we don't want to undermine the FBI
investigation,' Rhodes emailed the group reviewing the talking points. 'We thus
will work through the talking points tomorrow morning at the Deputies Committee
meeting.'

Then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has become the focus of post-Benghazi
political wrangling, with Republicans on Capitol Hill accusing her of
stonewalling a congressional investigation and adding accusations of an
administration cover-up.

Clinton is likely to run for president in 2016, Democratic political analysts
predict, making the performance of her agency a political football.

The State Department did not respond to requests for comment.

But Clinton's tenure at State will continue to be a source of controversy. A
career diplomat who was second-in-command in Libya on the night of the Benghazi
attack testified before Congress on Wednesday that a commando team was turned
back from flying from Tripoli to Benghazi after the State Department intervened.

Gregory Hicks quoted an Army colonel telling him over the phone that 'this is
the first time in my career that a diplomat has more balls than somebody in the
military.'

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 10, 2013 Friday 6:05 PM GMT

The Obama administration's State Department had a direct hand in revising the
official story on the 2012 Benghazi terror attack, new documents show

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 580 words


The Obama administration rewrote the CIA's official story about the Dept. 11,
2012 terror attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, judging from 12
different versions of a summary that emerged Friday.

White House Press Secretary Jay Carney has claimed that the intelligence
community was solely responsible for drafting and revising the document - known
now as the Benghazi 'talking points - and that editing by political appointees
in the administration was limited to changing no more than two words.

But ABC News reported that the State Department had direct influence on the
edits, and specifically requested the removal of references to the
al-Qaeda-affiliated terror group Ansar al-Sharia, and the deletion of references
to CIA warnings in the months before the attack that terror attacks in the
eastern Libyan city were expected.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

In one email leaked to ABC, State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland raised
a red flag about the CIA-written portion which warned that 'The Agency has
produced numerous pieces on the threat of extremists linked to al-Qa'ida in
Benghazi and eastern Libya.'

'Since April,' the CIA assessment continued, 'there have been at least five
other attacks against foreign interests in Benghazi by unidentified assailants,
including the June attack against the British Ambassador's convoy. We cannot
rule out the individuals has previously surveilled the U.S. facilities, also
contributing to the efficacy of the attacks.'

Nuland emailed White House and intelligence officials, warning that the
sentences 'could be abused by members [of Congress] to beat up the State
Department for not paying attention to warnings, so why would we want to feed
that either?'

The words in question did not appear in the final version that was distributed
to members of Congress.

Unfortunately your browser does not support IFrames.

US News |

Syria News | More ABC News Videos

In subsequent emails, the CIA stuck to its guns, retaining language that said,
'we do know that Islamic extremists with ties to al-Qa'ida participated in the
attack,' naming Ansar al-Sharia. The draft went on to specifically name the al
Qaeda-affiliated group named Ansar al-Sharia.

After Nuland objected again, saying that terrorist groups should not be named
because the administration did not 'want to prejudice the investigation,' a
member of the National Security Council staff noted that 'The FBI did not have
major concerns with the points and offered only a couple minor suggestions.'

Ultimately according to the emails ABC News unearthed, Deputy National Security
Advisor Ben Rhodes conceded that the State Department's concerns should be
considered.

'We must make sure that the talking points reflect all agency equities,
including those of the State Department, and we don't want to undermine the FBI
investigation,' Rhodes emailed the group reviewing the talking points. 'We thus
will work through the talking points tomorrow morning at the Deputies Committee
meeting.'

Then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has become the focus of post-Benghazi
political wrangling, with Republicans on Capitol Hill accusing her of
stonewalling a congressional investigation and adding accusations of an
administration cover-up.

Clinton is likely to run for president in 2016, Democratic political analysts
predict, making the performance of her agency a political football.

The State Department did not respond to requests for comment.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                              May 10, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MOYES DEATH THREAT TERROR;
New Man U boss attacked BEFORE he's even started

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 42 words


DAVID Moyes was blitzed with death threats yesterday after his dramatic switch
from Everton to the Man United hot seat.

The Scots boss' move triggered a violent reaction from fans enraged by his
appointment as Sir Alex Ferguson's successor.

Full story: Page 5

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday

Egypt arrests Qa'idah-linked "terrorist" cell before suicide attacks - minister

LENGTH: 392 words


Egyptian Interior Ministry announced on 11 May arresting a "terrorist cell"
which was planning to carry out out suicide attacks against vital, important and
foreign establishments in the country.

The announcement was made by Interior Minister Muhammad Ibrahim in an unexpected
press conference broadcast live by state-run TV's Channel 1 and several other
TVs at 1300 gmt on 11 May.

According to Ibrahim, the cell was linked to that of Nasr City.

The national security agency had information about moves by "terrorist" elements
to carry out suicide attacks in the country in the upcoming phase, Ibrahim said.

The names of the suspects are Amr Muhammad Abu-al-Ila Aqidah, Muhammad
Abd-al-Hamid Himidah Salih, and Muhammad Mustafa Muhammad Ibrahim Bayyumi, he
added.

There was coordination with the supreme security state prosecution which gave
permits to arrest the aforementioned suspects and inspect their residential
places, he added.

The police seized in their possession10 kilograms of Ammonium nitrate, a
chemical compound used to make bombs, a personal computer with information about
how to make explosives, electronic circuits, a small plane, a drawing on how to
make a launcher, a number of statements for Al-Qa'idah in the Islamic Maghreb
countries, and means of collecting intelligence information, he added.

He said information revealed that the cell has contacts with Al-Kurdi Dawuud
al-Asadi, Al-Qa'idah's member in western Asia, and that one suspect got orders
to contact Muhammad Jamal Abdu and Tariq Taha Abu-al-Azm, who are currently
under temporary detention on charges of belonging to Nasr City's cell, as well
as one person in Sinai.

According to the interior minister, one of the suspects contacted Al-Qa'idah in
Algeria, travelled to Iran and Pakistan and received military training in the
aforementioned countries.

He also said the suspects had electronic contacts with one of Al-Qa'idah's
members in Pakistan and one of the "elements responsible for receiving
terrorists on Turkish borders," explaining that the suspects were planning to
carry out a suicide attack by the suspect, Muhammad Ibrahim Bayumi, against a
foreign embassy.

Ibrahim said that the ministry is keen on restoring security in the country.

The minister also enumerated arresting several suspects in recent crimes.

Source: Channel 1 TV, Cairo, in Arabic 1300gmt 11 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WHITE WINDOW PLOTS ATTACK ON HOL BRITS;
TERROR BID OF 7/7 BOMBER'S WIFE

BYLINE: GRAEME CULLIFORD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 484 words


A TERROR suspect known as the White Widow is feared to be plotting to blow up
British tourists at a paradise resort.

Samantha Lewthwaite, 29, is on the run after Kenyan cops charged her with
planning explosions with the same chemicals husband Germaine Lindsay used in the
July 7 attacks on London.

The mum of three, a former Home Counties schoolgirl who converted to Islam at
15, has already been linked to two deadly grenade attacks.

And Sun investigators have found evidence she wants to bring carnage to Mombasa,
where her alleged accomplice will stand trial on Wednesday.

Spotted It is feared she may try to free ally Jermaine Grant in an armed raid -
then use his bomb-making skills to commit new atrocities.

Up to 200,000 Brits visit Kenya every year and a well-placed security source
said: "Three weeks ago we had a sighting of Samantha in Mombasa.

"We got a tip she was staying at a big house in a wealthy suburb. Her neighbour
had spotted a woman with blue eyes wearing a hijab. The description matched
Samantha exactly. We raided the house but she'd gone.

"We are convinced she is intent on more attacks. It is very worrying."

Lewthwaite, originally of Aylesbury, Bucks, claimed she knew nothing of husband
Lindsay's plans to detonate a rucksack on a Tube train near King's Cross in July
2005, killing 26 people. A month later she had a baby boy.

She went on to marry alleged British terrorist, Habib Saleh Ghani, nicknamed
Osama. The couple and her kids left for Kenya in 2009 and were thought to be in
Tanzania last year.

Cops linked them to Grant, 29, of Newham, East London, after raiding a home in
Mombasa where he was found with bomb-making gear.

On Wednesday British detectives will give evidence in Grant's trial, to be held
in his jail. He, Lewthwaite and Ghani are accused of planning to slaughter
tourists in December 2011.

That month Kenyan police quizzed Lewthwaite at the house of another extremist
but let her go because they did not believe a woman could be a terrorist. In
January 2012, cops raided a villa and found explosives and a picture of
Lewthwaite but she had fled. When The Sun visited the property recently her
battered Peugeot 405 was still outside. It is yards from one of her alleged
targets, the Serena Beach Hotel - popular with honeymooners.

At the hotel, newlywed British Army officer Shishir and wife Janelle, both 30,
said security has been stepped up. Shishir said: "They even frisk you in shops."

Lewthwaite continues to rant online about global jihad. Police believe she has
become the main fundraiser for al-Shabaab, a terror group waging war on the
Somalian government in the north. It is also claimed she has sent her kids to a
terror camp and trained a cell of female suicide bombers.

The security source added: "She has combined the ideas of al-Qaeda and
al-Shabaab. She hates non-Muslims and wants to cause the maximum destruction
possible." g.culliford@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lair . . the villa's abandoned kitchen
Trial . . Grant and, far right, 2005 story on widow's baby
Fugitive in paradise ... cops found pic of Lewthwaite (left) at Mombasa villa.
Below, resort on her hitlist

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Borehamwood Times

                                  May 13, 2013

'I still have nightmares' - disabled man's terror after dog attack

BYLINE: Anna Slater

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 358  words


A disabled man was left feeling powerless when a vicious mutt lunged at his dog
"like a bullet from a gun" in an aggressive attack.

Peter Franklin, of Farriers Way, Borehamwood, had to fend the bulldog off with
his walking stick when it sank its teeth into his dog Gus's neck in Dales Path
at 7am on Friday.

There was so much blood that Mr Franklin, who has multiple sclerosis and
struggles to walk, was convinced his beloved ten-year-old border terrier had
been killed.

Gus was left with a black eye and puncture wounds in his neck, and Mr Franklin
said he has "not been his happy chirpy self" since the unprovoked incident.

The 49-year-old added: "The dog that did this to my Gus is a monster. I thought
he was going to kill my dog in front of me. I still have nightmares about it.

"The dog lunged out from nowhere. It shot at him like a bullet from a gun. I was
startled and was screaming for help but nobody came.

"I had to hit it with my walking stick but it just snarled and didn't pay any
notice of me. I saw Gus's little eyes staring back at me and I thought he had
died. It was heartbreaking, I was panicking."

Eventually the dog's owner appeared and managed to coax him away - but Mr
Franklin claims he did not stop to check whether Gus or Mr Franklin were alright
- even though his walking stick had been broken.

He managed to get himself and the dog home and when he arrived, the reality of
what happened kicked in and he reported it to the police.

As a result of his injuries, Gus had to have his neck shaved so he could have
stitches and now needs to take regular antibiotics to ward off any infection he
might have caught in the attack.

The part-time receptionist's illness means he only has 50 per cent of feeling in
his left leg and struggles to hold his balance and walk properly.

But he said the dog is his "only link to the outside world" and the pair have
stuck by each other through tough times.

He added: "I want the owner to feel ashamed about what his dog did. It is so
cruel.

"I have toyed with the idea of giving Gus up as I just feel incredibly guilty
about what happened. I am too scared to take him for walks now.

"It is outrageous."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        May 13, 2013 Monday 12:02 PM GMT

Corrie Ken attack terror

BYLINE: Peter Dyke

LENGTH: 237 words


PALS fear Corrie rape charge star William Roache will be the target of a
vigilante attack after furious fans defaced his waxwork.

Bosses at Madame Tussauds have been forced to remove the £150,000 model from
display after visitors covered it with obscene graffiti.

Now the Ken Barlow actor's pals fear the culprits could target Roache himself.

One said: "It's a scary situation for him."

Roache, 81, has been charged with two counts of raping a 15-year-old girl in the
1960s. He strongly denies the allegations.

The model was removed from Madame Tussauds in Blackpool after some visitors
defaced it, others posed with it for indecent shots and some complained that the
figure should not even be on show.

But a pal said: "People are making knee-jerk reactions about Bill and he hasn't
even had a trial. He has said he will fight this in court and defend his name
and reputation.

"But if people are attacking waxwork figures of him then it is worrying what
they would do to him if they met him in the street."

A Tussauds spokesman said last night: "We have received a number of comments
relating to the figure.

"But even more importantly, we have witnessed unacceptable behaviour from a
small number of visitors.

"We have decided to temporarily remove the figure."

Last night Corrie bosses did not want to comment.

The actor is currently on bail and is due before Preston magistrates tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

OUR FEARS FOR TV'S KEN AFTER VICIOUS ATTACK;
Mates' terror as dummy defaced

BYLINE: PETER DYKE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 235 words


PALS fear Corrie rape charge star William Roache will be the target of a
vigilante attack after furious fans defaced his waxwork.

Bosses at Madame Tussauds have been forced to remove the £150,000 model from
display after visitors covered it with obscene graffiti.

Now the Ken Barlow's friends are worried the culprits could target the star
himself.

One said: "It's a scary situation for him."

Roache, 81, has been charged with two counts of raping a 15-year-old girl in the
1960s. He strongly denies the allegations.

The model was removed from Madame Tussauds in Blackpool after some visitors
defaced it, others posed with it for indecent shots and some complained that the
figure should not even be on show.

But a pal said: "People are making kneejerk reactions about Bill and he hasn't
even had a trial. He has said he will fight this in court and defend his name
and reputation.

"But if people are attacking waxwork fig-ures of him then it is worrying what
they would do to him if they met him in the street."

A Tussauds spokesman said last night: "We have received a number of comments
relating to the figure.

"But even more importantly, we have witnessed unacceptable behaviour from a
small number of visitors.

"We have decided to temporarily remove the figure."

Last night Corrie bosses did not want to comment.

The actor is currently on bail and is due before Preston magistrates tomorrow.

peter.dyke@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DOUBLE TROUBLE: Roache at the waxwork's unveiling

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CORRIE KEN IN ATTACK TACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 54 words


CORRIE rape charge star Bill Roache could be the target of a vigilante attack,
his friends fear.

Their concerns were sparked after the Ken Barlow actor's Madame Tussauds waxwork
was defaced.

Roache has been charged with two counts of raping a 15-year-old girl in the
1960s. He strongly denies the allegations.

Full story: Page 9

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 13, 2013 Monday 5:41 PM GMT

Secret email reveals top official told Libya's U.S. Ambassador that terrorists
were behind Benghazi attack - four days BEFORE U.S. Ambassador to UN said it was
a spontaneous attack

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 673 words



     ·    Sept. 11: Terrorists attack the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya
     ·    Sept. 12: State Dept. Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs
          tells Libya's President that Ansar al-Sharia was responsible
     ·    Sept. 13: CIA writes candid talking points for members of Congress
     ·    Sept. 15: White House deputies edit the talking points, removing all
          references to Islamic terrorism
     ·    Sept. 16: UN Ambassador Susan Rice, in five television interviews,
          blames the attack on a spontaneous mob angered by an anti-Islam
          YouTube video


A top State Department appointee told Libya's ambassador to the United States
one day after the military-style assault on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi that
the terror group Ansar al-Shariah was responsible.

But four days later, the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations said on
television that it was the product of a spontaneous protest.

During a fiery and emotional congressional hearing on the 2012 attack on the
U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Rep. Trey Gowdy read aloud from an email dated Sept.
12, 2012 to senior State Department officers, from Elizabeth Jones, the acting
Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs.

Describing a conversation she had with then-Libyan ambassador Ali Aujali, Jones
wrote in the previously undisclosed email that 'I told him that the group that
conducted the attacks, Ansar al-Sharia, is affiliated with Islamic terrorists.'

'Let me say that again,' Gowdy emphasized during the hearing: 'She told him.'

Aujali was Libya's ambassador in Washington, D.C. until November 2012. He was
later proposed as a candidate to be the country's foreign minister, but he was
never sworn in. News reports at the time attributed his failure to win the job
to his history of involvement with the regime of the dictator Muammar Gaddafi.

President Obama appointed Jones to her post on June 1, 2012, following her
service as U.S. Ambassador to Kazakhstan during the 1990s, and as assistant
secretary for Europe and Eurasia.

Her email, Gowdy said, went to 'almost everyone in the State Department,'
including spokeswoman Victoria Nuland.

Nuland, according to a report in The Weekly Standard, was instrumental in
raising red flags about the CIA's candid assessment of how and why the consulate
was attacked, which the agency prepared as talking points for members of
Congress.

And according to a report from House Republicans released in April, Nuland wrote
in an email that 'my building leadership' at the State Department wasn't happy
with those talking points.

In the ensuing 24 hours, the talking points were edited heavily, reportedly by
White House deputies, and all references to Islamic terrorism were removed.

Gowdy's statement came in a hearing before the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform.

In the days following the attack, various Obama administration officials said
publicly that a spontaneous protest, not a terror attack, destroyed the
consulate and killed four Americans, including Ambassador Chris Stevens.

UN Ambassador Susan Rice, in particular, appeared on five Sunday morning
political talk shows and repeated that talking point.

Greg Hicks, formerly the U.S. State Department's Deputy Chief of Mission in
Libya, testified Rice never spoke with him before appearing on those television
programs.

'She did not bother to have a conversation with you before she went on national
television?' Gowdy asked Hicks.

'No sir,' he replied.

Asked for his reaction when he heard Rice contradict the best intelligence from
the CIA and the email from Jones, Hicks said, 'I was stunned. My jaw dropped.
And I was embarrassed.'

Asked later in the hearing by Ohio Republican Rep. Jim Jordan about a phone call
he had with Jones after Rice's television interviews, Hicks said he asked why
Rice said what she did.

"'She said "I don't know."... The sense I got was that I should stop that line
of questioning.'

Hicks also testified that it took 'maybe 18 days to get the FBI team to
Benghazi' for an investigation to commence.

'The crime scene was unsecured for 18 days?' Gowdy asked, his voice rising?

'Yes,' came Hicks' reply.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

OUR FEARS FOR TV'S KEN AFTER VICIOUS ATTACK;
Mates' terror as dummy defaced

BYLINE: PETER DYKE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 234 words


PALS fear Corrie rape charge star William Roache will be the target of a
vigilante attack after furious fans defaced his waxwork.

Bosses at Madame Tussauds have been forced to remove the £150,000 model from
display after visitors covered it with obscene graffiti.

Now the Ken Barlow actor's pals fear the culprits could target Roache himself.

One said: "It's a scary situation for him."

Roache, 81, has been charged with two counts of raping a 15-year-old girl in the
1960s. He strongly denies the allegations.

The model was removed from Madame Tussauds in Blackpool after some visitors
defaced it, others posed with it for indecent shots and some complained that the
figure should not even be on show.

But a pal said: "People are making kneejerk reactions about Bill and he hasn't
even had a trial. He has said he will fight this in court and defend his name
and reputation.

"But if people are attacking waxwork fig-ures of him then it is worrying what
they would do to him if they met him in the street."

A Tussauds spokesman said last night: "We have received a number of comments
relating to the figure. "But even more importantly, we have witnessed
unacceptable behaviour from a small number of visitors.

"We have decided to temporarily remove the figure." Last night Corrie bosses did
not want to comment.

The actor is currently on bail and is due before Preston magistrates tomorrow.

peter.dyke@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DOUBLE TROUBLE: Roache at the waxwork's unveiling

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

CORRIE KEN IN ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 62 words


CORRIE rape charge star Bill Roache could be the target of a vigilante attack,
his friends fear.

CORRIE rape charge star Bill Roache could be the target of a vigilante attack,
his friends fear.

Their concerns were sparked after the Ken Barlow actor's Madame Tussauds waxwork
was defaced.

were sparked after the Ken Barlow actor's Madame Tussauds waxwork was defaced.

Full story: P9

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                              May 13, 2013 Monday

CORRIE KEN IN ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 33 words


CORRIE rape charge star Bill Roache could be the target of a vigilante attack,
his friends fear.

Their concerns were sparked after the Ken Barlow actor's Madame Tussauds waxwork
was defaced.

Full story: P9

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 13, 2013 Monday 10:00 PM GMT

Independent Scotland could be defence risk for whole of UK, senior MPs warn;
An independent Scotland could be a "gateway for attacks" on the UK and an
increased terrorism risk because of weakened defences and intelligence sharing,
two former defence secretaries have warned.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 491 words


The future of Britain's nuclear arsenal would also be in limbo for a generation
because it could take at least 15 years to safely remove it from Scotland, one
added.

And the Scottish National Party was accused of conducting "back of the envelope"
assessments on its defence policies for an independent Scotland.

The warnings came as Gordon Brown, the former Prime Minister, said being part of
the UK was "the best insurance policy I think we could have in the world".

Voters in Scotland will decide the country's future in an independence
referendum on September 18 next year.

Speaking at the Royal United Services Institute, Lord Browne, the former Labour
defence secretary, said Scotland's way of life was currently defence by a world
class military.

"If you cannot transition from where we are to an independent Scotland securing
all of those things and not becoming a gateway for some of those attacks on
these islands then we should not take this risk."

Sir Menzies Campbell, the former Liberal Democrat leader, said taking Scotland
out of current defence arrangements would "would severely damage the overall
defence effort of the UK".

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, a former Conservative defence secretary, warned Scotland
would no longer have automatic protection from the intelligence agencies and the
US would not share information in the way it does to the UK.

"Is a future Scotland going to be dependent simply on the hope that MI6, MI5 and
GCHQ would share intelligence with them?

"They possibly would but what would be the great advantage from a Scottish point
of view of turning what is at the moment and absolute entitlement into something
based on hope and good will?"

The SNP has said it would demand the removal of the UK's nuclear submarines from
Faslane at the "speediest and safest" opportunity.

But Sir Malcolm said it could be 15 years before a suitable alternative site is
found and built, and even that could be optimistic.

"Would Trident be allowed to remain until some alternatives have been made?" he
asked.

Angus Robertson, the SNP spokesman on defence, insisted it was right for an
independent Scotland to decide whether to send its citizens to war based on the
wishes of Scottish people.

In Scotland, Mr Brown helped launch "United with Labour", the party's campaign
against independence.

He warned the SNP is willing to endanger Scottish jobs, mortgages and state
pensions in the hope of winning the referendum.

He called for a "Union for social justice" and argued that remaining in the UK
will benefit people in Scotland.

Speaking in Glasgow, he said: "I could put the case for the Union by talking
about how our defence needs are common, our security needs are mutual, our
environmental concerns are shared, that we are part of one single island. But I
want to make the case, the most modern case for the Union, for the pooling and
sharing of resources so that we are in a position to tackle poverty,
unemployment together."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Coventry Telegraph

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SAMURAI SWORD GANG ROB FAMILY IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Mike Malyon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 214 words


FIVE masked burglars, armed with Samurai swords, machetes and knives, carried
out a frightening robbery at a house in Bedworth.

They forced their way in and severed the electricity supply before confronting
the occupants, threatening them and demanding items of value, including the
jewellery they were wearing. The gang ransacked the house and also took two
i-phones and the keys to two cars parked outside, although they made their
getaway on foot.

The raid was in Mavor Drive just before 11pm last Friday and the robbers ran off
in the direction of Newcomen Road.

One of them is described as white, tall and slim, wearing a light blue hooded
top and wearing yellow rubber or plastic-type gloves.

He had a black scarf tied around his face just showing his eyes. Two of his
accomplices were tall and wearing balaclavas.

A Warwickshire Police spokesman said: "Although badly shocked, no-one in the
house was physically injured.

''We are appealing for any witnesses who may have been in the area of Mavor
Drive and Newcomen Road around the time who saw people acting suspiciously or
who may have seen the intruders getting into a vehicle."

Anyone with information can contact Det Con Sharon Marshall or Det Con Adie
Hunter on 02476 483026 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111. anonymously.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2013 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                       May 14, 2013 Tuesday 2:52 PM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY HAGUE CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN BENGHAZI

LENGTH: 180 words


LONDON, May 14 -- The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills issued the
following press release:

Foreign Secretary William Hague condemns yesterday's terrorist attack in
Benghazi and offers continued UK assistance to Libya.

Speaking today Foreign Secretary William Hague said:

I condemn in the strongest possible terms yesterday's cowardly attack in
Benghazi, which killed and injured innocent people, and express my strong
solidarity with all the Libyan people in the face of this appalling terrorism.
My thoughts and condolences are with the families of the victims at this very
difficult time.

Two years ago the people of Benghazi bravely stood against Qadhafi in pursuit of
a peaceful and prosperous future for themselves and their children. The UK will
continue to support the Libyan people, Congress and Government through this
challenging time and continue to assist them as they seek to build a secure,
stable and democratic country." For any query with respect to this article or
any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      May 15, 2013 Wednesday 11:22 PM GMT

White House bows to Republican pressure and releases all Benghazi terror attack
emails revealing that all references to al-Qaeda were REMOVED

BYLINE: JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 407 words


The White House has given in to pressure today from Republicans and released
what it claims is the complete set of emails related to its response to last
year's terror attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya.

The 100 or so exchanges range from September 14th to the 16th and reveal that
CIA deputy director Mike Morrell asked for all references to al-Qaeda and
another al-Qaeda affiliated group operating in Eastern Libya be removed from
press notes to be issued to journalists.

The emails reveal that early indications within the Obama administration were
that 'Islamic extremists with ties to al-Qaeda' carried out the deadly assault -
but the emails reveal that line was taken out.

The emails also reveal that State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland made
almost exactly the same request just hours later.

Scroll Down to Read the Emails

Unveiling the emails to reporters at the White House on Wednesday afternoon,
senior members of the administration appeared to use the emails to shift the
blame for removing references to al-Qaeda to the CIA.

The unexpected move came one week after interest in last year's terror attack
was reignited after three State Department employees gave testimony that raised
lingering questions on the assault.

The emails were released late on Wednesday afternoon and while many of them are
already in the public domain - the release of the complete set provides a
picture of the Obama administration struggling with how much information to
release about the terror attack.

The White House had until now declined to make the documents public and had let
congressional investigators review the documents without making copies.

The documents describe how the administration developed 'talking points' to
describe what the administration wanted to discuss publicly immediately after
the Sept. 11, 2012, attack that killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three
other Americans.

President Barack Obama has dismissed Republicans' interest in the
administration's evolving explanation for the attack as a 'sideshow,' as
recently as this Monday.

'The whole issue of talking points, frankly, throughout this process has been a
sideshow,' he said.

'What we have been very clear about throughout was that immediately after this
event happened, we were not clear who exactly had carried it out, how it had
occurred, what the motivations were.'

White House Benghazi Emails by margafret

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Victim of brutal attack tells of 'terror at hands of evil torturer'

BYLINE: COLLEEN SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 615 words


THE full story of a horrific Christmas Day torture of an innocent Good Samaritan
has been revealed.

Martin Gumbrell was repeatedly beaten unconscious and cut with a variety of
implements by attacker Nigel Heathman.

Victim Mr Gumbrell has spoken for the first time about the 'pure evil' in the
eyes of his attacker who has been jailed for six years.

He said: "It was like he was enjoying it."

Former soldier Heathman, 39, of Lower Warberry Road, Torquay, denied causing
grievous bodily harm with intent but was found guilty by a jury at Exeter Crown
Court. As Mr Gumbrell, of Tor Hill Road, Torquay, was knocked unconscious over
and over again, Heathman calmly used a bowl of cold water to bring him back
around so he could carry on with the sustained attack.

Police say if the victim had not managed to escape, he may have been killed.

Even Heathman assumed he was being arrested for murder when police first
questioned him.

Mr Gumbrell, 40, told how he had invited Heathman into his home for a Christmas
brandy.

He said: "I knew him as a friend of a friend and he had always seemed a very
polite and pleasant guy to talk to.

"I only drink brandy once a year after Christmas dinner and it seemed the right
thing to do. He had come to visit a neighbour and I told him to come in and
wait.

"One minute I was mucking about flicking through the TV guide, the next thing I
knew - no warning, no arguing - he came back through the kitchen with a big
turkey platter and I felt this blinding pain as he smashed it into the side of
my head."

The attack started at about 2.30pm and went on until about 6pm. After the court
case Mr Gumbrell sat in the flat surrounded by police evidence bags filled with
the carving knife, metal carriage clock, broken pieces of china and a dented
frying pan used by Heathman during the attack.

"He could have killed me," Mr Gumbrell said. "He is a very sick individual.
Either that or he is pure evil. He is a very dangerous man.

"When I came home from hospital there was blood sprayed everywhere on the walls
right up to the ceiling and the whole front door was red with blood.

"I could clean up the flat but I can't clean up the memories. I want to move out
of here now."

He told how Heathman held a knife to his throat and threatened to kill him.

The frying pan was used like an axe to smash open his skull and he was knocked
unconscious with a metal carriage clock. A neighbour said: "Six years in prison
isn't enough for what he did to him. I didn't even recognise him when he came
out of hospital. None of us did. It was like the worst horror film."

Mr Gumbrell is having counselling for post traumatic stress syndrome. He has
lost more than two stone and cannot sleep at night. He managed to escape from
his tormentor and ran barefoot into Higher Union Street looking for help.

But he was so caked in blood that the only person he found, an elderly woman,
was terrified and ran away.

Eventually police found Heathman hiding behind a garden wall three doors away.

Det Sgt Chris Tapley said: "It was like torture. Martin Gumbrell is still living
with the physical effects of the attack and he has been suffering with anxiety,
but now that the trial is over, hopefully it is something that he can begin to
put behind him.

"The mind boggles about what would have happened if he hadn't managed to escape
from Heathman. He could have been killed. When Heathman was first arrested he
asked our officers, 'Is this a murder inquiry?' The injuries were so horrific
the pictures taken at the hospital are too graphic to show because of the state
of him and all the lacerations. Heathman is known for violence. He is a very
dangerous man and people are safer because he is in prison for six years."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'PURE EVIL': Nigel Heathman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HET


                         Copyright 2013 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 16, 2013 Thursday 4:37 PM GMT

'Frankly, I'd just as soon not use this': Emails show the then CIA-chief David
Petraeus objected to Obama administration's version of Benghazi terror attack
events

BYLINE: JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2097 words



     ·    The White House on Wednesday released 100 pages of emails detailing
          discussion inside the administration over last year's deadly attacks
          on a U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya
     ·    Among the details, the documents show that then-CIA Director David
          Petraeus objected to the final version that U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice
          used five days after the assault
     ·    The handwritten note came from Petraeus' deputy. On it, Mike Morell
          scratched out items eliminated from the CIA's early drafts, including
          mentions of al-Qaeda
     ·    After receiving Morell's edited version, Petraeus wrote: 'Frankly, I'd
          just as soon not use this'


The then CIA-Director David Petraeus strongly objected to the Obama
administration's version of events of the terror attack on the U.S. diplomatic
post in Benghazi, Libya, newly released emails reveal.

Petraeus, who was forced to resign in disgrace in November after an
extra-marital affair became public, wanted to see more detail made available,
including a warning issued from the CIA about plans for an embassy attack.

The documents give a glimpse into the administration's message control as
officials carefully debated via email which details U.S. Ambassador to the
United Nations Susan Rice should highlight when she went on talk shows five days
later to discuss the September 11 assault on the U.S. mission in Benghazi,
Libya.

The White House on Wednesday released 99 pages of emails and a single page of
hand-written notes made by Petraeus' deputy, Mike Morell, after a meeting at the
White House the day before U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice began giving interviews to
the media based on the agreed 'talking points.'

On that page, Morell scratched out from the CIA's early drafts of talking points
mentions of al-Qaeda, the experience of fighters in Libya, Islamic extremists
and a warning to the U.S. Embassy in Cairo on the eve of the attacks of calls
for a demonstration.

'No mention of the cable to Cairo, either?' Petraeus wrote after receiving
Morell's edited version, developed after an intense back-and-forth among Obama
administration officials.

'Frankly, I'd just as soon not use this, then.'

Senior administration officials told reporters Wednesday that Morell made the
changes to the talking points because of his own concerns that they could
prejudge an FBI investigation into who was responsible for the September 11th,
2012, attack that killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other
Americans.

The officials said Morell also didn't think it was fair to disclose the CIA's
advance warning without giving Hillary Clinton's State Department a chance to
explain how it responded.

The officials spoke on a condition of anonymity because they were not authorized
to speak about the emails on the record.

Officials said that Morell acted on his own judgement and not with any pressure
coming down from the State Department.

However, when Petraeus received the final draft of the media talking points he
was dismissive, saying that the reduced list would not satisfy the House
Democrat who had asked for it.

'This is certainly not what Vice Chairman Ruppersberger was hoping to get,' Mr.
Petraeus wrote, in reference to Representative C. A. Dutch Ruppersberger of
Maryland, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee.

The White House released the emails to the media after some of them leaked on
Friday and seemed to suggest that President Obama's national security team may
have altered the talking points for political gain.

How the White House made sense of the Benghazi attack - a timeline of the
controversial emails


     ·    Friday 14th September: 4.20 p.m. Stephen W. Preston, the CIA general
          counsel sent an email to other agency officials advising them not to
          disclose information that could jeopradize the FBI's own
          investigation.
     ·    6.20 p.m: Tommy Vietor, the National Security Council spokesman emails
          to remind officials that Denis mcDonough, the then deputy national
          security adviser and now White House chief of staff wants all talking
          points edited and coordinated within the State Department.
     ·    6.41 p.m: Shwan Turner, spokesman for the director of national
          intelligence offers up the suggestion that on September 10th, the CIA
          'notified' the American embassy in Cairo, not 'warned it' about social
          media chatter calling for jihadists to break into the embassy. Morell
          removed this.
     ·    7.16 p.m: Victoria Nuland, State Department spokeswoman said that all
          talking points should match what the Obama administration was telling
          reporters.
     ·    7.39 p.m: She sends White House and intelligence officials an email
          warning that the talking points could be 'abused' by opposition
          politicians 'to beat the State Department for not paying attention to
          agency warnings so why do we want to feed that either?'
     ·    7.51 p.m: The FBI makes minor changes to the talking point draft.
     ·    9.24 p.m: Nuland replies that the latest draft of talking points fails
          as 'These don't resolve all my issues or those of my building
          leadership.'
     ·    9.52 p.m: A CIA spokesman emails other agency staff members a note
          intended for David Petraeus that warns him that the White House
          cleared the talking points too quickly and that the State Department
          had 'major concerns'.
     ·    Saturday 15th September: 11.25 a.m: Benjamin Rhodes, a deputy national
          security adviser changes the United States 'consulate' to 'diplomatic
          post'.
     ·    2.27 p.m: David Petraeus emails Mike Morell to express his concerns
          that the final draft does not go far enough
     ·    3.00 p.m: The final draft is approved and Susan Rice uses it to inform
          her appearances on Sunday morning news shows.


And while the White House claims these are all the correspondence that occurred
in the aftermath of the terror attack on Benghazi, they suggest more of battle
between the State Department and the CIA - rather than the president's own team.

'In recent days, these e-mails have been selectively and inaccurately read out
to the media,' said a White House spokesman, Eric Schultz.

Critics have highlighted an email by then-State Department spokeswoman Victoria
Nuland that expressed concern that any mention of prior warnings or the
involvement of al-Qaeda would give congressional Republicans ammunition to
attack the administration in the weeks before the presidential election.
Fighting terror was one of President Barack Obama's re-election strong points.

That email was among those released by the White House, sent by Nuland on
September 14th at 7:39 p.m. to officials in the White House, State Department
and CIA.

'I have serious concerns about all the parts highlighted below, and arming
members of Congress to start making assertions to the media that we ourselves
are not making because we don't want to prejudice the investigation,' she wrote.

In another, she sends the White House and intelligence officials an email
warning that the talking points could be 'abused' by opposition politicians 'to
beat the State Department for not paying attention to agency warnings so why do
we want to feed that either?'

The emails were shared with Congress earlier this year as a condition for
allowing the nomination of John Brennan for CIA director to move forward.

The general counsel for the national intelligence director's office briefed
members and staff from the Senate Intelligence Committee and leadership on the
emails on February 15th at a session in which staff could take notes.

A similar briefing took place March 19 for the House Intelligence Committee and
leadership staff

An interim report last month from the Republicans on five House committees
criticized the Obama administration and mentioned the emails, but the issue
exploded last Friday when new details emerged.

Republicans on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee read some of
the emails aloud last Wednesday at a hearing with State Department officials.

The next day, House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, called on the White House to
release the emails.

Congressional officials selectively shared parts of the emails, and new
revelations emerged Friday that showed State Department and other administration
officials pressing for references to terror groups and prior warnings be
deleted, expressing concerns about the political implications.

The White House released the full set of emails sent to Congress under the
pressure in hopes of putting an end to the controversy that has dogged the
administration for months.

[IMG 5599871 noborder /]

The White House says congressional Republicans have misrepresented some of them.

The emails released by the White House were partially blacked out, including to
remove names of senders and recipients who are career employees at the CIA and
elsewhere.

The names were replaced with references to the office where they worked.

The talking points were used by Rice in her appearance on five news shows on
Sunday, Sept. 16, and also sent to Congress.

An official with the CIA's office of congressional affairs whose name was
blacked out sent the final version to Petraeus on Saturday, Sept. 15, at 12:51
p.m.

'As mentioned last night, State had voiced strong concerns with the original
text due to the criminal investigation,' the official wrote.

Petraeus responded at 2:27 saying he'd prefer not to even use them in that form.

But he said the decision was up to the White House's national security staff.

'NSS's call, to be sure; however, this is certainly not what Vice Chairman
(Dutch) Ruppersberger was hoping to get for unclas use. Regardless, thanks for
the great work.'

Ruppersberger is the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee.

At a Capitol Hill hearing Wednesday, Attorney General Eric Holder said there has
been 'very, very substantial progress' in the investigation into who was
responsible for the twin nighttime attacks in Benghazi.

Earlier this month, the FBI said it was seeking information on three people who
were on the grounds of the diplomatic mission when it was attacked.

The FBI posted photographs of the three people and said they may be able to
provide information to help in the investigation.

Rep. Adam Smith of Washington state, the top Democrat on the House Armed
Services Committee, said Wednesday's release of the emails was a 'wise choice'

There was little in the roughly 100 pages of emails about Rice's 'talking
points' that had not been leaked previously.

While awkward for the White House, releasing the emails was an effort to counter
complaints from Republicans and the media that President Barack Obama's
administration is secretive.

They included an email confirming perhaps the most damaging charge that
administration officials removed mention from Rice's talking points that the CIA
had warned of an al Qaeda threat in the area of the eastern Libyan city before
the attacks.

In the Benghazi emails, then-State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland raised
concerns about references to intelligence about the threat from militants in
eastern Libya.

Nuland wrote that she had 'serious concerns' that the talking points would
provide members of Congress with material to 'beat the State Department for not
paying attention to (Central Intelligence) Agency warnings' about threats in the
region.

It was not clear who she was referring to but Republicans have tried to link
former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, a possible Democratic candidate for
president in 2016, to the controversy over Benghazi.

'The seemingly political nature of the State Department's concerns raises
questions about the motivations behind these changes and who at the State
Department was seeking them,' said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for Republican
Speaker of the House of Representatives John Boehner.

Republicans say the talking points were an attempt to portray the attacks as
arising from a spontaneous protest, and not an organized militant assault, so as
to protect Obama in last year's presidential campaign from any charges that he
was weak on fighting terrorism.

The White House vehemently denies any cover-up and emphasizes that the
controversy over the talking points focuses on intelligence that eventually
evolved. The emails, officials said, showed a normal back and forth between
government agencies on a fluid national security event.

'Collectively these emails make clear that the interagency process, including
the White House's interactions, were focused on providing the facts as we knew
them based on the best information available at the time and protecting an
ongoing investigation,' White House spokesman Eric Schultz said.

Officials also suggested that Nuland was not the only one with concerns about
the original talking points.

White House Benghazi Emails

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 16, 2013 Thursday 2:05 AM GMT

The then CIA-chief David Petraeus clashed with Obama administration over their
version of Benghazi terror attack - show newly released emails

BYLINE: JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1054 words



     ·    The White House on Wednesday released 100 pages of emails detailing
          discussion inside the administration over last year's deadly attacks
          on a U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya
     ·    Among the details, the documents show that then-CIA Director David
          Petraeus objected to the final version that U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice
          used five days after the assault
     ·    The handwritten note came from Petraeus' deputy. On it, Mike Morell
          scratched out items eliminated from the CIA's early drafts, including
          mentions of al-Qaeda
     ·    After receiving Morell's edited version, Petraeus wrote: 'Frankly, I'd
          just as soon not use this'


Then CIA-Director David Petraeus strongly objected to the Obama administrations
version of events of the terror attack on the U.S. diplomatic post in Benghazi,
Libya newly released emails show.

Petraeus, who was forced resigned in disgrace in November after an extra-marital
affair became public wanted to see more detail made public, including a warning
issued from the CIA about plans for an embassy attack.

The White House on Wednesday released 99 pages of emails and a single page of
hand-written notes made by Petraeus' deputy, Mike Morell, made after a meeting
at the White House the day before then U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice began giving
interviews to the media based on the agree 'talking points.'

On that page, Morell scratched out from the CIA's early drafts of talking points
mentions of al-Qaeda, the experience of fighters in Libya, Islamic extremists
and a warning to the U.S. Embassy in Cairo on the eve of the attacks of calls
for a demonstration.

'No mention of the cable to Cairo, either?' Petraeus wrote after receiving
Morell's edited version, developed after an intense back-and-forth among Obama
administration officials.

'Frankly, I'd just as soon not use this, then.'

Senior administration officials told reporters Wednesday that Morell made the
changes to the talking points because of his own concerns that they could
prejudge an FBI investigation into who was responsible for the September 11th,
2012, attack that killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other
Americans.

The officials said Morell also didn't think it was fair to disclose the CIA's
advance warning without giving the State Department a chance to explain how it
responded.

The officials spoke on a condition of anonymity because they were not authorized
to speak about the emails on the record.

Critics have highlighted an email by then-State Department spokeswoman Victoria
Nuland that expressed concern that any mention of prior warnings or the
involvement of al-Qaeda would give congressional Republicans ammunition to
attack the administration in the weeks before the presidential election.
Fighting terror was one of President Barack Obama's re-election strong points.

That email was among those released by the White House, sent by Nuland on
September 14th at 7:39 p.m. to officials in the White House, State Department
and CIA.

'I have serious concerns about all the parts highlighted below, and arming
members of Congress to start making assertions to the media that we ourselves
are not making because we don't want to prejudice the investigation,' she wrote.

The emails were shared with Congress earlier this year as a condition for
allowing the nomination of John Brennan for CIA director to move forward.

The general counsel for the national intelligence director's office briefed
members and staff from the Senate Intelligence Committee and leadership on the
emails on February 15th at a session in which staff could take notes.

A similar briefing took place March 19 for the House Intelligence Committee and
leadership staff

An interim report last month from the Republicans on five House committees
criticized the Obama administration and mentioned the emails, but the issue
exploded last Friday when new details emerged.

Republicans on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee read some of
the emails aloud last Wednesday at a hearing with State Department officials.

The next day, House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, called on the White House to
release the emails.

Congressional officials selectively shared parts of the emails, and new
revelations emerged Friday that showed State Department and other administration
officials pressing for references to terror groups and prior warnings be
deleted, expressing concerns about the political implications.

The White House released the full set of emails sent to Congress under the
pressure in hopes of putting an end to the controversy that has dogged the
administration for months.

The White House says congressional Republicans have misrepresented some of them.

The emails released by the White House were partially blacked out, including to
remove names of senders and recipients who are career employees at the CIA and
elsewhere.

The names were replaced with references to the office where they worked.

The talking points were used by Rice in her appearance on five news shows on
Sunday, Sept. 16, and also sent to Congress.

An official with the CIA's office of congressional affairs whose name was
blacked out sent the final version to Petraeus on Saturday, Sept. 15, at 12:51
p.m.

'As mentioned last night, State had voiced strong concerns with the original
text due to the criminal investigation,' the official wrote.

Petraeus responded at 2:27 saying he'd prefer not to even use them in that form.

But he said the decision was up to the White House's national security staff.

'NSS's call, to be sure; however, this is certainly not what Vice Chairman
(Dutch) Ruppersberger was hoping to get for unclas use. Regardless, thanks for
the great work.'

Ruppersberger is the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee.

At a Capitol Hill hearing Wednesday, Attorney General Eric Holder said there has
been 'very, very substantial progress' in the investigation into who was
responsible for the twin nighttime attacks in Benghazi.

Earlier this month, the FBI said it was seeking information on three people who
were on the grounds of the diplomatic mission when it was attacked.

The FBI posted photographs of the three people and said they may be able to
provide information to help in the investigation.

Rep. Adam Smith of Washington state, the top Democrat on the House Armed
Services Committee, said Wednesday's release of the emails was a 'wise choice'

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 16, 2013 Thursday 1:38 AM GMT

Then CIA-chief David Petraeus clashed with Obama administration over their
version of Benghazi terror attack show newly released emails

BYLINE: JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 938 words


Then CIA-Director David Petraeus strongly objected to the Obama administrations
version of events during the terror attack on the U.S. diplomatic post in
Benghazi, Libya newly released emails show.

Petraeus, who was forced resigned in disgrace in November after an extra-marital
affair became public wanted to see more detail made public, including a warning
issued from the CIA about plans for an embassy attack.

The White House on Wednesday released 99 pages of emails and a single page of
hand-written notes made by Petraeus' deputy, Mike Morell, after a meeting at the
White House the day before Rice's appearance.

On that page, Morell scratched out from the CIA's early drafts of talking points
mentions of al-Qaeda, the experience of fighters in Libya, Islamic extremists
and a warning to the U.S. Embassy in Cairo on the eve of the attacks of calls
for a demonstration.

'No mention of the cable to Cairo, either?' Petraeus wrote after receiving
Morell's edited version, developed after an intense back-and-forth among Obama
administration officials.

'Frankly, I'd just as soon not use this, then.'

Senior administration officials told reporters Wednesday that Morell made the
changes to the talking points because of his own concerns that they could
prejudge an FBI investigation into who was responsible for the September 11th,
2012, attack that killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other
Americans.

The officials said Morell also didn't think it was fair to disclose the CIA's
advance warning without giving the State Department a chance to explain how it
responded.

The officials spoke on a condition of anonymity because they were not authorized
to speak about the emails on the record.

Critics have highlighted an email by then-State Department spokeswoman Victoria
Nuland that expressed concern that any mention of prior warnings or the
involvement of al-Qaeda would give congressional Republicans ammunition to
attack the administration in the weeks before the presidential election.
Fighting terror was one of President Barack Obama's re-election strong points.

That email was among those released by the White House, sent by Nuland on
September 14th at 7:39 p.m. to officials in the White House, State Department
and CIA.

'I have serious concerns about all the parts highlighted below, and arming
members of Congress to start making assertions to the media that we ourselves
are not making because we don't want to prejudice the investigation,' she wrote.

The emails were shared with Congress earlier this year as a condition for
allowing the nomination of John Brennan for CIA director to move forward.

The general counsel for the national intelligence director's office briefed
members and staff from the Senate Intelligence Committee and leadership on the
emails on February 15th at a session in which staff could take notes.

A similar briefing took place March 19 for the House Intelligence Committee and
leadership staff

An interim report last month from the Republicans on five House committees
criticized the Obama administration and mentioned the emails, but the issue
exploded last Friday when new details emerged.

Republicans on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee read some of
the emails aloud last Wednesday at a hearing with State Department officials.

The next day, House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, called on the White House to
release the emails.

Congressional officials selectively shared parts of the emails, and new
revelations emerged Friday that showed State Department and other administration
officials pressing for references to terror groups and prior warnings be
deleted, expressing concerns about the political implications.

The White House released the full set of emails sent to Congress under the
pressure in hopes of putting an end to the controversy that has dogged the
administration for months.

The White House says congressional Republicans have misrepresented some of them.

The emails released by the White House were partially blacked out, including to
remove names of senders and recipients who are career employees at the CIA and
elsewhere.

The names were replaced with references to the office where they worked.

The talking points were used by Rice in her appearance on five news shows on
Sunday, Sept. 16, and also sent to Congress.

An official with the CIA's office of congressional affairs whose name was
blacked out sent the final version to Petraeus on Saturday, Sept. 15, at 12:51
p.m.

'As mentioned last night, State had voiced strong concerns with the original
text due to the criminal investigation,' the official wrote.

Petraeus responded at 2:27 saying he'd prefer not to even use them in that form.

But he said the decision was up to the White House's national security staff.

'NSS's call, to be sure; however, this is certainly not what Vice Chairman
(Dutch) Ruppersberger was hoping to get for unclas use. Regardless, thanks for
the great work.'

Ruppersberger is the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee.

At a Capitol Hill hearing Wednesday, Attorney General Eric Holder said there has
been 'very, very substantial progress' in the investigation into who was
responsible for the twin nighttime attacks in Benghazi.

Earlier this month, the FBI said it was seeking information on three people who
were on the grounds of the diplomatic mission when it was attacked.

The FBI posted photographs of the three people and said they may be able to
provide information to help in the investigation.

Rep. Adam Smith of Washington state, the top Democrat on the House Armed
Services Committee, said Wednesday's release of the emails was a 'wise choice'

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 17, 2013 Friday

96% Xinjiang terrorist attacks foiled: official

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 617 words


URUMQI - Chinese police authorities estimate they foiled more than 96 percent of
planned separatist and terrorist activities in the far western Xinjiang region
in the past three years, the region's top official has said.

Zhang Chunxian, secretary of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Regional Committee of
the Communist Party of China (CPC), revealed the information in an article
written for the latest issue of the CPC's flagship magazine, Qiushi (Seeking
Truth), published on Thursday.

The article attracted much attention as it is the first time Xinjiang
authorities have detailed their anti-terrorist efforts and the effectiveness of
their work in this regard.

Currently, Xinjiang has a firmer social basis to maintain stability and the
overall situation in the region is becoming better, Zhang wrote.

The stability maintenance work is becoming routine and scientific and is done
under the rule of law, and the capability to discover, prevent and crack down on
separatist and terrorist activities has improved, according to the official.

The Qiushi article follows a clash between terrorists and authorities in
Kashgar's Bachu County, some 1,200 km southwest of Urumqi, in which 15 community
workers and police officers and six terrorists were killed on April 23.

Eight terrorist suspects were captured at the scene and 11 more who fled were
detained days after the attack. Police also seized a batch of homemade
explosives, controlled knives, flags supporting jihad and illegal religious
publicity materials.

"This terrorist group was already preparing to 'do something big' in Kashgar in
the summer," said Dai Guanghui, head of Kashgar's public security bureau.

"If the community workers and police officers did not discover the group, it
could have become more prepared to conduct a bigger terrorist attack and the
consequences could have been more severe, " Dai said.

The "three evil forces" of separatism, extremism and terrorism have long been
using mobile phones and the Internet to incite terrorist attacks in China, said
a Xinjiang anti-terrorist official who did not wish to be named.

He added that some terrorist group members have even sought to cross the border
to join groups seeking jihad overseas.

"The fight against the three evil forces has a direct bearing on China's
stability and development," said Vice Minister of Public Security Meng Hongwei
on April 29.

It's the Chinese government's established policy to crack down on terrorist
attacks, and no responsible country could allow terrorist activities, Meng said.

China has conducted counter-terrorism cooperation and exchanges and launched
more than 10 such training sessions and drills with neighboring countries under
the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.

Ye Hailin, an anti-terrorist expert from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences,
said that although the overall situation in Xinjiang is stable, the region still
faces severe challenges in fighting terrorism.

China could strengthen cooperation with countries including Pakistan and
Afghanistan to crack down on overseas terrorist groups, while on the domestic
front, the authorities should improve in the fields of religion, the economy and
people's livelihoods to curb terrorist activities, Ye said.

In 2010, China launched a 10-year program to develop its western areas, and
major eastern and central cities have stepped up providing aid to Xinjiang to
help it develop economically.

Amid other anti-terrorist efforts, authorities in Xinjiang have recruited more
than 8,000 police officers since 2012 to patrol villages and urban communities.
In cities cited as more likely to be hit by terrorist attacks, paramilitary
forces and militia have even joined routine patrols.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror on our streets;
ARSON ATTACK Firebug's trail of destruction after blowing up car ; Latest fire
attacks destroy motors

BYLINE: Jeff Holmes

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 414 words


Cops were last night hunting a dangerous firebug who caused an explosion after
going on the rampage on the streets of Paisley.

The arsonist torched three vehicles which were parked within a 100-metre radius
of each other and also tried to set fire to a nearby Post Office.

Police have appealed for information about the wrecking spree, which took place
exactly a week after three other cars were torched in another part of town.

Last night, one of the victims of the latest arson attacks told the Express she
was left terrified as her car exploded, blowing her front door in. The
51-year-old woman, who is too frightened to be named, said: "It was like a scene
from a movie. "You wouldn't believe how loud the blast was. It was like a bomb
going off. "Unfortunately, I had just filled the car with petrol, which made the
explosion worse." The attacks took place in the Shortroods area in the early
hours of yesterday morning. A Peugeot and a Vauxhall Astra were set alight in
Springbank Road and a Ford Transit van was torched in nearby Mossvale Street.
The awning of Springbank Post Office was also set alight but the damage was
minimal. Yesterday, a worker at the Post Office said: "Thankfully, the fire
never took hold properly. If it had, it could easily have destroyed the shop.
"We will be checking our CCTV to see if we can identify those responsible."

The owner of the Peugeot usually parks her car in her driveway but left it
outside on the street on Thursday night as she was worried that high winds might
have caused loose roof slates to crash down onto it. She told the Express: "It's
just as well the car wasn't in my driveway when its petrol tank exploded. "I
can't imagine the damage the blast would have done had it happened just a few
feet from my front door. "There had been a crowd of young guys making a noise in
the street at about 2am but the police shifted them and it seemed that was that.
"About an hour later, I woke up to find my car in flames but I don't know if the
two incidents are linked. "You just hope this is a random attack because, if I
thought for a moment that I had been specifically targeted, it would leave me
petrified." Police are investigating the latest attacks, as well as three
similar crimes which took place in the Hunterhill area of Paisley on May 10. On
that occasion, three cars were torched while they were parked in Marnock Terrace
and Cathcart Crescent. Anyone with information about any of the incidents is
asked to call police on 101.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gutted This charred Peugeot is one of three vehicles which were
targeted in the Shortroods area
Targeted The arsonist torched this van while it was parked in Mossvale Street

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday

Official blames Pakistan of terrorist attacks in Afghan south

LENGTH: 269 words


Text of report by state-owned National Afghanistan TV on 18 May

[Presenter] The Quetta council was behind the explosions, most casualties of
which were civilians, in Aino Mina Town in Kandahar city. Abdol Qadim Patial,
deputy governor of Kandahar Province, mentioned this at a news conference.
According to him, nine people were martyred and 64 others were injured in these
consecutive blasts.

[Correspondent] The explosions happened at around 1930 in the evening [local
timer] in Aino Mina Town on 17 May as many residents of Kandahar city had
gathered for sightseeing, because it is one of the best recreational areas in
the city. However, the armed opponents of the government do not allow our
oppressed people to live in peace even for a moment. Therefore, they carried out
the blasts in an area where there are residential houses, recreational parks and
commercial markets. Abdol Qadim Patial, deputy governor of Kandahar, said at a
news conference that the Quetta council was behind the explosions and that the
only aim of the council is to always keep our people in fear.

[Patial] Malicious foreign countries and Pakistan in particular carry out such
actions and terrorist activities in cooperation with a number of ignorant and
senseless Afghans who are known in the name of the Taleban here. Last night's
two attacks were among such activities in Aino Mina Town.

[Correspondent] The residents of Kandahar city also condemned terrorist attacks
of the Taleban in residential areas in strong terms saying it is an inhuman and
un-Islamic action.

Source: National Afghanistan TV, Kabul, in Pashto 1530 gmt 18 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              May 20, 2013 Monday

Dog walker's attack 'terror'

BYLINE: Frank Cassidy

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 350 words


An Aberdeen woman has described her terror after she was mauled by a rottweiler
as she tried to protect her own small dog from attack.

Mirrisa Ramage said she was left bleeding and distressed in a scene which was
"like something from a horror movie".

As she lay on the ground, covering her blood-splattered pet, the other owner
simply walked off and left her stranded.

The 39-year-old, of Findon Ness, Cove, needed surgery to her left arm following
the incident, which happened at the riverside near Bridge of Dee.

Mrs Ramage had only just started taking her three-year-old pet for extended
walks again after he was attacked last year.

She said: "I had lost my confidence around other dogs after he was attacked by a
Staffordshire terrier in September.

"When I took him to the riverside on Thursday, a woman approached me who had two
dogs, with a companion who was throwing a ball for a Westie-type dog.

"I was a bit apprehensive when I saw one of them was a rottweiler. Both were off
their lead, while Olly was on his. He always is.

"She took the rottweiler by the collar and assured me Olly was safe, so I
explained why I was apprehensive.

"We chatted a bit more, before she let go of the rottweiler and Olly and it had
a sniff at each other. What happened next was like something from a horror
movie."

Mrs Ramage, a health worker, said she instinctively knew the dog was going to
attack as it was "all teeth and mouth".

She added: "I smothered Olly and tried to get him up in my arms, but I knew I
had been bitten - I was lying on the ground on top of him and determined not to
let go of him.

"I managed to stand up, and it was still going for Olly."

To her dismay, the dog owner and friend left her lying by the river - in agony
and covered in blood, which had also stained her terrified pet's white fur.

A passer-by called for help and she was taken to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary for
treatment to several deep cuts.

The following day she needed an operation to repair nerve damage to her arm.

Police last night confirmed that officers were making inquiries into the
incident, which happened on Thursday at around 7pm.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INJURIES: Mirrisa Ramage with her dog Olly who were attacked. Kevin
Emslie
A close-up of the cut received by Mrs Ramage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2013 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 20, 2013 Monday

Latvian daily says small percentage of terrorist attacks waged by Muslims

LENGTH: 533 words


Text of report by Latvian newspaper Diena

[Commentary by Kaspars Adijans: "Myth About Muslim Terrorism"]

In its 2012 annual report, Europol has declared once again that its main purpose
is to battle against terrorism, and that is no big surprise to anyone. We all
remember the attack against the Boston Marathon that was conducted by the
Tsarnayev brothers. It is also true that there are many Muslims in Europe who
have become more radical because of their confrontation with Western values,
thus becoming a serious threat against Western society.

How large a share of registered terrorist attacks in the European Union do you
think involved Islamists - 50, 70 or even 90? A look at the latest Europol
statistics reveals that of 249 episodes registered in 2010, exactly three, or
1.2 per cent, were motivated by radical Islamism. In 2012, there were six of
219, or 2.7 per cent, of registered incidents which were based on that
motivation (the statistics include successful, failed or prevented attempts). I
do believe that this lays bare a very different image than is considered on an
everyday basis. Europol itself cannot oppose its habits, and it begins the
latest report specifically with an analysis of threats that are based on
religion. Important issues yield before populist ones, and one might well
believe that the Europol report is equal to a yellow journalism publication.

Other Statistics

Also of interest are statistics from the National Consortium for the Study of
Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism (START), which has registered 2,400 attacks
of a terrorist nature in the United States between 1970 and 2012. Overall, 60,
or 2.5 per cent, of those attacks involved representatives of the Muslim faith.
If we look at the "Terrorism in the United States" page on Wikipedia, then a
review of the most vivid episodes of terrorism from the past decade, for
instance, shows that very few Arabic names are involved therein, though it must
also be mentioned that the page only lists terrorist attacks that were
implemented and not prevented in a timely way.

Role of Media

Despite these more than bemusing numbers, most Western media outlets have
continued to emphasize the terrorist nature of Muslims - something which they
began to do in 2001. The press in Latvia is no exception. I recently read a
longer article about the Tsarnayev brothers in which the author began with a
list of the latest terrorist attacks related to persons of Muslim origin, thus
apparently allowing the reader to draw his own conclusions.

It is for that reason that I was not at all surprised when experts who were
interviewed on television for several hours after the explosion which Anders
Bering Breivik organized in Oslo all said that the blast was probably the work
of Islamists. German society recently experienced a serious shock in terms of
finding out that three radical rightists have spent the last eight years
traveling through the country and engaging in robbery, explosions and targeted
murders of non-Aryans. It is always an enormous surprise if something like that
turns out not to have been committed by Islamists, because it is not part of the
accustomed model.

Source: Diena, Riga, in Latvian 20 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 20, 2013 Monday

German security agency warns of terrorist attacks against airport facilities

LENGTH: 216 words


Text of report by German newspaper Welt am Sonntag website on 19 May

[Unattributed report: "Aircraft as Terrorist Targets"]

The Federal Office of Criminal Investigation (BKA) warns of Islamist terrorist
attacks on air traffic. "With a successful attack, the threat scenario that
exists for Western airlines and airports can become real at any time," says a
BKA paper titled "Situation Report Air Security 2012," stamped "confidential,"
which has been obtained by [the German Sunday paper] Welt am Sonntag. Aviation
was still in the "crosshairs" of both Islamist terrorist groups and
Islamist-motivated lone perpetrators, the paper says. Despite constant
optimization of security precautions, terrorist groups, in particular, would
"develop their methods further" and "flexibly adjust their attack planning."
There was the danger that, via "IT-based" programmes, they tracked flights live
by using tools such as "Flightradar 24," the paper continues. "Passenger and
cargo aircraft, but also other airport facilities" could be the targets. It was
impossible to provide 100-per cent security. Therefore, it was all the more
important "to limit the risk of attacks" by "permanently adjusting the security
measures," the paper concludes.

Source: Welt am Sonntag website, Hamburg, in German 0000 gmt 19 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 20, 2013 Monday

Suspects were planning terror attack at mass event in Moscow - sources

LENGTH: 470 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 20 May: The militants neutralized in Moscow Region on Monday [20 May]
were preparing a terrorist act at a mass event in Moscow, a source in the
law-enforcement bodies has told Interfax.

"Preliminary indications are that the militants neutralized in Orekhovo-Zuyevo
could carry out a terrorist act at a mass event in the centre of the Russian
capital," the source said.

He said the plans were successfully thwarted thanks to timely intelligence.

Another Interfax source in the law-enforcement bodies said earlier that the
suspects eliminated while preparing a terrorist attack in Moscow were Russian
citizens who had arrived from Pakistan. "There are reports that the militants
were under observation for a month. Members of Russian security services
supposed and continue to suppose that they arrived in the Moscow area to carry
out subversive and terrorist acts," the source told the agency.

It has been preliminarily established that "all three are Russian citizens who
profess Islam", he said.

"There are reports that the plotters underwent special training in the area of
North Waziristan (mountainous area in the northwest of Pakistan - Interfax).
This self-proclaimed territory is also known as the tribal region," the source
said.

It is not yet known what extremist group the militants eliminated in
Orekhovo-Zuyevo were members of, he said. "The information that they may have
links to the terrorist movement the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan is currently
being verified. Furthermore, members of security services are trying to
establish the militants' contacts and links among residents of the Moscow area,"
the source told the agency.

According to security services, the main forces of the extremist group the
Taleban operate in Waziristan. "There are also training camps there for
terrorist who gather from all over the world. The US authorities have repeatedly
suggested to the Pakistani government that a special ground operation should be
carried out there to eliminate militants but Pakistan keeps turning down these
suggestions," the source told Interfax. [Passage omitted: National Antiterrorism
Committee said earlier two men wee killed and one detained after offering armed
resistance in Orekhovo-Zuyevo - reported earlier]

Russian President Vladimir Putin has been informed of the operation to
neutralize the terrorists who were preparing a terrorist act in Moscow. "Russian
President Vladimir Putin received relevant reports from the FSB [Federal
Security Service] both during the preparation of the operation to apprehend the
terrorists and in the immediate aftermath of the operation," Dmitriy Peskov,
press secretary to the head of state, told journalists on Monday.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1532 gmt 20 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror law boss attacks May for 'hiding' suspects

BYLINE: Nicholas Cecil

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 457 words


HOME Secretary Theresa May came under fire today for refusing to reveal how many
terror suspects are living in London under special rules to prevent further
attacks.

David Anderson QC, the Independent Reviewer of Terrorism Legislation, has called
for a second time for the Government to publish the location, by region, of
people subjected to Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures. Terror
suspects were put on TPIMs under a Coalition compromise after the measures
replaced stricter control orders last year.

They are used in a small number of cases where the authorities are unable to
prosecute suspected terrorists for a range of reasons, including that a court
case could lead to the identification of intelligence sources.

Under a TPIM, individuals can be ordered to stay overnight at a specified
address, report to a police station daily, be banned from contacting certain
people, go to particular areas and travel abroad.

But unlike control orders, TPIMS do not allow individuals to be relocated to
other parts of the country, a power which was backed by police and the security
services to limit the potential threat from suspected terrorists.

One Somali-born man, Ibrahim Magag, who was on a TPIM, went on the run on boxing
day after allegedly jumping in a black cab near Euston station and ripping off
an electronic tag.

Magag, in his late 20s, is believed to have been on a TPIM to stop him being
involved in terrorism fundraising or travelling overseas, but not to pose a
direct threat in the UK. Eight men are currently subject to TPIMs, with many of
them believed to be living in London.

But ministers are refusing to agree to Mr Anderson's proposal to reveal the
terror suspects' regional location, arguing that it might risk "compromising"
their anonymity. Labour strongly condemned the Government's stance. Shadow
policing minister David Hanson said: "People have the right to know whether
these individuals have returned to London and it is ludicrous to suggest that
this cannot be done without compromising the anonymity of suspects. "It is quite
clear that ending the relocation provision has significantly weakened the
counter-terrorism regime and so it is particularly disappointing that she [Ms
May] has rejected Mr Anderson's recommendation to publish the regional location
of those subject to a TPIM order."

But the Home Office defended its stance, arguing that the package of
restrictions struck the "right balance" between protecting the public and the
rights of the terror suspects who may not have been charged with any offence.

Terrorist suspect Abu Qatada today launched a new attempt to win his freedom
before he is deported back to Jordan. The extremist cleric is in Belmarsh Prison
after his bail was revoked.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Under fire: Theresa May won't say how many terror suspects live in
London

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 20, 2013 Monday 6:05 PM GMT

Thousands of British police sent to Northern Ireland amid fear of terror attack
at G8 summit;
More than 3,500 UK police officers are being deployed to Northern Ireland for
next month's G8 conference amid fears that dissident Republicans are plotting a
terrorist outrage.

BYLINE: By Martin Evans Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 507 words


World leaders including Barack Obama and Vladimir Putin will jet into the luxury
Loch Erne Golf Resort in County Fermanagh for the two day conference which has
in the past attracted wide scale demonstrations and public disorder.

But with the event taking place in Northern Ireland, rather than focusing on
protests, the security operation is being tailored towards preventing terrorist
attacks by groups such as the New IRA and ONH (Oglaigh na hEireann).

Assistant Chief Constable Alistair Finlay who is the PSNI Gold Command for the
summit said the G8 conference provided a "great opportunity" for terrorist
groups to get noticed on the world stage.

He said: "I've got no reason to say that dissidents won't do something during
that period of time. This is the normal backdrop. This has been the backdrop,
the sad reality of Northern Ireland over quite a period of time.

"There is nothing to suggest that the rhythm of that will be disrupted. It would
be great if it did, and maybe the policing operation, which is in part designed
to do that, will prevent any of that happening during the G8.

"But we would say people shouldn't be surprised if there are incidents. We
anticipate those incidents won't be at, near or affecting any part of the
delivery of the G8."

In what will be the biggest operation in the history of the 4,400 PSNI officers
will be joined by 3,600 colleagues from the mainland.

In the run up to the event the British police officers have been receiving
special training to prepare them for the unique challenges of operating in
Northern Ireland.

As well as being issued with bullet proof body armour and non-identifiable
uniforms, mainland officers are also being shown how water canons are deployed
and also how to operate the armoured Land Rovers used by the PSNI.

The force is also preparing to take delivery of three unmanned drones which will
monitor the venue from the skies above Fermanagh.

Mr Finlay denied the British officers would become a specific target for
terrorists, but admitted they would be given uniforms to help them blend in with
those from the PSNI.

He said: "I've got nothing to suggest the dissidents see them as a target in
particular. The kind of thing the dissidents target is us, the PSNI, the
indigenous police officers that are there.

"The preference is attacking police officers at their homes or other places with
under-vehicle improvised explosive devices. Those are the most insidious and
most destructive problems we've had."

Despite the unique challenges posed by hosting the conference in Northern
Ireland, Mr Finlay insisted it was a great opportunity for the region.

He said: "It's a great opportunity for Northern Ireland. This is world leaders
coming into a very small part of the world, a very distinctive part of the
world.

"It has got a bit of history behind it, for usually the wrong reasons and here
is an opportunity for the island of Ireland and Northern Ireland to capitalise
on that focus and to sell itself as a place to visit, as a place to work and a
place to invest in."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday

Israeli army said foils terror attack, kidnapping in West Bank

LENGTH: 184 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 21 May

[Unattributed report: "IDF Thwarts Terror Attack, Kidnapping in W. Bank"]

The IDF and the Shin Bet in the last two months thwarted a terror attack and
kidnapping in the Hebron area, planned by two separate Hamas and Islamic Jihad
cells, the Shin Bet revealed on Tuesday [21 May]. The Shin Bet said that a Hamas
cell, comprising nine residents of the Bani Na'im village, planned to murder an
Israeli in the Jewish agricultural area near the village and to hide the body
and demand the release of Palestinian prisoners in exchange for the corpse. The
suspects were found to be in possession of an improvised explosive device and
instructions for making explosives.

Five members of the Islamic Jihad cell, all Hebron residents, were arrested. One
of them is a terrorist who was injured two years ago while trying to escape
arrest and who has since been wheelchair-bound. Charges against the detainees
were submitted to the West Bank military court.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 21 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I expect terror attacks during G8 summit, admits police chief

BYLINE: MARGARET DAVIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 574 words


TERRORIST attacks are part of normal life in Northern Ireland and should be
expected during the G8 summit, the PSNI commander of the security operation has
said.

Assistant Chief Constable Alistair Finlay (right) said dissident republican
attacks are part of the "normal backdrop" of life.

But he said he expects any incidents will take place away from the conference
venue in Fermanagh and other key areas linked to the event.

Mr Finlay said: "I'"I've got no reason to say that dissidents won't do something
during that period of time. This is the normal backdrop.

This has been the backdrop, the sad reality of Northern Ireland over quite a
period of time.

"There is nothing to suggest that the rhythm of that will be disrupted.

It would be great if it did, and maybe the policing operation, which is in part
designed to do that, will prevent any of that happening during the G8. But we
would say people shouldn''t be surprised if there are incidents. We anticipate
those incidents won''t be at, near or affecting any part of the delivery of the
G8."

The New IRA and ONH (Oglaigh na hEireann) are currently the most active
dissident groups, he said, which have "real capacity and capability".

He added: "The period of G8 is an opportunity for those groups who want to feel
they''re noticed by threatening harm to communities and to my officers in their
normal business. During that period of time the policing footprint around
Northern Ireland will be large, there will be significant opportunities of
detention, and those are features that the dissident terrorist doesn''t
particularly find attractive." Mr Finlay said the 3,600 police from outside
Northern Ireland that are being used here during the G8 will not be deployed in
normal policing duties.

"They are going to be focusing on venue protection, route protection. They are
going to focus on management of protests associated with G8. They are not going
to be doing normal PSNI policing business," he said.

"We will also embed with each unit coming from Great Britain a number of PSNI
officers, and those PSNI officers of course are routinely armed with personal
protection weapons. They will provide local knowledge but also a degree of
protection."

He does not believe officers from Britain are in any more danger than domestic
officers. "I'"I've got nothing to suggest the dissidents see them as a target in
particular. The kind of thing the dissidents target is us, the PSNI, the
indigenous police officers.

"The preference is attacking police at their homes or other places with
under-vehicle improvised explosive devices. Those are the most insidious and
most destructive problems we''ve had." The PSNI already frequently uses air
cover and has brought forward the purchase of a new helicopter to coincide with
G8.

The force has also ordered three drones which it is hoped can be used during the
summit.

factfile The G8 security operation, the biggest in the PSNI''s history, will see
3,600 officers drafted in from forces across Great Britain, 2,500 of whom
specialise in public order. Another 4,400 officers from PSNI are also due to
take part. The Government has agreed to reveal the cost of security after the
event. Officers coming from Britain have had to be trained in getting in and out
of armoured Land Rovers and how to work around water cannon. They have been
kitted out with ballistic body armour and will be accompanied by PSNI officers,
who are routinely armed, while on patrol.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2013 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday

Russia foils terror attack

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 147 words


MOSCOW - Russian special services eliminated two gunmen suspected of
masterminding a terror attack in Moscow and arrested another, the National
Anti-terrorism Committee (NAC) said Monday.

During the Federal Security Service's ambush, two militants were killed, the
third was apprehended. One special forces' serviceman was also wounded.

"The militants neutralized in the town of Orekhovo-Zuyevo could conduct a terror
attack at a mass event in the Russian capital downtown," spokesman for the NAC
told local media.

The three Russians have arrived at this town, about 80 km east of Moscow, about
a month ago following sabotage training in a Taliban camp in Pakistan, the
Interfax news agency said.

There were no casualties among civilians, the NAC said.

President Vladimir Putin has been briefed about the counter-terror operation in
the Moscow region, said Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Dissident attacks at G8 'likely';
terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 133 words


DISSIDENTS are likely to attack during the G8 summit despite the presence of
thousands of extra police, a senior officer said yesterday.

Assistant Chief Constable Alistair Finlay said such attacks are part of the
"normal backdrop" of life in the region.

But he added he expects any incidents will take place away from the conference
venue in Co Fermanagh.

ACC Finlay said: "I've got no reason to say dissidents won't do something. This
is the normal backdrop. This has been the backdrop, the sad reality of Northern
Ireland over quite a period of time.

"There is nothing to suggest the rhythm of that will be disrupted.

"It would be great if it did but we would say people shouldn't be surprised if
there are incidents.

The PSNI has also ordered three drones which it is hoped can be used during the
summit.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday

G8 meeting: Police braced for terror attack during summit

BYLINE: Haroon Siddique

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 124 words


Dissident republicans are likely to launch a terrorist attack during next
month's G8 leaders' summit in Northern Ireland, police have warned.

With world leaders including the US president, Barack Obama, and the Russian
president, Vladimir Putin, in attendance, the summit, on 17 and 18 June, has
prompted the biggest police operation in history. Alistair Finlay, the assistant
chief constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI), said: "During
the G8 is a great opportunity for those groups . . . People should not be
surprised if there are incidents."

Protests are planned in Belfast, on the weekend of 15 and 16 June, and a
demonstration in Eniskillen that organisers hope will attract 20,000 is
scheduled for the summit's first day.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mum's terror at nail bomb attack;
Bombers targeted family-of-five's home

BYLINE: PHIL CORRIGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 403 words


A YOUNG mum has described how a quiet night at home turned to terror following a
nail bomb attack.

Mother-of-three Rebecca Carter's home in Cheadle was one of three properties hit
by bombers on the night of August 3 last year.

Jason Taft and five other men are on trial at Stafford Crown Court accused of
conspiring to cause the explosions. Miss Carter told the court yesterday that
she had been with her partner Daniel Middleton and their three young children at
their Dandillion Avenue home at the time of the attack She said: "I was in the
living room with my partner and my six-week-old baby.

"We heard either somebody knocking on the door or trying the handle. Then I
heard something being put through the letterbox.

"Then there was a really big bang, and smoke filled the house instantly. It was
extremely loud.

"I went upstairs to get the two older boys, with the baby still in my arms, and
then went outside. There was still smoke, but I could see there were nails on
the mat."

Mr Middleton told Miss Carter to take the children to her mother's house while
he called the police.

Miss Carter added: "I came back to the house to get some baby stuff, because I
knew they wouldn't let us back in afterwards.

The smoke had cleared and I could see there were more nails up the stairs, and
in the kitchen. "I was extremely scared. It wasn't our home any more. I didn't
want to go back."

Similar bombs were delivered to homes in St Peter's Lane, Blythe Bridge, and
Axon Crescent, Weston Coyney.

The prosecution claim the bombings were part of a campaign of intimidation aimed
at Cheadle recycling firm boss Jason Sherratt.

All three targeted properties belonged to Mr Sherratt's employees. The jury was
read a witness statement from Tina Barlow, who lived at the Blythe Bridge house
with her husband Warren. They were home with their children and young
grandchildren at the time of the attack. Mrs Barlow said: "I have no enemies I
can think of and I don't understand why this happened. If any of my family had
been near the front door they would have been seriously injured." Taft, aged 41,
of Thorley Edge, Bagnall; Kevin Proctor, aged 43, of The Greenways, Milton;
Martin Drewery, aged 42, of Sandy Lane, Brown Edge; and Edvinas Sermuksnis, aged
30, Thomas Leslie, aged 34 and Andrew Boal, aged 32, all from Northern Ireland,
all deny conspiring to cause explosions and conspiring to make threats to kill.
The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2013 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday

German regional minister sees danger of terrorist attacks as "latent"

LENGTH: 332 words


Except from report by centrist weekly German news magazine Focus on 18 May

[Interview with North Rhine-Westphalian Interior Minister Ralf Jaeger by
"fl/xl"; place and date not given: "Latent Danger of Attacks"]

[fl/xl] War among bikers, attacks by radical Islamist Salafists -- why are you
unable to come to grips with the problems?

[Jaeger] The opposite is true: in North Rhine-Westphalia Hells Angels and
Bandidos have been banned or have disbanded. And Salafist attacks have been
prevented. However, it is true: biker gangs are increasingly recruiting young,
violence-prone men -- often with a migration background. This leads to tougher
fights. We are massively intervening there.

[fl/xl] Why does the Salafist scene get such great influx in particular in North
Rhine-Westphalia?

[Jaeger] In conurbations with a large migrant scene it is easier to recruit
people for Salafism. The scene in North Rhine-Westphalia has doubled to 1,000
followers. However, the latent danger of attacks exists all over he country,
even though there are no specific clues at the moment. It is a global
phenomenon, as the Islamist attack in Boston proves.

[fl/xl] Investigators demand advance data storage as an antiterror measure and
an instrument in the struggle against criminal gangs. Do you agree?

[Jaeger] I share this criticism of the Federal Government. It is absurd: Germany
is the only country in Europe that does to give its investigating authorities
sufficient instruments to effectively combat heavy crime. An example is child
pornography. We had a pedophile in the United States, who chatted with a man who
was abusing a child in our country just then. The United States provided the
computer's IP address, but our investigators were unable to catch the pedophile,
because his data was not stored. Justice Minister Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger's
(Free Democratic Party) blockade in this matter is almost tantamount to
obstruction of punishment. [passage omitted]

Source: Focus, Munich, in German 18 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday

Terrorist group attacks security convoy in southern Algeria

LENGTH: 212 words


Text of report by Algerian newspaper L'Expression on 22 May

[Report by Ikram Ghioua: "Illizi: Convoy from the Gendarmerie Attacked by
Terrorists"]

A National Gendarmerie convoy that was providing transportation of prisoners was
attacked by 15 or so terrorists yesterday in Illizi, it was learned from
reliable sources. Several injured among the gendarmes need to be reported, among
them a captain, who is in serious condition, according to the same sources. The
latter reported that the terrorist group, of which there were too many, used
automatic weapons.

The goal of the attack was to free the prisoners, all of them involved in
terrorism cases. Our sources did not confirm any escape as we were going to
press. The alert was immediately sounded to track the terrorists who, according
to the initial findings, allegedly belong to the Movement for Unity and Jihad in
West Africa [MUJAO].

The helicopter-borne forces were mobilized to find the direction taken by the
terrorist group, which was successful in fleeing. This attack was perpetrated at
a time when calm had returned to that region, which is the location of the In
Amenas gas sites which, last January, were the scene of one of the most
frightening hostage-takings.

Source: L'Expression, Algiers, in French 22 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      May 22, 2013 Wednesday 08:15 PM GMT

'First terror attack since 7/7'

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 710 words


Today's killing in broad daylight is thought to be the first terrorist attack on
British streets since the 2005 London bombings.

The July 7 atrocity saw 52 people killed by four suicide bombers on London's
transport network. Since then, there have been a number of other plots - the
first coming just two weeks after July 7. Another group of four bombers had
attempted to replicate the earlier attack but their plan failed. They were
caught and each jailed for life.

With reports of the victim being a soldier, the Woolwich incident mirrors a plot
which saw a Birmingham man jailed for life in 2008 for plotting to kidnap and
kill a British Muslim soldier. Parviz Khan admitted planning to lure the soldier
off the streets with the promise of drugs - then film his beheading.

He was described in court as having "the most violent and extreme Islamist
views", with the judge saying his aim was to deter any Muslim from joining the
British Army. Khan was ordered to serve at least 14 years in jail.

Terrorism also hit the headlines in June 2007 when, following an unsuccessful
car bomb attack that targeted Tiger Tiger in central London, a flaming Jeep was
driven at Glasgow Airport on June 30. One of the perpetrators, Kafeel Ahmed,
died in hospital after suffering severe burns in the attack, while Bilal Abdulla
was arrested and given a life sentence the following year.

The most recent planned attack aimed at killing large numbers of victims was in
May 2008. Muslim convert Nicky Reilly was planning to blow up dozens of diners
with a nail bomb in in Exeter, but he accidentally detonated the device in the
restaurant's toilet. He admitted the plan and also received a life sentence.

According to M15, there have been a total of 2,291 arrests under the Terrorism
Act between September 11, 2001, and 30 September, 2012 and 312 people have been
convicted of terrorism-related offences. As of the end of September last year,
there were 107 people serving sentences in UK prisons classified as terrorists.

Notable plots in recent years include:

* A 2006 plan to blow up aircraft being flown between the UK, America and Canada
using liquid explosives which led to 12 people being jailed.

* A plot to attack UK and US targets with a "dirty bomb" and gas-filled
limousines that saw al Qaida operative Dhiren Barot sentenced to 30 years in
jail in 2006, and seven other men linked to the plot jailed the following year.

* Plans to target shopping centres and nightclubs using fertiliser-based
explosives that led to five men being jailed for life in 2007.

* The attempted murder of Stephen Timms MP, who was stabbed by Roshonara
Choudry. The student, who was said to have been inspired by extremist sermons
she watched on the internet, was convicted of attempted murder in 2010.

* A plan to attack the London Stock Exchange, which saw nine members of a
terrorist network later receive sentences of between five and 17 years each in
February 2012.

Three high-profile sentencing hearings took place last month alone.

On April 18, four men from Luton - Zahid Iqbal, Mohammed Sharfaz Ahmed, Umar
Arshad and Syed Farhan Hussain - were given long jail terms for their roles in
plotting an al Qaida-inspired attack in the UK. They had intended to carry out
terrorist attacks in Luton using improvised explosive devices and all admitted
engaging in conduct in preparation for acts of terrorism between January 2011
and April 2012.

British Islamic extremists Richard Dart, Imran Mahmood and Jahangir Alom were
jailed for more than 20 years in total on April 25 after admitting engaging in
conduct in preparation for acts of terrorism. They had discussed targets
including Wootton Bassett, the Old Bailey was told.

The following day, 11 men from Birmingham were sentenced for their roles in a
major terrorist plot. They were said to have been planning suicide bomb blasts
that would have rivalled both the July 7 and September 11 attacks.

Six men from the West Midlands also appeared in court last month to plead guilty
to terrorist charges connected to an attempt to attack an English Defence League
rally in June 2012.

Omar Mohammed Khan, Mohammed Hasseen, Anzal Hussain, Mohammed Saud, Zohaib Ahmed
and Jewel Uddin admitted preparing an act of terrorism. All six will be
sentenced on June 6.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2013 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 8:17 PM GMT

Pair in 'barbaric' terror attack

LENGTH: 839 words


One of the men behind a barbaric terror attack on the streets of London was
filmed wielding a bloodied meat cleaver and saying, "We swear by almighty Allah
we will never stop fighting you."

The black man, dressed in a grey hooded jacket and black woolly hat, apologises
to members of the public who witnessed the horrific scenes before making a
number of political statements. In the footage, obtained by ITV News, he is
heard to say: "We must fight them as they fight us. An eye for an eye, a tooth
for a tooth. I apologise that women have had to witness this today, but in our
land our women have to see the same. You people will never be safe. Remove your
government, they don't care about you."

The attacker, who spoke clear English without a foreign accent, is then seen
walking towards his victim, lying in the street in Woolwich, south-east London.
Another man is stood over the body. Witnesses said the victim, who local MP Nick
Raynsford said was believed to be a soldier, was hacked to death by the two men,
with some suggesting the attackers tried to behead him.

Home Secretary Theresa May said: "I have been briefed by the Metropolitan Police
Commissioner and the Director General of the Security Service. It has been
confirmed to me that a man has been brutally murdered this afternoon in
south-east London. Two other men were shot by armed police and they are
currently receiving treatment for their injuries. I have called a COBR (Cabinet
Office Briefing Room) meeting where I will receive further briefing. This is a
sickening and barbaric attack." The Cobra meeting, which lasted around an hour,
heard that security has been tightened at Woolwich barracks and increased at all
London barracks, Downing Street said. The meeting was attended by the Home
Secretary, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, Mayor of London Boris Johnson, Met
Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, Met Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dick
and intelligence agencies.The meeting was told there are strong indications that
it was a terrorist incident.

David Cameron described the attack as "truly shocking". Downing Street said the
Prime Minister, who was planning to stay in Paris overnight after meeting the
French president, would be returning on Wednesday night instead. At a press
conference in Paris, the Prime Minister said Britain has faced terror attacks
such as the one in Woolwich before and added: "We will never buckle in the face
of it." In expressing solidarity with the PM, French president Francois Hollande
referred to the murdered man as a "British soldier". A spokesman for Ed Miliband
said the Labour leader was cutting short a visit to Germany to return to the UK
as soon as possible.

A Buckingham Palace spokesman said: "The Queen is of course concerned by the
report of an attack in Woolwich earlier today. Her Majesty is being kept
informed." The spokesman also confirmed the Queen will visit the King's Troop
Royal Horse Artillery at Woolwich barracks on May 31, which was planned before
Wednesday's attack.

Other footage and pictures show a frenzied scene at the junction of John Wilson
Street and Wellington Street in Woolwich. Some images show three men lying
scattered in the street, surrounded by discarded weapons and splashes of blood.
Witnesses huddled behind a police cordon as around 30 to 40 officers secured the
scene, just around the corner from Mulgrave Primary School.

The Ministry of Defence said it was urgently looking at the reports that the
incident involved a soldier but had no further comment. The incident occurred
some 200 yards from the Royal Artillery Barracks, adjacent to Woolwich Common,
the historical home of the Royal Artillery. The barracks, also known as the
Woolwich station, now houses a number of the King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery
and independent companies of the Grenadier and Coldstream Guards. Woolwich
Common remains a designated military training area.

Met Police Commander Simon Letchford confirmed the two attackers were shot by
armed officers. The Independent Police Complaints Commission has started an
investigation into the circumstances surrounding the shooting of the two
suspects. This is a matter of routine when officers use their firearms. A
commissioner has been appointed to lead the investigation and 12 IPCC
investigators are currently at the scene and viewing CCTV footage.

A statement from the Muslim Council of Britain said: "This is a truly barbaric
act that has no basis in Islam and we condemn this unreservedly. Our thoughts
are with the victim and his family. We understand the victim is a serving member
of the armed forces. Muslims have long served in this country's armed forces,
proudly and with honour. This attack on a member of the armed forces is
dishonourable, and no cause justifies this murder. This action will no doubt
heighten tensions on the streets of the United Kingdom. We call on all our
communities, Muslim and non-Muslim, to come together in solidarity to ensure the
forces of hatred do not prevail."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 7:17 PM GMT

'Terror pair' in 'barbaric' attack

LENGTH: 255 words


One of the men behind the attack in Woolwich, south east London, was filmed
wielding a bloodied meat cleaver and saying, "We swear by almighty Allah we will
never stop fighting you", in footage shown on ITV News.

The footage comes after two suspected terrorists "brutally murdered" a man in
the street in broad daylight prompting a major emergency response from the
British Government.

One Whitehall source said the attackers, who are now being treated in hospital
after being shot by police, were heard to shout "Allah Akbar" during the assault
in Woolwich, south-east London.

Witnesses said the victim, who a local MP said was believed to be a soldier, was
hacked to death, with some suggesting his attackers tried to behead him.
Unconfirmed reports said they also filmed the attack.

Home Secretary Theresa May said: "I have been briefed by the Metropolitan Police
Commissioner and the Director General of the Security Service.

"It has been confirmed to me that a man has been brutally murdered this
afternoon in south-east London. Two other men were shot by armed police and they
are currently receiving treatment for their injuries.

"I have called a COBR (Cabinet Office Briefing Room) meeting where I will
receive further briefing. This is a sickening and barbaric attack."

David Cameron described the attack as "truly shocking".

Downing Street said the Prime Minister, who was planning to stay in Paris
overnight after meeting the French president, would be returning on Wednesday
night instead.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 6:47 PM GMT

'Terror pair' in 'barbaric' attack

LENGTH: 217 words


Two suspected terrorists have "brutally murdered" a man in the street in broad
daylight prompting a major emergency response from the British Government.

One Whitehall source said the attackers, who are now being treated in hospital
after being shot by police, were heard to shout "Allah Akbar" during the assault
in Woolwich, south-east London.

Witnesses said the victim, who a local MP said was believed to be a soldier, was
hacked to death, with some suggesting his attackers tried to behead him.
Unconfirmed reports said they also filmed the attack.

Home Secretary Theresa May said: "I have been briefed by the Metropolitan Police
Commissioner and the Director General of the Security Service.

"It has been confirmed to me that a man has been brutally murdered this
afternoon in south-east London. Two other men were shot by armed police and they
are currently receiving treatment for their injuries.

"I have called a COBR (Cabinet Office Briefing Room) meeting where I will
receive further briefing. This is a sickening and barbaric attack."

David Cameron described the attack as "truly shocking".

Downing Street said the Prime Minister, who was planning to stay in Paris
overnight after meeting the French president, would be returning on Wednesday
night instead.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 6:31 PM GMT

Soldier BEHEADED and two men shot in London TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 847 words


A TERROR attack in which a serving British soldier has been 'beheaded' in a
London street has been described as 'truly shocking' by Prime Minister David
Cameron.

One man has died and two others - believed to be his assailants - are in a
serious condition after the 'machete-style' assault in Woolwich.

Police have confirmed that they are treating the incident as a terrorism and it
is believed the killing was likely a politically-motivated Islamist attack.

A Whitehall source claimed the men were heard to shout 'Allah Akbar' as they
attacked the victim in broad daylight.

Home Secretary Theresa May, who described the incident as 'sickening and
barbaric', has called a meeting of COBRA, the Government's emergency committee.

Police were forced to close John Wilson Street some 200 yards from the Royal
Artillery Barracks, adjacent to Woolwich Common, the historical home of the
Royal Artillery.

One man was confirmed dead at the scene of the incident in Woolwich, south east
London, and two other men were taken to hospital, one of them in a serious
condition, a London Ambulance Service spokeswoman said. It is thought police
confronted and shot the two assailants.

The barracks, also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the
King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier
and Coldstream Guards.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford said: "At approximately 14:20 we
were called to reports of an assault in John Wilson Street, Woolwich where one
man was being assaulted by two other men.

"A number of weapons were reportedly being used in the attack, and this included
reports of a firearm."

Commander Letchford confirmed that the two men, who had been seen carrying
weapons, were shot by police and taken to hospital and are being treated for
their injuries.

He was unable to give any details on the victim of the attack.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said he had spoken to both borough
commander Richard Wood and Lieutenant Colonel Bob Christopher at Woolwich
Barracks about the incident.

Mr Raynsford said: "The incident occurred early afternoon. One individual is
dead, two others are seriously injured and in hospital."

Prime Minister David Cameron described the Woolwich killing as "truly shocking".

While London Mayor Boris Johnson tweeted that the attack was 'sickening deluded'
and that it was an 'unforgivable act of violence'.

Police officers and emergency services at the scene of the incident in Woolwich
(PIC: TWITTER)

Mr Johnson added that his thoughts are with the victim and their family.

Unconfirmed reports on social networking sites allege the man was attacked with
a machete after being ambushed by two men in a car.

The Ministry of Defence (MoD) have said they are urgently looking into reports
that the incident involved a soldier but had no further comment.

The incident occurred some 200 yards from the barracks, adjacent to Woolwich
Common, and is the historical home of the Royal Artillery.

Twitter users gave rolling updates on what they saw, claiming that onlookers
were shocked by the scenes they had witnessed.

Eyewitnesses said a man wearing an Army charity 'Help for Heroes' T-shirt was
attacked with a machete and dumped in the street.

One witness, identified only as James, told LBC radio that he and his partner
saw two black men attack the young victim with knives, including a meat cleaver.

He said: "They were hacking at this poor guy, literally.

"They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him."

The witness was fighting back the tears during the interview, saying that attack
was 'horrendous' and comparing the two men to 'animals'.

An aerial shot of the scene in Woolwich (PIC: TWITTER/@BBCNEWS)

He said a number of 'brave' women had tried to shield the man who was on the
ground from the two men.

James said that the men stood around waving knives and a gun, and even asked
nearby people to take pictures of them.

Pools of blood and weapons were spotted at the scene.

A woman working in an office overlooking the street said that she could see
three bodies lying in the road.She said: "All the bodies are within about 30-40
metres of each other. I could see armed police all over the place."There was a
lot of commotion, police running around in all different directions, as if they
were looking for other people."

London Air Ambulance confirmed that one person has been airlifted from the
scene, but would not confirm the nature of the injuries or where they were
taken.

On its Twitter account, the Metropolitan Police helicopter team called the
incident "serious".

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "Officers have responded to an incident in John
Wilson Street at 2.20pm today.

A picture of a man in the road after the incident in Woolwich (PIC: TWITTER)

"We believe at this stage officers were called to reports of an assault."

A spokeswoman for London Ambulance Service added: "We were called a 2.20pm to
reports of an incident at John Wilson Street.

"We sent two responders in cars, three ambulance crews, two duty officers and
London Air Ambulance were called out.

"We still have staff at the scene."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 6:12 PM GMT

TERROR ATTACK in London as soldier is BEHEADED in machete horror

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 809 words


A TERROR attack in which a serving British soldier has been 'beheaded' in a
London street has been described as 'truly shocking' by Prime Minister David
Cameron.

One man has died and two others - believed to be his assailants - are in a
serious condition after the 'machete-style' attack in Woolwich.

Police have confirmed that they are treating the incident as a terrorism and it
is believed the killing was likely a politically-motivated Islamist attack.

Home Secretary Theresa May has called a meeting of Cobra, the Government's
emergency committee in response.

Police were forced to close John Wilson Street some 200 yards from the Royal
Artillery Barracks, adjacent to Woolwich Common, the historical home of the
Royal Artillery.

One man was confirmed dead at the scene of the incident in Woolwich, south east
London, and two other men were taken to hospital, one of them in a serious
condition, a London Ambulance Service spokeswoman said.

The barracks, also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the
King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier
and Coldstream Guards.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford said: "At approximately 14:20 we
were called to reports of an assault in John Wilson Street, Woolwich where one
man was being assaulted by two other men.

"A number of weapons were reportedly being used in the attack, and this included
reports of a firearm."

Commander Letchford confirmed that the two men, who had been seen carrying
weapons, were shot by police and taken to hospital and are being treated for
their injuries.

He was unable to give any details on the victim of the attack.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said he had spoken to both borough
commander Richard Wood and Lieutenant Colonel Bob Christopher at Woolwich
Barracks about the incident.

Mr Raynsford said: "The incident occurred early afternoon. One individual is
dead, two others are seriously injured and in hospital."

Prime Minister David Cameron described the Woolwich killing as "truly shocking".

While London Mayor Boris Johnson tweeted that the attack was 'sickening deluded'
and that it was an 'unforgivable act of violence'.

Police officers and emergency services at the scene of the incident in Woolwich
(PIC: TWITTER)

Mr Johnson added that his thoughts are with the victim and their family.

Unconfirmed reports on social networking sites allege the man was attacked with
a machete after being ambushed by two men in a car.

The Ministry of Defence (MoD) have said they are urgently looking into reports
that the incident involved a soldier but had no further comment.

The incident occurred some 200 yards from the barracks, adjacent to Woolwich
Common, and is the historical home of the Royal Artillery.

Twitter users gave rolling updates on what they saw, claiming that onlookers
were shocked by the scenes they had witnessed.

Eyewitnesses said a man wearing a Help for Heroes t-shirt was attacked with a
machete-style knife and dumped in the street.

One witness, identified as James, told LBC radio that he and his partner saw two
black men attack the young victim with knives, including a meat cleaver.

He said: "They were hacking at this poor guy, literally.

"They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him."

The witness was fighting back the tears during the interview, saying that attack
was 'horrendous' and comparing the two men to 'animals'.

An aerial shot of the scene in Woolwich (PIC: TWITTER/@BBCNEWS)

He said a number of 'brave' women had tried to shield the man who was on the
ground from the two men.

James said that the men stood around waving knives and a gun, and even asked
nearby people to take pictures of them.

Pools of blood and weapons were spotted at the scene.

A woman working in an office overlooking the street said that she could see
three bodies lying in the road.She said: "All the bodies are within about 30-40
metres of each other. I could see armed police all over the place.

"There was a lot of commotion, police running around in all different
directions, as if they were looking for other people."

London Air Ambulance confirmed that one person has been airlifted from the
scene, but would not confirm the nature of the injuries or where they were
taken.

On its Twitter account, the Metropolitan Police helicopter team called the
incident "serious".

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "Officers have responded to an incident in John
Wilson Street at 2.20pm today.

A picture of a man in the road after the incident in Woolwich (PIC: TWITTER)

"We believe at this stage officers were called to reports of an assault."

A spokeswoman for London Ambulance Service added: "We were called a 2.20pm to
reports of an incident at John Wilson Street.

"We sent two responders in cars, three ambulance crews, two duty officers and
London Air Ambulance were called out.

"We still have staff at the scene."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 6:01 PM GMT

'TERROR ATTACK' in London as man is killed in 'machete-style' horror

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 739 words


POLICE have confirmed they are treating a serious incident in London which has
left one man dead and two others in a serious condition as a terrorist attack.

One man, who is believed to be a serving soldier, has died and two others are
believed to be in a serious condition after the 'machete-style' knife attack in
Woolwich.

Police have confirmed that they are treating the incident as a 'terrorist
attack' and it is believed the killing was likely a politically-motivated
Islamist attack.

Home Secretary Theresa May has called a meeting of Cobra, the Government's
emergency committee in response.

Police were forced to close John Wilson Street some 200 yards from the Royal
Artillery Barracks, adjacent to Woolwich Common, the historical home of the
Royal Artillery.

One man was confirmed dead at the scene of the incident in Woolwich, south east
London, and two other men were taken to hospital, one of them in a serious
condition, a London Ambulance Service spokeswoman said.

The barracks, also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the
King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier
and Coldstream Guards.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said he had spoken to both borough
commander Richard Wood and Lieutenant Colonel Bob Christopher at Woolwich
Barracks about the incident.

Mr Raynsford said: "The incident occurred early afternoon. One individual is
dead, two others are seriously injured and in hospital."

Prime Minister David Cameron described the Woolwich killing as "truly shocking".

While London Mayor Boris Johnson tweeted that the attack was 'sickening deluded'
and that it was an 'unforgivable act of violence'.

Mr Johnson added that his thoughts are with the victim and their family.

Unconfirmed reports on social networking sites allege the man was attacked with
a machete after being ambushed by two men in a car.

The Ministry of Defence (MoD) have said they are urgently looking into reports
that the incident involved a soldier but had no further comment.

The incident occurred some 200 yards from the barracks, adjacent to Woolwich
Common, and is the historical home of the Royal Artillery.

Twitter                          users gave rolling updates on what they saw,
claiming that onlookers were shocked by the scenes they had witnessed.

Police officers and emergency services at the scene of the incident in Woolwich
(PIC: TWITTER)

Eyewitnesses said a man wearing a Help for Heroes t-shirt was attacked with a
machete-style knife and dumped in the street.

One witness, identified as James, told LBC radio that he and his partner saw two
black men attack the young victim with knives, including a meat cleaver.

He said: "They were hacking at this poor guy, literally.

"They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him."

The witness was fighting back the tears during the interview, saying that attack
was 'horrendous' and comparing the two men to 'animals'.

He said a number of 'brave' women had tried to shield the man who was on the
ground from the two men.

James said that the men stood around waving knives and a gun, and even asked
nearby people to take pictures of them.

Pools of blood and weapons were spotted at the scene.

A woman working in an office overlooking the street said that she could see
three bodies lying in the road.

She said: "All the bodies are within about 30-40 metres of each other. I could
see armed police all over the place.

An aerial shot of the scene in Woolwich (PIC: TWITTER/@BBCNEWS)

"There was a lot of commotion, police running around in all different
directions, as if they were looking for other people."

London Air Ambulance confirmed that one person has been airlifted from the
scene, but would not confirm the nature of the injuries or where they were
taken.

On its Twitter account, the Metropolitan Police helicopter team called the
incident "serious".

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "Officers have responded to an incident in John
Wilson Street at 2.20pm today.

A picture of a man in the road after the incident in Woolwich (PIC: TWITTER)

"We believe at this stage officers were called to reports of an assault."

A spokeswoman for London Ambulance Service added: "We were called a 2.20pm to
reports of an incident at John Wilson Street.

"We sent two responders in cars, three ambulance crews, two duty officers and
London Air Ambulance were called out.

"We still have staff at the scene."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday

US identifies terrorists who attacked its Benghazi consulate in 2012

BYLINE: guardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 536 words

ABSTRACT

Administration weighing its options as intercepts reveal identity and
whereabouts of suspects in attack that left four dead

FULL TEXT

Officials in the US say they have identified five men who might be responsible
for the attack on the diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya, in 2012 and there
is enough evidence to justify seizing them by military force as suspected
terrorists or killing them with a drone strike - but not enough proof to try
them in a US civilian court as the Obama administration prefers.

The men remain at large while the FBI gathers evidence. The investigation has
been slowed by the reduced US intelligence presence in the region since the 11
September 2012 attacks and the limited ability to assist by Libya's
post-revolutionary law enforcement and intelligence agencies, which are still in
their infancy since the overthrow of the Gaddafi regime.

The decision not to seize the men militarily underscores Washington's desire to
move away from hunting terrorists as enemy combatants and holding them at the
military prison in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. The preference is towards a process in
which most are apprehended and tried by the countries where they are living or
arrested by the US with the host country's co-operation, and tried in the US
criminal justice system.

A senior Obama administration official, speaking to the Associated Press on
condition of anonymity, said the FBI had identified a number of individuals it
believed could have information or may have been involved and was considering
options to apprehend them. But taking action in remote eastern Libya would be
difficult and America's relationship with Libya had to be considered.

The Libyan embassy did not respond to multiple requests for comment, the AP
said.

The FBI and other US intelligence agencies identified the men through contacts
in Libya and by monitoring their communications, officials said. They are
thought to be members of Ansar al-Shariah, the Libyan militia group whose
fighters were seen near the US diplomatic facility prior to the attack.

US officials say FBI surveillance has gathered proof the five men were either at
the scene of the first attack or somehow involved. In intercepts at least one of
them bragged about taking part. Some of the men had also been in contact with a
network of well-known regional jihadists, including al-Qaida in the Islamic
Maghreb, the officials said.

The attack on the US diplomatic mission killed the ambassador, Chris Stevens,
and three other Americans weeks before president Barack Obama's re-election.
Since then, Republicans in congress have condemned the administration's handling
of the situation, criticising the level of embassy security, questioning the
talking points provided to UN ambassador Susan Rice for her public appearances
to explain the attack and suggesting the White House tried to play down the
incident to minimise its effect on the president's campaign.

The FBI released photos of three of the five suspects earlier this month. The
images were captured by security cameras at the US diplomatic post during the
attack, but it took weeks for the FBI to see and study them. It took the agency
three weeks to get to Libya because of security problems.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday

Man killed in deadly terror attack in London street

BYLINE: Vikram Doddguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 590 words

ABSTRACT

[#xfffd] Alleged attacker is filmed brandishing knife and cleaver[#xfffd] Two
suspects shot by armed police[#xfffd] Ministers holding emergency Cobra
meetingFollow the latest reports on the Woolwich attack here

FULL TEXT

Dramatic footage of the suspected terrorist attack near the Woolwich barracks
today that left one man dead has emerged, showing a man with blood covered hands
using jihadist rhetoric to justify the violence.

Tonight the Prime Minister David Cameron vowed that Britain will "never buckle"
in the face of terrorist incidents, and condemned the "absolutely sickening"
killing.

As the government's emergency committee Cobra convened in central London to
assess the implications of the incident, ITV News broadcast footage of one of
the alleged attackers.

Brandishing a cleaver and a knife, and with the body of the victim lying yards
away, the man said: "We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you.
The only reason we have done this is because Muslims are dying every day. This
British soldier is an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth."

"We must fight them. I apologise that women had to witness this today.

"But in our land our women have to see the same. You people will never be safe.
Remove your government, they don't care about you."

The man then walks away and talks to another suspected attacker.

Later footage shows the aftermath after the two suspects were shot by police.

It is believed the person died after suffering knife injuries, possibly around
the head area.

Two people have been taken to hospital after they were shot by armed police.

There were reports that the man who was fatally attacked was wearing a Help for
Heroes T-shirt.

The Woolwich and Greenwich MP, Nick Raynsford, said it was his understanding
that one person, a serving soldier, was dead but there was no immediate
confirmation of this from the Ministry of Defence.

The prime minister said: "Tonight, our thoughts should be with the victim, with
their family, with their friends."

"People across Britain, people in every community, I believe, will utterly
condemn this attack.

"We have had these sorts of attacks before in our country and we never buckle in
the face of them."

Cameron was speaking at a Paris press conference with French president Francois
Hollande but confirmed he would cut short the visit to return to the UK tonight
to chair a meeting of the Government's Cobra emergency committee in the morning.

Chiefs at the Woolwich barracks were understood to be trying to account for
military personnel, amid reports the dead person may have been connected to the
military. The incident happened 300-400 metres from the perimeter of the
barracks.

The barracks is home to the Princess of Wales regiment and the Kings Troop,
which is a ceremonial unit, that relocated to Woolwich last year.

The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating the shooting by
police, which is standard in cases where officers open fire.

In a statement the IPCC said it had "been made aware by Metropolitan Police
Service of an incident in Woolwich, south London. IPCC investigators have been
deployed to the scene and to the post-incident process. The IPCC has declared
this as an independent investigation."

Earlier Raynsford said: "The incident occurred early afternoon. One individual
is dead, two others are seriously injured and in hospital.

"We think a serving soldier was the victim. We don't know the circumstances
surrounding the incident.

"We do know a number of weapons have been seized. They include a gun, various
knives, and a machete, apparently."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      May 22, 2013 Wednesday 11:22 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: The EDL might have a sinister plan as a soldier is murdered in
suspected Islamic terrorist attack

BYLINE: Jamie Lewis

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 519 words


As the EDL lace up their heavy-set boots and head for the streets of Woolwich,
their leader, metaphorically carrying with him his long list of criminal
convictions, will be preparing his fascist propaganda.

Tommy Robinson and his followers (the phrase "in the land of the blind, the
one-eyed man is king," comes to mind) are intent on running Islam and its
teachings out of the country and are using criminal acts from Muslims as
evidence for their cause. Their next stop is set for Woolwich, following the
death of a man and the broadcast of an ITV video showing a bloodied man claiming
to be fighting for Allah.

The militant anti-Islamic today ordered the march toward Woolwich, exactly three
months after he was released from prison for possessing a fake passport
following the killing of an alleged British soldier in a suspected jihadist
attack - note the words 'suspected', the motives of the attack have not, as yet,
been confirmed

I'm sorry, Mr Robinson, but I think you'll find the problem isn't with Islam.
You see, the real issue here is with extremism and you pointing at every news
story involving a Muslim and shouting "SEE! I TOLD YOU," isn't going to cut it.

Islamic terrorist attacks account for fewer than 100 deaths in the UK - which,
of course, is too many. But, in recent years, we've seen the IRA apologise for
the death of 1,800 "non-combatants" alone, I can guarantee the knuckle-draggers
won't be chasing Paddy down the road on St Patrick's day.

Lest we forget that Anders Breivik, a Christian, killed 69 people - mostly
teenagers - on and around the island of Utøya, Norway and the many, many school
shootings by mostly white, non-Muslim people in the United States.

At no point in this piece do I intend to protect any murder or act of terrorism,
but we should certainly not tar an entire religion with a brush as a result of
the sinister actions of a few.

The EDL are claiming that since the attack took place, their Facebook page has
had over 3,000 new 'likes' - do not be one of those people, you're only giving
credence to an organisation dedicated to the hatred of an entire sect of people.
The group would have you believe that each and every practicing Muslim will
behead you for hanging a St George's Cross from your roof - it's not true, I
promise.

And, I'm sure, EDL-apologists around the country will claim I'm a journalist,
paid by the government to keep acts of violence by Muslims quiet. Were that
true, I'd have many more pairs of nicer trainers, I promise you.

At the time of writing this column, too few details exist to write a
well-rounded opinion piece on the Woolwich situation, but the furore the EDL is
creating on Twitter is unsettling. As we speak, the tweet from the fascist
group's official Twitter account, which calls its members to arms, has over 775
retweets, considerably more than my own which intended to warn the police of
possible violence (a measly 17).

So don't blindly follow the first man who gives you someone (or a group of
millions) to blame, for he himself is spinning you a yarn and recruiting for the
hopeful fruition of his sinister ideals.

@Jamie__Lewis

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:09:52

